# Site: https://www.abdn.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 490
# --------

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk:
Close
Or Browse:
2nd in Scotland and Top 15 in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2025 and Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
3rd in Scotland, Wales and N Ireland for student satisfaction in The National Student Survey 2025
3rd in Scotland and 25th in the UK in the QS World University Rankings: Sustainability 2025
Queen's Anniversary Prize for research and teaching in Soil Science in 2021
At the University of Aberdeen we offer a flexible and individual approach to your studies.
A wide variety of research-led programmes taught by leaders in the field.
Our research crosses disciplines to find solutions to the world's greatest challenges.
Fit your learning around your location, work and personal commitments.
We spark urgent conversations with experts from around the world and work across borders and disciplines to accelerate the transition to a better energy future.
The UK Government is being urged to adopt a pragmatic and regulated approach to oil and gas measures to avoid deepening the UK's reliance on imports, protect energy security, reduce carbon emissions, and support a just transition to net zero.
Autistic individuals are at greater risk of developing anorexia, more likely to require in-patient treatment and respond less effectively to treatment for the eating disorder*.
Since our foundation in 1495, the University of Aberdeen has celebrated many incredible milestones.
The University of Aberdeen is delighted to be exhibiting at SPE Offshore Europe 2025, one of the world's leading energy...
The Library doors are open to all today.
Drop in and see what you can FIND!
The theme of our...
The doors of the Zoology Museum will be open to all on Saturday 6th September.
Come and see the amazing...
Join us to celebrate Iona Fyfe's official installation as the Rector of the University of Aberdeen.
Join researchers from across Scotland as we Make Research Real
We are delighted to invite you to visit our beautiful ancient university campus.
University of Aberdeen King's College , Aberdeen , AB24 3FX
The University of Aberdeen is a charity registered in Scotland, No.SC013683

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/our-website/accessibility:
URL: https://www.abdn.ac.uk/
This website is run by The University of Aberdeen.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We're working to make website text as simple as possible.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use.
We're confident that our website is largely very accessible; however, we know some parts are not:
Further information on specific services and escalation routes is provided in Appendix 1 .
If you need information in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, Easy Read, audio recording or braille, please get in touch:
We'll reply to reports within one working day and will aim to provide a workable solution as soon as possible and no later than seven days.
You can also write to us at:
University of Aberdeen, King's College, Aberdeen, AB24 3FX
We're always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we're not meeting accessibility requirements, please contact us using the details above .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the 'accessibility regulations').
If you're not happy with how we respond to your feedback, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
You can arrange to visit the University (for example to visit a Disability Advisor) using the contact details above .
We can provide audio induction loops or a text relay service for people who are D/deaf, hearing impaired or have a speech impediment.
If you require a British Sign Language interpreter, please contact us in advance.
You can use contactSCOTLAND-BSL to do this if you prefer.
The University of Aberdeen is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 .
The website is only partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 (WCAG) AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
The following items don't comply with the WCAG 2.2 AA success criteria.
We're working to address these occurrences.
We prioritise this work based on volume of traffic (scale) and key user journeys.
When we publish new content we'll make sure this meets accessibility standards.
We've created a Digital Accessibility Policy to ensure staff are aware of their responsibilities.
All staff are made aware of accessibility legislation and offered support.
Some of our written content and page structure is not compliant with WCAG guidelines 1.3 and 1.4 .
Examples include:
We constantly audit our site and address these issues as quickly as practicable when they are identified.
Our remaining legacy websites that don't reflow when zoomed are being migrated to new responsive templates or retired.
Colour contrast is being audited as part of our template review.
We've reviewed and revised our training, and will continue to do so, to provide specific guidance to our content editors and developers.
Many videos on our site are not compliant with WCAG guideline 1.2 , as they don't have transcripts or audio descriptions.
We're reviewing and removing or resolving these, based on order of priority.
All new videos published since September 2020 have captions, auto-captions or accessible alternatives.
Although our main web templates and applications are fully keyboard accessible, we're aware that other areas of our website that are not compliant with WCAG guideline 2.1 .
We're addressing these based on order of priority.
Many older PowerPoint, PDF and Word documents are not compliant with WCAG guideline 2.4 , for example, they might not be structured in a way that's accessible to a screen reader, or PDFs may not have titles.
We're reviewing and removing or resolving these based on order of priority.
All staff are made aware of accessibility legislation and offered support in the creation of accessible documents, for example via user guides .
Guidance on creating accessible documents is included in MS Office training workshops and training materials as appropriate.
Please note that certain documents may be outside the scope of the accessibility regulations .
Many images on our site don't have alternative content and are therefore not compliant with WCAG guideline 1.1 .
In many cases this is because they are purely decorative; however, some images don't have appropriate alternative content, and others represent text as images.
We're addressing these issues through regular auditing and by providing specific guidance and training to our content editors.
Some forms are not correctly labelled and/or are not keyboard accessible and are therefore not compliant with WCAG guidelines 2.1 and 3.3 .
Our forms are being audited and identified issues are addressed; we have raised some of these with our third party supplier, Gecko, as noted in Appendix 2 .
Many of our systems employ authentication methods which are not compliant with WCAG Success Criterion 3.3.8 .
We are unable to easily resolve these at present.
Should you have difficulty authenticating with any of our systems, please contact us using the details above .
Further information on specific technical and content issues is provided in Appendix 2 .
We're not claiming disproportionate burden for any of our services.
The accessibility regulations don't require us to fix documents published before 23 September 2018 if they're not essential to providing our services.
Our policy is that any new documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
Any documents essential to providing our service will be fixed or replaced with an accessible HTML page.
We don't plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
We ensure online maps are as accessible as possible by, for example, providing addresses and geolocation information in an accessible form.
We've an ongoing University-wide commitment to improve accessibility and have put in place governance and support to establish a permanent culture of accessibility and inclusion.
Accessibility work is overseen by a Digital Accessibility Working Group, comprising representative members from across the institution.
The University also takes the following measures to ensure accessibility:
This statement was prepared on 31st March 2020.
It was last reviewed 6th August 2024.
This website is tested on an ongoing basis; manually by staff and also via automated testing using the tool Siteimprove .
We prioritise work on conformance of our website based on two factors: volume of traffic (scale) and key user journeys.
We use this approach to decide areas for comprehensive testing.
The University website consists of many related sub-sites and systems.
The University is responsible for the accessibility of these; some will have their own accessibility statements.
If you encounter an issue with any system or site, please contact us using the details above .
The University makes available various mobile applications to its staff and students.
If you encounter an issue with these please contact us using the details above .
Mobile applications used in support of MyAberdeen are detailed in Appendix 1 .
MyAberdeen is the main institutional Virtual Learning Environment.
It is powered by Blackboard and includes other software applications, such as Turnitin and Panopto.
This accessibility statement aims to cover all the software applications that form part of MyAberdeen.
Blackboard was developed in accordance WCAG Level AA.
Blackboard is structured using heading styles which allows for navigation using the keyboard or a screen reader.
However, annotated feedback provided in Blackboard Assignments is not yet fully accessible and audio/video comments in assignments currently do not have text transcription.
For further details on the accessibility of the platform see Blackboard's pages on Accessibility in Blackboard and Blackboard's statement of commitment .
Information is also available on the accessibility of the Blackboard mobile app.
We've integrated Blackboard Ally with MyAberdeen to provide feedback and reporting for staff on the accessibility of documents, images and HTML content.
Blackboard Ally also generates alternative file formats for students viewing documents on MyAberdeen.
For example, a Word document uploaded to a course area can be downloaded as a PDF, MP3, ePub, or Electronic Braille file.
Alternatively, they can be viewed in the Beeline Reader or Immersive Reader.
Common accessibility issues highlighted to staff by Blackboard Ally are:
Each semester, teaching staff publish over 130,000 documents, images, and HTML items on MyAberdeen, mostly in the form of PDFs, images, Word documents and PowerPoint presentations.
The overall Ally accessibility score for Spring term course learning materials in the academic year 2023-24 was 66.4%.
We work every year with academic schools to identify areas for improvement.
MyAberdeen has two integrated virtual classroom applications, Class Collaborate and Microsoft Teams.
Both platforms are compatible with screen-readers and allow keyboard navigation.
Collaborate has a facility to provide live person-generated captions which may be used to support students with a declared hearing impairments and functionality to pin a web cam to keep it visible on screen.
All new recordings have machine generated closed captions by default.
Detailed technical information on the accessibility of Collaborate is available in the Class Collaborate help page.
Microsoft Teams has the facility for live automatic captions, an option to pin a web cam and dark mode for slides.
In addition, staff may add captions to recordings.
Detailed technical information on the accessibility of Microsoft Teams is available on the Microsoft Teams support page.
We've integrated Turnitin text-matching software with MyAberdeen to help identify plagiarism in student submissions.
Turnitin Similarity Report and Feedback Studio can be navigated by using the keyboard or a screen reader.
However, Turnitin is not yet fully accessible so provides a text-only similarity report which is compatible with assistive technology.
Audio comments currently do not have text transcription.
Detailed technical information on the accessibility of Turnitin is available in the Turnitin Voluntary Product Accessibility Templates .
The institutional software for polling is Vevox which participants will access via a web browser on their personal device.
Vevox is tested with screen-readers and can be navigated using a keyboard.
More detail and the Vevox Voluntary Product Accessibility Template is available on the Vevox web site .
A small number of courses make use of assessments using Questionmark software.
Detailed technical information on the accessibility of Questionmark can be found on Questionmark's accessibility statement (QMP login required).
The University generates 13,000 hours of media each year, mostly in the form of lecture capture video, which is hosted on our media platform, Panopto.
A detailed technical assessment on the accessibility of Panopto (for web and mobile app) is available in the Panopto Voluntary Product Accessibility Template (VPAT) document.
We're committed to improving the accessibility of media on Panopto and have introduced measures to help make learning material more inclusive.
All new media hosted on Panopto has machine generated closed captions by default.
The Centre for Academic Development provide schools with staff development (staff login required) along with guidance to enable good quality closed captions to be provided .
In the first instance, staff are encouraged to caption their own video material, using tools built into the Panopto service.
We also provide content creators with guidance on how to generate audio description using Panopto.
Panopto allows users to download the captions as a transcript document.
However, some videos only have automated captions where staff have been unable to provide good quality captions and some videos have no captions if staff feel the accuracy of automated captions would be detrimental to the student experience (e.g.
in languages and STEM subjects).
In such cases accessible alternative materials are made available.
We'll continue to work towards improving the accessibility of media and providing suitable tools to make this process less time consuming for academic staff and more beneficial for our students.
In January 2022, we launched a Inclusivity and Accessibility Framework for staff which brings together the guidance and support available.
We provide staff development sessions (staff login required) throughout the year which show how to make course areas, documents, and media on MyAberdeen more accessible.
Written guidance and supporting resources are also available on our Toolkit “Accessibility for Authors and Creators” .
We provide local versions of two eLearning modules from AbilityNet: Introduction to accessible teaching and learning and Accessibility and Me: Lived Experience Mini Modules .
To support teaching staff and help raise awareness, the eLearning Team have introduced a Course Accessibility Service .
This service includes an audit of individual course areas on MyAberdeen and the generation of a detailed report highlighting digital accessibility issues found within the course.
In addition to the audit and report, the service also provides the time of an eLearning Support Assistant share good practice with teaching staff with the aim of improving accessibility for users.
Common accessibility issues highlighted by the service are:
Where the University is aware of a course with a deaf/hearing impaired student who needs higher quality closed captions and where the school is unable to correct the errors in automated captions, the academic staff in the course are offered access to a centrally funded external service by the eLearning Team to ensure that all videos in their course have good quality closed captions.
This inclusive approach ensures that all students on the course can benefit from the video captions.
In 2021, the Centre for Academic Development created a procedure for checking eLearning software for accessibility ahead of procurement to help ensure that new systems which are introduced are inclusive for all our users.
The eLearning team also feedback to software providers and encourage developers to make eLearning software accessible as part of that process.
If you are a student and wish to raise an issue or need information in a different format, please get in touch with your course coordinator in the first instance.
If course coordinators cannot resolve the issue, please contact the eLearning team at accessible-elearning@abdn.ac.uk or +44(0)1224 273765 .
MyMBChB, MyBDS and MyPA are in-house developed virtual learning environments used by the Medical School and built by the Learning Technologies team.
We are continually improving the user experience for all users of the application and are applying the relevant accessibility standards throughout.
The environments are partially compliant with the WCAG 2.2 AA standard.
These environments may only be partially compliant with the standard due to the following:
Please note the list above is not exhaustive.
We regularly audit our site and are addressing these issues as they are identified.
For new video assets, auto-captioning will be used to provide captions.
Staff have been provided with documentation and training in providing accessible assets, as elsewhere in this statement.
Occasionally the quality of unedited automatic captions for specialist terminology may be poor and academic staff may decide this is detrimental to students' learning.
In such cases automated captions may not be provided by default and accessible alternative materials will be provided while manual work takes place to provide accurate captioning.
MyMBChB's student timetable cannot be read meaningfully using a screen reader.
However, an alternative accessible version is available via the 'List View' link which can be found in the timetable menu or from the tab button quick links.
We welcome your feedback on the accessibility of MyMBChB, MyBDS and MyPA.
If you wish to raise an issue, or need information in a different format such as an accessible PDF, large print, Easy Read, audio recording or braille, please contact the Learning Technologies team via email learning-technologies@abdn.ac.uk or phone +44(0) 1224 437032 .
MyMBChB, MyBDS and MyPA have integrations with the following systems:
The University is responsible for the accessibility of these systems.
Should you encounter an issue, please email learning-technologies@abdn.ac.uk or phone +44(0)1224 437032 .
Library & Collections (L&C) provide collections to staff, students and others which are primarily asset based (Word, PDF, PowerPoint and JPG files).
We believe these assets are largely exempt as described in sections 3 (2) (a) and 3 (2) (f) of the legislation .
However, it is our intent to make our collections as accessible as possible and therefore we note below issues of which we are aware and actions we are taking to address these.
Should you encounter an issue with the collections listed below, please email library@abdn.ac.uk and we will endeavour to help you.
The Library Search website uses a third-party platform to publish content; 'Primo VE' by Ex Libris.
A separate accessibility statement for Primo VE (including known issues) is available on the Ex Libris support pages:
L&C make available to students a database of past exam papers.
This database can be interrogated using the Library search interface, Primo , or browsed by subject area.
A proportion of exam papers available in the database don't meet the accessibility standard, as they are published in earlier formats of Microsoft Word.
We'll ensure that future papers are made accessible via staff training as noted elsewhere in this statement.
The University's Research Archive is hosted by the University of Edinburgh using the open source solution, DSPace .
Archived assets are overwhelmingly PDF assets (c.
11K) or Word docx files (c.
1.5K) with small numbers of other formats such as PowerPoint, HTML and JPG.
Many of these assets will not be fully accessible.
It is a current requirement of many research funders and the Research Excellence Framework that papers are submitted as PDF.
We will ensure that future papers are made as accessible as possible via staff training as noted elsewhere in this statement.
We are considering future use of the Open Document Format to increase the accessibility of this archive.
L&C make research theses available online.
These may be in PDF, various versions of Word or other asset types, including deprecated word-processed files.
Many of these assets will not be accessible.
At the time of writing, certain eBooks and journal articles available via our online library catalogue may not be accessible.
We're evaluating this issue and will engage with third-party publishers if necessary.
We'll ensure that future theses are made as accessible as possible via appropriate training and support for students.
We use Axiell's CalmView5 to facilitate access to our archives.
Axiell believe the CalmView product is compliant with the regulations, except for embedded Instagram social widgets, specifically:
We don't have a workaround for these exceptions at present.
We are aware of specific issues on our site which may appear as accessibility problems, or for which there is no straightforward resolution.
We use Google services to provide search functionality to parts of our site.
We don't have control over the code used in these results and this may occasionally cause issues.
For example, images returned in Google's custom search results don't have alternative text attributes and are therefore not compliant with WCAG guideline 1.1 .
Google commit to making accessibility a core part of their products and typically issues are resolved quickly.
We're aware that some browsers allow the iFrame element to receive focus, but don't allow for that focus to be styled, so it is possible that for some users, focus may be lost briefly when entering an iFrame element.
Such iFrames may therefore not be compliant with WCAG guideline 2.1 .
This is most notable in Firefox.
We try to make all link text meaningful; however, parts of our site intentionally use generic link text; for example, "Find out more".
We understand that strictly such links do not meet WCAG success criterion 2.4.4 , but we believe that where such link text is used the linked resource is unequivocally inferred from its surrounding context; for example, further information on a news story.
We're aware that occasionally the same link text is used for links going to apparently different resources and that this may be not compliant with WCAG success criterion 3.2.4 ; for example, the word 'About' appearing in the page content, menu bar and site breadcrumb is variously linked to:
These links appear to be different, but are the same resource.
We endeavour to standardise link URLs to avoid this false positive error, but this is not always possible due to how pages are rendered by the server and the CMS database.
We use a form builder solution from GeckoEngage .
We've reviewed this for accessibility and found that some embedded forms don't have titles ( WCAG success criterion 3.3.2 ).
The supplier has assessed these issues and is scheduling work to address them.
We'll continue to engage with the supplier.
We use Panopto extensively throughout our website.
Currently there is an issue where Panopto videos embedded in an iFrame display an element without a text alternative ( WCAG success criterion 1.1.1 ).
We've raised this issue with Panopto and they've assured us it will be resolved.
We use the third-party service Hireserve for staff recruitment.
We are aware that the Hireserve Recruiter Portal is not compliant with WCAG guidelines 1.3 , 1.4 , 2.1 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 3.2 and 3.3 .
We have discussed these with the supplier and are assured that they are working to resolve these.
We provide alternative arrangements for applicants to submit applications where necessary.
Last reviewed: 20th January 2025 Last updated: 20th January 2025

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study:
Undergraduate and Postgraduate
We will host a Postgraduate Virtual Open Day (PG VOD) on Thursday 2 October and an Undergraduate Open Day on Saturday 4 October.
We have a range of Aberdeen Global Scholarships available for students starting in September 2025.
What does our ancient tradition of modern thinking mean for you?
It means being at the forefront of change - the chance to explore your potential at a research-intensive university that's home to over 525 years of discovery.
Since 1495, we've held space for debate, discussion, and discourse, and now it's your turn to join us.
Are you ready to join the Boundary Breakers and study in Aberdeen?
Your future is what you make it, so get started now and apply to join us.
With the cost-of-living crisis and the future so uncertain, we know you need our support more than ever.
Here's some key information on how the University and our affordable location can help.
With scholarships available, from Widening Access and local support, to the UK and beyond, explore our scholarship database to find the one that's right for you.
Join us in the Granite City with Silver Sands and find your True North.
We are voted 2nd for value for money (StudentCrowd University Awards 2023).
Explore the latest scholarships.
Voted Top 10 in the UK for student satisfaction for three years running (National Student Survey 2021-2023), it's no wonder our student support services have been described as exceptional.
The University of Aberdeen is delighted to offer self-funded international on-campus undergraduate and postgraduate students the Aberdeen Global Scholarship, for academic year 2025/2026.
Undergraduate Postgraduate
At Aberdeen, we know studying is only one part of your university experience.
It's also your new home.
Our exciting city is nestled between the mountains and the sea, the perfect place to start a new adventure.
Our accommodation is not only a safe and supportive environment, with a dedicated team providing 24 hours support and information, but a place where you'll make friends for life.
No matter where you come from, you'll find home in Aberdeen.
View our accommodation options
Scotland's alternative city is closer than you think.
Home to innovation and culture, sandy beaches and rolling hills, discover a unique student city that has the best of all worlds, right on the doorstep of a historic campus.
At Aberdeen students from over 130 nationalities are welcomed every year by our International Office, who are dedicated to giving you the support you need, wherever in the world you are joining us from.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Register to attend our Undergraduate Open Day on Saturday 4 October.
Self-funded international on-campus undergraduates can receive a £6,000 scholarship each year of their programme.
Find your True North through Clearing, with a range of subjects offering degrees.
Welcome to a city open to all, a university ever-evolving.
It means being at the forefront of change - the chance to explore your potential at a research-intensive university that's home to over 530 years of discovery.
Bring your questions to the fore and drive learning forward with an interdisciplinary approach to learning that enables you to tailor your degree to your interests and career goals.
Find home in a place of game-changing ideas and eureka moments.
With hundreds of courses on offer and a range of campus and city accommodation options available, your next adventure is about to start.
Your future is what you make it, so get started now and apply to join us in 2025.
Explore our undergraduate subject areas
Explore our full range of degree programmes
Whether you want to learn how to apply, look at finance and funding options, or find key information for offer holders, we’re here to assist you.
The University of Aberdeen offers a wide range of degree programmes.
View the entry requirements to study with us at the University.
Apply to become a student at the University of Aberdeen.
We have a long-standing commitment to widening access to Higher Education.
Get all the information you need about finance and funding.
Explore options for student exchange, placements abroad and other international opportunities.
International undergraduate applicants needing a CAS for a student visa must pay a tuition fee deposit upon receiving an offer.
Get information about key dates for United Kingdom and overseas applicants for our undergraduate programmes.
The university's staff and students are here to help you settle in and make the most of your time in Aberdeen.
We offer a range of accommodation close to our campuses and all new students are guaranteed an offer of accommodation (T&C's apply).
Global challenges are waiting for new ways of thinking.
Discover your true north and start creating a more inclusive and sustainable world with our Undergraduate Guide.
At Aberdeen we are committed to sustainability so our guide is available digitally.
If you would prefer a paper copy our fully carbon offset and recyclable print copy, you can request a prospectus here.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes:
Page 1 of 17 Results 1 to 25 of 401 | View All
Show: 10 | 25 | 50 | 100 | 200 | All results per page

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/subject-areas:
Accountancy at Aberdeen gives you thorough grounding in theory, practice and business skills, taught by experts in accounting practice, with the advantage of real-life employers and scenarios integrated in to your programme.
You will gain a path to professional accreditation, and the skills, experience and attributes to give you a head start whether you aim for chartered accountancy or another option in the fast-moving world of business and finance.
Anthropology at Aberdeen includes the study of the diversity of human communities and cultures around the world.
It brings together theories about ‘being human’ from a wide range of Western and non-Western thinkers to understand human action, culture and thought, as studied through long-term international research with the communities themselves.
Aberdeen is ranked 3rd in the UK for Anthropology and Archaeology (Guardian University Guide 2025) and in the Global Top 100 for Anthropology (QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025)
Archaeology is a diverse and wide-ranging discipline that spans the humanities and physical sciences and is unique in exploring the human past in its entirety.
In seeking to understand how ancient people lived their lives, structured their world, and engaged with their environment, archaeologists ask the big questions that can provide us with the tools to tackle global challenges in the present.
Ranked 3rd in the UK for Archaeology and Anthropology, Guardian 2025
The Art History programme at the University of Aberdeen encompasses the study of art, architecture, and curation, covering a wide range of media and techniques.
Our research-led teaching situates European art in its global connectedness and its full complexities, while our practical engagement with artworks beyond the classroom develops and enhances both vocational and transferable skills.
You will study at a university steeped in 500 years of social and artistic development, and in an Art History department recognised for its high levels of student satisfaction.
Biochemistry attempts to understand the complex array of molecules and their interactions which come together to create all living things.
Our state-of-the-art Science Teaching Hub provides high-tech teaching labs and research grade equipment to support your learning.
The digitally focused environment allows you to gain sought after skills to help you thrive in the workplace.
A wide range of biological science degree options, allowing you to shape your studies to suit your career aspirations and interests.
The primary goal of Biomedical Science is to enhance understanding of human body function in health and disease.
We are ranked 2nd in the UK for Anatomy and Physiology in the The Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025!
Business Management at Aberdeen explores the theory and practice of how people and organisations are managed in a highly competitive global business environment, taught by leaders in this highly topical field.
You will benefit from real-life scenarios and the input of national and local employers, giving you the skills, experience and attributes for a head start across a wide range of careers in the international business world.
Celtic & Anglo-Saxon Studies at Aberdeen is an exciting new programme, building on a strong track record of Celtic teaching to offer a fascinating, flexible and interdisciplinary study of the Celtic, Anglo-Saxon, and Scandinavian peoples.
You will cross traditional boundaries of literature, history and culture, and develop skills which open wide career options across the arts, media and more.
Chemical engineering integrates chemistry, physics, mathematics and biology to design and develop the processes behind nearly every product from foods to fuels.
This is achieved by changing the chemical, physical, and/or biochemical states of substances.
If you have a fascination for how the world works how chemical reactions and the physical properties of matter can be harnessed to create world-changing technologies, then you should consider chemical engineering.
Chemistry is central to our understanding of virtually every aspect of modern life, from the food we eat and the air we breathe, to the medicines we take and the energy we use to power our homes, cars and phones.
You will be taught in the brand new Science Teaching Hub to use advanced instrumentation by internationally recognised experts in material, biomolecular and environmental chemistry to help create sustainable solutions to the many challenges we face today, such as food and water security, environmental protection, climate change and clean energy.
Civil Engineering is all about the environment and infrastructure that makes up the modern world.
Civil Engineers design, build and maintain our roads, railways, airports, dams, industrial facilities, power stations, coastal protection and harbour works, hospitals, sports stadiums and much more.
If you are interested in making lasting, positive improvements to society, in sustainable design for the protection of the natural environment on land or at sea, in improving the quality of life for millions of people using novel building techniques and materials, then civil engineering is an excellent choice.
Comparative Literature & Culture at Aberdeen offers an exciting opportunity to study literature and culture from across the globe.
You will study with experts from various disciplines, gaining both breadth and depth of knowledge.
You will read world-class literary texts in translation and have opportunities to develop language skills and understanding of other cultures and societies.
You also have the option to specialise and tailor your degree to suit your interests.
Are you excited by the possibilities of quantum computing, blockchain, encryption, data science, machine learning and other emerging AI technologies that have been making headlines recently, such as ChatGPT?
A degree in Computing offers excellent career prospects across a wide variety of exciting sectors from e-commerce and fintech to healthcare and telecommunications.
A degree in Computing Science offers excellent career prospects across a wide variety of exciting sectors from e-commerce and fintech to healthcare and telecommunications.
Counselling skills improves your communication skills, engages your personal development and provides you with a validated qualification.
Designed specifically for graduates, the BDS degree focuses on independent and reflective learning, with practical clinical teaching introduced early in the first year to maximise your clinical experience.
Divinity at Aberdeen focuses on the study of the Christian faith and tradition in the context of its history, institutions and its role today.
Whether you have a personal, vocational or intellectual interest in learning more about the Christian faith, or want to explore the world's major religions, Aberdeen is the place for you.
You will gain accreditation with the Church of Scotland and great transferable skills which open a wide range of career options, in addition to ministry.
Economics at Aberdeen gets to grips with the global economy and the factors that influence wealth from a social and financial perspective, taught by leading economists.
You will gain thorough understanding of economic theories and models and explore how they work in the real world, gaining skills that will be very attractive to top employers.
Primary Education at Aberdeen produces creative, motivated and highly-skilled primary teachers confident to work with children in any educational setting.
You will benefit from flexibility, opportunity, research, new tools, exceptional staff, and placements ranging from schools on remote Scottish islands to the urban environment of big cities as you become equipped to inspire and guide young minds in the 21st century.
Electrical and Electronic Engineering (EEE) is fundamental to modern society, encompassing everything from advanced computer systems and digital circuits to photonics and cutting-edge technologies like automated cars, robotics, medical equipment, and the next generation of mobile data transmission.
Engineering is a broad subject, encompassing many different activities across various fields of human endeavour.
While engineers work in many different industries, from aerospace and automotive to energy and medicine, all engineers use creativity to design solutions to the problems we face in the world today.
English Studies at Aberdeen gives you all the advantages of an outstanding teaching, research and creative hub where you will be taught by internationally renowned academics, writers and poets.
You will be inspired in the wonderful environment of a historic university with an award-winning library, outstanding literary treasures, and a vigorous calendar of literary events.
Film & Visual Culture at Aberdeen takes you on a fascinating and unique journey through the history and theory of the moving image over the last 100 years of cinema, in the vibrant environment of a leading teaching and research university, a buzzing regional cultural scene, and a region of outstanding natural beauty and inspiration.
Finance at Aberdeen gives you a powerful understanding of the principles of finance in a fast-moving global setting, and the business skills to take advantage of the many opportunities available to sought-after Aberdeen graduates across business and public sector, expected to grow further with the increasing number of innovations in the financial world.
French at Aberdeen has a long-standing reputation for teaching and research that covers the Francophone world.
Our experts are recognised internationally for their work on French & Francophone culture, politics, society and history.
You can study our undergraduate language courses at all levels and specialise in topics on film, contemporary civilisation, history and culture.
You can combine French & Francophone Studies with almost any other subject to tailor your degree to suit your needs and interests.
Gaelic Studies at Aberdeen is the perfect programme and location to explore the Gaelic language, its history, literature and Gaelic culture up to the present day.
Whether you are a native speaker or complete beginner, you will be inspired by our world-leading experts in the Gaelic field, and gain valuable skills and wide career options.
Geography is key to understanding and resolving many of the most pressing problems faced by society, including climate change, poverty, energy transitions, sustainable development and environmental conservation.
Our degree programmes reflect these modern-day challenges, with core and optional courses aimed at producing highly skilled graduates who can think critically and develop solutions to tackle these problems.
Geologists study the Earth’s interior, crust, oceans and atmosphere to tackle the major scientific and environmental challenges such as climate change, natural hazards, natural resources and energy transition.
Aberdeen is in the Top 5 in the UK for Positive Responses in Earth Sciences (National Student Survey 2025)
German at Aberdeen has an outstanding reputation, top-rated for teaching, with broad, flexible and diverse programmes covering language, literature, history and culture, with four or five-year options, study periods abroad, and many subject combinations for which a major European language adds huge advantage in today's world.
History at Aberdeen is the opportunity to immerse yourself in rich study of all aspects of human adventure in the past, exploring the medieval, early modern and modern periods in Scotland, Europe, America, Asia and Africa at a University steeped in 500 years of history.
The MA (four years) and the MBus (five years) in International Business are designed to develop the leaders of the future.
They provide students with a broad understanding of International Business and are designed to equip you to be successful, with an exceptional knowledge and understanding of both its operations and its economic, political and social context.
Language and Linguistics at Aberdeen is the fascinating exploration of human language and how speech evolved to create a bridge between sound and meaning.
You will study the ways in which we acquire languages as children and adults, how languages and dialects vary and change over time, and gain the knowledge and skills to give you choice across a wide variety of careers.
Law at Aberdeen gives you a unique experience of breadth, depth, choice and quality, with courses accredited by the Law Society of Scotland and Faculty of Advocates.
You can add options in English law, a modern European language or legal system, or other choices to further benefit your career.
Legal Studies is a Joint degree which allows students to combine Legal Studies with a wide range of other subjects and is an attractive degree for students who wish to combine the study of the law with another subject.
Study Chinese Mandarin and learn a language spoken over 5,000 years by one-fifth of the population.
Develop a broad understanding of rich Chinese culture while enhancing your speaking, listening, reading, writing and linguistic skills.
Mathematics is not just about crunching numbers – it’s about logical thinking, solving problems, decision making and understanding why things work – the main skills that recruiters look for in potential employees.
As data and machine learning continue to drive growth in financial services, retail and technology, opportunities for interesting and well-paid careers for maths graduates continue to grow.
Mechanical engineers design, manufacture, operate and maintain a wide variety of products, using knowledge and methods from physics and maths with creativity, problem-solving and teamwork.
Virtually every product in the modern world has been shaped in some way by a mechanical engineer, from everyday items to new technologies.
At Aberdeen, you will study medicine in a thriving medical school that is co-located on one of the largest clinical sites in Europe, with superb teaching and extensive research facilities.
We are ranked 1st in the UK for Medicine in the Guardian University Guide 2025 rankings!
Molecular and Cellular biology is one of great successes of 20th century science, culminating in the determination of the complete human genome sequence.
Music at Aberdeen is a wonderful opportunity to learn, compose and perform with world-renowned composers, conductors, musicologists and researchers working in all genres, styles and periods.
You will benefit from first-class facilities and instruments, have unrivalled opportunities to grow as a musician and performer, be part of the vibrant musical scene in north-east Scotland, and have options to specialise in teaching music or working with music in community settings.
By unravelling the mysteries of normal brain function, Neuroscience promotes our understanding of the devastating illnesses of the brain which afflict the lives of so many people.
Petroleum engineering is concerned with the design and development of front-end engineering technologies required in the exploration and extraction of oil and gas reservoirs.
Pharmacology is about the discovery and characterisation of drugs that are used either as medicines or as experimental tools for advancing our understanding of the body in health and disease.
Philosophy at Aberdeen is all about The Big Questions – the study of argument and how we apply it to a wide variety of questions of fundamental importance to human life and intellectual activity.
The high level of intellectual skills, experience and career options you will gain on this programme – rated by students as top in Scotland – are all big too.
Physics at Aberdeen takes you on a fascinating journey of understanding through every level of the physical world, from quarks, atoms and molecules to solar systems, galaxies and the universe.
We will explore questions as vast as how the universe has evolved into its present state and cover topics such as the quantum nature of reality and other fascinating topics like thermodynamics and entropy.
Physiology is one of the key disciplines underpinning our knowledge of medicine, dentistry and veterinary science.
Politics and International Relations at Aberdeen, a unique combination in Scotland, focuses on the role of politics, power, states, and governments in an ever-changing global context, taught by internationally renowned academics regularly appearing as experts in the media on events unfolding in the world today.
It is the perfect foundation for careers in politics, international affairs, NGOs, media and much more.
We are 8th in the UK for International Relations by the Guardian University Guide 2025.
Are you interested in what makes people tick?
Do you want to understand why people do the things they do?
What happens when it goes wrong?
As the study of mental processes and behaviour, Psychology is interested in all these questions and many more.
Real Estate at Aberdeen examines real estate markets from the perspectives of economics, investment and business, at Scotland's top centre for real estate teaching and research, and second in the UK.
Professionally accredited programmes prepare you for a career in surveying, with a focus on commercial real estate, investment, management, valuation and development.
Theology and Religious Studies at Aberdeen includes both the study of Christian faith, life and doctrine in its historical, cross-cultural and contemporary contexts, and the comparative study of the major religious traditions of the world.
You will focus on the origin, function, and meaning of religion, and gain a wide range of career options, in addition to ministry.
Scottish Studies at Aberdeen is a wide, thorough and fascinating exploration of the languages and rich literary heritage of Scotland, taking advantage of our strength in teaching and world-leading research in English, Gaelic, Celtic and History.
We set Scottish culture in its historical context, and you gain the skills that employers seek.
Sociology at Aberdeen opens up your ‘sociological imagination’, as you explore how society shapes us as individuals in all sorts of ways, helping us to understand ourselves, our relationships, and the challenges we face in a changing world.
Top-rated excellent teaching and a culture of dynamic research will give you the skills to be a sought after graduate by employers in many sectors.
Spanish & Latin American Studies at Aberdeen has an outstanding reputation for innovative teaching in a friendly department, with a broad, flexible and diverse programme of courses on the language, literature, history and culture of Spain and Latin America.
Your degree will include a period abroad in a Spanish-speaking country, studying, working or volunteering.
Spanish and Latin American Studies can be combined with many subjects across the humanities and social sciences, giving you sought-after expertise in a fast-growing global language and its cultures and a huge advantage in today's world.
Whether you want to understand how our bodies adapt to the stresses imposed upon them during physical activity to benefit performance and health, or explore the role of sport and exercise as a means of improving quality of life, we have  degree suited to you.
Theology at Aberdeen focuses on the study of the Christian faith and tradition in the context of its history, institutions and its role today.
Whether you have a personal, vocational, or intellectual interest in learning more about the Christian faith, Aberdeen is the place for you.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad:
For students interested in spending time at the University of Aberdeen
For students interested in gaining international experience outside the University of Aberdeen
We offer one-to-one virtual appointment slots with a member of the Go Abroad team - got any questions?
Book yours now!
Our Go Abroad Ambassadors are keen to share their experiences and answer questions!
You can find them in the Infohub Monday/Tuesday 10.00-12.00 and Wednesday/Thursday/Friday 14.00-16.00.
Have questions and want to speak with a member of the team?

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/finance:
You can pay your tuition (and other) fees through our secure online ePayments portal (credit or debit card) or through one of our payment partners (International and UK bank transfers, card and eWallet payments).
Please note for anti-money laundering purposes, we do not accept payment directly to our bank account.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply:
Check out our wide range of programmes on offer at the University of Aberdeen.
Remember to check the entry requirements and the application process, so you know exactly what is required to apply for this programme.
Applications for full-time undergraduate degree programmes at Aberdeen are made through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
You apply online to UCAS and can ask your schools or college for advice and guidance.
If you are applying for a part-time degree and are a non-graduating or visiting student, you apply directly to us.
The deadline to complete your application for Medicine and Dentistry is 6pm (UK time) on 15 October .
For all other degrees, we guarantee that all applications submitted to us by 6pm (UK time) on the last Wednesday in January will receive equal consideration.
Your UCAS application will then be sent to our Admissions team where our staff will assess it.
You will receive an acknowledgement email from us.
Use your UCAS Hub Account to keep up to date with the progress of your application and reply to your offers.
Education, Medicine and Music interviews
If you have applied for an Education, Medicine or Music programme, you may be called for an interview.
An invitation will be sent directly from us by email.
We will be in touch, in most cases soon after the application deadline, to tell you if you have been made an offer (conditional or unconditional) or been unsuccessful.
If you are invited to interview, this will precede any offer of admission.
If you receive an offer, you will be invited to attend our Offer Holder Day (usually in early spring).
You can explore our campus, meet current students and find out more about the subjects you are interested in.
This is a great opportunity to find out what it is like to study with us and become part of the Aberdeen family.
Make the University of Aberdeen your "Firm" choice and get ready to join the Aberdeen family!
You will receive further information about becoming a student and starting your studies with us throughout the summer.
Our staff and students are answering your questions about studying in Aberdeen:

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught:
Our next Postgraduate Virtual Open Day takes place on Thursday 2 October.
The event gives you the opportunity to speak live with academics and students and find out more about life at Aberdeen.
All eligible self-funded international Postgraduate students starting in September 2025 will receive an £8,000 scholarship.
More info on the link below.
At Aberdeen, there are no boundaries for your ideas and their impact.
With a warm and inspiring community backing you at every turn, our postgraduate students know no limits - going on to break boundaries in a range of industries and professions.
Whether it's working across disciplines to fight inequality, or proactively pushing for a cleaner energy future, at Aberdeen, it's not about staying in your lane.
Our research-led teaching and promotion of a multi-disciplinary, global mindset, make Aberdeen graduates truly unique - able to think, work and innovate across disciplines, locations and perspectives, as they seek to spark real, lasting change.
Whether you're keen to understand how to apply, explore finance and funding options, or discover essential offer holder information, we've got you covered.
Ranked 37th in the world, top 3%, in the QS World University Rankings 2025 and awarded with the Queen's Anniversary Prize In 2017 and 2021, learn more about how our award-winning Research and teaching is breaking boundaries.
Our research
The University of Aberdeen is committed to providing you with the support you need to succeed.
Join the Boundary Breakers and find your True North.
With the cost-of-living crisis and future so uncertain, we know you need our support more than ever.
Browse our diverse range of brand new scholarships available now.
Go beyond what you thought possible as a University of Aberdeen student or graduate, with 20% off your choice of postgraduate study.
Nestled in between the Cairngorms National Park and miles of golden coastline, the 528-year-old campus and buzzing city of Aberdeen is welcoming, adventurous and forever evolving.
Join the thousands of students making up our boundary-breaking community of online learners.
With more than 150 on campus programmes and the ability to mix and match modules across multiple subject areas; you can be in the driving seat of your learning experience.
Go beyond traditional mindsets with the skills employers are really looking for.
Aberdeen graduates are truly unique boundary breakers - able to think, work and innovate across disciplines, locations and perspectives.
And with well-rounded support from our Careers service from day one, you'll not only stand out to employers, but be empowered to make real, lasting change in your chosen career.
Our Employability
Our themes provide a list of programmes which will create a positive impact on society in the following categories.
From the molecular to a global scale, we need to work together - now more than ever - to protect our planet and mitigate the climate crisis.
Whether it's saving lives, leading a healthier life, or understanding our place in life, it's time to revolutionise the healthcare industry.
Are you ready to break with convention?
It's time to go beyond stereotypes and societal norms, and spark urgent, social change.
From the Business School to the Law School, break with conventional business models to address the financial crisis and create a fairer, greener world.
How do we design, build and maintain the physical and digital infrastructure that supports our world?
it's time to discover how.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/degree-programmes:
Page 1 of 9 Results 1 to 25 of 206 | View All

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/online:
Study online with the University of Aberdeen.
Our flexible online options are hosted on our Online Learning site .
From here you can apply for degrees and sign up for short courses online.
Join us part-time and you can earn a Masters in around two years.
You'll earn the same degree as you would on campus.
Learn new skills, explore your interests or move your career forward with bitesize online courses you can build into qualifications.
Browse our study categories to find the right online course for you.
Find out how distance learning works.
See what it's like to study online with us.
Have a question about online learning?
We're here to help you.
We met with some of our students to find out what life was like studying online with us.
They told us their stories and included the answers to some of your most asked questions.
Join our community of online students from over 100 countries.
With University of Aberdeen Online , you can:

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/part-time:
Earn postgraduate qualifications without taking a career break.
Access Masters-level education that fits around full-time work with our part-time postgraduate degrees and short courses.
Whether you're new to higher education or thinking about returning to study, we offer a broad range of part-time postgraduate programmes you can study on campus or online.
Study online anywhere and earn the same postgraduate qualifications you would on campus.
Explore our full range of part-time postgraduate taught degrees you can study on campus, including blended learning options.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/finance:
View our range of scholarship and funding opportunities.
The Alumni Postgraduate Scholarship (Home/RUK) offers eligible students a reduced tuition fee of £7,000 for most full-time, on-campus Masters programs starting September 2025 or January 2026, subject to terms.
A 20% discount is available to current students and University of Aberdeen graduates who wish to undertake further study at the university.
View all of our funding opportunities.
For more information about tuition fees for all of our degree programmes.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/how-to-apply:
Please only login to the current Applicant Portal to manage existing applications or to begin a new application for a programme starting before January 2027.
For programmes starting January 2027 or later, the way you apply for postgraduate study is changing.
We are launching a new Direct Applicant Portal.
Please register your interest here and once it is available, we will let you know.
The exception to this is applying for our PGDE Teaching Programmes which have a separate application process.
All applications should be made through the main Undergraduate UCAS scheme and not through Teacher Training.
This applies to all institutions in Scotland delivering the PGDE, not just Aberdeen.
Applications to the BA Professional Development should be made using a paper application form.
Find out more about applying for a Postgraduate degree at Aberdeen and view FAQs.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research:
Start your research career at the University of Aberdeen.
All eligible self-funded international Postgraduate Masters students starting in September 2025 will receive an £8,000 scholarship.
Postgraduate Research in Aberdeen offers diverse opportunities, innovative projects and a vibrant academic community.
The University of Aberdeen is here for you to support your Research journey.
All the information you need as an offer holder.
PhD projects and studentships - defined pieces of research that a research group/school/ centre or institute wishes to explore.
Prospective PhD researchers are encouraged to explore our research areas and propose an area of study or a topic of interest to them.
Learn about the Doctoral Training Centres available at Aberdeen.
Get all of the information you need to apply.
We offer a wide portfolio of scholarships and bursaries to support you on your journey of academic and personal growth.
Learn why we offer the perfect research environment, facilities and support for our researchers.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/research-areas:
Page 1 of 2 Results 1 to 25 of 45 | View All
Show: 10 | 25 | 50 results per page

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/phds:
The University of Aberdeen offers a variety of pre-defined PhD research projects.
These come in a number of forms such as pieces of research that a research group/School/Centre or Institute wishes to explore and have received funding or made funding available to support researchers (e.g.
UKRI, Charity, Industry partner).
A funder may have provided funding for the project, although not all defined PhD projects have funding associated with them.
Powered By FindAPhD.com

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/finance:
Funding is available for researchers to support them during their period of study.
Dedicated to creating a community of research excellence, achievement , and innovation, we have a funding database of scholarships designed to fund your studies.
External sources of funding are also available; these are best approached once you identify a supervisor for the project you wish to carry out.
View our funding database
Choose the University of Aberdeen for your PhD and you'll develop the skills and knowledge to tackle the global challenges of our world today and tomorrow.
Find out more about tuition fees
We offer a 20% discount in postgraduate tuition fees for all alumni who have graduated with a degree from the University of Aberdeen.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/apply:
Entrance requirements for a PhD at the University of Aberdeen are either a Masters degree or a first or upper-second class Honours degree in an appropriate area from an approved university ( or an equivalent qualification ).
Those with lower qualifications may be asked to register for a Masters degree by research (Mlitt, MSc, MTh, LLM, MLE or MRes) with satisfactory progress allowing conversion to a PhD programme.
Admission to the University of Aberdeen is entirely on merit and based on the ability to achieve.
We operate an admissions policy which ensures equality of opportunity to all applicants.
Applications are welcomed from students with excellent academic potential and the University recognises the importance of admitting applicants to a degree suited to their ability and aspirations.
The selection process therefore takes account of all aspects of an application and not just an applicant's academic profile.
In seeking to attract applications from students with excellent academic potential, the University of Aberdeen is committed to widening participation and to promoting wider access to Higher Education.
There are no admissions quotas which advantage or disadvantage any group of applicants and the University of Aberdeen is committed to treating all applicants within the admissions cycle fairly.
Every degree has an admissions selector, who considers all the applications for that area of study.
Selectors are interested in an applicant's academic achievements but they will also take note of the spread of subjects studied and will check for competence in any specific subjects required for particular subjects.
Selectors take an applicant's personal statement and the Referee's Report into account when they make their decision, as well as actual or predicted examination grades.
Selectors are looking for evidence of knowledge and understanding of a subject, of commitment, motivation and responsibility, and ability to cope with the challenges of a university education.
Applications for admission to all degrees are considered without regard to any inappropriate distinction eg ethnicity or national origin, nationality, disability, sexual orientation, gender, religious or political beliefs, marital status or socio-economic background.
Mature students (those who will be 21 or over at the time they start an undergraduate degree), and students who have suffered educational hardship or disruption (including students with disabilities), may receive special consideration.
The University of Aberdeen believes a diverse student population is important from an educational and social perspective; enhancing the educational experience for all.
The University's Guidance Notes for Admission provide further information for applicants who wish to submit an application.
Find out more about:
Most applicants will already know what area they wish to specialise in.
Initial research will allow you to refine your ideas.
If you are going to be self-funding your research degree as opposed to applying for a funded opportunity then you should identify potential sources of funding and find out if they are applicable to the area you are interested in.
You can also apply to a pre-defined PhD.
These are projects which the University has identified as strong research opportunities for high calibre applicants.
You can find out more information on these PhDs here: www.abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/phd-opportunities-205
You can contact potential supervisors within your school or institute of interest to discuss research proposals.
If applying for a pre-defined project, you can choose to make contact with your identified supervisor before you apply to introduce yourself and ask any questions.
Contact details for staff can be found here: https://www.abdn.ac.uk/people/
Some students, such as those who are not applying for a pre-defined or funded project, will likely need to write a research proposal as part of their application.
You can find out more about this during your application.
The way you apply for postgraduate study is changing.
For programmes starting January 2027 or later, we are launching a new Direct Applicant Portal.
Please register your interest and once it is available, we will let you know.
You will be sent an email informing you of whether you have a place on your chosen programme.
If there are conditions attached to the offer please ensure these are completed and sent back as soon as possible.
If you are offered a place and wish to accept your offer, please return your completed acceptance forms as soon as possible.
If you are waiting to hear the outcome of a funding application you can still accept the offer of admission then send the relevant financial forms of sponsorship later.
Find out about accepting your offer .
The structure and assessment of research degrees can vary.
Students may register either for full-time or part-time study, although for visa purposes international students can only study full time, if they wish to study on campus.
Applications to undertake a PhD via distance learning are considered and potential applicants should refer to the relevant Research Areas page to check what is offered in the research area they wish to study.
The precise focus of research is agreed between the supervisor and the student, to suit the student's particular interests and needs as much as possible.
During the first year, students may be required to undertake some formal research training which is compulsory in some disciplines.
Throughout the research period students will be encouraged to attend specialist seminars and conferences and keep staff and fellow students informed of their progress at seminars within the School or College.
Assessment for PhDs is on the basis of a thesis and oral examination.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/online/degrees:
These are all the online distance learning degrees and awards we currently offer at the University of Aberdeen.
Search:
Our online degrees are taught by the same outstanding academics as our on-campus degrees - the only difference is the flexible mode of delivery.
Learning takes place at a time and place most convenient for our students.
You'll be guided through your programme with online lectures, materials, case studies, projects, videos, access to the wonderful online resources of our award-winning Sir Duncan Rice Library and plenty of interactive discussion and support as you gain the skills to take your career to the next level.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about:
Established to serve the north-east of Scotland, today our university is a global presence in higher education.
A dual focus on our region and the wider world is as important to us today as it was five centuries ago.
The University is committed to four key areas which guide our present work and future direction.
We value diversity
We learn together
We think across borders
We work responsibly
Teaching at the University of Aberdeen is organised across 12 schools which encompass a broad range of disciplines.
Multidisciplinary research centres and institutes bring together experts at the cutting-edge of their fields to work with colleagues across the UK and beyond.
Most teaching at the University of Aberdeen takes place at our two main campuses, located in Old Aberdeen and at Foresterhill.
Multi-million pound investment across the University provides students and researchers with some of the best facilities in the UK.
The home of the University, Old Aberdeen, is one of the most beautiful and historic urban areas in Scotland, with buildings dating back to the 15th Century.
Explore its storied heritage with a walking tour, come to one of our open days, or attend one of our many public events.
Find contact details for all departments and staff.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus:
University of Aberdeen
Our campuses bring together the ancient and the modern, providing the perfect setting for research and learning
Teaching and research is primarily based at our Old Aberdeen and Foresterhill campuses.
Arts, Social Sciences, Physical Sciences and the main University library are located in Old Aberdeen.
The majority of Life Sciences and Medicine is based at Foresterhill.
We also have an international campus in Doha, Qatar.
Trying to find a particular building?
Use our campus maps to find your way around the University.
Our King's College campus in Old Aberdeen is the historic heart of the University.
Our Foresterhill campus is home to many of our Life Sciences and Medicine facilities.
Our campus in Doha runs programmes at undergraduate and postgraduate level and has access to a great range of student services.
Marischal College was founded in 1593 and merged with King's College in 1860 to form today's University of Aberdeen.
Located in Newburgh, the NDC is a global leader in research and development for the energy sector.
The Lighthouse Field Station houses research and training in marine ecology and resource management.
The Rowett Institute plays a major role in UK and international research into nutrition and human health.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/maps:
Our maps come from Google and rely on JavaScript being active.
If JavaScript is not available to you, we additionally offer several maps for download .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/contact:
Get in touch
Find out how to contact the University of Aberdeen
For all enquiries during office hours, Monday to Friday 9am-5pm:
Tel: +44 (0)1224 272000
King's College Aberdeen AB24 3FX
Email addresses of University staff and research students are published through the online directory.
Please note that email addresses are subject to Data Protection, and some staff have chosen to opt out of this directory.
View our comprehensive campus maps with details of:
We host a huge number of events, tours and open days throughout the year.
Why not come along and enjoy our facilities and our beautiful Old Aberdeen campus?

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/news:
Our staff, students and graduates have achieved remarkable success.
We explore their stories and how they have shaped the lives of others.
Check out our research story videos and news updates.
Listen to our wide array of thought provoking podcasts.
Find out how our research is making an impact locally and globally.
Space scientists at the University of Aberdeen have taken their pioneering research to new heights - but this time, right here on Earth.
A University engineer turned artist will showcase work drawing on life in north-east Scotland - and combining her passion for both disciplines - at the Aberdeen Art Fair.
Tributes have been paid to a former primary school teacher whose generosity enhanced the cultural and artistic life of both the University of Aberdeen and the region.
University of Aberdeen student Daisy MacCallum will showcase her talents as a singer-songwriter at the upcoming Aberdeen Music Week.
A unique research initiative aimed at deepening understanding of domestic abuse in Scotland has been awarded a prestigious Research Collaboration Grant by the Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE).
The University of Aberdeen has launched the third edition of their Gaelic Language Plan reaffirming its commitment to the support and promotion of Gaelic language and culture.
The University of Aberdeen today announces the launch of a new spin-out company developing novel immunotherapies to combat invasive fungal infections.
GLP1 agonist drugs, commonly known by brand names such as Ozempic and Mounjaro, reduce asthma symptoms in obese people according to a new study from the University of Aberdeen and The Observational and Pragmatic Research Institute (OPRI), Singapore.
The University of Aberdeen is a founding partner of The Conversation UK.
See below our academics' articles and opinion pieces on various topics of public interest.
By Professor John Bone, School of Social Sciences, University of Aberdeen
The events at the Trump rally on 13 July 2024 provided yet one more tragic illustration of how political behaviour can all too readily move from rational debate to violent action.
Political violence is, of course, sadly far from new and...
Dr William G Naphy is a Professor of Early Modern History at the University of Aberdeen specialising in the Reformation and social control
 
As Halloween approaches, the perennially popular witch costume will be donned by guisers across the country.
Images of witches have appeared in various forms throughout history—from evil, wart-nosed women...
Professor Dana Dawson is from the University of Aberdeen’s Cardiology and Cardiovascular Research Unit and a consultant cardiologist at Aberdeen Royal Infirmary
Can you die of a broken heart?
For those unfortunate enough to have experienced it, it can certainly feel like that.
I am part of a group of scientists researching...
The University at a glance.
Contacts and information for media.
Contacts and services for policy and political communities.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/events:
The University of Aberdeen is delighted to be exhibiting at SPE Offshore Europe 2025, one of the world's leading energy conferences.
The theme of our Doors Open Day this year is "FINDS".
We're celebrating Doors Open Day and Scottish Archaeology Month with a FINDS DAY that includes special guests, The Treasure Trove Unit, an archaeology-themed Lego Hunt and much more!
Come and see the amazing displays of creatures.
We'll have activity sheets and an archaeology-themed Lego Trail for visitors to enjoy.
Fun for all the family!
Step into a world of Gothic terror in the latest exhibition from University Collections.
Physiological Society Meeting
Explore how our everyday lives and the communities in which we live, work and play impact on our health and well-being.
This meeting is an opportunity for you to hear about the University's current activities and the contribution that all our staff, students and alumni make to the life and success of our local and national communities.
Online short course

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/history:
With 525 years of history the University of Aberdeen has celebrated lots of incredible milestones.
Watch some of them below.
When we were 524 years old
Founded in 1495 by William Elphinstone, Bishop of Aberdeen and Chancellor of Scotland, the University of Aberdeen is Scotland's third oldest and the UK's fifth oldest university.
Among the many pioneers who have been associated with the University of Aberdeen are five Nobel Laureates.
Many of our alumni have gone on to make major contributions to science, the arts, medical research, business, politics and much more.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/facts-figures:
Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide (UK) - 15 Guardian University League Table (UK) - 12 Complete University Guide (UK) - 30 Times Higher Education (UK) - 26 QS World Rankings (UK/World) - 31 / 262
Ranked 12th in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2025 and 15th in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Awarded the Queen's Anniversary Prize for research and teaching in Soil Science
Founded in 1495, the University of Aberdeen is Scotland's third oldest university and the fifth oldest in the UK.
Community of more than 130 nationalities, with 15,000 students and 3,500 staff.
The University marked its 525th birthday by launching a new strategic vision true to our foundational purpose - Aberdeen 2040.
The University marked its 525th birthday by celebrating its rich and diverse achievements of the past.
Following our Health Services Research Unit receiving the Queen's Anniversary Prize in 2017, the University of Aberdeen was again awarded the Prize in 2021 for research and teaching in soil science.
Gaelic has been taught as a subject at the University since the eighteenth century.
Many distinguished Gaelic scholars have passed through as students or staff.
Our Old Aberdeen Campus has been listed as one of the UKs Top 10 Most Beautiful Historic campuses .
Sir Duncan Rice Library was named one of the most beautiful in the world (CEOWORLD magazine, 2016).
A dedicated campus in the Gulf State of Qatar in partnership with AFG and an Alliance with Curtin University in Perth, Australia.
Outstanding sports facilities include the Olympic-standard Aberdeen Sports Village and Aquatics Centre .
The national and global league tables are calculated using different criteria and weighting but all include; student satisfaction, student to staff ratio, graduate prospects, and entry grades.
The Leiden University Rankings use bibliometric indicators to measure the performance of universities across the world.
Ranked 51st in the UK for the scientific impact of its research.
The University is ranked 17th in the UK for collaborative research that takes place with partners across the world.
The University is ranked 49th in the world for the number of Open Access publications.
84% of publications by University of Aberdeen researchers are Open Access.
This year, the university is ranked 14th in the UK for gender diversity.
The University has consistently been ranked highly in the UK for the gender diversity of its researchers.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/schools-institutes:
Teaching at the University of Aberdeen is organised across 12 schools encompassing a broad range of disciplines
Undergraduate and postgraduate students benefit from being taught by academic staff who are active in research, many involved in international collaborations at the forefront of discovery in their respective discipline, focused on finding answers to the issues facing our society and economy today.
The Postgraduate Research College works in partnership with academic schools and Professional Services colleagues to enhance your postgraduate experience.
Multidisciplinary research centres and institutes bring together experts at the cutting edge of their fields to work with colleagues across the UK and beyond on the big issues of today.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/strategy-and-governance:
Read more about our commitment and ambitions for the future.
The University of Aberdeen is committed to delivering outstanding teaching and first class research, and to achieve that, we have put people at the heart of everything that we do.
The mission, objectives and targets outlined in our Strategic Plan are approved and monitored by the governance structure of the University Court , which has corporate and legal responsibilities, and the Senatus Academicus (Senate) which is responsible for the regulation and superintendence of teaching and the promotion of research.
The General Council comprises all University graduates and certain academic staff and is empowered "to take into consideration all questions affecting the well-being and prosperity of the University, and to make representations from time to time on such questions to the University Court".
The University is fully committed to equality for all its staff and students.
Our commitment to inclusion guides our education, our research, and the projects we deliver
Our Aberdeen 2040 strategy commits the University to achieving net-zero emissions before 2040 and we will show leadership in working for the sustainable future of our planet.
The Aberdeen 2040 strategy received The Higher Education Strategic Planners Association (HESPA) 2021 Strategy Award

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/management:
More information on our Senior Management Team members
More information on our deans and their important role supporting the vice-principals
Our interdisciplinary directors manage our boundary breaking cross-subject research
More information on the professional services team
The University of Aberdeen publishes the details of expenses incurred by the Senior Management Team each month.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/research:
Where will your quest for knowledge take you?
The world's greatest challenges cross disciplines and span continents.
To solve them we need people who see things from different perspectives - going beyond expectations, to spark active, positive impact.
At Aberdeen, we have been going beyond traditional ways of working, proactively working together to break boundaries for over half a millennium.
Whether it's leading the global transition to a cleaner energy future, pioneering preventative healthcare for all, harnessing cultural diversity for a more equitable world, protecting the environment and biodiversity, or driving innovation forward through Data and AI; at Aberdeen, there are no boundaries for your ideas and their impact.
At Aberdeen it's not about staying in your lane or sticking to the status quo, it's about breaking with convention, going beyond traditional methods, siloes, and boundaries in pursuit of a better world.
Learn more about the boundary breakers and change makers championing inclusivity, internationality, and sustainability through a bold, interdisciplinary approach to research.
Leading geneticists have discovered that one in 100 people with grandparents from Orkney have a gene variant that causes a higher risk of certain cancers.
Professor James N'Dow recognised in new year honours list for his work as a leading prostate surgeon, the founder of a pioneering cancer charity and building a maternity hospital in Africa.
Professor Pete Smith, Professor of Soils and Global Change at the University of Aberdeen has been named in the Reuters Hot List - a list of the most influential climate scientists in the world today.
Azizul Islam has made it his life's work to improve the lives of those working in Bangladeshi garment factories.
Professor Mirela Delibegovic has delivered life changing research in the areas of diabetes, heart disease and Covid-19.
Recently we published our 2023/24 sustainability report showcasing our work towards the UN's Sustainable Development Goals.
Read about some of our boundary breaking work.
The University is now a proud member of The Turing University Network, connecting universities across the data and AI ecosystem.
Find out more about events and opportunities in data science & AI.
Explore the huge range of interdisciplinary research projects that are being funded at the University of Aberdeen.
A new software tool has been developed to improve the design and efficiency of Hybrid Renewable Energy Systems.
Discover the huge range of ways in which our Digital Research Team can assist with internal and external research projects.
Our interdisciplinary challenges represent research areas of historic and emerging excellence that are capable of supporting a diverse research portfolio and delivering globally excellent and measurable benefits to society, the economy and health.
Explore how we are working towards a brighter future, while actively supporting the UN's Sustainable Development Goals.
For more than 40 years we've combined our academic excellence with industry expertise, to innovate and positively affect the future of global energy.
In a rapidly changing world, we aim to be open to other perspectives and understand how culture and diversity shape human experience.
By making the most of our proximity to nature, our researchers are addressing major environmental challenges both close to home and far afield.
We have carried out research in data science and AI for more than 30 years, discovering new ways to improve health and daily life with this technology.
Our interdisciplinary strengths, healthcare expertise and industry collaborations underpin our commitment to addressing major health challenges with our research.
Explore our impact case studies, read our latest news and delve deeper into our research portal.
Find out how the University's award-winning research makes an impact locally and around the world.
Learn more about our research degrees and PhD opportunities.
Browse our facilities at Old Aberdeen and Foresterhill.
Search for one of our world class centres or institutes.
Our supportive research environment allows our researchers to achieve their full potential.
Find out more about our upcoming events and engagement opportunities.
Excellent research is underpinned by high standards of integrity and robust research governance procedures.
Learn more about how we collaborate with business and industry.
Search our Knowledge Seekers and Boundary Breakers.
Learn more about our Nobel Prizes, notable academics and some of our research highlights through the centuries.
Explore our researchers' networks, output, datasets and activities in our dedicated research portal.
View the latest opportunities to join our research community.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/research/interdisciplinary:
Breaking Boundaries
The home of our groundbreaking interdisciplinary research
Our research is where great minds work together.
It is challenge-led and impactful, and often requires an interdisciplinary approach to address the great research challenges of our age: energy transition, social inclusion and cultural diversity, data and artificial intelligence, environment and biodiversity, and health, nutrition and wellbeing.
By working across boundaries and sharing ideas and approaches, we have the expertise to face these challenges for the benefit of our region and wider society.
The Interdisciplinary Institute has been established to provide a unified forum to encourage, catalyse, and co-ordinate the University's interdisciplinary research and education initiatives.
It also facilitates connections with external partners in policy, industry, and the third sector, thereby enhancing the societal impact of our research and innovation efforts.
The University of Aberdeen recognises the very generous support of alumni and friends in establishing the Interdisciplinary Institute including Dr Jane Hellman Caseley (MBChB 1956), Professor Patrick Meares (DSc 1959), Nancy Miller (MA 1942), Norman Robertson, Dr Ian Slessor (MBChB 1956), Anne Young (MA 1957).
Our Interdisciplinary Directors are recognised global leaders in their fields, who have been appointed to catalyse new research and education initiatives related to five global interdisciplinary challenges.
Working with colleagues across the University and drawing on both theoretical and applied knowledge, they facilitate academics to work across disciplinary boundaries and with external partners to provide solutions to complex problems.
Lesley Anderson is a prominent health data scientist and public health researcher at the University of Aberdeen, often describing herself as a "disease detective", with a deep focus on cancer research.
With over 24 years of experience, her work transcends traditional disciplinary boundaries, fostering collaboration across diverse fields to improve health and advance healthcare delivery.
Lesley completed her PhD in cancer epidemiology at Queen's University Belfast in 2004, following an undergraduate degree in Biomedical Science.
She furthered her education with a Master's in Population Health-Based Evidence from the University of Manchester, acquired through distance learning.
She joined the University of Aberdeen in March 2020 and was previously Deputy Director of the Northern Ireland Cancer Registry leading the production of national statistics on cancer incidence, prevalence and survival.
Her leadership in interdisciplinary projects is exemplified by her former role as the Grampian Academic Lead for iCAIRD, a £25 million research program that integrated AI with digital diagnostics.
This initiative united 40 academic, NHS, and industry partners across fields such as medical imaging, AI development, healthcare and data science propelling innovations in healthcare.
iCAIRD won 7 national awards highlighting data driven innovation and innovation collaboration.
Her most impactful work has been in AI evaluation in breast screening, demonstrating her commitment to improving clinical care through advanced health data science.
Lesley is also leading the world's largest case-control study of a rare group of blood cancers called myeloproliferative neoplasms.
The MOSAICC study is recruiting patients from clinical sites across the UK and Ireland to investigate potential lifestyle, medical, environmental and genetic causes.
View Lesley Anderson's staff page .
David Burslem is an inter-disciplinary ecologist and conservation biologist interested in research that addresses the maintenance of ecosystems with high biodiversity and ecological functioning in the face of global change.
He joined the University of Aberdeen in 1995 following undergraduate and PhD training in biological sciences at the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge.
He was appointed to a personal chair in the School of Biological Sciences in 2013, Keeper of the Cruickshank Botanic Garden in 2016 and Interdisciplinary Director for Environment and Biodiversity in 2022.
He has held appointments as Councillor and Trustee of the British Ecological Society, Vice-President of the Botanical Society of Scotland and editorial roles on Journal of Ecology, Plant Ecology and Diversity, and Ecological Reviews.
He currently serves as a trustee of the Scottish Forestry Trust and on the advisory group of the Northeast Scotland Biological Records Centre (NESBREC).
David's research has focussed on the generation and maintenance of biodiversity in ecological communities, ranging from fundamental studies of tropical plant evolution to analyses that generate the evidence base for interventions in species conservation and ecosystem management.
Most of his research has been conducted within an inter-disciplinary framework that involves collaborations with partners in government, non-governmental organisations, and industry.
Recent highlights include high-profile research demonstrating the importance of active interventions to restore tropical forests as reservoirs of carbon, and biodiversity studies contributing to the formal protection of more than 300,000 hectares of forest in Borneo.
David's research group has been funded continuously by UK research councils, European Union, charitable trusts and industrial partners for more than 25 years.
“The inter-related crises of biodiversity loss and climate change threaten planetary life-support systems, including the capacity of environments to deliver safe and affordable amounts of food, clean air and space for people and nature to coexist.”
“The solutions to these problems will require research across traditional disciplinary boundaries, and active engagement between academic communities and external partners to their real-world applicability.”
“The University of Aberdeen has a long track-record of world-leading research on biodiversity and environmental sustainability, which is reflected in the commitments to the UN Sustainable Development Goals that are embedded in Aberdeen 2040.”
“I am delighted to be working alongside colleagues at the University and our external partners to facilitate the coordination and expansion of our interdisciplinary teaching and research on environment and biodiversity.”
View David Burslem's staff page .
Georgios is a TEDx speaker, an Engineer and Computer Scientist and holds MSc and PhD degrees in Machine Learning.
He joined the University of Aberdeen in March 2020, after spending several years at the University of Lincoln's School of Computer Science.
While at Lincoln he held several internal roles and positions and played an instrumental role in enhancing the reputation of the School and expanding the Machine Learning Research Group, via attracting prestigious grants and studentships.
Georgios also spent time in industry working as a Senior Data Scientist in IBA Dosimetry GmbH in Germany.
Georgios has been conducting world-leading activity on foundational elements of Machine Learning for more than a decade, being active in the international community both as an author and senior programme committee for flagship AI venues including NeurIPS, AAAI and IJCAI.
Alongside his core discipline research activities on deep learning, capsule neural networks, domain adaptation, and self-supervised learning, Georgios has been conducting cutting-edge research across several interdisciplinary applications, such as agri-food on soft-fruit yield forecasting, data sharing, and supply chain optimisation, nuclear reactor perturbation analysis and anomaly detection, gas turbine availability, medical image analysis, intelligent refrigeration systems optimisation, environmental data imputation, computer vision, etc, all of which have received funding from several sources including EPSRC, NERC, EU-FP7, EU-H2020, Innovate UK, and industry.
A member of the Full Peer Review College of EPSRC, and a Panel College member of the UKRI Future Leaders Fellow, Georgios was invited and participated in AI workshops organised by UKRI as part of its AI review exercise and was a member of the UK AI council's data sharing working group.
He recently co-organised with SICSA a pan-Scotland AI all-hands event and has been supporting several aspects of the development of Scotland's AI playbook.
He is currently a Senior Expert with the NERC Constructing a Digital Environment Expert Network and his recent TEDx talk focused on how Data & AI can help our sustainable future.
“Data and Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies are uniquely placed to provide solutions to complex societal challenges requiring interdisciplinary approaches spanning multiple disciplines - from computer science and engineering, to social sciences, psychology, business, healthcare and education.
“Developing well-performing, fair, trustworthy and cyber-secure AI systems with a proper governance structure and a suitable policy framework, while dealing with vast amount of multimodal data, remains an open and multi-faceted challenge that is highly underestimated.
“Through its Aberdeen 2040 strategy, the University is well placed to use its remarkable amount of academic expertise working across various areas of AI to play a major role in responding to societal challenges with effective solutions, and to supporting national AI strategies.
“Establishing the University as a world-leading Data & AI research and innovation hub requires a collective, transparent and participatory approach, and my main priority is to create a vibrant and supportive environment for active interdisciplinary research.
I would encourage both academic and professional services staff at the University to actively engage in our activities.”
View Georgios Leontidis's staff page .
Rachel Shanks has a background in law and education.
She has an LL.B.
and M.A.
in Legal Studies from the University of Leeds.
She was a law lecturer and has had various roles in advice and community work as well as having worked in the trade union movement.
Her research currently focuses on the social issues and regulation around school uniform and clothing in the UK.
She is also part of a National Institute for Health and Social Care Research funded study on mindfulness teaching for mental health and wellbeing in sub-Saharan Africa.
She is an editor of the interdisciplinary journal Human Rights Education Review and was previously an Associate Director of the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science with responsibility for its postdoctoral fellowship scheme and two challenge-led pathways.
She joined the University of Aberdeen in 2006 working in the Centre for Lifelong Learning with school pupils and teachers.
She did a PhD with the research project 'Scottish Teachers for a New Era' funded by the Hunter Foundation, the Scottish Government and the University of Aberdeen.
She researched teacher induction and mentoring and was based in the School of Education until being appointed as Interdisciplinary Director for Social Inclusion and Cultural Diversity in 2024.
Rachel's research on school uniform was a catalyst for the first guidance on school uniform and clothing in Scotland which was published in September 2024.
“A holistic approach to school uniform can make it affordable, comfortable and sustainable.
School clothing can be made more affordable by suggesting generic rather than branded school-specific items.
Policy making around school uniform and PE kit can incorporate children and young people's rights such as the right to be involved in decisions which affect them as well as the right not to be discriminated against.
Uniform can be an example of more sustainable clothing with reuse and recyclability emphasised.”
View Rachel Shanks' staff page .
John Underhill is the Academic Executive Director of the UK Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) entitled GeoNetZero (GNZ).
Supported by UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), the latter is a £5M industry-academic collaboration between 12 Universities and 8 industry partners that is exploring the role of Geoscience for the Low Carbon Energy Transition and Challenge to meet Net Zero emission targets.
He has been the recipient of numerous awards including the Geological Society's Lyell Medal Silver Medal of the Geological Society's Energy Group, the Clough Medal of the Edinburgh Geological Society, and European Association of Geoscientists and Engineers (EAGE) Alfred Wegener and Distinguished Lecturer Awards and the American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG) George C.
Matson, Grover E.
Murray Distinguished Educator, and Ziad Beydoun awards.
He was President of the European Association of Geoscientists & Engineers (EAGE) in 2011-12.
John has previously held professorial posts at The University of Edinburgh and Heriot Watt University, where he was their Chief Scientist.
John was also a member of the UK Energy Minister's Technology Leadership Board (TLB) and currently populates the UK Exploration Task Force (XTF) and the Scottish Government's Science Advisory Council (SSAC).
Away from academic life, John was a professional football referee on the FIFA circuit, which saw him officiate on European Champions League, internationals and Scottish Premier League games including those at Pittodrie, between 1994-2008.
“ The Energy Transition is one of the most significant global challenges that we face.
Put simply, how do we ensure the lights remain on, domestic energy supplies continue, and heating needs are met whilst simultaneously decarbonising industry, transport and other sectors?
“It is a privilege to lead the Interdisciplinary Centre for Energy Transition and its efforts to address, critically evaluate and seek the right solutions that ensure we retain energy supply as we decarbonise.
“I see the Centre being a catalyst for change whereby the University can draw and build upon its expertise, collaborate across the research and training landscape and partner with Industry, Government and other stakeholders in the local, national and international communities.
“Having been pivotal for the energy industry and wealth creation and quality of life that the UK has enjoyed over the past half century, the city of Aberdeen and greater north east region is uniquely placed to help shape and deliver the transition that it is required.
“I am absolutely delighted to take on this leadership role at such an esteemed University, and look forward to working towards the goal of a just, fair and affordable transition that protects jobs and livelihoods on the journey to meet net zero emission targets.”
View John Underhill's staff page .
Working closely with the Interdisciplinary Directors, Emma Morrison (Interdisciplinary Research Development Executive) works with academics across all Schools to identify funding opportunities, assist in the development of research grant proposals and other aspects of bid development support and stakeholder engagement to develop our interdisciplinary research portfolio.
Alice Toulson (Interdisciplinary Research Administrator) provides administrative support to the Interdisciplinary Challenge Areas, including supporting the co-ordination of events and activities aimed at promoting the development of interdisciplinary networks.
The University has appointed Interdisciplinary Fellows to drive forward our ambition to tackle some of the most pressing issues facing society by working collaboratively across scientific boundaries in support of our five Interdisciplinary challenge areas - urgent and wide-ranging problems requiring complex solutions that draw on both theoretical and applied knowledge and which speak directly to our region, our society and our century.
School of Geosciences
School of Natural and Computing Sciences
School of Divinity, History, Philosophy & Art History
School of Biological Sciences / School of Geosciences
School of Social Science
School of Biological Sciences
School of Language, Literature, Music and Visual Culture
Our interdisciplinary postgraduate research students join a cohort of fourteen Interdisciplinary Fellows, and benefit from a range of challenge-led activities and cross-discipline interactions, providing students with unique opportunities to develop their skills and interdisciplinary thinking.
Our interdisciplinary research themes allow for an integration of both theoretical and applied projects capable of addressing the most significant global challenges.
Aligned with our Aberdeen 2040 commitments, we are continuing to develop our digital systems and enhance our buildings to create virtual and physical spaces that enable interdisciplinary exchange and innovation.
The Interdisciplinary Institute in Crombie Halls offers dedicated breakout spaces and meeting facilities designed to support interdisciplinary collaboration.
One of the main strands of our Aberdeen 2040 plan is to address urgent and wide-ranging challenges in the interdisciplinary areas of Energy Transition; Social Inclusion and Cultural Diversity; Environment and Biodiversity; Data and Artificial Intelligence; and Health, Nutrition and Wellbeing.
In this new database, you can explore some of the fascinating and wide-ranging early-stage research being funded in these critical areas.
There are currently no upcoming events.
Subscribe to our RSS feed to stay up-to-date with upcoming events.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/research/impact:
The University of Aberdeen is where great minds make an impact through world-leading research renowned for innovation, collaboration and international reach.
Find out how our interdisciplinary, award-winning research makes an impact locally and around the world.
Our research has re-framed dementia as part of the spiritual life of the community, leading to significant changes in the UK and globally.
Work led by the University has transformed understanding, engaged communities and supported national heritage objectives.
Research led by the University of Aberdeen has provided vital evidence towards using groundwater resources efficiently and sustainably.
An innovative new material developed at the University of Aberdeen has the potential to significantly enhance the success rate of spinal fusion surgery.
Aberdeen research has underpinned new dietary guidelines around the world that link nutritional and sustainability data.
The Respiratory Group at the University of Aberdeen has filled a gap in the evidence base about the dangers of second-hand smoke inside cars and homes.
Researchers are supporting adult learners in Rwanda to improve their life skills.
Researchers are working with food industry giants to tackle climate change associated with the global food chain.
Researchers are shaping an international approach to protecting and managing marine genetic resources.
Research is informing new guidelines about the use of robot-assisted procedures to treat prostate cancer.
Thalidomide research at the University has enhanced understanding of the drug and led to compensation for hundreds of survivors.
Researchers discovered and preserved the largest ever collection of pre-contact Yup'ik artefacts and helped the community strengthen its cultural heritage.
Our research held the key to better understanding the relationship between Walter Scott's collections and his writing.
Our researchers created an online tool that is now one of the best resources for exploring medieval life in Europe.
Researchers have created guidance materials and practical tools that aim to improve safety in the farming industry.
Our researchers examined the success of Scotland's free eye care policy to raise awareness of social inequalities.
By analysing volcanic rocks under the seabed, our researchers are identifying potential areas for oil and gas exploration.
Our researchers have used innovative technology to create the world's first 3D thermal image of an active volcano.
Musicians from around the world formed an international orchestra to commemorate the First World War with a special composition.
A University spinout developed innovative, non-invasive medical technology for treating inflammatory diseases.
A tool was developed to examine the environmental impact of peatland windfarms on carbon emissions.
Our researchers supported a project to reduce pollution, congestion and emissions in urban areas.
New methodologies for measuring levels of inorganic arsenic led to changes in food regulation around the world.
Helping global industries better understand 'big data' with Natural Language Generation technology.
The local community worked with researchers to create an app that explores the history of the Bennachie landscape.
Cutting-edge technology reduces downtime and costs by allowing companies to analyse oil samples on site.
A collaboration between our researchers and M&S led to a new healthy food range for high street consumers.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres:
Search Facilities and Centres: Clear Filters
Centre
Institute
School
Research Group
Interdisciplinary
Laboratory
Contact details of research staff and students.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/research/facilities:
Equipment and services
We offer access to a range of facilities and expertise to meet industry challenges and progress research projects.
Aberdeen Centre for Electron Microscopy, Analysis and Characterisation : Nano scale electron microscopy using GeminiSEM 300
Scottish Biologics Facility (SBF) : Antibody and peptide library screening services for academia and industry
School of Biological Sciences : Aquarium facility and environmental analytics
Iain Fraser Cytometry Centre (IFCC): Multi -parameter analyses of cellular systems, and bio -contained high -speed sorting of single cells and particles
Electrical and Electronic Engineering (EEE): Electronics, optics, power systems and laser laboratories
Mechanics labs : Aberdeen open channel facility, oscillatory flow tunnel, flumes and towing channels
Centre for Genome Enabled Biology and Medicine (CGEBM): Genomics research, sequencing, single cell lab, bioinformatics
Geology and petroleum geology : Geochemistry, petrophysics, palynology and seismic interpretation facilities
Human Intervention Studies Unit : Volunteer to join studies of diet, nutrition and health
Maxwell High Performance Computing cluster : Climate change simulation, financial systems modeling, genome sequencing and more
Lighthouse Field Station : Wildlife population monitoring, renewables research
Microscopy and histology : Light, fluorescent and electron microscopy facilities and training
Pressure vessels, environmental chamber and other testing facilities for offshore equipment
Aberdeen Proteomics : Protein separation, exploration & identification
Psychology research : Eye-tracking, behavioural testing, psychophysiology and more
qPCR facility : Rapid, high-throughput molecular quantification and qPCR training
Rowett Institute analytical facilities : Analytical chemistry, gas isotope ratio and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry
Grampian Data Safe Haven (DaSH) : Safe facility for health science researchers, conduct research that involves the linkage of data from various sources.
The Suttie Centre for Teaching and Learning in Healthcare is a state-of-the-art building on our Foresterhill campus which is a hub for medical teaching and research facilities
Chemistry Labs : Facilities within the Chemistry department that have national and international links
UAS/UAV Centre for Environmental Monitoring and Mapping : Aerial monitoring and mapping using conventional cameras, FLIR, LiDAR systems and more
Researchers can consult their extensive collections of over 300,000 items on display and in storage
The University's collection of archive, manuscript and special printed material can be consulted in the Wolfson Reading Room
Equipment, including equipment not belonging to a research facility, can be found through searchable databases on equipment data and via Pure .
Chemistry equipment can also be found via the ScotCHEM database hosted on ULab.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/research/jobs:
Want to join us?
Explore our current research vacancies below.
The University of Aberdeen welcomes expressions of interest from external applicants to UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships and other independent fellowship schemes including EU Marie Curie Postdoctoral Fellowships.
The University is committed to equality of opportunity, to eliminating discrimination and to creating an inclusive working environment.
We strongly encourage candidates irrespective of age, disability, marriage or civil partnership status, pregnancy or maternity, race, religion and belief, gender identity, sex, or sexual orientation.
The University of Aberdeen is a research-intensive university with an equal commitment to excellence in education and in research.
We are seeking to appoint people who will help us achieve our goals.
We'll consider supporting applications in any area of our research aligned to our strategic priorities.
Please visit our UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships page for information on how to apply and view important dates.
The University has been credited for its international reach, influence on national policy and its commercialisation of research ideas into spin out companies.
In recognition of our world -leading and life changing research, we were awarded The Queen's Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education in 2018 and 2021.
Join our excellent research community.
Page 1 of 1 Results 1 to 7 of 7
The Institute of Education in Healthcare and Medical Sciences, located within the School of Medicine, Medical Sciences and Nutrition, University of Aberdeen, is one of the UK’s leading centres for medical, medical sciences and dental education.
You will join the team supporting the enhancement and development of innovative key research focusing on accessibility in education, healthcare and the wider community.
The postdoctoral research fellow will support the delivery of a variety of critical research tasks to deliver the JUST-Systems programme on time and to budget.
The PDRF will take a leading role in the delivery of the Aberdeen and Clackmannanshire case studies.
This is a great opportunity for a field ecologist who has a keen interest in broader aspects of flora biodiversity and soil health.
You will join a team of specialists spanning ecology, soil science, agronomy environmental modelling, social sciences, and economics.
Alongside some members of this group, your primary task will be to collect and analyse field data in Ethiopia.
As part of a team of UK- and Ethiopia-based researchers, you will characterise under-utilised plants, sample soils for laboratory analysis and conduct in-field soil health assessments.
The collected soil samples will include root:soil (rhizosphere) samples for microbial ecology estimates of diversity, abundance and function.
This information will be related to soil chemical and physical measurements to be conducted in laboratories in Ethiopia, in addition to the simpler soil health metrics.
You will be a hands-on scientist who enjoys understanding the mechanisms soil microbial ecology and health by considering how different properties interact.
We seek a Research Fellow to work on mechanisms of human chromosome stability in the laboratory of Professor Anne Donaldson & Dr Shin-ichiro Hiraga.
The successful candidate will join a well-funded, dynamic research team within an interactive group of laboratories sharing an interest in chromosome biology.
We seek a Research Fellow to work on mechanisms of chromosome maintenance in the laboratory of Professor Anne Donaldson & Dr Shin-ichiro Hiraga.
A talented and creative Research Fellow is sought to work within the School of Natural and Computing Sciences with Dr.
Mark Law on the theoretical molecular physics of matter-antimatter reactive scattering.
The project, which is funded by the Leverhulme Trust, will involve regular and close consultation and interaction with Dr Martin Plummer (STFC, Daresbury), Prof.
Jonathan Tennyson (University College London) and Prof Michael Charlton (Swansea).
The department of Divinity at the University of Aberdeen seeks to appoint an exceptional mid-career or senior scholar to the position of Kirby Laing Chair of New Testament Exegesis.
This is a professorial position (Grade 9 on the University of Aberdeen scale; corresponding to spinal points 50–54 in the national scales), suited to a scholar who works in the area of New Testament Studies.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/research/support:
Research and Innovation
Ensuring our researchers have the skills, information and support they need to achieve maximum impact
We aim to provide a research environment that is enabling and supportive, and that allows our researchers to achieve their full potential.
This includes the protection of the physical and mental wellbeing of all our members of staff.
Research and Innovation (R&I) is the main hub for supporting research activities, with the Grants Academy delivering a structured framework that provides supportive intervention throughout the research life cycle, from idea generation and grant proposal stage, to delivery of outcomes and follow on funding and impact support.
We work closely with Schools and disciplines to ensure that researchers have the skills, information and support they need to undertake excellent research and impact throughout the lifecycle of their research projects.
We encourage and support engagement with UK, EU and other international collaborators, governments, industry and third sector partners and with members of the public to build sustainable partnerships that ensure our research is relevant and impactful.
Find out how we can support you with developing proposals, running projects and achieving impact.
Our PGR School supports your PhD journey and prepares you for your future career.
Find out more about how we collaborate with business and industry.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/alumni:
Alumni & Giving
Nurturing the lifelong relationship between the University of Aberdeen and our graduate community
From the day you begin studying at Aberdeen you become a part of our family.
On graduation you automatically become a member of our global alumni family, with over 100,000 alumni in 170 countries.
The University of Aberdeen boasts a fantastic array of alumni working in diverse industries across the globe.
See what these inspiring individuals are doing now and how they got where they are today!
Throughout its proud history the University has received the support of alumni.
Find out more about how you can join this group.
Alumni Relations helps nurture the lifelong relationship between alma mater and graduate.
We keep our alumni updated, provide benefits and services and volunteering opportunities, organise events, and more!
As one of our 100,000+ alumni living in 170+ countries, you are an important part of the Aberdeen family.
We love keeping our graduates up to date, but we need your permission to stay in touch!
Volunteering your time with the University of Aberdeen is a wonderful way to stay connected to the University while helping current and prospective students and fellow alumni.
Why not get involved?
As a graduate of the University of Aberdeen you are entitled to an amazing selection of benefits and services.
Find out how to take advantage of them here.
We hold regular in-person and virtual events for our graduates covering a huge range of topics.
Find out what's coming up, or get in touch to see how we can support your class reunion!
Our alumni work in a huge range of professions and areas.
Find out what some of our graduates have gone on to do, or browse our alumni bookshelf for books written by Aberdeen alumni!
The life of the University of Aberdeen over 500 years has been sustained by a generous history of philanthropic giving.
Find out how you can give back to benefit today's students.
Browse our Alumni Bookshelf, showcasing the work of just a few of our alumni authors!
Do you have a book to add?
Get in touch!

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/alumni/connected:
Alumni Networks
Join our alumni networks and stay in touch with the University and other graduates
Please take a minute to fill in this very short online form to let us know we can contact you .
As one of our 130,000+ alumni living in 170 countries, you are a valued member of the Aberdeen family.
From the day you joined, you became part of a lifelong relationship and we are here to keep that relationship flourishing.
Our main method of communications with you is by email.
By taking a minute to stay in touch you will be the first to know about:
You can also connect with us and keep up to date with our activity on Facebook , Twitter , and LinkedIn .
As well as keeping you connected to the University, we love to help our alumni connect with each other, and so you may be interested in finding a friend , joining a chapter or a group , or organising a reunion .
We are uniquely placed to assist you with this so please let us know if we can help.
If you have any suggestions for other services or opportunities we could offer, please do not hesitate to contact us !
There are plenty of ways to stay involved when you graduate.
Join one of our geographical or subject-based clubs or associations.
We're on a variety of social networks too!
We regularly publish newsletters, magazines and blogs to ensure our global alumni are kept up-to-date with news and events throughout the University.
The Alumni Relations team is a small but perfectly formed group, located in the Powis Gate building on the Old Aberdeen campus, dedicated to keeping links between you and the University of Aberdeen alive.
The Graduate Outcomes survey is a national survey capturing information about the perspectives and activities of graduates 15 months after they finish their studies.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/alumni/involved:
Volunteering
Volunteer with us and help current and prospective students and other alumni
There are a range of volunteering roles available from mentoring to building networks.
How can you help to inspire others?
Participate in the General Council, become a Business Committee Member, join The University of Aberdeen Foundation and support Advisory Boards.
Support current students to develop their career aspirations and fulfil their potential.
Maintain and build lasting relationships around the world in a formal or informal capacity.
Help the next generation by opening doors to life changing career opportunities.
Raise the profile of the University by allowing us to show prospective students and fellow alumni where your degree has taken you.
Encourage the next generation of students to study at the University of Aberdeen.
Help ensure that current students have the best experience they can and provide support to students who may require additional assistance.
For more information, please email alumni@abdn.ac.uk or call +44 (0)1224 273234.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/alumni/benefits-services:
Alumni Offers
As a graduate of the University of Aberdeen you are entitled to a range of benefits and service
These include campus-based offers such as discounted membership at Aberdeen Sports Village and the University Library , as well as discounts at various alumni owned businesses .
To be able to take advantage of these fantastic benefits and services, you will need to be the proud owner of an Alumni Privilege Card.
To request your card today please log in to our secure alumni hub.
Looking for the perfect hotel for your weekend away?
Or maybe you would like business and career advice.
There might be the perfect alumni discount or service for you here!
The Alumni Hub is where you can update your details and choose how you want us stay in touch with you to keep you up to date with University and alumni news.
You can also apply for your alumni privilege card!

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/alumni/benefits-services/alumni-hub:
Login or register today!
The Alumni Hub will allow you to do things like update your details, manage your preferences and find a friend/classmate.
You will also find the list of discount codes which are needed to take advantage of some of the offers listed in the Benefits and Services section of the website.
Below is a list of some of the things that you can do via the Alumni Hub:
In order to gain access to these features you must login.
First time visitors should complete the new user registration form and allow up to 48 hours for the registration to become active.
If you have problems with registering or logging in, please visit the FAQs on this site for help.
To take advantage of all of our fantastic Alumni Benefits and Services please login or register with our secure Alumni Hub.
In the Preferences section you can then request your Alumni Privilege Card.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/alumni/events-reunions:
Online and In-person
We hold regular events for our alumni locally and globally.
Find out what's coming up in your area
We hold regular in-person and virtual events on a huge range of different topics!
You can see what we've got coming up below, and if you'd like to catch up with previous events you can watch the recordings on our YouTube channel by clicking here .
Can't find an event or reunion near you?
Become a Network Ambassador and organise an alumni event.
You can also find out where existing alumni groups already exist.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/alumni/our-alumni:
Graduate pathways
Our alumni go on to do incredible things.
Find out where some are now and explore alumni authors and businesses
What do our graduates go on to do?
Where can a degree from Aberdeen take you?
Explore alumni pathways to a huge and diverse range of careers in industries across the globe, and share your own graduate story!
Discover the businesses of your fellow alumni!
This page allows our graduates to share their businesses with fellow alumni, gain new customers and create exciting partnership opportunities.
We want to tell the story of the University of Aberdeen's 525 years by highlighting the achievements of our most significant alumni from throughout our history.
But whom should we include in our 525 Alumni Portraits?
Browse our Alumni Bookshelf, showcasing the fantastic work of just a few of our alumni authors.
Have you written a book you'd like us to include?
Then get in touch!
The Honorary Degree is one of higher education's most respected accolades.
The University of Aberdeen awards them to individuals who have made a significant contribution in their field.
Share your personal story with current students, University staff and fellow alumni, raise awareness of the possibilities beyond university and help inspire the next generation of Aberdeen graduates!

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/giving:
If you’re interested in finding out more about how you can make a gift to help us drive change in the service of our community, our city, and our world please get in touch at giving@abdn.ac.uk or +44(0)1224 272281.
The generosity of alumni, friends and supporters has helped the University of Aberdeen make a difference to the world around us for 530 years.
There are many ways to support the University; through a one-off gift or through regular giving by direct debit, by remembering the University in your will, or giving your time as an alumni volunteer.
You may have a project or cause close to your heart that you would like to support, or you may prefer to make a gift towards areas of greatest need, and we would be delighted to discuss this with you.
The University of Aberdeen Foundation, encourages and facilitates donations to support education at the University of Aberdeen, and for its benefit, from graduates and supporters in the United States.
The Foundation is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit corporation (EIN# 52-1970587) dedicated to charitable and educational purposes.
Donations to the Foundation are tax-deductible to the extent allowed by law.
The Board of the Foundation ensures that it remains in full control of monies received, determining which projects are deserving of support, and ensuring that all funds granted for approved projects are used solely in furtherance of the Foundation's charitable and educational purposes.
Make an online donation
Alternatively, you can contact Nancy Bikson, Esq, our US Administrator, who will be pleased to assist you.
Telephone: 646-867-0994 or email nancy.bikson@chapel-york.com .
If you live in Canada you can make a tax-efficient donation to support the University of Aberdeen  by donating to the Chapel and York Canada Foundation, and selecting "University of Aberdeen" as the recipient agent.
Contact Ligia Peña, our Canada Foundation lead at ligia.pena@chapel-york.com .
Ligia will be pleased to offer any advice or guidance you may need.
Every gift in every will makes a difference and provides you with the opportunity to support the areas of activity where the University can make a significant impact on the world around us.
If you would like to speak to someone in confidence about leaving a gift in your will to the University of Aberdeen please contact Vanessa Holmes, Legacy Giving Officer, +44 (0)1224 274132 or email vanessa.holmes@abdn.ac.uk .
The University of Aberdeen has partnered with MyIntent to offer an easy-to-use service where UK-based alumni, supporters and staff can make a professionally drafted will for free in the UK.
There is never any charge for a standard will.
If your circumstances are more complicated and you require further legal advice, the legal firm will explain what's needed and give you a quote to consider, with no obligation to accept.
Find out more about making a will for free here.
Privacy Notice

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/giving/blog:
Fay Vincent had a pretty hectic time in the run up to her graduation earlier this month with a First-Class Honours BSc in Geoscience.
While studying during her final semester, she purchased a new house and moved in with her long-term partner, whilst continuing to juggle life as a business…
As a young boy growing up close to the University’s Old Aberdeen campus and with a passion for history, Adien Gordon never imagined that he would be accepted to study here, assuming his financial background would prevent it.
But, following years of determination and the support of the Alistair Findlater…
Mary R S Creese lived most of her adult life in the USA but she maintained a passion for Scottish history and, following her death in 2017, left an extremely generous legacy gift to the University for our work in the field of Scottish history.
Born in Orkney in 1935…
Duncan Hopkin was a committed and enthusiastic member of the University of Aberdeen alumni community, attending events both on and off campus over many years and becoming a very generous life-time donor.
His death in December 2023 was deeply felt by those who were lucky enough to have enjoyed his…
Throughout the year, the generosity of our dedicated community fundraisers has continued to provide tremendous support for world-class research and facilities at the University.
A number of supporters organised events to raise funds for breast cancer research at Aberdeen.
In October 2023, surgeon Beatrix Elsberger and colleagues at ARI organised…
Over the past year, regular gifts from generous alumni around the world have had a significant impact on our students as they combine their studies with extracurricular activities and receive the vital support they need to overcome challenges they experience.
Gifts have continued to support the Sports Bursary Scheme which…
A transformational gift in the will of Anthony Johnston in 2019 enabled the University to establish the Anthony & Margaret Johnston Centre for Doctoral Training in Plant Sciences which provides fully funded PhD studentships in this globally important field.
Anthony and his wife Margaret met while at Aberdeen, both graduating…
In this latest blog our US Administrator, Nancy Bikson Esq, shares an overview of the work of our University of Aberdeen Foundation and planned giving options available to those who may be considering leaving a donation to support the University of Aberdeen.
We encourage you to support the University of…
Ruth and Bernard Smith enjoyed a very happy life together, meeting when Aberdeen-born and educated Bernard was Chief of Neurology at the Meyer Memorial Hospital in Buffalo and Ruth was Chief Librarian.
Bernard graduated from the University of Aberdeen MBChB in 1940 and maintained a deep affection for his hometown…
When Mandy Dobie graduates from Aberdeen on Thursday 27 June with an MLitt in Scottish Heritage (with Distinction), a few months ahead of her 60 th birthday, it will be for the second time, having previously graduated in 1986 with a BSc in Natural Philosophy.
Following her graduation in 1986, Mandy…

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/business-info:
Industry Collaboration
Combining academic excellence with industry expertise
The University is proud to have a longstanding reputation for working with business and industry across the globe.
Our expertise in education, research, and knowledge exchange allows us to provide a range of services and opportunities for businesses of any size.
Working with us you can access a wealth of knowledge across multiple sectors.
Collaborate with our researchers and together we'll develop innovative solutions to real-world problems.
Our academics and researchers are some of the leading minds in their fields.
Explore the vast range of subject areas in which we can offer you specialist knowledge.
Consult and collaborate with our experts to develop long term business relationships and create innovative solutions for real-world problems.
Discover funding routes for industry collaborations.
As a University at the cutting edge of research, we can offer businesses unrivalled access to a wide range of advanced specialist facilities and equipment.
Our portfolio of development and training opportunities and customised event services can be tailored to the requirements of your business or organisation.
Engage with the Careers and Employability Service for student and graduate recruitment, supporting student skills development and employability, and raising your profile.
Find out more about who to contact at the University of Aberdeen, including Research & Innovation and the Careers and Employability Service.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/business-info/training:
Continuing Professional Development
Customised development, training and events for businesses of every size and scope
Regardless of the size of your organisation, the University's portfolio of development and training opportunities and customised event services are targeted to your requirements, and are responsive to both market needs and government policy.
Our CPD events and online courses develop you and your workforce ensuring you can expand your opportunities and stay relevant to changing trends and technologies.
We offer support services for industry and business, developing and delivering work-related training, working with experts to ensure that courses meet your needs precisely.
Organising an event or conference?
Our team has the expertise, capabilities and the passion to create and deliver remarkable events that are custom-made for you.
The University of Aberdeen offers a range of flexible online short courses - choose the pace, place and how you study.
Part-time learning that fits around work and modern life.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/business-info/facilities:
Working with us
We offer industry relevant equipment and facilities that are available for use by businesses across diverse sectors
The University offers access to facilities, equipment, services, and expertise to meet challenges and to progress projects.
Businesses of all sizes, from all corners of the globe, have utilised our facilities to enhance their business operations and innovation.
Whatever the size of your business, or the focus of your work, you can get access to the University's services.
You can find some useful links, helpful contacts, and examples of what we have to offer below.
The DaSH team supports researchers through the robust governance processes to ensure safe research projects are undertaken by appropriately trained researchers.
We can build bespoke applications to support your data-related research ambitions or help you host your own application development projects.
With over 20 years' experience, we offer a range of bespoke and specialist services as well as testing equipment for subsea engineering and offshore equipment in our purpose-built facility located in Newburgh, Aberdeenshire.
Our consultancy service is open to all staff and commercial partners.
We have many years of expertise in delivering HPC services and supporting research.
The University offers flexible space where start-ups and early-stage companies can find a creative and inspiring environment that will act as a catalyst for their growth and development.
Our incubators provide a range of services and facilities that will support innovation and exchange of ideas.
This unit is for new start-up and spin-out companies.
It is a comfortable, collaborative working space with state-of-the-art equipment, and is particularly suitable for the development of ideas in the digital and IT sectors but is open to entrepreneurs targeting other sectors.
ONE BioHub on Aberdeen's Foresterhill Health Campus will provide the support programmes and physical infrastructure to grow businesses, nurture new commercialisation opportunities and connect academics and health researchers to industry.
If you require more information about booking with us or if you have any questions regarding the working spaces that we have to offer, please email businessdevelopment@abdn.ac.uk.
Please contact businessdevelopment@abdn.ac.uk or visit the facilities section of our website to find out more about our available science equipment and facilities.
We offer a range of analytical services and facilities which cover areas such as marine biodiscovery, trace element speciation, fish immunology, and plant, soil, and food systems.
We have many facilities for areas such as energy, chemistry, and fluid mechanics.
We also offer access to equipment such as high-resolution Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscopes as well as power systems, communication, and optics production and testing equipment.
The University has world-class expertise in life science and medicine and a wide range of services and facilities accessible for use.
These cover areas such as biomedical imaging, applied health sciences, medical sciences, and nutrition and health.
We offer many opportunities for industry representatives to work with our academics and their research groups to foster links and establish new partnerships with a view to developing long-term collaborations.
We aim to promote collaboration and engagement between academia and the life sciences industry.
There is a wealth of health research and expertise at the University of Aberdeen which represents the link between academics, industrial partners and the business sector.
The University has a multidisciplinary cancer research programme.
Core facilities within the Institute of Medical Sciences provide access to specialised equipment, supported by trained personnel, to allow cutting edge research using the latest technologies.
We are also pleased to offer lab tours.
We have impressive clinical imaging research infrastructure with state-of-the-art MRI facilities and associated expertise in imaging and data analysis.
Our strong scientific team has also led the creation of a new imaging technology, Fast Field-Cycling MRI.
The facility is set up within our Foresterhill Health Campus, with dedicated labs for: molecular biology, phage work, antibody expression in mammalian and E.
coli systems, purification, biochemical characterisation (including affinities) together with labs for functional characterisation of binders.
ACHDS works with complex health data, including data that follows people over time - from second to second as well as over years from birth to end of life.
We can assist researchers to access local population datasets and we have an accredited Data Safe Haven (DaSH).
Our world-leading expertise is accessible to businesses of all sizes through a number of routes.
The breadth of our research expertise means that we can work with businesses across a multitude of disciplines.
The University's facilities have made a crucial difference in the development of life-changing industry projects.
You can discover more about the available facilities, services, and expertise that we can offer by clicking on the links below.
We have facilities suitable for organisations engaged in anything from engineering and geosciences to medical and life sciences.
If you want to find out more and see some of our facilities in action, you can view some videos and photos of them here.
Regardless of whether you are a SME, large multinational, public sector, charity, or non-governmental organisation, our experts will be happy to discuss your needs.
Please email our Business Development Executive team if you are not sure which of our services would work best for you, or if you would like to discuss our facilities and equipment further.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/business-info/industry-engagement:
Business partnerships
Working with businesses and industry to provide expertise and expand collaborative research opportunities
At the University of Aberdeen we've been developing strategic partnerships with businesses for centuries.
By forging innovative relationships with partners across the globe, the University has impacted greatly on economic growth.
We undertake diverse collaboration activities, whether that's research, strategic partnerships, making new technology available for use, or working with students and graduates, and we can consult across a wide range of sectors and topics.
There are various sources of funding available that support industry collaborations with the University of Aberdeen.
Visit our dedicated funding pages to explore options for supporting industry projects and partnerships.
Well-developed networks drive innovation.
Find out about our strategic and collaborative partnerships including Santander Universities, ONE, NZTC and our alliance with Curtin University and the University of Calgary.
By getting our input you can see more clearly.
We offer consultancy services across all subjects and disciplines with particular specialisation in oil and gas, materials analysis and testing, industrial psychology, deep-sea monitoring and environmental and occupational medicine.
Our Programme Advisory Boards engage with employers, our academic schools and regional and national organisations to enhance and inform our education, employability development and business engagement strategies.
The University of Aberdeen offers employers an exceptional and diverse pool of talent in some of the most highly ranked programmes in the UK.
Recruit talent, raise your profile or support the development of our students.
Tweets by UoAInnovate
Whatever your business challenge, and whatever your size, we can provide expertise and innovation to assist you.
We work with organisations across many sectors to help them achieve their business goals, overcome technical challenges, and to help their business grow and develop.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/business-info/expertise:
By working with us, you can get access to a wealth of knowledge and expertise across multiple sectors
We offer multi-disciplinary solutions for clients, and in-house expertise and resources to meet your needs.
Our experts work in partnership with colleagues from across industry sectors and business in areas such as research and knowledge exchange, consultancy, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, education and learning, mentoring, student projects and Continuing Professional Development.
If you are interested in finding out more, please contact res-innov@abdn.ac.uk to get the most appropriate contact details for the relevant staff members within each of our fields of expertise.
We have expertise in areas such as food inequalities, food security, obesity, population health, health services research, health economics, medical education, understanding how the human body functions, and dentistry.
The School of Engineering has excellent workshops and laboratories dedicated to particular areas of work such as satellite communications, computer aided design, electrical machines, materials testing, laser welding, hydraulics and fluids, concrete, large structures and geotechnics.
The School of Natural and Computing Sciences consists of four departments: Chemistry, Computing Science, Mathematics, and Physics.
Our research is high quality and often outward facing, with many interactions with other disciplines, with public bodies, and with industry.
The School of Geosciences incorporates four departments: Archaeology, Geography and Environment, Geology and Geophysics, and Planetary Sciences.
Our research ranges across the whole of the geosciences in both the social and natural sciences.
Our research addresses the fundamental biological consequences of environmental change and is shaped around three research programmes: Ecology and Evolution, Integrative Environmental Physiology, and Biological Interactions in Soil.
Our Business School is internationally recognised for its excellence in world-leading research.
It was also ranked 2nd in the UK for Accounting and Finance, 11th for Business Management Studies and 16th for Economics in the Guardian University Guide 2023.
We cover subjects such as Banking and Financial Law, Energy Law, Intellectual Property Law, International Economic Law, Private Law, Public Law, EU Law, Scots Law, Criminal Justice, Commercial Law, Family Law, Environmental Law, Oil and Gas Law, and more.
We have a wide range of expertise in areas such as teaching, counselling, and early years.
We also offer a dynamic and inclusive research culture, where students collaborate with our staff and professional partners to investigate the complexities of education and its underpinning values and beliefs.
Research within the School of Psychology is structured around three themes: cognition, perception and attention, and social cognition.
Within these themes, specialist groups conduct research funded by research councils, government, charitable groups, and industry.
The School of Social Science is a thriving centre for teaching and research in the fields of Anthropology, Sociology, Politics and International Relations.
We are committed to producing research of the highest quality across a range of subjects.
The School is home to a wide range of disciplines, including: English, music, modern languages and cultures, language and linguistics (including communication and TESOL), film and visual culture, Celtic and Anglo-Saxon studies, and translation and interpreting.
Divinity studies theology and religion in its historical and contemporary contexts.
History is the study all aspects of human adventure - past and modern.
Philosophy covers subjects fundamental to human thought and experience.
Art History studies art and architecture from the Middle Ages to today.
You can find out more about our life science facilities, and how to access them, by visiting our facilities and equipment webpage .
The Aberdeen Centre for Arthritis and Musculoskeletal Health seeks to understand mechanisms of disease onset and outcome in inflammatory arthritis, osteoarthritis and conditions with chronic pain as a key feature.
Our research is aimed at understanding the roles that stem cells (the cells that can give rise to new joint tissues) and stromal cells (the supporting connective tissue cells) in the joint play in the pathogenesis of arthritis.
Our work is investigating the ways in which normal and abnormal embryonic, foetal and postnatal development impact on development, health and disease.
The Rowett Institute Gut Health theme addresses several challenges that impact on our food system to understand the complex interplay between diet and health.
The Infection and Immunity Programme embraces a range of research topics with emphasis on molecular mechanisms of infection and host defence.
We aim to understand the links between diet and physiology at a mechanistic level and in the context of the social influences driving dietary habits.
Our world-class fundamental, clinical and interdisciplinary research is aimed at elucidating the cellular and molecular mechanisms underpinning life-long human health and disease.
Translational neuroscience uses a diverse range of experimental models and approaches to study neuronal function and malfunction, from single genes and molecules to humans.
The existing areas of strength which underpin the Centre are grouped into 3 priority areas: understanding risk factors, improved diagnosis, and developing new medication.
We work with businesses and industry to provide expertise and expand collaborative research opportunities.
Businesses of all sizes, from all corners of the globe have utilised our facilities to enhance their business operations and innovation.
Please visit our Business Contacts page to find, and get in touch with, more of our staff.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/business-info/contacts:
Find out who to contact and how to reach out to us
We help businesses and organisations connect with the University of Aberdeen through a range of collaborative opportunities.
Whether you're looking for research expertise, strategic partnerships, or access to specialist facilities, we're here to support your innovation journey.
How We Can Help
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) KTPs link businesses with academic experts and recent graduates to tackle real-world challenges.
Supported by Innovate UK, these projects drive innovation by applying university research to develop new products, processes, or services — while offering valuable experience to early-career professionals.
Consultancy Our academic staff provide expert advice and services tailored to your organisation’s needs.
This includes specialist analysis, technical input, and short-term problem solving — all under clear agreements that ensure confidentiality.
Interface Interface is a national service that connects businesses with academic expertise and facilities across Scotland.
Through Interface, you can access funding opportunities like Innovation Vouchers and partner more easily with the University of Aberdeen on collaborative projects.
CONTACT: businessdevelopment@abdn.ac.uk
We support the translation of research into real-world impact through collaboration, commercialisation, and knowledge exchange.
Whether you're a business, entrepreneur, or researcher, we offer practical support to help bring innovations to life.
Discover:
Licensing Opportunities Explore cutting-edge technologies developed at the University of Aberdeen that are available for commercial licensing.
Support for Start-ups & Spin-outs Thinking of starting a company?
We offer tailored support to help you turn your ideas into successful ventures.
Intellectual Property & Patents Get expert guidance on protecting your intellectual property and commercialising your innovations effectively.
CONTACT:
ABVentures is the University of Aberdeen's dedicated entrepreneurship support service, offering free advice and resources to current students and recent graduates (within the last two years)
The ABVenture Zone is a dynamic entrepreneurship hub supporting students, staff, and alumni.
It offers co-working space, enterprise programmes, and events that help turn great ideas into thriving businesses.
CONTACT: abventures@abdn.ac.uk
Our CPD programmes deliver high-quality training for individuals and teams.
Whether you're seeking short courses or customised training solutions, we can help you develop the skills you need to stay ahead.
CONTACT: cpdservices@abdn.ac.uk
For general enquiries, contact the Business Development team at: businessdevelopment@abdn.ac.uk
Our full postal address is:
Research & Innovation, University Office, Kings College, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, AB24 3FX.
Tel: 01224 437085 Getting to the University and campus maps
Contact the Careers and Employability Service for enquires about:
Email the team at careers@abdn.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/students:
Whether you’re working towards Honours, planning your next year, or just making sure you’ve met all your credit requirements using the CPC makes it easy.
New wellbeing training and resource pages have been developed for students.
Access available courses and modules that explore issues of mental health, wellbeing, suicide awareness, personal development & GBV.
Email: infohub@abdn.ac.uk Telephone: 01224 273040 Current student social channels Instagram Facebook

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/students/academic-life/mytimetable:
MyTimetable gives you greater ownership over your academic timetable by letting you:
Visit MyTimetable
It can take up to three hours for course selections and changes made via MyCurriculum to update in MyTimetable.
This means you may not be able to see your classes in MyTimetable straight away.
The quickest way to get support for technical difficulties with MyTimetable - including missing classes or being unable to record attendance - is by using the Report a Problem feature.
After logging in to MyTimetable, a red button titled Report a Problem will be visible on the top right-hand side of the screen.
Press this button to open a popup menu, and select your problem from the list presented.
Your query will be sent to the appropriate support team for review.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/students/academic-life/mycurriculum:
For the 2025-2026 academic year Online Registration and MyCurriculum will open as follows.
Please note:
Online Registration Opens
MyCurriculum Opens
If you require assistance with, or have any questions about completing Online Registration or MyCurriculum please contact the Registration Support Service.
If you need help with an aspect of MyCurriculum, please refer to the MyCurriculum Support System , or contact the Registration Support Service.
Please note: Students wishing to transfer degree programme should contact their Registry Officer for assistance.
Our friendly team will be available to help you from 9am to 7pm , Monday to Friday.
Details on how to contact the Registration Support Service can be found in the yellow banner on the MyCurriculum launch page.
You can also visit the MyCurriculum Support System directly to view our Frequently Asked Questions.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/studenthub/login:
Set up your IT Account
Reset Password
Version: August 2025
For technical support, please contact the IT Service Desk.
You can log a
                            ticket or chat with us via MyIT .
© 2025 University of Aberdeen
The University of Aberdeen is a charity registered in Scotland
                            No.SC013683

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/staffnet:
Some of the great stories making the news at the University of Aberdeen.
From supermarkets and high street shopping, to utility bills and retailers in your local community, discover a world of savings and discounts with the University’s new Benefits provider Vivup.
Through the new EAP you can access free 24/7 counselling, legal support, medical advice and resources to support your general wellbeing.
Find out about some of the exciting events coming up across the University...
Everyone deserves fair, respectful and dignified treatment.
See our Dignity at Work guidance to address and manage negative behaviours effectively.
If you would like the Communications Team help to promote a University story, please complete the forms on the links below.
For personal achievements, student success, award wins or events, tell us your good news here.
If your story relates to the publication of a research paper or grant award, please complete our research publicity form.
Got a story for us?
Let others know what you've got going on by reading the guidelines and completing this form for staff and student newsletter submissions .
Open access is the free unrestricted access to digital literature such as journal articles and books.
Explore funding opportunities and support for researchers planning and submitting grant applications.
Pure is a system that captures research-related outcomes, impact and activities and promotes our research excellence to the wider world.
Portal of resources for Research Training and Leadership.
A hub for resources and information related to research training and career development.
The Centre for Academic Development provides learning, teaching and professional development for our staff and students.
The Central Timetabling Team coordinates the delivery of the annual Teaching Timetable, using CMIS timetable software.
We recognise the importance of this in our education practices, learning environments and in addressing harmful stereotypes or limited perspectives.
Creating a healthy, safe and supportive work environment is essential to help us feel comfortable, healthy and happy at work.
Learn how to manage your mental health in the workplace.
Find out how to stay active for a healthy body and mind.
The HR Handbook contains information and guidance for employees and managers regarding recruitment & selection, holidays, employee benefits, development opportunities and internal vacancies.
The University is fully committed to equality, diversity, and inclusion.
Our vision is to strive to create an inclusive environment for work and study which celebrates the diversity of our staff and students.
For support or reporting an incident or act of harassment, bullying, violence, targeted hate, or sexual misconduct use our online reporting tool.
If an assault has just taken place and you are not in a safe place or have injuries that require urgent attention, call 999.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/staffnet/working-here:
Answers to frequently asked questions
All about IT at the University
Staff information on the Library, Special Collections and Museums

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/staffnet/education:
Professor Jo-Anne Murray - Vice-Principal (Education)
Read more blog posts on the topic of 'Education Conversations'.
Listen to more podcasts on the topic of 'Education Conversations'.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/staffnet/governance:
These pages detail the organisational and governance structure of the institution and outline the University's legislative and policy framework.
All University policies, procedures, plans and guidelines in one place.
Details of Court, Senate and all University committees
How the University Advisory Group on Research Ethics & Governance operates
The senior academic and management team
How the University deals with emergencies and disruptive incidents
How the University complies with its legal and regulatory obligations
How the University manages and audits risk

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/epayments:
The browser that you are using is not supported.
Some features might not be unavailable.
We recommended upgrading to a newer browser for a more secure, stable and speedy experience.
You must have JavaScript enabled in order to use this application fully.
Invoice payment and logout functionality is disabled unless JavaScript is enabled.
Make a selection of payments online
Set up a Payment Plan or Direct Debit
Online Registration
eAccommodation
Accommodation pre-payments only
All other accommodation-related fees can be paid via ePayments
Online Store
Resit assessment payments
PrintManage
Print budget credits
For technical support, please contact the University of Aberdeen IT Service Desk at servicedesk@abdn.ac.uk , or log a ticket .
Accessibility Statement · Cookies · Freedom of Information · Privacy Statement

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/it:
With video guides on everything from printing and MyAberdeen to computer coding, the University's support portal has everything you need to know about the University of Aberdeen!
FREE off-air TV and radio recording service for staff and students.
Choose from over 60 channels.
Catch-up on missed programmes.
Create clips and playlists.
Empowering students and staff to be independent in their studies or role and helping the University to deliver an accessible environment that supports diversity and equality.
Free internet access on campus and in University Halls for registered staff and students - 24/7, 365
Audio and video support for lecture theatres, central teaching rooms, conferences and events, and support for video conferencing and lecture capture.
Information about IT services specifically for staff is located on StaffNet , including:
The Service Desk is your first point of contact for IT support at the University of Aberdeen.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/our-website/a-to-z:
Skip the following A to Z links
A to Z links skipped
Can't find a link?
Click the search button at the top right of this page.
Looking for a phone number?
Try the online directory or phone the switchboard on +44 (0)1224 272000
If you are a University student or member of staff and want something added to this listing, contact the Web Team
The A-Z is intended to be a comprehensive listing of all University web content by title and by keyword and therefore includes all departments, sections, centres and units.
If you wish to report a dead link, please contact the Web Team or phone +44 (0)1224 273262
Return to top

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/undergraduate-open-day/open-days-2025-booking-form:
Thank you for your interest in the University of Aberdeen's Open Day.
Our next Open Day takes place on Saturday 4 October.
This Open Days will showcase all Undergraduate subjects taught at the University of Aberdeen, including Medicine.
If you are interested in studying Medicine, your day will begin at our Foresterhill Medicine Campus.
As part of the booking process, you will choose the sessions you wish to attend on the day.
There is a selection of general talks and subject specific talks with repeats of many talks happening throughout the day.
Once you have booked, you will get an email with a link to your personalised timetable with all the sessions you have booked.
You can also edit or cancel these through this link.
Please note: Dentistry will NOT be included as a subject at any of the Open Days.
Please visit our Open Day webpages where you will find information and contact details in you would like further information on studying this subject.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/clearing:
Join us in Aberdeen.
We have a number of subjects with degrees available through Clearing.
CLEARING 2025
Discover new opportunities with Clearing.
We all have a True North - the place we’re meant to be.
Sometimes your plans change or take unexpected turns, but that doesn’t mean you’ve gone off course.
Through Clearing, we’re here to help you find your way to a university experience that’s right for you - one that sets you up for success, and takes you further than you ever imagined.
Clearing is how universities fill any places they still have on their programmes.
Clearing is a way to get a university place if you don’t get the grades for your firm or insurance choice, you haven’t received any offers, or you have changed your mind and no longer want to go to your firm choice.
You can also apply in Clearing if you’re applying after 30 June.
You can apply for a programme at the University of Aberdeen using Clearing from 5 July right up to 20 October 2025, if you’re not already holding an offer from a university or college.
The earlier you act, the more choice you’ll have!
We’re ranked in the Top 15 in the UK (Guardian, Times/Sunday Times) with many subjects in the Top 20, which means an Aberdeen degree opens doors for you.
Aberdeen is a safe and affordable student city, with lower living costs than most UK cities.
We have lots of affordable accommodation options for Clearing applicants.
Our degree programmes prepare you for your career, strong graduate outcomes, internships, and industry links.
We’re ranked 2nd in Scotland for student satisfaction (NSS), so you can be sure of a supportive and fun experience.
With plenty of accommodation available, in the multifaceted study location where beaches meet cityscapes, and the cobbled streets of a 529-year-old campus, Aberdeen has you covered.
Nestled between miles of golden coastline and the Cairngorms National Park, Aberdeen is set apart from other Scottish cities…
With a wide range of University accommodation a short walk from our main campus, and plenty additional city flats available, your new home is sorted…
View our range of subjects with options open through Clearing.
There are many reasons to choose Aberdeen, let us just give you a few!
Confused about Clearing?
We explain more and let you know the next steps.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/funding/search:
Searched for All Study Levels | All Countries and Territories | All Subjects

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/research/interdisciplinary/energy-transition:
Interdisciplinary Research Challenge
Bringing together Energy Transition research from across the University
For more than 40 years experts at the University of Aberdeen have been combining our academic excellence with industry expertise to innovate and make positive change for the future of global energy.
Our Schools are at the heart of what we do - why not find out how you can study with us?
"The University of Aberdeen has a long history of delivering innovative solutions that address current and future energy challenges.
Being situated in Aberdeen, Europe's Energy Capital and a city renowned throughout the world for technological development and inspiring solutions, we are best placed and well connected to understand the needs of the industry and make a real difference.
Our energy work provides a focus for all areas of energy-related research, with an emphasis on supporting industry and policy makers in the transition to clean, sustainable energy and renewables.
Our expertise is hugely varied and spans the generation and storage of energy, reuse of materials and the challenges of decommissioning, the requirements of technology and digitalisation.
We also address the energy transition within the oil and gas industry and inform the policy, societal and environmental impact and sustainability of our future energy requirements."
Professor John Underhill, Director of the Interdisciplinary Centre for Energy Transition
Watch Professor Underhill discussing our research into energy transition here.
Download the Centre for Energy Transition Brochure (PDF)
How do we ensure communities have access to the energy they need at a cost they can afford whilst not destroying the planet and its climate in the process?
The University of Aberdeen can play a key role in meeting this challenge.
Supplies need to be consistent & uninterrupted
Energy must be financially accessible to all
Energy supplies need to be environmentally clean
Energy transition is a challenge affecting all of us and is necessarily commanding research across many disciplines.
Browse the project summaries in our Interdisciplinary Research Project Database to find out more about how the topic feeds into the work of researchers across the University of Aberdeen.
A new scoping study will allow us to better understand how photovoltaic solar energy farms might affect relationships with rural environments.
A new project aims to explore the hydrological and environmental impact of using the floodwater found within the UK's abandoned coal mines to provide geothermal energy.
Discover how research across the University is informing the wider conversation around energy transition.
Our scientists are involved in research to assess the cost of windfarm decommissioning.
Here we take a closer look at their work to create a 'playbook' for industry, in the most detailed study of its type in the world.
The National Decommissioning Centre is a £38 million partnership established to support decommissioning activity by combining academic excellence and industry expertise.
An advance in cutting-edge technology is reducing downtime and costs by allowing companies to analyse oil samples on site.
The Leverhulme Centre for Doctoral Training was established to equip a new generation of researchers with the expertise required to convert organic waste into sustainable materials.
Our researchers are supporting a groundbreaking project to reduce pollution, congestion and emissions in urban areas.
An innovative tool has been developed to examine the environmental impact of peatland windfarms on carbon emissions.
By analysing volcanic rocks under the seabed, our researchers are identifying areas for oil and gas exploration.
Professor Paul Thompson discusses how offshore renewable energy developments can affect the sea's population of marine mammals.
Dr Clare Bond explains the process of capturing carbon and storing it in the ground to help meet net zero targets.
Dr Alfonso Martinez-Felipe explains how the next generation of engineers and researchers are utilising hydrogen technology.
Experts from across the university share their views on energy transition
John Underhill, the University's Director for Energy transition, welcomes the recent publication of the UK's new national energy strategy.
Achieving climate goals is impossible without significant transformation of our energy systems in a way that increases the share of low-carbon energy, says Dr Daria Shapovalova.
Russell McKenna, Anna Peecock, Alfonso Martinez-Felipe and Angel Cuesta debate whether low-carbon hydrogen is a distraction in the journey towards a zero-carbon future.
PhD Student Arturo Regalado discusses his National Decommissioning Centre-led project which seeks to find out how different instruments used to ensure financial security impact the oil and gas industry and government.
Professor Richard Neilson , Director of the National Decommissioning Centre , delivers an overview of the new Simulator Suite.
Just Transition Lab is a cross School research group working on advancing interdisciplinary impact-driven research on Just Transition.
Access our series of online seminars , lectures and workshops featuring world-leading experts and covering various topics of energy transition.
Our academics are constantly working on research in all areas of energy transition.
Browse their recent publications to find out the latest developments in the area.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/news/24617:
Despite declining domestic production and ambitions to pivot away from fossil fuels, oil and gas still meet three-quarters of the UK’s energy needs, with gas alone supplying over 85% of domestic heating and cooking for homes and often providing more than half of electricity generation during low renewable output.
The UK’s growing dependence on imports - from countries including Norway, the USA, Qatar and Algeria - raises concerns about geopolitical risk, economic impact and environmental impact, with some imported gas derived from fracked shale, a carbon-intensive process which is banned in the UK.
Closures of key refineries like Grangemouth and Lindsey further compound the issue, with some North Sea product exported for refining and then re-imported - adding to the carbon footprint and undermining climate goals.
Premature closure of critical infrastructure including pipelines has led to gas reserves being stranded in the Southern North Sea and the recent decision to decommission the Gryphon Floating Production, Storage and Offloading (FPSO) vessel threatens the future of oil fields that rely upon it.
While the UK has made significant progress in reducing emissions - down over 50% since 1990 and now amounting to less than 1% of global emissions of which upstream oil and gas operations now only account for 3%, equating to 0.03% of global emissions – the government’s ban on new fields and new drilling licences, the Energy Profits Levy and low commodity prices have created uncertainty, discouraged investment and threatening the viability of existing infrastructure..
An independent review carried out by Professor John Underhill, Director of Energy Transition at the University of Aberdeen’s Interdisciplinary Institute, identifies a policy change that offers a solution for investment and growth, increases energy security, addresses environmental sustainability and global climate impacts, yet is also consistent with Labour’s manifesto commitment of no new licenses.
His review recommends a number of actions for government to consider:
“We all want to see a cleaner, greener future but we must also be honest about the energy reality today.
The UK still relies heavily on oil and gas and without a clear and pragmatic plan, we risk replacing home-grown supply with higher-emission imports, something that is worse for the climate,” said Professor Underhill.
“The current policy contrasts with reversals seen in countries like New Zealand and the Netherlands, where domestic production has been re-prioritised in response to energy security concerns.
Norway has also recently announced it will continue to issue oil and gas licenses.
“A balanced, regulated approach can help the UK meet its climate commitments while ensuring energy resilience, economic stability, and smooth our transition to low-carbon renewables.
“Allowing the issue of bespoke permits for near-field or infrastructure-led exploration is a practical way to arrest an otherwise ever-increasing dependency on imports, provide support for the sector at a time of stress, enhance energy security, avoid the premature closure of critical facilities, reduce our impact on global emissions and help avoid an unmanaged, disorderly and unjust outcome for communities be they based in Aberdeen or across the UK.”
Reacting to Professor Underhill’s intervention, Russell Borthwick, Chief Executive of Aberdeen & Grampian Chamber of Commerce, said: "Energy security, economic growth and our transition to net zero are not competing priorities – they must be delivered together.
Professor Underhill’s proposals offer a pragmatic, regulated pathway which keeps the lights on, drives investment and GDP, protects skilled jobs, and avoids the perverse outcome of further increasing imports with a multiple times higher carbon footprint.
“We cannot allow short-term political positioning to drive decisions that will have long-term consequences for our economy, our climate and our communities.
The reality is that oil and gas will still be part of the UK’s energy mix for decades to come – the choice we face is whether that supply is responsibly produced here, or imported from overseas with less regulation, higher emissions and little economic benefit.
“The UK has an opportunity to show global leadership by managing the decline of domestic production responsibly, sweating existing infrastructure and assets, investing in low-carbon technologies, and ensuring the supply chain and skills we have today are still here to support the transition.
That will require immediate changes in fiscal and regulatory policy direction from government.
Bringing us in line with the approach being taken by many of our peer nations.”
David Whitehouse, Chief Executive, Offshore Energies UK (OEUK) said: “OEUK welcomes this independent research and its conclusions.
The proposals Professor Underhill puts forward come at an important time, when critical decisions made by government in the coming months will shape the future of the North Sea directly impacting on the livelihoods of those working in the sector.”

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/news/24603:
A new study using brain scanning technology aims to provide fresh insights into the significant overlap between anorexia nervosa (AN) and autism and to explore these differing outcomes.
Researchers from the University of Aberdeen are seeking volunteers from the autistic community to undergo a brain scan with the aim of better understanding the relationship between brain structure, eating disorder symptoms and autistic masking behaviour.
Autistic masking is a behaviour exhibited by autistic individuals, where specific behaviours are consciously or unconsciously concealed to fit into neurotypical or non-autistic social norms or to avoid negative responses from others.
However, masking, particularly as a long-term strategy, can produce negative effects on autistic people’s mental health and well-being.
Concerns have been raised about the effectiveness and potential harms of traditional eating disorder treatments for the autistic community, leading to calls to develop new autistic-affirming approaches to eating disorder treatments.
Autistic individuals who have a current or past diagnosis of anorexia nervosa, or those who have no history of an eating disorder, are needed for the pioneering study which hopes to provide insights which can be used to better tailor future treatments.
The study is being carried out and supervised by Dr Michelle Sader who is postdoctoral research fellow for the Eating Disorders and Autism Collaborative (EDAC) at the University of Aberdeen.
EDAC is a UK-wide collaborative network seeking to bridge the gap between autism and eating disorders research through a lived experience lens.
She said: “In our previous work, autistic collaborators highlighted the importance of investigating how masking behaviour relates to eating disorder development or maintenance in autistic people.
“Taking part in this research would not only help us understand what regions of the brain may be associated with autistic masking, but also whether masking is differently associated with, or plays a different role in autistic individuals with an eating disorder.
“Findings from this study could assist EDAC in providing evidence for more nuanced, tailored and personalised approaches to eating disorder interventions to support the autistic community."
Autistic adults aged between 25 and 45 are needed for the study to participate in a brain scan conducted in Aberdeen and questionnaire-based assessment.
Dr Sader added: “Around 27% of autistic people display symptoms of eating disorders, and individuals with more autistic characteristics tend to experience more severe eating disorder symptoms.
“There is a significant overlap between autism and eating disorders which is not yet fully understood, and we need to change that.
“By taking part, volunteers will be helping shape a future with more appropriate and effective support for autistic individuals.”
Anyone interested in taking part should visit complete the study pre-recruitment screener via the following link: https://edinburgh.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_eFGkS5I3odobt0a .
Individuals can contact the research team at EDAC@ed.ac.uk or view the study notice on the EDAC website for further information.
Those eligible to participate in this study should:
* Individuals reporting with more autistic characteristics tend to experience more severe eating disorder symptoms ( Kerr-Gaffney et al., 2020 ; Saure et al., 2020 ; Leppanen et al., 2022 ), are more likely to require in-patient treatment ( Stewart et al., 2017 ) and report poorer outcomes post-treatment for their eating disorder ( Nazar et al., 2017 ; Nielsen et al., 2022 ).

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/news/24599:
Researchers from the University’s Department of Planetary Sciences travelled to the Indian Himalayas to demonstrate how specialist equipment developed for future planetary missions can also help societies in some of the harshest climates on Earth.
The high-altitude cold desert of Ladakh in India, with its thin atmosphere, harsh environment, and unique geomorphology shares similarities with the environment on Mars.
For communities living in such extreme conditions, issues such as water scarcity, pollution, energy insecurity, and climate change are urgent and growing.
The University of Aberdeen team, formed by Dr.
Anshuman Bhardwaj (Senior Lecturer), Prof.
Javier Martin-Torres (Head of Department), Dr.
Lydia Sam (Lecturer), and Research Fellows Dr.
Thasshwin Mathanlal and Dr.
Miracle Israel Nazarious, were invited to participate in Spaceward Bound India 2025 (SBI), a prestigious initiative led by the space startup Protoplanet, in collaboration with the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and inspired by NASA’s outreach programme.
The project brought together over 20 international organisations, ranging from space agencies and academic institutions to NGOs and private-sector innovators, with the shared goal of testing space technology in high-mountains of Ladakh.
The Aberdeen team was specifically focussed on identifying the possibilities of harnessing space science to address environmental challenges in vulnerable regions.
The Aberdeen team were keen to investigate how space technologies, such as AI-powered monitoring and miniaturised sensors can be adapted to serve communities in remote and environmentally fragile regions.
Dr Anshuman Bhardwaj from the University of Aberdeen said: “While space exploration has long captured our imagination, this important initiative helps show how tools developed for understanding landforms, habitability, and atmospheres on distant planets can also benefit us here at home.
This project is about reimagining space technology - not as distant science fiction but as a tool for tangible help for communities around the world.”
The University’s Department of Planetary Science is internationally recognised for its role in developing HABIT, Europe’s first In-Situ Resource Utilization (ISRU) payload designed to extract water from the Martian atmosphere.
Prof.
Javier Martin-Torres, the Principal Investigator of the HABIT instrument said: “The same technology, when adapted for Earth, could help address critical water security issues in mountain regions like Ladakh.”
Past research from the department also includes environmental monitoring using satellite data and AI to assess glacier retreat, land use changes, renewable energy potential, and pollution trends.
As part of the visit to Ladakh, with the support of Ladakh University and in their campus, the Aberdeen team deployed an in-house low-cost monitoring station to collect open-access data on space weather events.
In May 2024, aurora borealis was spotted in Ladakh, an unusual phenomenon at such lower latitudes.
The newly installed instrument will help study such events in future.
The Aberdeen team also made inroads to planning workshops, school visits, and stargazing nights to promote STEM engagement and citizen science.
The Aberdeen team also used the opportunity to gather evidence for a forthcoming Impact Case Study, positioning the University of Aberdeen as a global leader in applied space science for sustainable development.
Interested in space research?
Visit the University of Aberdeen's Department of Planetary Sciences site to see what you could learn

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/news/24565:
Brigid Bio was founded by the University’s Professor Carol Munro, a medical mycology expert in the Aberdeen Fungal Group, with Dr Soumya Palliyil and Professor Andy Porter, innovators in antibody generation who lead the Scottish Biologics Facility.
The company is developing new treatments that use antibodies to fight dangerous fungal infections, especially those that are resistant to current medicines.
These antibodies recognize a broad range of fungal species and boost the body’s immune system to fight off the infection.
“This is a significant step forward in our mission to bring innovative science out of the lab and into the world,” said Professor Carol Munro, co-founder and Chief Scientific Officer of Brigid Bio.
“Invasive fungal infections are responsible for over 3 million deaths annually.
With growing resistance to the limited number of existing drugs, we believe our technology has the potential to transform the healthcare of critically ill patients around the world.”
“With advances in medicine, there are growing numbers of patients who are at high risk of these infections including immunosuppressed organ and stem cell transplant recipients, cancer patients and those undergoing abdominal surgeries.
Not to mention those with blast wounds from modern warfare and terrorism.”
Dr Soumya Palliyil, co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, said: “There is a huge and urgent unmet clinical need to develop safer antifungal therapies with reduced toxicity that can combat the increasing rise of drug-resistant pathogens.
Currently there are only three main classes of antifungal drugs used in the clinic and fungal pathogens can be resistant to one and sometimes two different classes, leaving clinicians with a very limited choice of therapy to treat these life-threatening infections.
“Our fully human antibody therapies are safer as we naturally make antibodies as part of our defence mechanism.
They work by boosting the patient’s own immune responses by recruiting phagocytic cells to clear the infection.”
‘’The clinical challenge when treating systemic, life-threatening fungal infections is how to kill the fungus without killing the patient.
This is because fungal cells are a similar cell type to our own,” added Professor Andy Porter, Chief Technical Officer.
“Our patent protected drug discovery platform enables the identification of novel, pan-fungal drugs targets, unique to the fungus, and therefore absent from human cells.
Using biologics techniques, currently transforming the treatment of cancer and autoimmune disorders, we have raised human antibodies to these targets and are developing their potential as a long-lived and powerful antifungal therapy.”
The spin-out has received early-stage funding and support from Scottish Enterprise , Innovate UK ICURe, the University of Aberdeen and INCATE.
This funding was instrumental in building up a team of experts, advisors and to bring on board the Executive Chairman Chris Jones, who has been pivotal in helping the team reach this spin-out milestone.
The very early stage research was funded by SULSA (Scottish Universities Life Sciences Alliance) and PhD studentships from MRC Centre for Medical Mycology, EASTbio DTP and University of Aberdeen.
Brigid Bio team also acknowledge the support of Opportunity North East through Business Development training provided to Professor Munro and Dr Palliyil.
The female co-founders have also received awards from Converge Challenge business competition and Scottish EDGE.
Brigid Bio is actively pursuing further investment and partnerships to bring these novel antifungal immunotherapies to the clinic.
Brigid Bio is initially focused on antifungal therapies against Candida species, with plans to expand into mould and rarer infections.
“We are very pleased to have supported the Brigid Bio founders through to spin out,” said Dr Ann Lewendon, Commercialisation Manager within the University’s Research and Innovation Office.
“Reaching this milestone exemplifies the excellence and impact of research at the University of Aberdeen and its potential to make a global impact.
“We have a strong commitment to entrepreneurship and innovation as key drivers of regional prosperity.
By supporting the growth of life sciences and other high-potential sectors, the University  seeks to empower the next generation of researchers, founders and industry leaders - strengthening the region’s role as a hub for scientific and economic advancement.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/news/24561:
This is the latest reported benefit of GLP1s, originally prescribed for diabetes management and now prescribed widely for obesity.
An international team of scientists led by University of Aberdeen Chair in Primary Care Respiratory Medicine, Professor David Price, analysed the medical records of more than 60,000 patients.
Using the OPCRD database – a primary care patient database containing over 28 million patients, they compared measures of asthma severity between those who had been prescribed GLP1s and those who hadn’t over an entire year.
They found that as well as the expected weight loss in people who were taking GLP1s, the asthma measures such as steroid and medication prescriptions, were also reduced.
GLP1s, mimic the naturally occurring hormone GLP1 and help regulate blood sugar, insulin and control appetite.
The drug is also known to reduce inflammatory cells through multiple signalling pathways, and it is this mechanism that may be instigating this beneficial effect on the airway disease.
The author suggests that their findings mean that GLP1s should be considered as a potential treatment for respiratory diseases.
Professor David Price explains: “People with obesity and asthma are unique in that they are often resistant to steroid treatments.
“We know that GLP1s work on inflammatory responses in the airways in a different way to traditionally used steroids.
“We found compelling evidence that GLP1s, as well as increasing weight loss, also improved asthma symptoms.
“In addition, it is important to note that the benefits to asthma symptoms occurred despite fairly modest weight loss of around 0.9kg over the course of the year.
“Our findings suggest that GLP1s may have beneficial effects on asthma control for people with obesity and this should be explored further.”
Professor Alan Kaplan, Chairperson of the Family Physician Airways Group of Canada and the Observational and Pragmatic Research Institute, added: "Our findings suggest that GLP1-RAs have benefits on asthma control in people with obesity, and this information should contribute to the discussions around the decision to use these drugs."
The full paper is published in Advances in Therapy
Full paper
This study was funded by and conducted at the Observational and Pragmatic Research Institute (OPRI) Pte Ltd
About OPRI
The Observational and Pragmatic Research Institute (OPRI) is an internationally recognized independent research organization dedicated to providing real-world evidence that supports best practices in chronic disease management in primary care.
Learn more at https://www.opri.org.uk/

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/news/24625:
A University of Aberdeen engineer turned artist will showcase work drawing on life in north-east Scotland - and combining her passion for both disciplines - at the Aberdeen Art Fair.
Kate Steenhauer, who gained a PhD in Coastal Engineering in 2010 and worked as a research fellow in the School of Engineering, will share her inspiration and creations at Aberdeen Music Hall from Friday August 29 to Sunday August 31.
In recent years Kate has worked with robotics and AI expert Dr Andrew Starkey from the University’s School of Engineering to develop Painting Music – a unique tool which uses explainable and green AI to create musical compositions from live drawing.
Kate, who is originally from the Netherlands, had always had an interest in art but it wasn’t until she completed her PhD that she decided to undertake art lessons.
Since then, her career has flourished and she has gained an international reputation as a visual artist and filmmaker.
In addition to the people and places of north-east Scotland, her work is also inspired by and pays tribute to a female mathematician and writer hailed as one of the earliest pioneers of computer science, who also had connections to Aberdeen.
Ada Lovelace, the daughter of Aberdeen-born Romantic poet Lord Byron, is remembered for her groundbreaking work on Charles Babbage’s proposed mechanical general purpose computer, first described in 1837.
Kate says her own connections to both engineering and art drew her to Lovelace who described a machine making music 200 years prior to the creation of Artificial Intelligence.
She said: “After completing my PhD, I decided I wanted to get art lessons.
It was always something I had wanted to do and while working as a research fellow at the University I was taken on by an artist in Aberdeen and had two years of tuition.
“After that my passion really developed.
I took a part-time job and art became more serious.”
Kate found she did not have to look far for inspiration for her drawings.
“I was immediately inspired by Aberdeen’s stories,” she adds.
“I had a studio down by the harbour and found so much of interest in people going about their daily lives.
“I’m fascinated by real people not celebrities or sitting portraits, I prefer people in their natural habitats engrossed in what they are doing.
“Here in Aberdeen you have so much of interest from the cranes crossing the sky, trucks coming and going into the harbour and seagulls to people doing boat maintenance or getting ready to launch vessels.
There’s so much activity to draw or to capture.
“I started drawing those scenes and then from there I got into Aberdeen heliport via my engineering connections.
That led me into the whisky industry at Speyside Cooperage and to Thainstone Mart for the livestock auctions.
Every aspect of my work is tied into north-east Scotland.”
Kate says that while many consider art and engineering as opposite ends of the spectrum, for her the two marry well together.
“I have an analytical mind and everything starts with ‘why’?
Why does that work in the way it does, or why does that not work, and that helps with compositions or creating depth.
“I was then invited into the theatre which was initially well out of my comfort zone but my work began to evolve into more visual art.
I realised drawing was very fluid and has a performative application and this in turn led me back to engineering and back to the University of Aberdeen.”
Kate discussed her ideas on bringing the two disciplines together with Dr Andrew Starkey, who specialises in AI and robotics, and from this the Painting Music project emerged.
Software developer Jack Caven joined the team and together they produced technology which translates tangible painted marks into audible sounds in real time and unique for each performance.
Kate added: “Painting Music is exactly what Ada Lovelace envisaged all those years ago.
Ada was the first software engineer in the world and saw that data could represent anything – symbols, letters or musical notes.
“We have taken her vision and applied it to modern technology but with that comes AI and ethical questions about how robots learn, how they make ethical decisions and how they become creative.
“My artwork draws on all of this but sets it within the context of Aberdeen’s stories, people, history and landscapes.”
Kate’s work will preview on Friday August 29 and will then be on public display on Saturday and Sunday (August 30-31) from 10am to 5pm.
For more information visit http://www.aberdeenartfair.co.uk/

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/news/24621:
The North East Skills Accelerator (NESA) has been honoured with the coveted Judges Award at the Scottish Renewables Green Energy Supply Chain Awards, held last night in Aberdeen.
The award recognises NESA’s outstanding contribution to Scotland’s renewable energy sector through its pioneering approach to workforce development and collaboration.
A partnership between the University of Aberdeen, North East Scotland College (NESCol), and Robert Gordon University supported by Energy Transition Zone Ltd and Skills Development Scotland, NESA plays a vital role in preparing the region’s workforce for the energy transition.
Its mission is to accelerate upskilling, reskilling and training for both current energy professionals and new entrants, ensuring the north-east remains at the forefront of the shift to net zero.
Over the past year alone, NESA has delivered training to more than 700 individuals across 37 courses - nearly half of which were newly developed to meet the evolving needs of the energy sector.
Professor John Underhill, Chair of NESA and Director of Energy Transition at the University, expressed his pride in the achievement: “Winning the Judges Award is a powerful endorsement of the collaborative spirit that drives NESA and demonstrates the whole is greater than the sum of the parts.
It reflects the energy, innovation and commitment of our partners and the wider community.
“This recognition reinforces our belief in the importance of equipping people with the skills needed for a just and sustainable energy transition.
We’re excited to build on this momentum and continue shaping a resilient, future-ready workforce for the north-east.”
The Scottish Renewables Green Energy Supply Chain Awards celebrate the ingenuity and leadership of organisations across Scotland’s renewable energy landscape.
NESA’s win highlights the critical role of education and skills development in building a cleaner, stronger energy future.
More on our Interdisciplinary Institute here .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/events/22736:
With more than 40 years at the heart of energy research and innovation, we will be showcasing our expertise, research partnerships, and opportunities for collaboration throughout the week.
Visit us at Stand 2L15 in Hall 2 to meet our experts, explore our latest research, and discover how we are working with industry to support the energy transition.
Meet with our academics and business engagement team to explore opportunities in contract research, consultancy, CPD training, and innovation partnerships.
Find out how our research facilities can support your projects.
Join our on-stand presentations and demos on energy transition technologies, offshore decommissioning, digitalisation, AI, and sustainability.
Learn how we are preparing graduates and professionals with the skills to lead in the low-carbon future.
The University of Aberdeen has been shaping the future of energy for decades.
From pioneering work in offshore engineering to today’s leadership in energy transition research, we partner with industry to deliver solutions that matter.
Join us at Offshore Europe 2025 and be part of the conversation about the future of energy.
Add this event to your calendar application

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/events/22638:
We are delighted to welcome the Treasure Trove Team to this year’s Doors Open Day.
Chance discoveries of archaeological artefacts by members of the public have the potential to make a significant contribution to our understanding of Scotland’s past.
The role of Treasure Trove is to ensure that finds of cultural significance are protected for the benefit of the nation and preserved in museums across the country.
Do you think you’ve found something of historic interest?
Why not bring along your object.
A member of the TTU team will be on hand to assess any finds that you may have found and provide advice on what you need to do.
To book your timeslot, click on the link.
TREASURE TROVE: BOOK A SLOT
Step into a world of Gothic terror in the latest gallery show from University Collections.
This acclaimed exhibition explores how Gothic novels used fear to both terrify and excite readers.
Sit by the flickering fireside and enjoy a creepy read.
Did the eyes in that portrait just move?
And what's making that knocking noise?
Explore the displays of creepy dolls, spiders, ancient Egyptian scarab beetles, menacing birds and a vampire bat skull.
Fear & Fascination: A Gothic Exhibition
Inspired by the Gothic exhibition, we'll be inviting visitors to have a go at creating some Gothic script using quills and ink and making min scarab beetle seals (curses optional).
Come along and find out about the public library inside the University Library!
You can browse the shelves, find out how to join and take part in fun craft activities.
There will be a Bookbug session at 10.30 (booking required as places as limited).
Bookbug booking link
The Sir Duncan Rice Library was opened in September 2012.
Designed by Danish architects Schmidt Hammer Lassen, this award-winning building is an iconic architectural landmark of Northeast Scotland.
It is the University’s main library, with seven floors for use by students, staff and others.
The University Collections Research Room is located on the lower ground floor, providing access to rare books, manuscripts and archives.
The ground floor is a welcoming space, open to all, with a café, the University Collections exhibition gallery and branch of Aberdeen city libraries.
The University car parks at the Sir Duncan Rice Library and Zoology Building are free to use by any visitor on Saturday 6th September.
Doors Open Day 2025: Visit the Zoology Museum
If you would like more information you can contact us at uoacollections@abdn.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/events/22639:
The Zoology Building at the University of Aberdeen, opened in 1970, is a Brutalist-style structure located on St Machar Drive, next to the Cruickshank Botanic Garden.
It houses the School of Biological Sciences and the University's Zoology Museum.
The Zoology Museum has displays that are worldwide in scope, from protozoa to the great whales, including taxidermy, skeletons, fluid-preserved specimens and models.
Visitors are welcome and there is no charge for admission.
There are two entrances to the Zoology Building, either from Tillydrone Avenue or via Cruickshank Botanic Garden.
Doors Open Day 2025: Visit the Sir Duncan Rice Library
What you'll FIND today at the Sir Duncan Rice Library, just a short walk from the Zoology Museum:

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/events/22629:
This decades-old tradition will include a colourful procession representing civic, student and academic life in Aberdeen.
It will be followed by a student-led parade of the Rector and the traditional bull around the King's Lawn.
The ceremony will also be streamed live from the historic King's College Chapel.
A link will be added to this page nearer the time.
All are welcome; Booking is required via the link below.
events@abdn.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/events/22568:
There is a feast in store for curious minds this September as Explorathon 2025 returns with an exciting programme of activities across Scotland.
It’s the 12th year that the festival has been feeding curious minds across the country and this year attractions in Aberdeen will include our popular Cafe Sci, as a Discovery Day taking over the campus, Cafe Controversial and a talk about Aberdeen's connections to important scientific discoveries.
Whether you’re passionate about science, curious about how research shapes our world, or simply looking for a fun way to spend your time, Explorathon 2025 has something for you.
Explore the event listings, mark your calendar, and get ready for a month full of inspiration and discovery.
This project has received funding through the UKRI Horizon Europe Guarantee.
Visit the Explorathon website

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/visit:
We have campus visits available on Monday, Wednesday and Friday afternoons to offer prospective students the opportunity to see the campus before applying to study at Aberdeen.
If you are an Undergraduate Student you can tailor your visit to suit your interests.
Optional aspects of the day include: ·
Postgraduate Campus Visits
If you are a prospective postgraduate student we would be delighted to show you around our campus too.
You will receive the full campus tour on the day and you can partake in optional aspects such as: ·
Medicine Campus Visits
We offer visits at our Foresterhill campus to prospective students who are interested in studying Medicine.
These take place on Wednesdays at 11am between April - October.
Book A Campus Visit

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/our-website/terms-and-conditions-of-use:
This website abdn.ac.uk is provided by the University of Aberdeen ("the University") and use of the website is governed by these terms and conditions ("Terms and Conditions").
In accessing information from the website, you agree to be bound by the Terms and Conditions.
The University reserves the right to make changes to any part of the website or to withdraw or amend the service the University provides on the website.
The University takes reasonable efforts to ensure that the contents of its website are accurate; however, it cannot give any warranty that this is the case.
The University may change web content at any time without notice.
Staff publishing to the University website must abide by the University's Code of Practice for Electronic Publishing postings deemed to be offensive will be removed.
The University accepts no liability for any claims, penalties, loss or expenses arising from use of the website including:
The University owns or licenses the copyright in this website and in the material published on this website.
All rights are reserved.
Subject to these Terms and Conditions, you may download, print and view website content for personal and non-commercial use.
Any other use of this website or its content requires the prior written consent of the University.
The University must always be acknowledged as the owners of any such material in circulation, as must the contributions of any identified person.
You may not alter the paper or digital copies of any website materials.
The information and other contents of this website are designed to comply with Scots Law.
This website shall be governed by and construed in accordance with Scots Law and all parties irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the Scottish Courts.
Links to third party websites are for your convenience only.
Such websites are operated and controlled by third parties and their inclusion does not imply any endorsement or approval by the University of the materials on such websites.
On visiting the University website, we may collect information about you.
How we use this information is explained generally in our privacy notice , specifically in Your Rights and in relation to our website, detailed in Using Our Website - Privacy Notice .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/your-privacy:
The University of Aberdeen is committed to protecting your personal information and being clear about the information we collect and how we use it.
We take our responsibilities seriously as the controller of your personal information under data protection law.
These pages explain more about how the University handles personal information in our teaching, research and support activities.
They apply whether you are a current or former student, a member of staff or a volunteer in our research studies.
We will provide additional privacy information when we interact with you in other circumstances.
If we make changes to the way we handle personal information, we will let you know by revising the date on these pages, publicising the changes or contacting you directly.
If you have any questions about these pages, or about our uses of personal data, you can contact the Data Protection Officer by email at dpa@abdn.ac.uk .
The rights you have over your personal information are also explained on these pages.
You can find out more about the University, including the University's contact details, in our Guide to Information available under freedom of information legislation.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/our-website/cookies:
A cookie is created at the request of the website a user is viewing.
The website requests the web browser create a small text file with a small amount of information, which it can access whilst you are viewing the website.
The information is usually to provide some functionality...to enhance the users experience on the site."
Please be aware that restricting cookies may impact on the functionality of certain parts of the University of Aberdeen's website.
Most standard web browsers may be configured to refuse cookies: consult your browser's help pages for instructions on how to do this.
You may wish to visit aboutcookies.org.uk which contains comprehensive information on how to manage cookies on a wide variety of browsers.
The following cookies may be set by certain pages within our website as necessary.
The following cookies are set set by the Confidential Reporting Service.
The following cookies are set by the Clearing website.
The following cookies are set set by the third-party company WPM Education for the operation of the University's Online Store.
The following cookie is set when using the University's DSpace installation, the Aberdeen University Research Archive (AURA).
The following cookies are set when using these in-house applications for teaching and learning:
The following cookies are set when using MyAberdeen.
Additionally, MyAberdeen may occasionally display reminders related to your course in pop-up windows, and uses a cookie to determine whether you have already seen a given reminder.
An example would be the scefpopup cookie.
All such cookies expire when you close your browser.
The following cookies are set when accessing MyCurriculum via the launch site.
The following cookies are set when using MyTimetable.
The University of Aberdeen makes use of external services within its website.
Examples of such services include YouTube, Facebook and Twitter, and these external services may also place cookies on your device.
Details of how to opt out of receiving cookies from the main third parties whose content we use are available below:
To opt out of receiving cookies from other services, we recommend reviewing your browser's cookie settings as noted above.
The University of Aberdeen relies on statistics generated by your visits to our webpages to plan further improvements to our website.
The cookies which are set in order to enable us to collate these statistics are not strictly necessary for the operation of our websites.
Links are provided below which will enable you to opt out of receiving these cookies if you wish.
We use Google Analytics to generate reports on the number of visits to pages on our website, and the resulting statistics help us to plan improvements to our website.
Google Analytics is also used by third party widgets implemented on our website.
We use Google Maps to provide location information to users of our website.
We use Google Tag Manager to manage Google Analytics and other tracking cookies which may be used for marketing purposes or evaluating the effectiveness of our website.
We use Hotjar to analyse online behaviour and improve user experience across our website.
Siteimprove Analytics is a web analytics service.
It allows us to recognise and count the number of visitors and so see how visitors move around the site when they are using it.
This helps us to improve the way the website works, for example by making sure users are finding what they need easily.
SoundCloud provides a platform for sharing and promoting audio.
Author: Web Team Last reviewed: 18 April 2024 Last updated: 18 April 2024

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/our-website/slavery--human-trafficking-statement:
Founded in 1495, the University of Aberdeen is Scotland’s third oldest university and the fifth oldest in the UK.
The principle of serving the public good is enshrined in the University’s founding purpose, to 'be open to all and dedicated to the pursuit of truth in the service of others' and its strategic vision Aberdeen 2040.
In keeping with this principle, the University takes a zero-tolerance approach in relation to modern slavery and human trafficking in all its forms.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/staffnet/governance/legal-and-compliance/foi-scotland:
The University has adopted the single Model Publication Scheme, produced and approved by the Scottish Information Commissioner.
It commits the University to:
Please address your written request by letter to;
Freedom of Information Officer G60 Edward Wright Building Dunbar Street The University of Aberdeen Aberdeen AB24 3QY
We are there to provide advice and assistance in helping you make a request or identify the information you are looking for.
Please contact us, if you have any further enquiries; Email: foi@abdn.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0)1224 272596 or +44 (0)1224 273079

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/partnerships:
Collaboration
The University of Aberdeen works with many external organisations across several sectors
The Santander Universities network is an international group of universities with three common goals.
Combining 500 years of academic strength, history and tradition with ambition and innovation.
The University of Aberdeen is a stakeholder, partner and supporter of Opportunity North East.
An international network of over 500 institutions in over 50 countries across the Commonwealth.
Our Confucius Institute promotes cultural exchange in partnership with Wuhan University.
The University has strong links with the Armed Forces, through the Military Education Committee and the University Officer Training Corps.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/our-website:
Content on the University's central web pages is maintained by the Digital Communications Team, with technical support provided by the Site Reliability Team.
Teams are available Monday to Friday, 09:00 - 17:00.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/toolkit/skills/accessibility-for-authorscreators:
Guidance about making your content accessible
The web offers many opportunities to people with disabilities that are unavailable through any other medium.
It offers independence and freedom.
However, if a web page, document or video is not created with accessibility in mind, it may exclude a segment of the population that stands to gain the most from the technology.
This resource intends to provide straightforward, simple guidance for authors, designers and creators of content.
You can find specific information about different types of content in our Guides section, and useful tools and further information in the Links section.
Related resources | Accessibility for Users | MS Word | Adobe Acrobat DC | Assistive Technology
Last updated on 25 July 2025
This resource was provided by Assistive Technology and Centre for Academic Development and Media Services.
The Assistive Technology Team supports students and staff with a disability, learning difference, mental health or other medical condition through the use of technology and associated strategies.
The Centre for Academic Development supports staff and students across the University in teaching, learning, research and professional development.
The Centre also provides a range of eLearning services, actively supporting members of staff with course delivery and learning activities.
Media Services are the central media and audio-visual technology support service to the university.
Our facilities and services are provided to directly support both students and staff in a wide range of aspects and activities.
All content copyright © 2025 The University of Aberdeen The University of Aberdeen is a charity registered in Scotland, No.SC013683

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/people/m.mcconnell:
MA, MSc, MCLIP, MBCS CITP
Applications Operations Manager
G47, Block C Edward Wright Building Dunbar Street AB24 3QY
My role involves working with systems, processes and people to provide continuous service improvement for the institution.
I manage analysts, developers, DBAs and site reliability engineers responsible for digital, web, library and corporate applications.
I have over 20 years’ experience of staff, customer, supplier and project management.
Scotland Representative on UCAS Technology Group
Page 1 of 2 Results 1 to 10 of 13

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/library/support/students/exam-papers:
We are pleased to let you know that the Sir Duncan Rice Library returns to normal summer operating hours and capacity from Tuesday 26 August following the successful completion of engineering works.
Full opening hours available online .
To browse a selection of past exam papers from a specific subject area you can visit the Exam Papers collection in Primo, login and select a subject area.
Please note: The exam paper database is only open to members of the University of Aberdeen.
Login using your University username and password.
For queries regarding University usernames and passwords please contact the IT Service Desk
Contact for general queries exampapers@abdn.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/pgap/login.php:
Your University of Aberdeen journey starts here!
First time applicant?
Register an Account
Already registered?
Log in to your account below
It looks like you have enabled Internet Explorer Compatibility View.
This site works best if you turn this off.
Learn how to do this

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/eaccommodation/login.php:
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this application

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/pgap/agents/login:
Sign in to submit your applications.
Forgot your password?

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/it/services/atech:
What do we do and who do we help?
Find our office and our assistive technology booths
The Easy Reader app can give you access to accessible copies of online resources such as ebooks.
There are many providers who support the use of this app, the university allows staff and students to access resources through the RNIB Bookshare provider.
Once you are signed up for an account you can download the app for your smart phone, tablet, or computer.
Please contact the library Disability Co-ordinators to see if you are eligible for an account librarydisability@abdn.ac.uk
Get ready for the new term and download up to 5 copies of the Microsoft Office Suite to have across all your devices.
Check out the Toolkit resource for videos, guides and links.
Online Drop In sessions are now available.
Have you ever wanted to try Dictation or Read Aloud software?
Or a sophisticated spell checker?
We can help with wellbeing, use a screen tint or reading ruler.
Select a 15 minute online slot Monday's 1- 4pm or Tuesday's 9am - 12pm

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/library/support/guides/general-e-resources-and-support/accessible-library-services-and-facilities:
Support for disabled or neurodivergent users, and anyone needing adjustments to access library resources and physical spaces
This guide contains information on the services we provide to disabled users.
Please speak to any member of library staff or contact us at librarydisability@abdn.ac.uk to discuss how we can help you.
All enquiries are strictly confidential: we will never share your personal information without your consent.
The University Library service has 3 locations: the Sir Duncan Rice Library, the Taylor Law Library (both on the Old Aberdeen campus) and the Medical Library (on the Foresterhill campus).
We are committed to making our libraries and services accessible to all.
Detailed information on the facilities and equipment available in each of our libraries is listed at the end of this document.
Library staff have created guides on a range of subjects, including referencing and searching for materials, you can find these on the Library webpages .
We offer a range of services to students registered with the Student Advice and Support Office.
We can fetch books and hold them at one of our Information Desks for you to collect.
We can renew your loans over the phone as long as the items haven't been requested by another user.
Please contact us to arrange this.
We provide an individual induction to the library for disabled students.
This can be held in person at any of our branches or over a video call.
We will tailor this session to you and answer any questions you might have.
We can:
Please email librarydisability@abdn.ac.uk to request a meeting with us.
We offer a range of enhanced digital services once you register with the Disability Advisors at the Student Advice and Support Office.
Please see IT Service's Toolkit for more guides on accessibility .
We can request books or other resources in a different format directly from publishers.
If we only hold a book in print and you need an e-book (or vice-versa), please let us know.
We may be able to provide an accessible copy for you, free of charge.
This is not always successful or fast, but we are happy to ask on your behalf.
RNIB Bookshare is a database of electronic resources offered by the Royal National Institute of the Blind.
Their collection includes more than a million books and is completely free to use.
All books can be downloaded in various formats and are compatible with screen readers and other assistive software.
More information can be found on the RNIB Bookshare website .
To get started, please ask your disability advisor to contact Library staff.
Membership is not restricted to those who are visually impaired, the eligibility criteria is very broad.
People who have specific learning differences or physical disabilities are also eligible - you can view RNIB Bookshare's eligibility criteria here .
Library staff will create an account for you, then send you an email with the login details.
Your account can be used while you are a student at the University.
Library staff can scan items for you if you need access to a work available only in physical format.
These scans are for personal use only and must not be shared with anyone else.
To make a request, please email librarydisability@abdn.ac.uk with the book/article details.
We will get back to you if we have any questions, then email the scan to you.
The library provides digital reading lists for each course using Leganto software.
You can find these in your course areas in MyAberdeen.
Leganto is compatible with screen readers and has options to change contrast, font size, and pop-up duration.
It is also possible to export your entire reading list into an accessible file.
There are Assistive Technology Booths in the Sir Duncan Rice Library and Medical Library, as well as at other locations on campus.
The booths are all equipped with a range of assistive software - please see the Assistive Technology webpages for more details.
We can refer you to the Assistive Technology Team if you would like to use these.
You can drop in and use the booths, or they can be booked using the online booking system .
Booth 408 (Floor 4, Sir Duncan Rice Library) is adapted for visually impaired users and contains extra software and a CCTV magnification system.
The Assistive Technology Team can also produce reading materials in braille, please contact them for more information.
The Sir Duncan Rice Library has been fitted with a pager system.
Vibrating pagers are available at the Welcome Desk for those who may not be able to hear the evacuation alarm.
If you are unable to use the stairs you might wish to inform a member of staff when you enter the library.
There are two staff-operated lifts in the Sir Duncan Rice Library that can be used for evacuations.
These are located:
If the fire alarm sounds when you are not on the ground floor, please go to the call point near the lifts and use the intercom system to speak to a staff member.
A trained member of staff will use the fire evacuation lift to assist you with leaving the building.
Any student who needs to use the lift for evacuation should ensure that they have discussed a Personal Emergency Evacuation Plan (PEEP) with their Disability Adviser in the Student Advice and Support Office.
Please see Emergency Evacuation Procedures for Disabled People (The Sir Duncan Rice Library) .
AccessAble guide to the Sir Duncan Rice Library
AccessAble guide to Taylor Library
AccessAble guide to the Polwarth building
Last revised by Sarah Todd and Jenna Storey, June 2025

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/staffnet/working-here/hr/support-services:
Information about different support available for staff is detailed below.
Additionally, if you would like to speak with a member of the HR Team, please email or call your HR Partner or email HR@abdn.ac.uk .
There are a number of opportunities for involvement, if you have an interest in disability matters at the University of Aberdeen.
The links below provide information of relevance to disabled staff.
For more specific guidance, please contact your Human Resources Officer.
Offering our staff access to an Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) is an important part of our wellbeing support.
Through the EAP you have access to a wide range of confidential services designed to help you deal with personal and professional problems that may be affecting your home life, work life, health, or general wellbeing.
Our provider, Health Assured, is available 24/7, 365 days a year.
Their qualified and experienced counsellors are ready to listen and provide guidance when you need them the most.
freephone 24 hours a day, 7 days a week
Call: 08000280199
Website: wisdomhealthassured.org
Download: WISDOM app from the apple or google store
When logging into the website or app please use:
Organisation code: MHA337303
Partners and dependents (over the age of 16) can also download and use the app as well as access services in the same way staff do.
Simply say that they are a partner or dependant of a staff member at the University of Aberdeen.
You can view Health Assured privacy policy here: https://www.healthassured.org/privacy-policy/
Across University of Aberdeen campuses, we have a network of Mental Health First Aiders (MHFA).
The activities of MHFA's contribute to improving mental health in the workplace through encouraging openness, challenging stigma and providing listening support to individuals experiencing difficulties with their mental health or wellbeing.
You can find the contact list for all staff trained in Mental Health First Aid here:
MHFA Contact List & Details
Our network of Mental Health First Aiders can provide you with:
Mental Health First Aiders are not trained counsellors or therapists and cannot provide ongoing or long-term support, diagnosis or treatment; however, they are trained to listen, reassure, and respond and can support an individual's next steps to seeking further help as appropriate.
MHFA training sessions are organised throughout the year.
Please email the Wellbeing Team for more information.
If you need out of office hours support or need immediate assistance, these mental health helplines have specially trained volunteers to help you through your immediate crisis.
All members of staff can receive confidential support and counselling through the University Counselling Service.
As well as accessing confidential counselling, staff can also debrief with our trained counselling team following a challenging or distressing encounter at work.
To book a counselling or a debrief session email counselling@abdn.ac.uk .
More information about the University Counselling Service can be found on their webpage .
The following members of the Mediation Team are prepared to take part in Co-Mediation for early dispute resolution:
What is Mediation?
Mediation is an effective way of resolving disputes.
It involves an independent third party, a Mediator, who helps both sides to reach an agreement.
The role of the Mediator is to help parties to reach a solution to their problem and to arrive at an outcome which both parties are happy to accept.
Mediators are entirely independent; they avoid taking sides, making judgements or giving guidance.
They are responsible for developing effective communication and building consensus between the individuals who are in dispute.
The focus of a Mediation meeting is to reach a settlement which is agreeable to both parties.
Mediation is a voluntary process and will only take place if both parties agree.
It is a confidential process and the content of a Mediation meeting is not disclosed to anyone outside the meeting.
What are the Benefits of Mediation?
Mediation provides a quicker and simpler way of resolving disputes rather than using formal procedures.
The University's Mediation Team
The University has established a Mediation Team.
Members of the Mediation Team are fully trained, and are able to provide a Mediation service for all members of staff, and between all levels of staff, with the aim of providing resolution at the early stages of a dispute.
The University is a Member of Scottish Mediation and adhere to their Code of Conduct to ensure that all members of the Mediation Team demonstrate respect, independence, impartiality and confidentiality.
Co-Mediation
The approach to Mediation which has been adopted by Members of the Mediation Team is Co-Mediation.
This involves two Mediators who work together as a team.
The advantages of Co-Mediation are:
How Does Co-Mediation Work?
There are usually three phases to Co-Mediation:
Further Information and Access to Mediation
We have a dedicated e-mail address mediation@abdn.ac.uk where you can ask any questions or arrange an informal chat about how mediation can help you or any of your staff.
The Multi-faith Chaplaincy offers resources and help for everyone, whatever their situation.
Chaplaincy staff work closely with Student Support Services team, and are here for all staff and students on campus - everyone is welcome.
The Chaplaincy Centre is at 25 High Street and is open 09:30 - 16:30, Monday to Friday, throughout the year for visitors.
Chaplaincy staff will happily arrange out of hours meetings for those in need.
The Occupational Health service for the University is provided by OHWorks (Changed from SOS International 1 May 2023).
All staff are able to consult the service for advice on health matters.
You are encouraged to discuss any health problems relating to your work in the first instance with your line manager however the occupational health service may be able to provide medical advice and assistance in situations where:
The service is staffed by a broad range of occupational health professionals including physicians and advisers.
All consultations are in strict medical confidence, details of discussions will not be supplied to the University or to any other person without your consent.
To arrange an appointment you can either ask your line manager to get Human Resources to refer you to the Occupational Health Service or contact your HR Adviser or Partner directly who can facilitate this.
You can use our online confidential tool to report any incidents or acts of harassment, bullying, violence, targeted hate, or sexual misconduct.
For more information and to report an incident click here .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/toolkit:
Choose collection
All the tools, in alphabetical order

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/staffnet/education/elearning/what-we-do:
The Centre for Academic Development provides a range of eLearning services, actively supporting course delivery, design and evaluation.
Along with managing institution wide eLearning applications, we also deliver staff development, arrange events and offer one-to-one support.
The eLearning team provide guidance and support on:
We provide videos, written guides and web links on the Toolkit website for the applications we can support.
This service is intended to support teaching teams using MyAberdeen to improve the accessibility of learning materials and help raise awareness of accessibility issues.
The Course Accessibility Service is run by University of Aberdeen students working within eLearning, who will audit the course on its digital accessibility.
You will receive a written report highlighting accessibility issues found with the course area and an invitation to discuss the highlighted issues with the eLearning team.
The focus of this service is providing support and guidance on how to improve the accessibility of documents.
This can include creation of accessible templates or sharing good practice on how to fix aspects such as heading styles, use of colour, tables, and hyperlinks.
To request the Course Accessibility Service for one or more of your courses, please email elearning@abdn.ac.uk
The eLearning team offer workshops, webinars and online CPD courses for staff using MyAberdeen and other eLearning applications.
To book a place on one of our workshops or courses, please go to the course booking website and filter by 'eLearning/MyAberdeen' to see the available workshops.
If you would like to make an enquiry about a bespoke session for your School/Department please let us know by contacting the Centre for Academic Development .
Panopto is the software supported by the University that provides lecture recording, screencasting, video streaming and video content management software.
eLearning provide online sessions covering information on getting started using Panopto and also a more advanced session focussing on enhancing your use of Panopto.
Further information about upcoming Panopto sessions are available on the course booking website and there is additional support material on Toolkit under Panopto .
Blackboard Ally is a tool within MyAberdeen that focuses on making digital course content more accessible.
Online sessions are provided to give an overview of the need for digital accessibility, the feedback Blackboard Ally provides staff and the alternative formats available it generates for students.
There will be an opportunity for questions during the session.
Further information about upcoming Ally sessions are available on the course booking website and there further support material available on Toolkit under Accessibility for Authors/Creators .
MyAberdeen is the University's virtual learning environment, where you can upload learning materials and resources associated with your course.
Prior to the start of semester there are a variety of sessions offered focussing upon:
Further information about upcoming MyAberdeen sessions are available on the course booking website and there is additional support material on Toolkit under M yAberdeen: Staff , Blackboard & Turnitin Assignments for Staff and MyAberdeen: Admin .
This 1 hour session provides an overview of the programme review and storyboarding process, which can be applied to fully online, blended as well as on campus programmes and courses.
In many cases, the programme review and storyboarding processes has greatly inspired both the programme team and course team in the development of their own programmes.
Sessions can be booked via course bookings , filtering by eLearning/MyAberdeen.
The Learning and Teaching Network is an informal space on Microsoft Teams where staff can share good practice on the use of MyAberdeen and associated learning technologies.
As well as being a space for the general sharing of ideas and practice relating to the wider range of teaching, learning and assessment activities.
Joining instructions : Open Microsoft Teams and click “Join or create a team” in your teams list.
Look for the “Join a team with a code” card and enter this code to join the Learning and Teaching Network : sdtryx2 .
If you have any questions, please contact the Centre for Academic Development .
In the past we held specific events which are detailed below, now all our current events and workshops are listed on the course booking system .
We are looking for people to contribute to one of this year's meetings!
If you'd like to share your experiences with others at one of the MyAberdeen User Group meetings, please let us know by completing a short MS form and we will get in touch with you soon.
More information on upcoming events in 2022 can be found in the MS Teams area.
At this meeting we discussed the remit of the MyAberdeen User Group.
The outcomes were that the User Group is:
Two lecturers kindly shared with us their experiences of grading online using the Original Course View on MyAberdeen.
A recording of the session has been shared on the MS Teams area.
This was a well attended session were staff had a chance to share with each other some top tips for the start of term.
We have shared the slides from the session and collated all the main points from the discussion in the MS Teams area.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/medical/elf:
Username:
Password:

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/kings-college:
Campus
With parts of the building dating to the 15th century, King's College is the symbolic centre of the University
The Chapel is open to visitors Monday-Friday 9am - 5pm.
King's College was built to house the University, which was founded by Bishop Elphinstone under a Papal Bull issued by Pope Alexander VI on 10 February 1495.
King's Tower is the figurehead of the University.
The building is famous not only for its physical appeal, but for its symbolism: the pursuit of knowledge.
The crown of the College, an Imperial crown, is a symbol of universal dominion, as opposed to a national one, and it is likely that this crown was incorporated into the architecture to support the Scottish crown's claim to imperial authority within Scotland.
King's College is now part of the Old Aberdeen campus and its rear is still used as a sports pavilion, while it remains the symbolic centre of the ever-growing University campus.
It still has an important educational purpose with Divinity/Theology, Art History and Religious Studies all taught here.
Find out about events, tours and services at King's College Chapel.
Enquire about weddings at King's College Chapel.
Find out how you can become a Friend of King's College Chapel
Looking for a particular building?
Our campus maps will guide you where you're going.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/kings-college-chapel:
The Chapel sanctuary which sits beneath the Tower is a space of beauty, tranquillity, and peace.
Worship services are held every Wednesday during the academic term in King's College Chapel.
This service starts at 5.15pm unless otherwise indicated.
There are also daily services and important annual services such as Remembrance and Founders' Day held in the Chapel throughout the year.
Find out all you need to know about our Worship services as well as occasional services, recitals, tours and other events.
Please contact us should you be planning a significant service for yourself or someone you love.
Everything you need to know about weddings at King's College.
Booking a significant service for yourself or someone you love.
Information on hosting funerals or a memorials at the Chapel.
The following services occur on a weekly basis during term time.
Below you can view a list of annual Chapel services.
As with all our services, everyone is very welcome to come along to these services.
Be aware however, that you might want to arrive early at many of these special services to ensure you get a seat!
February Event: Founders' Day Service - Saturday 10 February 2024 at 11am Venue: King's College Chapel An annual service commemorating the Founding of the University in 1495.
November Event: Remembrance Service - Sunday 10 November 2024 at 10.50am (Please be seated by 10.30am) Venue: King's College Chapel
December Event: University of Aberdeen Carol Service - Wednesday 4 December 2024 at 7.30pm Venue: St Machar's Cathedral
View the Recording and Broadcasting of Public Services Privacy Notice .
Open to the public from 9am - 5pm, Monday - Friday.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/kings-college-chapel/book-kings-college-chapel:
Kings College Chapel is an ancient and beautiful building located at the centre of the University of Aberdeen and suitable for a range of different events including special services and concerts.
The chapel has a capacity for 200 maximum within the main chapel but can accommodate more if seats are placed within the antechapel.
For further information, or initial enquiries, please contact the Multi-faith Chaplaincy office at chaplaincy@abdn.ac.uk or complete the booking form and a member of the Chaplaincy team will be in contact with you.
Please note that the University of Aberdeen reserves the right to carry out works of maintenance, repair, and renewal to the exterior and interior fabric of King's College and King's College Chapel including, without prejudice to the foregoing generality, the erection of scaffolding and protective covers without prior notification being given.
Principally the Chapel is a place of worship.
Individuals are welcome to enter for private prayer or contemplation whenever the Chapel is free.
There is Quiet Time between 1pm and 2pm Monday to Friday and no bookings can be made for this time.
All bookings at the Chapel are at the discretion of the University Chaplain and should be appropriate to the Chapel's nature and purpose.
The following guidelines must be adhered to:
Before you book, please review the health and safety guidelines .
Fees associated with booking the chapel are:
Please complete the enquiry form below and a member of the Chaplaincy team will be in contact with you.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/kings-college-chapel/weddings-at-kings-college-chapel:
King's College Chapel is a beautiful place to be married and holds great significance for many people.
And contrary to urban myth, there is no waiting list!
The Chapel is an ancient and beautiful building, the perfect setting for your ceremony.
It is a private Chapel of the University and remains a place of worship in daily use.
The Chapel is available for weddings to:
Should you want to make an initial enquiry about King's College Chapel availability for your wedding, please email chaplaincy@abdn.ac.uk .
The University makes the following charges in respect of wedding and civil partnership ceremonies taking place in King's College Chapel which is payable to the Multi-Faith Chaplaincy when the application form is lodged.
Discounts available
We offer the following special discounts:
The Fee includes
The use of the Chapel for the ceremony rehearsal
Please note that there is no reduction of fee if an organist is not required.
The Sacrist will meet you at your rehearsal and advise you on the following practical matters:
In order to preserve the dignity, peace and character of the building there are a number of regulations that need to be adhered to.
These are detailed for you and we ask that you draw these regulations to the notice of your Officiant, any others concerned arrangements; you will be responsible to the University for seeing that they are observed.
It is particularly important that any Photographer you involve be made aware of the regulations concerning the taking of photographs.
(Please see separate sheet which should be passed to your Photographer.)
Please feel free to contact the Chaplaincy should you have any queries at all.
We will be happy to assist in making your day as memorable as possible.
Before you book, please review the health and safety guidelines.
Please do not move any of the Chapel furnishings.
The central seating area of the Chapel has 160 seats.
If you require more seating this can be arranged with prior permission in the in the antechapel.
It is not essential to have flowers for Chapel decoration, but the following applies:
should be hired from any reputable Florist who will place them in and take them out of the Chapel at the end of the ceremony.
However, please do not hesitate to discuss additional requests with the Chaplaincy office.
While we appreciate how important it is to get an accurate recording on film of your ceremony at times photography can be very intrusive.
For your own benefit and ours we ask that you strictly observe the following.
Photographs may be taken during:
Photography and video-recording from the Choir Gallery and the Bishop Forbes seat are permitted and a remote camera can be placed at the chancel.
Problems are caused if attendants arrive late.
All in attendance are asked to make sure that they are ready to proceed to the ceremony at the appointed time.
If photographs are required on arrival then arrangements must be made to arrive 5 minutes early.
The Sacrist will brief the Ushers on arrival about arrangements for photography outside the Chapel after the ceremony.
None within the Chapel area or University precincts.
It is advised that for bagpipes welcoming guests they should stand outside the chapel as directed by the Sacrist.
Not permitted during examination times.
You are reminded that special traffic regulations apply in Old Aberdeen and King's College is affected by them.
The approach to the Chapel by a wedding car should be made from Regent Walk, off King Street.
Then turn left alongside Elphinstone Lawn and right to the side of the Chapel.
Parking is made available for your convenience in the College grounds for the following cars only:
Special arrangements will be made for any guest requiring accessible parking if prior notice is given to the Sacrist, King's College.
King's College Chapel is not only a picturesque venue, but also a place of worship with a musical history extending back to Bishop Elphinstone's foundation of the University of Aberdeen in 1495.
Your ceremony will be a special and memorable day in your lives as well as being one of the many services taking place in King's the whole year round which makes it both unique and steeped in history.
The organ plays a significant role in creating a special atmosphere, from the music played before the ceremony welcoming your guests to the processional and the recessional as you both leave, all of which contribute to making your ceremony a very special day.
King's College Chapel has a magnificent instrument of international distinction commissioned from the French organ builder, Bernard Aubertin, and installed in 2004.
It has attracted recitalists from around the world, and visitors have come especially to play it from as far afield as Japan.
Your fee includes the services of a professional and experienced organist.
For an additional fee, it is usually possible to arrange a solo singer, small choral group or instrumentalist for the signing of the register (subject to availability).
On rare occasions, couples ask to bring their own organist or musicians.
Please note that there is no reduction in fee and that there should be agreement in principle with Stuart Muir, Director of Chapel and Ceremonial Music, before they are asked.
This means that you should complete the musical arrangements form well in advance of your ceremony.
The form below has sound clips of the various pieces you can choose for your ceremony to help you make your selection.
When you are ready, please complete the online form.
You should receive an email acknowledgement of receipt.
This Wedding Music information, music choices, answers to FAQs and the on-line form to submit your musical arrangements, can be found at:
Weddings at King's College Chapel | About | The University of Aberdeen (abdn.ac.uk)
The University is concerned that rules about photography at wedding ceremonies have not been followed on a number of occasions.
This is detracting from the dignity of the Service and intruding on the enjoyment of the occasion.
Please draw the following guidelines to the notice of your Photographer.
Photography within King's College Chapel is only permitted providing the following conditions are strictly observed:
Photographs may be taken from the archway of the Rood Screen on arrival and passage through the West Door for the processional and for the recessional after the ceremony.
Photography of the participants at the Chapel must ensure that the ceremony is ready to proceed at the appointed time.
Video-recording and photography are permitted during the Service only from the Choir Gallery or Bishop Forbes seat.
The following two conditions are to be strictly observed:
In King's College Chapel when the Register is signed within the Chapel it forms an integral part of the ceremony.
If requested the Photographer may come forward and take a photograph of the signing of the Schedule as it actually happens.
Please note that no other photography - i.e by wedding guests - is permitted other than that of the official Photographer.
These rules apply irrespective of who is conducting the ceremony.
The Sacrist will be happy to advise the Ushers or the Photographer about arrangements for photography prior to the Service.
The co-operation of all involved in this matter will be greatly appreciated and will help to make the occasion both happy and memorable.
Should you want to make an initial enquiry about King's College Chapel availability for your wedding, please email chaplaincy@abdn.ac.uk
Before you book, please review the booking conditions .
You can request to book King's College Chapel by completing the booking form .
King's College Chapel is not only a picturesque wedding venue, but also a place of worship with a musical history extending back to Bishop Elphinstone's foundation of the University of Aberdeen in 1495.
Your service will take place in a setting steeped in history.
Your wedding will be a special and memorable day in your lives as well as being one of the many services taking place in King's the whole year round which makes it both unique and steeped in history.
The organ plays a significant role in creating a wedding atmosphere, from the music played before the service to the entrance of the bride through to the recessional as you both leave, all of which contribute to making your wedding a very special day.
Your wedding fee includes the services of a professional and experienced organist.
For further information, please see FAQs below.
Please note that such musicians should be of a professional standard, and that there should be agreement in principle with Stuart Muir, Director of Chapel and Ceremonial Music, before they are asked.
This means that you should complete the musical arrangements form well in advance of your wedding day.
For further information, please see FAQs.
The form linked in below has sound clips of the various pieces you can choose for the Entrance of the Bride, the Signing of the Register and the Recessional to help you make your selection.
Please note that the pieces are interchangeable: for example, you can decide to go out to something suggested for the entrance of the bride, or vice versa.
Wedding Music Form
Please see the Musical Arrangements Form .
It is usually possible to provide a singer or instrumentalist or small choir (usually of five singers), although this is subject to availability of personnel.
So far, however, we have always managed to find musicians for weddings at King's.
A solo singer or choir will lead the congregational singing and contribute something for the Signing of the Register; an instrumentalist will perform during the Signing of the Register.
The music for the Entrance of the Bride and the Recessional is best provided by the organ because the instrument is ideally suited to accompanying grand processions.
Please include any requests in the Additional Information field of the Musical Arrangements Form .
Although the wedding fee includes the services of an organist, some couples wish to bring their own.
If you wish to use another organist, please note that you must obtain permission from Stuart Muir, Director of Chapel and Ceremonial Music.
Organists have to be able to demonstrate a professional level of competence because the instrument is particularly valuable; also, the Chapel is used extensively for services and concerts, so usually the only time to practise is an hour before the ceremony.
All music in Chapel services should be at a professional standard.
You are advised to seek permission before engaging anyone!
Some couples want a family member to play or sing during the ceremony: please ensure that they are happy enough to do this and are aware of the standard expected (post-Grade VIII).
Please note that amplification is neither necessary in the Chapel nor permitted.
The organist will normally accompany any solo items, and - once approved - musicians should be asked to rehearse with the accompaniment three-quarters of an hour before the ceremony.
You may request music that is not on the list.
Please remember that your wedding is a Chapel service, so music should reflect both the sacred nature of the celebration and its historic setting.
All music should be live performance.
If you have any other queries, please include them in the 'Additional Information' section of the form, or email stuart.muir@abdn.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/kings-college-chapel/weddings-at-kings-college-chapel/organ-music-and-sound-bytes:
The Prince of Denmark's March
Jeremiah Clarke ( c.
1674-1707)
The Arrival of the Queen of Sheba from Solomon
George Frideric Handel (1685-1759)
Canon in D
Johann Pachelbel (1653-1706)
Trumpet Voluntary (from Op.
6 No.
5)
John Stanley (1713-1786)
The Bridal Chorus from Lohengrin
Richard Wagner (1813-1883)
Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring (from Cantata BWV 147)
Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750)
Flocks in pastures green
Es ist ein Ros entsprungen
Johannes Brahms (1833-1897)
Air from The Water Music
Freu dich sehr, o meine Seele
Sigfried Karg-Elert (1877-1933)
Laudate Dominum
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756-1791)
Air
Samuel Wesley (1766-1837)
Gavotte
Rhosymedre (or “Lovely”)
Ralph Vaughan Williams (1872-1958)
Pièce d'Orgue (BWV 572)
Fugue on the Magnificat
Hornpipe in D from Water Music
Minuet from The Fireworks
Sortie in E-flat
Louis James Alfred Lefébure-Wély (1817-1869)
Wedding March from A Midsummer Night's Dream
Felix Mendelssohn (1809-1847)
Please complete the Musical Arrangements Form .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/kings-college-chapel/weddings-at-kings-college-chapel/wedding-music-form:
You do not appear to have JavaScript active in your browser, which may result in a less than optimal experience.
Either activate JavaScript for our website and refresh this page, or proceed without JavaScript .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/kings-college-chapel/funerals-and-memorials:
Throughout the year King's College Chapel is available for all those within the University of Aberdeen community and surrounding areas for funerals and memorials.
We know the importance of the funeral service or memorial as a moment for individuals, families, and a community to come together to pay their respects to a loved one and to recognise with thanksgiving the life of that person.
At a time of loss, we understand that you need as much support as possible and we have a lot of experience helping people through this difficult time.
We are here to help and will work in partnership with you as a family, your funeral director and minister or officiant.
Our staff in the Chaplaincy will help you with all the practical aspects of holding a funeral within King's College Chapel.
If you would like a funeral or memorial service to be held within King's College Chapel please let your Funeral Director know and they will get in touch with us or you can contact us at the Chaplaincy on 01224 272137 or email chaplaincy@abdn.ac.uk for further details.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/kings-college-chapel/friends-of-kings-college-chapel:
Created by the University's founder, Bishop Elphinstone, King's College Chapel has been at the heart of the University of Aberdeen since 1505, serving as an enduring and beautiful reminder of our foundations.
As a member of the Friends of King's College Chapel you will greatly benefit the ongoing life and faith of the Chapel community.
The Chapel's Crown Tower remains one of the most adored and stunning emblems of our university, recognised by friends, alumni and benefactors around the world.
Underneath it sits the equally beautiful Chapel sanctuary, a space of tranquillity, peace, and remembrance.
We are extremely fortunate that several of the Chapel's original features from 1505 remain and now complement features which have been added through the centuries.
The survival of the 52 original exquisitely carved choir stalls is unique in Scotland.
Other features include a war memorial, an Aubertin organ of international distinction, a set of stunning stained-glass windows and the tomb of Bishop Elphinstone.
The most recent addition is a beautiful missal stand which was funded by an alumna in memory of her mother.
We hold a wide range of events, recitals, and services in King's College Chapel and as a member of the Friends you will be kept fully informed of them all.
To join us today and keep King's College Chapel vibrant and active for future generations please complete this form .
If you wish to make a further donation, please visit the Development Trust donation form and choose “ Other" from the drop down menu for King's College Chapel.
Friends will be eligible to receive the following benefits according to which category of membership they fit into:
Bi-annual newsletter - January and August £60 or more per year (£24 for recent graduates -2 years or less- and students)
Benefits
£240 or more per year
£600 or more per year

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/cruickshank-botanic-garden:
6 th August, 2025 – CRUICKSHANK BOTANIC GARDEN WILL BE OPEN FROM 1300 TODAY.
Only the southern section of the Garden is accessible.
Damage and cleanup due to Storm Floris is ongoing.
Founded in 1898, the Cruickshank Botanic Garden is situated in Old Aberdeen on the King's College campus of the University of Aberdeen and is a partnership between the University and the Cruickshank Charitable Trust.
The Garden exists to promote an appreciation of the beauty, diversity and importance of plants, and an understanding of their role in the natural world.
This beautiful and peaceful 4.5 hectare (11-acre) Garden offers year-round interest to visitors.
It has shrub borders, a rock and water garden, sunken garden, rose garden, herbaceous border and an arboretum, and houses a nationally important collection of more than 2500 taxa.
The Botanic Garden is free to enter and located in Old Aberdeen, around three miles from Aberdeen city centre.
The main entrance is on The Chanonry, close to St Machar's Cathedral.
The Cruickshank Botanic Garden is an internationally important collection of plants, a valuable educational resource, and part of the heritage of the University and city of Aberdeen.
Friends of the Cruickshank Botanic Garden (FCBG) is a registered Scottish Charity.
Reg No SC 004350 and was formed in 1982 to provide a forum for those interested in the wellbeing of the Garden.
There are many ways you can support the Garden; from making an online donation or becoming a Friend of the Garden, to volunteering your time.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/cruickshank-botanic-garden/visit-us:
The Botanic Garden is free to enter and located in Old Aberdeen, approximately three miles from Aberdeen city centre.
The main entrance is off The Chanonry on the west side, close to St Machar's Cathedral.
Christmas closure: 24 th December - 5 th January
Click on the interactive map for more detail.
Bus numbers 1, 2, 13, and 40 along King St (get off at St Machar Drive)
Bus numbers 14 & 20 (get off at High Street)
Bus 19 (get off at Tillydrone Avenue)
Tours may be available for parties of 10 or more.
Please address enquiries to Curator, Mark Paterson ( mark.paterson@abdn.ac.uk ) in the first instance .
Due to safety procedures, for the time being there are no public toilets available in the Garden.
Across St Machar Drive in The Hub there are toilets and a coffee shop (number 5 on Parking map).
Hub opening times:
Term time (20 September 2021 - 1 April 2022) (12 September 2022 - 31 March 2023)
Outwith Term time (2 April 2022 - 11 September 2022)
Please note that the Sunken Garden, The Arboretum, and parts of the Rock Garden are NOT accessible by wheelchair.
On-street parking is limited but some may be available near the St Machar Cathedral (200m) or on Tillydrone Avenue (500m).
At weekends only , parking is available in University car parks on Tillydrone Avenue, outside the Zoology Building (1 on our campus map - Download map ), on Dunbar Street, outside the Taylor Building (21), or outside the MacRobert Building (18).
Weekend entry is via the Chanonry entrance.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/cruickshank-botanic-garden/about:
Our mission is to promote an appreciation of the beauty, diversity and importance of plants, and an understanding of their role in the natural world.
Cruickshank Botanic Garden is an inclusive resource for the breadth of subjects taught across the University of Aberdeen, encompassing both the arts and sciences combined.
While the Living Collection has immediate practical benefits in the teaching of specific disciplines in the School of Biological Sciences - as per the degree programmes listed below - the Schools of Education, English, Anthropology, Geography and Medicine regularly use the Botanic Garden for teaching and demonstration purposes.
The School offers a number of degree programmes including Plant and Soil Science , Ecology , Conservation Biology and Environmental Science .
The Botanic Garden is valued and extensively used by the Aberdeen Biodiversity Centre - the University's schools education outreach centre - situated in the Zoology Building, on the western flank of the garden.
The Centre was established in 1995 and aims to engage local school children, communities and the general public in creative education programmes, with an emphasis on outdoor provision.
There have been gardens and parkland on the present site since from at least the late 17th Century.
Gordon's 1647 map of Old Aberdeen shows 'Clunys Garden' lying between the then Old Aberdeen Loch and St Machar's Kirk.
The modern Garden was established in 1898, when Miss Anne Cruickshank bought the buildings and playing fields of The Old Aberdeen Gymnasium, a private school for boys, and presented them to the University to establish a Botanic Garden and the Cruickshank Garden Trust.
The original granite school building, now part of the School of Biological Sciences - with an emphasis on the teaching of botanic subjects - is on the right as you enter the Garden from The Chanonry.
The original donation by Anne Cruickshank of 2.8 hectares (7-acres) in the 1960's was expanded to the present size of 4.5 hectares (11-acres) with the University buying additional land at the northern extreme.
This additional land provided space to extend the botanic collection in the form of an Arboretum.
Remaining intact, this northern section of the property visually leads into the southern boundary of Seaton Park.
The first Keeper of the Garden was James Traill FRS.
The garden was laid out, as was the fashion at the time, in formal beds, but little of the original Garden survives, as it was entirely turned over to vegetables during the First World War.
Traill's successor, James Craib, planted many of the fine trees which grace the Garden, and laid out the long herbaceous border while still forms a main axis in the design.
Craib also extended the excavation of the sunken garden, with formal terraces and a rose pergola.
After the Second World War the new Keeper, J.R.Mathews, and his Head Gardener, James Robb transformed the sunken garden with stone edged beds and paths and established the collection of rhododendrons and dwarf conifers which are a fine feature of the Garden today.
The next major developments in the Garden came with the appointment of N.M Pritchard as Curator in 1964.
Pritchard was a great plantsman and with successive Head Gardeners, Fred Sutherland and Bob Rutherford, was responsible for the design and planting of the current Garden over 15 years of University expansion and comparative affluence.
A new entrance courtyard was created, with paving and peat beds, along with fine order beds (now unfortunately grassed over), and the arboretum was planted with native trees and cultivars along with exotic species of horticultural and forestry importance.
In 1968 a bequest from the estate of Baillie James Mackie enabled over 250 tons of Old Red Sandstone to be imported to create a new rock and water garden.
In 1976 the patio and dwarf walls on the south side of the old red brick wall were built and make a popular suntrap, with benches around a fine collection of old stone troughs.
Finally, in 1980 the rose garden was created, using monies from the Lautit Bequest and the Stanley Smith Foundation.
Miss Cruickshank' original bequest was established as a Charitable Trust that still owns about half of the land incorporated in the Garden, including the original Cruickshank Building, which now forms part of the School of Biological Sciences.
The Trustees contribute financially to the upkeep of the Garden as circumstances permit, but in practice the main burden of the upkeep of the Garden has always been assumed by the University, who maintain the fabric and pay the staff.
Mark Paterson, Curator The Cruickshank Botanic Garden University of Aberdeen Cruickshank Building St Machar Drive Aberdeen AB24 3UU
Email: mark.paterson@abdn.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0)1224 273 638

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/cruickshank-botanic-garden/support-us:
The Cruickshank Botanic Garden is an internationally important collection of plants, a valuable educational resource, and part of the heritage of the University and City of Aberdeen.
It is open to the public, free of charge, and dedicated to understanding and conserving our natural world.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/cruickshank-botanic-garden/fascination-of-plants-day:
Aren't plants amazing?!
So often overlooked, plants provide so much to our world.
From one little seed, planted in soil, so much diversity can arise.
From tiny herbs, to giant trees; from beautiful flowers to decorate our gardens, to substantial crops that feed the world; from producing oxygen to holding our soils together; plants provide so much which humans and all other animals rely on to survive.
Founded in 2012, Fascination of Plants Day has become a global movement with organisations across 56 countries taking part in the biennial celebration, encouraging people around the globe to be fascinated by the wonder of plants and consider their huge importance in our lives, as well as the wider environment.
The programme for this year's Aberdeen Fascination of Plants Day runs from 12-18 May .
A series of events across the city will highlight the importance of plants to society, ranging from plant sales to workshops exploring the impact of plants in our everyday lives.
Through these events we will explore the huge range of biodiversity that depends on our plants and how plants themselves interact with animals and fungi to improve the diets and health of humans and animals.
The programme provides a range of fun and interesting events across several local venues.
There are opportunities for everyone to get involved and find out more about the many thousands of plant species that exist and how we use them in everyday life.
Organisations running events include the University of Aberdeen, SRUC, James Hutton Institute, Friends of the Cruickshank Botanic Garden, Friends of Duthie Park, and the Duthie Park Ranger Service .
Venues include the David Welch Witner Gardens at Duthie Park, the Zoology Building at the University of Aberdeen, and the Cruickshank Botanic Garden .
Lecture by Doug Boatman: "The best plants I have grown"
In this last FCBG lecture for the 2024/5 season, Doug Boatman, owner of Scotplants, will talk about the very best plants he has grown over the past 40 years.
Spring Plant Sale
Our plant sales, spring and autumn, get better and better and have become highlights of the Friends of Cruikshank Botanic Garden yearly events.
Whether you have a new garden to plant up or just a gap in an established garden you will be able to find something to buy and at very reasonable prices.
Aberdeen Fascination of Plants Day Public Event 2025
Duthie Park Ranger Service – The Power of Seeds
Join the Duthie Park Rangers and learn all about the power of seeds!
Test your seed knowledge and plant something in your own handcrafted paper pot made out of old newspapers!
Children can learn what plants need to grow and why they are important, and can make a craft too!
Friends of Duthie Park – The Science of Nature
Take part in hands-on science experiments to investigate how plants work!
Led by a member of the Friends of Duthie Park committee and honorary RGU lecturer, this activity will help you understand transpiration and the role of chlorophyll during photosynthesis.
The James Hutton Institute - Fabulous Forests
Forests and woodlands are a key feature of our Scottish landscapes, but they are much more than just trees!
Come and get hands on with the help of scientists from the James Hutton Institute, to investigate the huge range of biodiversity to be found in our native forests.
We will explore what lichens can tell us about the air we breathe, look at mosses and microhabitats, and show the benefits that we all derive from forests.
Scotland's Rural College (SRUC) - Plant Diversity in Agricultural Systems
Agricultural crops help to feed the world's population.
Growing them efficiently to provide good yields and quality whilst encouraging beneficial environmental stewardship is a balance all farmers are tasked with.
A diverse range of plants in both time (rotation) and location (different scales) can help achieve this balance.
Colleagues from Scotland's Rural College (SRUC) will demonstrate a number of these factors and explain how they are interlinked, including the use of N fixing legumes and multi-species grassland which can improve soil structure and quality or improve the diets and health of the animals eating them.
University of Aberdeen - What's the point of plants?
Exciting workshop from scientists at the University of Aberdeen show-casing displays and activities on the ways that plants interact with animals and fungi to deliver the products and services needed to sustain our lives, including the importance of pollination, seed dispersal and nutrient uptake.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/confucius-institute:
Providing Chinese language teaching and cultural classes and events to the North East Scotland community
The Confucius Institute of the University of Aberdeen, established 27th September 2013, provides Chinese language teaching and culture classes and cultural events to the North East Scotland community, including University staff and students, schools, business and industry, and community organisations and individuals.
It acts as a linguistic and cultural bridge, promoting knowledge exchange between China and the people of North East Scotland and serving as the first port of call for information on China.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/confucius-institute/about:
The University of Aberdeen is delighted to host a Confucius Institute in cooperation with Wuhan University, our partner University in China.
There are around 350 Confucius Institutes around the world, and the Confucius Institute of the University of Aberdeen is one of five in Scotland, the others being based at the Universities of Edinburgh, Glasgow, Strathclyde and Heriot-Watt University Edinburgh.
The Confucius Institute of the University of Aberdeen promotes language learning and cultural exchange, and its language classes, lectures, exhibitions and other cultural activities benefit the staff and students of the University of Aberdeen, the schools, businesses and communities of Aberdeen, Aberdeenshire and the North East of Scotland.
Calling all Mandarin speakers!
Do you want to get involved with the local community, add to your CV and do something rewarding with your free time?
The Confucius Institute of the University of Aberdeen aims to increase knowledge and understanding of Chinese language, culture and people.
We recruit volunteers to help with Chinese cultural events.
To register as a volunteer, complete and return the Volunteer Form to confucius@abdn.ac.uk.
To find out more information please contact the Confucius Institute on 01224 273209.
孔子学院志愿者招募
想要融入本地社区，为自己的简历上增添亮丽的一笔吗？想在丰富业余生活的同时增长阅历吗？
阿伯丁大学孔子学院为你提供前所未有的一次机会！
阿伯丁大学孔子学院以传播中国语言文化、增进对中了解为己任，是阿伯丁及阿伯丁郡等区域学习汉语的最佳平台。
值此发展壮大之际，孔子学院招募数名汉语志愿者，共同组织中国文化推广活动，协助本地中小学开展中国语言和文化体验课活动。
还在犹豫什么？快快加入我们吧！
更多信息请拨打孔子学院电话01224 273209
或发送邮件到 confucius@abdn.ac.uk
Confucius Institute of the University of Aberdeen 17 High Street Aberdeen AB24 3EE
Email: confucius@abdn.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0)1224 273209
We are based at 17 High Street on the University of Aberdeen King's College campus in Old Aberdeen.
The Confucius Institute is next to the Chaplaincy.
It is number 13 on the campus map, and was previously King's Museum, which has now moved up the street to the Old Town House.
Old Aberdeen Campus - download map
Tel: +44 (0) 1224 273209

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/confucius-institute/education:
At the Confucius Institute of the University of Aberdeen we offer a range of learning opportunities and different ways to develop an understanding of China.
Our students range in age from 6 to 60 plus and all share an enjoyment of learning.
The Institute offers up to 60 timetabled language courses over a year as well as private classes, cross cultural courses and public workshops.
With expert teaching, small classes and the chance to quickly acquire basic Chinese language skills, check out our programme of classes, all of which are led by qualified staff who speak good English, who will help you enjoy learning.
Timetable | How to register | Conversation Corner | Private Tuition | Course Information
The new term will start the week beginning 29th September and run for 10 weeks.
Registration via the online store is now open.
All courses are not for credit and do not involve any form of assessment prior to the course starting, during or after.
If you are unsure which course level to join, do get in touch at confucius@abdn.ac.uk .
If there is no course available at a suitable level for you, there is also the option of private tuition .
* Discounted price for staff, students and alumni of the University of Aberdeen, and students of Robert Gordon University and NESCOL.
The textbook Modern Mandarin Chinese 1 by Routledge will be used in levels from Beginners 1 up to Post-Beginners 3 and is available to purchase from us at a discounted rate here .
We strongly recommend buying the book to maximise the benefit of the classes.
All adult classes can be booked through the University of Aberdeen online store .
Payment can be made either by debit card, credit card or PayPal.
University of Aberdeen staff and students need to enter their ID number in order to pay the reduced rate.
Robert Gordon University and North East Scotland students can also book the reduced rate via the website and must bring their student ID to the first class.
Our weekly Conversation Corner meets at the Confucius Institute on Thursdays 5pm - 6pm during term time, starting the week beginning 29th September.
It is free and open to all for friendly, informal Mandarin practice.
HSK
For anyone looking to gain a certificate in Chinese, we are a registered HSK exam centre.
HSK exams are open to everyone and you do not have to be a current student to register.
Please email confucius@abdn.ac.uk for details.
In addition to our timetabled courses, we can arrange private tuition and short intensive courses on demand either for individuals or small groups.
The costs is £10 per hour and booking is in blocks of 10 hours, minimum booking is one 10-hour block.
The teaching schedule is to be mutually agreed in advance, in general we offer teaching Monday - Friday, daytime and evenings.
If you are interested in arranging private tuition, email confucius@abdn.ac.uk with your request details.
University of Aberdeen Chinese Language Students
Special arrangements have been made for free supplementary classes for University of Aberdeen students who have already studied four semesters of Mandarin for credit, and would like to progress further.
Please contact us at confucius@abdn.ac.uk to book directly.
Express Mandarin Basics 1 is an engaging 10-week course designed for beginners who want to start learning Mandarin but can only commit to a 1-hour weekly class.
This course offers a comprehensive introduction to Mandarin, focusing on essential vocabulary, basic grammar, and fundamental conversational skills.
Each session is designed to deliver maximum learning within a concise timeframe, providing students with practical language tools and cultural insights.
By the end of this course, students will be able to engage in simple conversations, understand basic phrases, and have a solid foundation for further study.
This course is designed for complete beginners or those with very little experience of Mandarin.
After completing this course, we recommend continuing to Express Mandarin Basics 2.
This term Express Mandarin Basics will be running on Wednesday evenings, for one hour per week.
Express Mandarin Basics 2 is the continuation of our popular 1-hour class series, perfect for students who have completed Express Mandarin Basics 1.
This course further develops your Mandarin skills with an additional 1-hour weekly class over 10 weeks.
Students will build on their foundational knowledge, expanding their vocabulary, enhancing their grammar comprehension, and improving their conversational abilities.
With a focus on more complex sentences and everyday interactions, this course aims to boost your confidence in speaking Mandarin and prepare you for more advanced language studies.
This course is designed to follow on from Express Mandarin Basics 1 or for students who are beginners in learning Mandarin with some experience or knowledge already.
After completing this course, we recommend continuing to our standard ‘Beginners 2’ class which is 2 hours per week or alternatively private tuition which is fully flexible.
This term Express Mandarin Basics 2 will be running on Wednesday evenings, for one hour per week.
The Beginners 1 class is suitable for complete beginners who have never studied Mandarin.
This term we will  be running a Beginners 1 class on Tuesday evenings, for two hours per week.
The Beginners 2 class is for those who have already completed Beginners 1 or studied Mandarin for at least 15 hours.
This term we will  be running a Beginners 2 class on Tuesday evenings, for two hours per week.
The Beginners 3 class is for those who have already completed Beginners 2 or studied Mandarin for at least 30 hours.
This term we will not be running a Beginners 3 class.
The Post-Beginners 1 class is designed for those who have already completed Beginners 1-3 or studied Mandarin for 1 year part time, or hold an HSK 1 certificate.
This term we will be running a Post-Beginners 1 class on Tuesday evenings, for two hours per week.
The Post-Beginners 2 class is for those who have already completed Post-Beginners 1.
They might hold an HSK 1 certificate (not a requirement).
This term we will not be offering a Post-Beginners 2 class.
The Post-Beginners 3 class is for those who have already completed Post-Beginners 2.
This term we will not be offering a Post-Beginners 3 class.
The Lower Intermediate class is designed for those who have completed Post-Beginners 1-3 or studied Mandarin for around 2 years part time, or completed HSK level 2.
This term we will be running a Lower Intermediate 1 class on Wednesday evenings, for two hours per week.
This Intermediate level class is an adaptable course designed for students who fall between the defined levels of Intermediate 1, 2 and 3.
Whether you are unsure about your current proficiency or seeking to reinforce your knowledge, this class caters to those who want to solidify their Mandarin skills.
Suitable for learners who have completed any Intermediate level but aren’t quite ready for the Advanced class, or for students who have completed HSK level 2 or 3 or have studied for more than 3 years part time.
These are not requirements to join, just a guideline.
If you aren’t sure, please contact us to discuss.
This term we will not be running an Intermediate 1 class.
The Intermediate 2 class is designed for those who have completed the Intermediate 1 class or studied Mandarin for around 3 years part time, or completed HSK level 2.
This term we will not be running an Intermediate 2 class.
The Intermediate 3 class is designed for those who have completed the Intermediate 2 class or studied Mandarin for around 3 years part time, or completed HSK level 2.
This term we will not be running an Intermediate 3 class.
This class is for proficient speakers of Mandarin.
Students should have completed classes up to Intermediate.
They might hold an HSK 3 certificate (not a requirement).
This term we will be running an Upper Intermediate 1 class on Wednesday evenings, for two hours per week.
Students should have completed classes up to Upper Intermediate level or passed the HSK level 4 exam.
The term we will not be running an Advanced class.
return to top
Autumn Term 2025 | Course Description | Useful Links
Learning the Chinese language is not as difficult as you might think.
Most children enjoy learning an exciting new language.
These courses are offered free of charge with a £5 administration fee per child per course .
The new term starts the week beginning 8th September and ends on 17th December.
Classes take place in the Confucius Institute.
Book a place .
Level
Time
P2 – P4 Mandarin Club
P5 –P7 Mandarin Club
P7–S2 Mandarin Club
We are pleased to now also be offering Mandarin Club at Milltimber Community Hall.
Siblings can join the same club, regardless of age.
Book a place.
As well as learning basic Mandarin, pupils will have fun, informal lessons on a wide range of topics.
These include:
If you have any questions about these classes, please contact us at confucius@abdn.ac.uk .
In addition to our regular scheduled courses, we can also offer private tuition and short intensive courses on demand, either for individuals or small groups.
The cost is £10 per hour and booking is in blocks of 10 hours, minimum booking is one 10-hour block.
Blocks can be paid for via our online store .
The teaching schedule is to be mutually agreed in advance, in general we offer teaching Monday - Saturday, daytime and evenings.
HSK test | YCT test
HSK or Hanyu Shuiping Kaoshi is China's only standardised test of Chinese language proficiency.
If you are interested in working or studying in China, or in applying for a Confucius Institute scholarship in the future, then HSK, the Chinese Proficiency Certificate, will be of interest to you.
In-person paper-based HSK tests will now be possible again.
We are currently awaiting further information about the availability of online tests.
The HSKK or Hanyu Shuiping Kouyu Kaoshi is the HSK oral test, which can be taken together with or independently from the HSK exam.
It is conducted by means of audio recording.
The Confucius Institute of the University of Aberdeen is an HSK exam centre and hosts HSK Chinese Proficiency tests throughout the year.
For more information, contact us at confucius@abdn.ac.uk .
The test dates and deadline for registration are listed below.
To register, return a completed HSK Registration form , together with scanned images of the following:
If you do not have access to a scanner, a clear photograph will be sufficient.
Submit all of the above by 12 noon on the registration deadline to: confucius@abdn.ac.uk .
Fees
£10 enrolment fees + exam fees (Level 1/£20; Level 2/£30; Level 3/£40; Level 4/£50; Level 5/£60; Level 6/£70).
Additional exam fee for the oral test.
We offer £5 discount to students, a copy of a valid student ID must be provided.
Fees can be paid via the online store .
Enquiries to confucius@abdn.ac.uk .
Free Preparation
For those who have registered for an HSK test, a free online exam practice session will be offered one week prior to the test date.
Results
Test takers will be able to view their test results at www.chinesetest.cn usually 1 month after sitting the test, however, sometimes it can take a bit longer, just check the website again, Confucius Institute staff do not have access to test results at any time.
The HSK is an international standardized exam that tests and rates Chinese language proficiency.
It assesses non-native Chinese speakers’ abilities in using the Chinese language in their daily, academic and professional lives.
HSK consists of six levels, namely HSK 1-6.
Level 1
Students who are able to pass the HSK Level 1 can understand and use very simple Chinese words and phrases, meet basic needs for communication and possess the ability to further their Chinese language studies.
There are 150 characters on the vocabulary list for HSK level 1.
Level 2
Students who are able to pass the HSK Level 2 have an excellent grasp of basic Chinese and can communicate in simple and routine tasks requiring a simple and direct exchange of information on familiar and routine matters.There are 300 characters on the vocabulary list for HSK level 2.
Level 3
Students who are able to pass the HSK Level 3 can communicate in Chinese at a basic level in their daily, academic and professional lives.
They can manage most communication in Chinese when travelling in China.
There are 600 characters on the vocabulary list for HSK level 3.
Level 4
Students who are able to pass the HSK Level 4 can converse in Chinese on a wide range of topics and are able to communicate fluently with native Chinese speakers.
There are 1200 characters on the vocabulary list for HSK level 4.
Level 5
Students who are able to pass the HSK Level 5 can read Chinese newspapers and magazines, enjoy Chinese films and plays, and give a full-length speech in Chinese.There are 2400 characters on the vocabulary list for HSK level 5.
Level 6
Students who are able to pass the HSK Level 6 can easily comprehend written and spoken information in Chinese and can effectively express themselves in Chinese, both orally and on paper.
HSKK Levels
Basic Level
This correlates to HSK levels 1/2.
The student should have a vocabulary of approximately 200 commonly used words.
Intermediate Level
This correlates to HSK levels 3/4.
The student should have amassed a vocabulary of approximately 900 words.
Advanced Level
This correlates to HSK levels 5/6.
The student should have mastered approximately 3000 words.
The Youth Chinese Test (YCT) is an international standardised Chinese language test, which is directed at examining non-native primary and secondary school students' ability to apply Chinese language in their studies and daily lives.
The Confucius Institute of the University of Aberdeen is a YCT test centre and is able to host the YCT Chinese Proficiency tests throughout the year.
The test dates and deadlines for registration are listed below.
To register, return a completed Application form together with:
All of the above to be submitted by 12 noon on the registration deadline to: confucius@abdn.ac.uk .
We will then send you a link to payment via our online store.
£10 enrolment fees + exam fees (£5 for Level 1, £10 for Level 2, £20 for Level 3).
Examination fee for the oral test: £10
Enquiries to: confucius@abdn.ac.uk .
The YCT is divided into four levels, YCT Level 1, YCT Level 2, YCT Level 3 and YCT Level 4 which is the most difficult.
The speaking test is divided into the YCT (Beginner Level) and YCT (Intermediate Level).
Each level is tested with an independent test paper.
Test takers may choose test of any level according to their Chinese proficiency.
Children who pass YCT-Level 1 can understand and use some most frequently used Chinese words and sentences, and prepare themselves for continuing their Chinese studies.
Children who pass YCT-Level 2 can understand and use some simple Chinese words and sentences to communicate.
Children who pass YCT-Level 3 can use Chinese in a simple and direct way, applying it in a basic topic in their daily lives.
Children who pass YCT-Level 4 can use Chinese to serve their demands in their personal lives and studies, and are able to complete most of the communicative tasks they experience during a visit to China.
Applications are now open for summer 2025.
A two-week language and culture programme with scholarship funded places available.
In the mornings, a Chinese language course takes place at the university's School of International Education (国际教育学院), and in the afternoons, cultural excursions and workshops are on the agenda.
A weekend excursion is also planned.
For students, this offers an opportunity to experience the vibrant life in the city of Wuhan with its renowned university and to deepen their Chinese language skills.
Applications for this funded summer school opportunity are open to all students who meet the following requirements:
* There will be opportunities to sit the HSK test at the Confucius Institute on 17th May, 22nd June and 19th July.
Visit our HSK page for details.
Registration fees, tuition fees, on-campus accommodation (mostly in double rooms), costs for excursions and cultural activities.
Return travel to China, visa application fee (currently from £130 for British Citizens, more information on application process can be found here - https://www.visaforchina.cn/EDI2_EN/), meals and some extra optional activities or personal spending.
The University of Aberdeen has travel insurance for students studying abroad, however, students may also wish to consider personal insurance.
Email your CV and cover letter to confucius@abdn.ac.uk no later than 1st May 2025.
The cover letter should include your date of birth, passport number, HSK certificate details or plans to sit HSK, and the reason you would like to participate in this programme.
There are currently no opportunities available.
Scholarship Types | Application Process | Chinese bridge awards recipient policies | Other information | Contacts
The International Chinese Language Teachers (Confucius Institute) Scholarship programme, formerly known as Confucius Institute Scholarship, provides financial aid for students, scholars and Chinese language teachers to study at a Chinese university for a certain period of time.
Applicants can visit the International Chinese Language Teachers Scholarship application website: cis.chinese.cn from 1 Mar 2023 to apply for the scholarships.
The following types of scholarships are on offer:
Recipients of full scholarships are exempt from tuition fees and accommodation fees, and are provided with a monthly living allowance (except those on Four-Week Scholarships) as well as comprehensive medical insurance for foreign students studying in China.
This programme provides a scholarship for a maximum of four academic years.
Applicants should hold a Master's degree in Teaching Chinese as a Foreign Language, Linguistics, Teaching Chinese to Speakers of Other Languages or education-related majors.
Applicants should have a minimum score of 200 on the HSK 6 test, 60 on the HSKK test (Advanced Level) and more than 2 years' work experience in Chinese language teaching and related fields.
Priority will be given to applicants who are able to provide a work contract with a teaching institution upon completing their studies in China or proof of similar.
This programme provides a scholarship for a maximum of two academic years.
Applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree, and have a minimum score of 210 on the HSK 5 test, as well as 60 on the HSKK test (Intermediate Level).
Applicants should hold a senior high school diploma and a minimum score of 210 on the HSK 4 test, as well as 60 on the HSKK test (Intermediate Level).
This programme provides a scholarship for a maximum of eleven months.
International students currently studying in China are not eligible.
Three types of scholarship are available:
Applicants should have a minimum score of 270 on the HSK 3 test, and an HSKK test score is required.
Applicants should have a minimum score of 180 on the HSK 4 test, and 60 on the HSKK test (Intermediate Level).
Applicants should have a minimum score of 210 on the HSK 3 test.
Priority will be given to applicants who provide an HSKK test score.
This programme commences either in September or March and provides a scholarship of a maximum of five months.
Applicants holding the X1 or X2 visa are not eligible.
Two types of One Semester Scholarship are available:
Applicants should have a minimum score of 180 on the HSK 3 test, and an HSKK test score is required.
An HSK test score is required.
This programme commences either in July or December and provides a four-week scholarship.
Applicants can choose from the following programmes: Chinese Study, Traditional Chinese Medicine, Taiji Culture, Chinese Language plus Home-Stay Experience in a Chinese Family, Special Four-week Programme for Confucius Institutes.
The programme may be organized and applied for by a recommending institution with 10-15 participants per group.
Prior to the trip, a detailed study plan shall be made in consultation with host institutions and such plan shall be submitted to CLEC for approval.
Further information of this type of scholarship will be announced on the International Chinese Language Teachers Scholarship website in due course.
There are three types of Online Scholarship Programmes available:
This course of study can be started in September or March.
In general, applicants should achieve a score of at least 180 on HSK Level 3 and any applicant with an HSKK result will be given priority.
Applicants should have an HSK result.
Please contact host universities offering this programme directly for details.
Eligible applicants should be:
a) non-Chinese citizens;
b) in good health, and with good academic performance;
c) committed to Chinese language education and related work;
d) between the ages of 16 and 35 (as of September).
Applicants currently working as Chinese language teachers should not be over 45, while undergraduate student applicants should not be over 25.
To apply, visit the International Chinese Language Teachers Scholarship website http://cis.chinese.cn where you can set up an account, and find out more about the range of participating host higher education institutions, as well as details of which scholarships are offered.
The system opens from 1 March 2023 .
Applicants should complete and submit the online International Chinese Language Teachers Scholarship Application Form with relevant supporting documents.
Applicants are required to follow up with the application procedures, review comments, and check scholarship award results.
Scholarship recipients should confirm the scholarship offer with the host institutions and undertake the registration procedures required by the host institutions.
Scholarship winners should also print out the scholarship award certificate, apply for relevant Chinese visa in time and register with the host institutions within the required period to ensure they receive the entitlements of the awarded scholarship.
a) a scanned copy of passport photo page;
b) a scanned copy of score reports of the HSK and HSKK tests (results are valid for 2 years);
c) a reference letter by the head of the recommending institution.
a) a certification of the highest education diploma (or proof of expected graduation) and an official transcript;
b) applicants of the Scholarship for DTCSOL students are required to provide 2 reference letters from professors or associate professors or experts with equivalent professional and technical titles in relevant fields and a 3000-character personal statement in Chinese (including knowledge of the intended field of study and research proposal).
Priority will be given to applicants who may provide a work contract with a teaching institution upon completing their studies in China or a proof to the same effect.
c) applicants of the Scholarship for MTCSOL students are required to provide 2 reference letters from professors or associate professors.
Applicants currently working as Chinese language teachers should provide proof of employment as well as a reference letter from the employer.
Applicants under the age of 18 should provide certified documents signed by their entrusted legal guardians in China.
Applicants should also provide additional documents required by the host institutions.
Chinese Bridge winners who have been awarded the International Chinese Language Teachers Scholarship Certificate should log onto the International Chinese Language Teachers Scholarship website and submit documents to relevant host institutions upon presentation of their scholarship certificates.
For inquiry, please contact chinesebridge@chinese.cn.
Recommending institutions and host institutions shall, pursuant to the guide, provide consulting, recommendation and enrolment services.
a) Please contact host institutions for curriculum and course listings.
b) Applicants should be familiar with the specific criteria and deadlines for registration, and submit necessary documents according to specific requirements.
c) Degree students are subject to the annual assessment according to the Annual Appraisal Procedures of International Chinese Language Teachers Scholarship.
d) Those who fail to register on time, fail to pass the health assessment, drop out midway and/or are suspended from school will be deprived of their scholarship.
Division of Test and Scholarships Email: scholarships@chinese.cn
Tel: +86-10-58595727

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/confucius-institute/culture:
The Confucius Institute of the University of Aberdeen is dedicated to promoting the learning of Chinese language and culture.
We offer a range of Chinese cultural activities including Chinese calligraphy, music, dance, and Tai Chi and Qigong classes.
We are not currently offering Tai Chi or Qigong.
Chinese dance is an important part of Chinese culture and is enjoyed by people of all ages.
It can help improve coordination, balance and flexibility and is also a fun way to meet new friends.
Traditional Chinese dance takes many forms such as Chinese Folk Dance, which includes Ribbon Dance and Handkerchief Dance, Chinese Fan Dance, Chinese Flag Dance and Kung Fu Dance.
Niu Xiaolin of RedPhoenix Dance aims to promote traditional Chinese dance culture throughout the local area.
Classes are held in the Ferryhill Community Centre, Albury Road, Aberdeen AB11 6TL .
Term Dates 2024/25
9th September - 13th October
30th November - 15th December
22nd January - 30th March
22nd April - 29th June
Wide spread in Inner Mongolia, this dance is often seen at festivals.
Dancers stand in one spot and, holding chopsticks in one or both hands, clap their hands, shoulders, waist and legs, with them.
Based on traditional ribbon and handkerchief dances
Based on Chinese martial arts movements
Based on Chinese martial arts, this dance adds beauty to traditional Tai Chi or Kung Fu exercises.
Suitable for all abilities.
All courses are free with a £30 per annum administration fee.
Register online.
For queries please email us at confucius@abdn.ac.uk .
Learning Mandarin or interested in finding out more?
Practise your Mandarin skills in our free, informal conversation group.
All levels are welcome from beginner through to advanced.
We will have weekly topics for discussion, supplied in advance, to get the conversation flowing.
Our native-speaking volunteers are happy to help with Mandarin speaking practice and answer questions about China.
If you are interested, please email us at confucius@abdn.ac.uk to request the online meeting link.
Do you enjoy meeting new people?
Are you happy chatting about Chinese language and culture?
Why not come along to our Chinese Corner and make some new friends.
New Mandarin speakers are always welcome.
你喜欢认识新的朋友吗？你对汉语语言和文化有兴趣吗？如果你感兴趣的话，为什么不加入汉语角来认识一些新朋友呢？汉语角对所有母语为普通话的朋友开放。随时欢迎你的加入。
Chinese calligraphy is the ancient art of Chinese writing.
Classes in Chinese Calligraphy at the Confucius Institute are suitable for both the beginner and improver.
With small classes there is plenty of personal attention and printed handouts are provided for home practice.
All materials are provided.
Saturday 22nd March, 10am - 12 noon
Cost: £15
Registration is via the University of Aberdeen online store.
Places are limited so advance booking is essential.
For queries and to express an interest in future classes please email us at confucius@abdn.ac.uk .
Chinese Brush Painting Workshop - Bamboo
Saturday 8th March, 10am-12 noon
Cost £20
Discover the art of Chinese brush painting by learning to depict bamboo, a timeless symbol of resilience and integrity in East Asian culture.
Master the basics of brush techniques, ink, and paper while creating elegant bamboo designs.
Gain insight into the cultural and historical significance of this classic art form.
Perfect for beginners and art enthusiasts, this workshop offers a hands-on introduction to the beauty of Chinese brush painting.
All tools and materials used during the workshop will be supplied.
Chinese Brush Painting Workshop - Lotus
Saturday 8th March, 1pm-3pm
Experience the harmony of mind and body through Chinese brush painting.
With the soft, pointed brush, you’ll develop coordination and focus while creating beautiful artwork.
The lotus, a symbol of purity and perfection, is the featured subject in this workshop.
Learn key brush techniques with traditional tools and ink, following step-by-step guidance to create stunning compositions.
Ideal for all skill levels, this workshop blends artistic practice with cultural insight.
These workshops are suitable for adults and older children (14 yrs+).
For queries and to express an interest in future classes, please email us at confucius@abdn.ac.uk .
Chinese Craft Corner
Date: Saturday 1st March / 10th May / 7th June Time: 10am – 12noon Location: Ferryhill Community Centre Tickets: Free, drop in
Join us at Ferryhill Community Centre for Chinese Craft Corner!
Enjoy a relaxed, free drop-in session with friendly Mandarin teachers, exploring modern and traditional Chinese crafts.
All ages and abilities welcome, with materials provided.
Unwind, get creative, and meet new people!
Unfortunately, we won't be running Bookbug sessions this term but we hope to be back soon.
Experience the magic of the Spring Festival Gala spectacle.
With spellbinding dance routines by RedPhoenix Dance and the powerful artistry of Yee's Hung Ga Kung Fu, our stage will be adorned with the brilliance of Chinese culture.
Immerse yourself in the enchanting melodies of traditional Chinese music and in the diversity of Chinese heritage, all in our vibrant Spring Gala Show!
Saturday 24th February, 7.30pm
and
Sunday 25th February, 3pm
Tivoli Theatre
Tickets cost £9 (£4.50 concession) and are available now from Aberdeen Performing Arts.
Our Spring Festival Family Fun Day promises something for everyone to enjoy as we usher in the Year of the Dragon.
Participate in the various activities offered by the Confucius Institute, including the art of Chinese calligraphy, traditional games, and crafting vibrant dragon creations.
Immerse yourself in the beauty of Chinese characters as you create your own masterpiece to take home.
Test your skills with chopsticks or feather shuttlecock keepie-uppie and aim for a spot on the leaderboard.
Don one of our charming costumes and capture memories in our photo booth.
Engage with the spirit of the dragon by crafting your own dragon mask or paper puppet, celebrating the Year of the Dragon in style.
Complete our activity sheet to claim a dragon-themed prize and refuel with delicious noodles from the pop-up Noodle Shack café for lunch.
Delve into captivating dragon tales with local storyteller Pauline Cordiner or add a splash of colour with face painting by Love Rara and much more.
And why not make a day of it by visiting the Cruickshank Botanic Gardens or recharging at the Sir Duncan Rice Library café.
All are welcome to join us for this enriching event, completely free of charge.
Sunday 18th February 2024
10am - 4pm
Elphinstone Hall
Free / Drop in

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/confucius-institute/our-partners:
The University of Aberdeen is delighted to host a Confucius Institute in cooperation with the University of Wuhan, our partner University in China.
The Confucius Institute has a new support and governance structure composed of the recently established Chinese International Education Foundation and the Centre for Language Education and Cooperation.
The Chinese International Education Foundation (CIEF) is a non-profit charitable organisation jointly initiated by 27 universities, enterprises and social groups which is dedicated to supporting Chinese international education projects worldwide, including Confucius Institutes.
The Center for Language Education and Cooperation (CLEC) is a non-profit professional educational institution for international Chinese language education, affiliated with the Chinese Ministry of Education.
Its main functions are developing National Chinese Language Proficiency standards across the world and hosting certification tests; supporting the provision of teaching resources; operating international Chinese language education programmes such as the "Chinese Bridge" series and China Studies Programme; and organising relevant activities of international exchanges and cooperation.
Wuhan University (WHU) is a comprehensive and key national university in China.
Its history can be traced back to Ziqiang Institute, which was founded in 1893 by Zhang Zhidong, the governor of Hubei Province and Hunan Province in the late Qing Dynasty.
In the process of development and evolution, the institute changed its name several times before it was finally named Wuhan National University in 1928.
It is one of the earliest comprehensive national universities in modern China.
By the end of 1946, the university had established 6 colleges - the colleges of liberal arts, law, sciences, engineering, agriculture and medicine.
In 2000, an amalgamation of the former Wuhan University, Wuhan University of Hydraulic and Electric Engineering, Wuhan Technical University of Surveying and Mapping, and Hubei Medical University was announced, which ushered in a new era in its 100-odd years of development.
Since its establishment, Wuhan University has cultivated more than 300,000 professional talents in various occupations, among whom there are over 100 members of the Chinese Academy of Science and the Chinese Academy of Engineering.
They have made great contributions to the national construction and social advancement.
The remarkable achievements of Wuhan University have won it an extensive international reputation.
Wuhan University is fast becoming a world-class comprehensive research university domestically and internationally.
To find out more about Wuhan University take a look at their website .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/confucius-institute/news:
Page 1 of 1 Results 1 to 4 of 4 , 16 April - 04 June 2025
We were delighted with the response to our recent Dragon Boat Festival poster competition and would like to thank all those who took part.
Calling all young artists in Aberdeen City and Shire!
Wuhan University, China 
6th - 20th September 2025
A two-week language and culture programme with scholarship funded places available.
10-week term of evening classes starting 28th April

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/confucius-institute/events:
Page 1 of 1 1 to 2 of 2 Events
Step into the serene world of Shan Shui - literally "mountain and water" - one of the most beloved themes in Chinese brush painting.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/multi-faith-chaplaincy:
The University of Aberdeen warmly welcomes students and staff from many diverse nations, cultures, faiths, and beliefs.
This diversity enriches our whole community, making Aberdeen a great, globally minded place to study and work.
We provide a multi-cultural and supportive environment, so whoever you are and wherever you come from, you will always be welcome.
The services and resources of the Chaplaincy are available to all students and staff - we welcome those from all faiths and philosophies of life.
The Multi-Faith Chaplaincy is, at its very heart, a place of pastoral care.
Chaplains provide not only a welcome but support and advice to members of the community in times of stress, crisis, bereavement, or illness.
We are also here for those simply wanting to explore questions of a personal or confidential nature.
The Chaplaincy actively works to develop and organise inter-faith dialogues and community celebrations, building community through various events.
We always have tea and coffee available for you to enjoy, free of charge!
Whether you're looking for a place to relax between lectures, meet with friends, or join society events, we're here for you.
If you have something specific that you would like to talk with a chaplain about, or would prefer to make an appointment, please feel free to do so either over the phone or email, but know that this is not a requirement.
All postgraduate and mature students are welcome to come along to the Multi-Faith Chaplaincy every Tuesday between 2.30pm to 3.30pm for coffee, cake and an opportunity to meet fellow students in a social and relaxed space.
Perfect for meeting those on a similar study path as yourself.
Every Thursday we run our popular Wellbeing Student cafe lunch.
Drop in any time between 12 noon and 2pm for free cheese toasties, hot drinks, social chats and meeting fellow students from across the university.
This is a friendly and social space welcome to all.
Book 30 min sessions with the Lightbox in the Multi-Faith Chaplaincy - Light therapy can help increase serotonin levels and boost your general mood.
Multi-Faith Chaplaincy 25 High Street Aberdeen AB24 3EE See in map
Tel: +44 (0)1224 272137 Email: chaplaincy@abdn.ac.uk
Visit us in person Monday to Thursday: 10am - 4.30pm (open at 10.30am on Tuesday) Friday: 10am - 2pm

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/multi-faith-chaplaincy/about-the-chaplaincy:
Firstly, the Multi-Faith Chaplaincy is here to support students and staff in any way we can.
Whether that's by providing you with some coffee or by having a one to one chat.
We're not just here for Christians, which is a common misconception.
We're here for everyone regardless of whether they have a faith or not, for all genders, races, religions and philosophies of life.
The Chaplaincy serves as a spiritual and social centre for students and staff, and offers space for groups to meet, worship, share meals, discuss and build bridges with the rest of the community.
There are spaces set aside for social space (The Wellbeing Lounge), quiet space, Muslim prayer and quiet study space, which are available during normal opening hours.
If you or someone you know in the University community is in hospital, please tell us!
We are glad to visit.
Being in hospital can be a vulnerable time and we do not want anyone to feel neglected.
The role of the Chaplains is to offer care to any member of the University community: staff or students.
We rely on you to help us to care.
As with any concern, appropriate confidentiality is maintained.
The following people are all at your disposal should the need arise.
Drop in anytime for coffee, tea, or a chat - we'll do our best to help you out where possible.
Chaplain to the University
Rev Marylee Anderson
Email: m.anderson@abdn.ac.uk Tel: 01224 272137
Mrs Gillian Cursiter
Email: g.cursiter@abdn.ac.uk Tel: 01224 272137
Mr Stuart Muir
Email: stuart.muir@abdn.ac.uk Tel: 01224 273922
You can make an appointment to speak to Rev Marylee Anderson, Chaplain to the University.
If you would like to contact someone specifically from your own faith, our Honorary Chaplains are available from many different faiths.
You can find a list of them below.
We can contact someone from your own practice or faith for you or give you directions and contact details for different faith groups and churches.
If you do not see your faith represented here, please let us know as we hold details of many more churches and faiths in Aberdeen.
There are also many active student Faith Societies based at the University, you can find them on the Students' Union pages .
Ayalah Shapira-Shabo ayalah@mychaplaincy.co.uk
The Multi-Faith Chaplaincy plays a vital role at the University of Aberdeen in supporting both students and staff throughout their time with us.
We aim to develop academic, social and spiritual aspects of higher education in members of our community while also providing support for those who may be struggling with life events, studies, unexpected losses or conflicts, relationships or are simply trying to fit everything together.
We provide a range of services to the University community, from one-on-one support and a listening ear, to events and activities for students to connect with others, relax and unwind.
We are here for everyone as an oasis on campus for all.
Our Multi-Faith Chaplaincy welcomes a great deal of students and student societies and groups each week.
Unfortunately, our building is showing its age.
If you would like to donate and help us welcome, care and support an ever growing and evolving multi-cultural and multi-faith campus population, we would greatly appreciate your support.
Please follow this link to donate
On the form, in the drop-down menu please choose 'other' and then write in 'Chaplaincy'.
We have spaces for you to meet, share meals, worship and connect with your community.
We also offer bookable spaces for students and staff to organise social and spiritual events with us at the Multi-Faith Chaplaincy.
We are available for those with a living faith and those who don't have a faith and who may find themselves struggling with life events, studies, unexpected losses and conflicts or just making it all fit together.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/multi-faith-chaplaincy/about-the-chaplaincy/facilities:
We welcome students and staff to organise social or spiritual events with us at the Multi-Faith Chaplaincy.
We are here to serve as a social and spiritual centre on campus.
We have spaces for you to meet, share meals, worship, and connect with your community.
There are a range of facilities which you can book out, including a Lounge, Meeting Room and Kitchen.
The Quiet Room is available at all times to anyone.
No charges are applied for room bookings for the University community but there is a small charge of £5 for the use of the Kitchen by groups to help cover cleaning and equipment costs.
Room bookings for external groups will be charged as follows: £20 per booking for the Lounge or Meeting Room (Includes use of Kitchen) £30 for main hall (Includes use of Kitchen)
Should you or your group wish to book any of the facilities within the Multi-Faith Chaplaincy, please complete the online form .
Only available to book outwith office hours.
No booking required.
Please note the prayer rooms including toilets/washing facilities will be open in line with library opening hours .
Access for staff and students via swipe access at the back door with your UoA ID card.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/multi-faith-chaplaincy/about-the-chaplaincy/care-and-support:
The Multi-Faith Chaplaincy works as a team.
We are a multi-faith group of individuals who endeavour to help, guide and listen to all regardless of faith or philosophy of life.
Most importantly we are available for those who may find themselves struggling with life events, studies, unexpected losses and conflicts, relationships or just making it all fit together.
Our care is confidential and tailored to meet your needs as you understand them.
The Chaplaincy works closely with Student Support Services.
In addition to the Chaplaincy, Student Support Services consists of two other areas specialising in non-academic support for students: Student Advice & Support Office and Counselling Service.
For more information, visit the Student Support Services website .
If you feel you would like to chat to someone but don't know who is best placed to help you, please contact the main office.
If you know who you'd like to speak to, feel free to use the contact details for either the University chaplains or the denominational chaplains who are listed on the staff pages.
Our work revolves around building relationships and encouraging community among students and staff.
A space for reflection, meditation or if you just need a quiet break while on campus.
Sessions can be booked for up to 50 min at a time.
Email chaplaincy@abdn.ac.uk or visit in person to check availability.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/rocking-horse-nursery:
Manager: Sarah Walker
Rocking Horse Nursery 49 College Bounds University of Aberdeen Aberdeen AB24 3DY
Tel: +44 (0)1224 273400 Email the Rocking Horse Nursery
The Rocking Horse Nursery is located within the Old Aberdeen campus and is an independent nursery registered with the Scottish Care Inspectorate.
It was set up in 1989 under the terms of a Trust to provide nursery facilities for the students and staff of the University of Aberdeen.
The nursery as of the 16th December 2022 has been set up as a SCIO (Scottish Charitable Incorporated Organisation).
There are places for 84 children at any one time.
Find out about our nursery, our vision and aims and our board of trustees on this page.
Find out more about our opening hours, fees and all our policies on this page.
Interested in applying for a place?
Find all the necessary information on this page.
Access our dedicated page (login required) for parents with children that attend the nursery.
Help us raise funds to improve the learning environment and experience in the Rocking Horse Nursery!
If you like shopping online with retailers such as Sainsbury's, Argos, John Lewis, eBay, Amazon and many more - do so through Easyfundraising and let your money work twice at no extra cost to you!
Just sign up to easyfundraising and let the money you spend shopping online work for you.
Signing up is easy and quick.
Follow our step-by-step instructions:
1.
Visit: http://www.easyfundraising.org.uk/ 2.
Click on REGISTER NOW (top of the page) 3.
Type: "Rocking Horse Nursery" in the SUPPORT search engine 4.
Click the SUPPORT button at the Rocking Horse Nursery Aberdeen 5.
Fill in your details and click on REGISTER 6.
Now you are ready to shop!
To find a retailer you can use the SEARCH engine (top of page).
7.
Click on GO SHOPPING to go to the retailer's webpage and do your shopping, as you would normally do.
The retailer will donate a percentage of the value of your purchase to the Rocking Horse Nursery.
8.
Next time you visit EasyFundRaising, login using your email and password and enjoy your shopping.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/rocking-horse-nursery/about-us:
On 31st August 2015 we moved in to our new purpose-built nursery building.
Our building is the first early years setting in Scotland to be built using the Passivhaus (Passive House) design.
The passivhaus aim is to be energy efficient and maintain a comfortable environment without the need for using heating.
The Rocking Horse Nursery is an independent nursery set up under the terms of a Trust to provide nursery facilities for students and staff of the University of Aberdeen.
The Trust is a non-profit making body, but the Nursery has to be self-supporting.
The nursery is committed to the provision of high quality childcare and education.
Through its registration with the Scottish Care Inspectorate and its partnership with the Local Authority Early learning and Childcare Department who provide the curriculum guidelines for the 3-5 year olds, it is open for inspection at any time.
The nursery also is a member of National Day Nurseries Association (NDNA).
We are located in Aberdeen University's Old Aberdeen campus and can cater for up to 84 children at any one time.
The nursery has 3 departments:
We are a single-storey building, with all departments having direct access to our outdoor areas.
There is a large outdoor area of slabs and grass, and we have a separate large walled garden area.
The kitchen is adjacent to the reception area.
There is also a family area available next to the reception in which parents can meet.
We as a team (Staff, Management and Trustees) recognise the importance of a child's early years.
We believe that children should be supported in play by providing a safe, secure, fun and challenging indoor and outdoor environment where children can develop at their own pace through support from practitioners.
Health and wellbeing are fundamental to supporting children and play a key role in our values.
Using the Wellbeing indicators (Safe, Healthy, Active, Respected, Responsible, Achieving, Nurtured, Included) we promote the following aims:
The Rocking Horse Nursery SCIO is an independent Nursery registered with the Care Inspectorate.
It has been set up under the terms of a Trust to provide nursery facilities primarily for the students and staff of the University of Aberdeen.
The Trust is a non-profit making body and the Nursery is self-supporting.
Parents who wish to discuss any issues regarding the nursery with the Board of Trustees can contact:
The nursery is professionally managed and is governed by a Board of Trustees as a not-for-profit organisation.
All places are taken by children of students or staff of the University, with the benefit of cost reductions for staff parents from a salary sacrifice scheme and by university-term contracts and differentially lower fees for student parents.
The latest inspection was on the 10th of February 2023.
Inspection reports can be found at Find care (careinspectorate.com) .
As the nursery changed to Rocking Horse Nursery SCIO as of October 2023 information can be found at Find care (careinspectorate.com)
There is not current inspection report available.
Please see link for more information:
Details | Find an inspection report | Find an inspection report | Inspection and review | Education Scotland

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/rocking-horse-nursery/general-info:
The nursery is open Monday to Friday with three sessions:
It helps if children can arrive near to the start of the session as possible.
It makes it easier for the staff to plan the day's programme for the benefit of the children.
Parents utilising a full day can choose which session that they would like to use.
This booked in advance.
The nursery can offer some extended sessions (8.00am -8.15am/ 5.15pm - 5.30pm/5.30-5.45pm) for an additional cost.
Please speak to the nursery manager if you require these extended sessions.
Please note that these fees are applicable to July 2025 and subject to annual revision.
Student Parents will receive a 15% discount on fees.
Children under 3 (to 3rd Birthday) Full Day: £73.06 Morning or Afternoon session: £45.81
Children over 3 (from 3rd Birthday) Full Day: £69.35 Morning or Afternoon session: £43.34
Fees are payable monthly in advance.
There are no reductions for sickness or any other days off for family reasons.
One month's notice of withdrawal of children is required or fees will be charged .
In the event that fees fall into arrears for more than one term the child's place will be discontinued.
The Nursery Manager shall refer the case to the Chair of the Board of Trustees for consideration.
A nursery place will not normally be available for those with outstanding debt to the Nursery.
The University of Aberdeen operates a Salary Sacrifice scheme which members of University Staff can join.
More information on this scheme can be obtained from the Manager or Human Resources.
Student parents will be charged for a 34 week term but can request extra if required.
49 weeks have to be paid (3 weeks holiday when nursery is closed for Easter and Christmas).
Extra sessions can not be guaranteed as availability depends on staffing levels.
Please contact the nursery directly for information on how the Early Years funding is offered at Rocking Horse Nursery.
Rocking Horse Nursery policies and procedures can be accessed at the nursery and paper copies can be requested from the Nursery Manager.
Statement on staff use of Rocking Horse Nursery:
The Rocking Horse Nursery is open to parents, at least one of who has the University of Aberdeen as the main employer.
A full time place is available only to those whose employment is over 25 hours per week.
Thereafter, priority is calculated in proportion to the number of hours employed by the University.
Statement on student use of Rocking Horse Nursery:
The Rocking Horse Nursery is open to parents, at least one of who is a registered student at the University of Aberdeen.
A full time place is normally available only to those who are registered as full time students.
Part time students will normally be allocated places pro rata on the basis of University Course Registration.
If the nursery facilities are not fully utilised then children (aged 3-5s years) of staff or students of any other academic institution of further learning with in the Aberdeen area may be accepted.
Admission to the Nursery is through the list of prospective users on a “first come, first served” basis, taking into account the mix of ages in the Nursery and a balance of staff and student parents.
The Managers reserve the right, in consultation with the Trustees, to allocate priority places to children in exceptional circumstances.
Anyone interested in applying for a place should contact the Management team in the first instance for an application form or download one from the nursery website.
We cannot guarantee that a place will be available when you want it, but the earlier you apply the better.
Places will be allocated in May for the following September and there are very few places available during the year after that time.
We can only contact you if your name is already on the list of prospective users and if you inform us of any change of address or contact details.
Places will not normally be held open for sabbatical, research or any other leave of absence.
9.
Parent may be asked to stay for longer or more sessions.
At this stage your child may be ready for a 4-hour session (free of charge).
During this visit parents are encouraged to telephone for information on how the child is coping and for reassurance.
10.
Full Admission
Our aim is for children to feel safe, stimulated and happy in the nursery and to feel secure and comfortable with all staff.
We aim to support parents and carers to help their children settle quickly and easily by considering the individual needs and circumstances of every child and their families.
All our staff are aware of the importance of building strong attachments with children and use knowledge from training to support children and families settling into the nursery.
We feel it is beneficial for your child if you can support settling him/her into the nursery and visits before the actual starting date are actively encouraged.
The staff want to ensure that your child feels at home as quickly as possible and to help with that, we ask you to share some information with us about your child's health, temperament, diet and usual routine.
Children often like to take a favourite toy or blanket or article of clothing to Nursery so please do tell the staff about the 'special object' - and about any special names for things!
Please inform staff if your preference is for child to have their comforter as and when they ask for it.
All children will need
To help the staff , PLEASE NAME OR INITIAL YOUR CHILD'S CLOTHING.
Visits before the actual starting date are actively encouraged.
The staff want to ensure that your child feels at home as quickly as possible.
To help with that, we ask you to share some information with us about your child's health, temperament, diet and usual routine.
It is nursery policy that when you are offered a place, a retainer fee is payable.
This is non-returnable but will be deducted from your first full month fees.
However, if you
The Nursery is fully committed to safeguarding the welfare of all children and young people.
It recognises its responsibility to take all reasonable steps to promote safe practice and to protect children from harm, abuse and exploitation.
We actively work with children, parents, external agencies and the community to ensure this.
Staff and volunteers will endeavour to work together to encourage the development of an ethos which embraces difference and diversity and respects the rights of children, young people and adults.
Parents should please inform the nursery prior to their children taking holidays or days off, and all sickness should be called into the nursery on the day so the nursery management are able to account for a child's absence.
This enables children's attendance to be logged so we know the child and family is safe.
If a child has not arrived at nursery within twenty hours of their normal start time the parents will be called to ensure the child is safe and healthy.
If the parents are not contactable then the further emergency contacts will be used to ensure all parties are safe.
The named contact (Child Protection Co-ordinator) for the nursery is Mrs Sarah Walker (Manager) and in her absence, the Assistant Manager acting on duty.
Should you have any concerns or queries about the safety and wellbeing of children then please contact the above named person by telephone, e-mail or in person by visiting the nursery.
The co-ordinator is responsible for the action the nursery will take during a child protection issue.
The nursery is aware that abuse can occur and we are vigilant in identifying signs of abuse and reporting concerns.
Our staff have a duty to safeguard and promote the welfare of children and a responsibility to report safeguarding concerns and suspicions of abuse.
Staff may pass information / report their concerns direct to the Joint Child Protection Team, the NSPCC or the Police if for any reason they do not wish to pass information to the CP co-ordinator.
Staff may often be the first people to identify that there is a problem.
They may well be the first people in whom children confide information that may suggest abuse.
We have a duty to the children, parents and staff to act quickly and responsibly in any instance that may come to our attention.
All staff have a responsibility to report safeguarding concerns and suspicions of abuse.
These concerns will be discussed with the Child Protection Coordinator as soon as possible.
Parents and carers are normally the first point of contact.
If a suspicion of abuse is recorded, parent/carers are informed at the same time as the report is made, except where the guidance of the Joint Child Protection Team does not allow this.
This will usually be the case where the parent/carer or family member is the likely abuser, or where a child may be endangered by this disclosure.
In these cases the investigating officers will inform parents/carers.
As a nursery we will always ensure that you are kept up to date and are able to participate in any action, which we may initiate regarding your child.
In extreme circumstances where we feel the child could be at immediate risk we can contact the Joint Child Protection Team without informing the parents .
The Scottish Executive has provided a handbook titled 'Safe and Well, Framework for Standards' to enable the nursery to meet all the requirements regarding children's well being.
The nursery endeavours to build up trusting and supportive relations among families, staff and volunteers within the nursery
The nursery continues to welcome the child and the family whilst investigations are being made.
Parents and families will be treated with respect in a non-judgmental manner whilst investigations are carried out in the best interests of the child
Confidential records kept on a child are shared with the child's parents or those who have parental responsibility for the child, only if appropriate under the guidance of the Child Protection Team.
We will do all in our power to support and work with the child's family.
Staff involved will be asked to supply details of any information they have concerns about with regard to a child.
The Child Protection Coordinator will record the information and action taken relating to the concern raised and ensure an action plan and risk assessment has been added to the Care plan.
Staff should make an objective record of any observation or disclosure (supported by the nursery manager).
This record should include:
These records (including any signs of marks/injuries to a child or information a child has given) should be signed by the person reporting this and the manager or supervisor, dated and kept in a separate confidential file.
If a child or other person starts to talk to an adult about potential abuse it is important they do not make judgements or promise the child complete confidentiality.
This promise cannot be kept.
Listen carefully and let the child know that he/she is believed and will be supported.
It is vital that the child is allowed to talk openly and disclosure is not forced or words put into the child's mouth.
It is important to remember this because any subsequent investigation by the relevant authorities must not be compromised by staff putting words in the child's mouth.
Staff will tell the child what they are going to do with the information.
As soon as possible after the disclosure, details must be logged accurately.
Staff will support children by offering reassurance, comfort and sensitive interactions.
Any allegation of child abuse made against a member of staff, student or volunteer will be treated seriously and will be dealt with .
The incident will be dealt with by the manager with support from the Child Protection Team.
A full investigation will be carried out by the appropriate professionals to determine how this will be handled.
The nursery will support the staff member while the investigation takes place.
In order to protect the member of staff we may move them to a different department or suspend them from duties during the investigation period.
All investigations/interviews will be documented and kept in a locked file for access by the relevant authorities.
If there is no evidence of abuse the staff member will continue in their role without consequence.
Substantiated allegations will be passed on to the relevant organisation (police) and will result in the termination of employment.
The Care Inspectorate will be notified immediately of this decision.
Support will be available for any member of the nursery who is affected by an allegation, their colleagues in the nursery and the parents.
Abuse and neglect are forms of maltreatment of a child.
Somebody may abuse or neglect a child by harming them, or by failing to act to prevent harm.
This could be an adult or adults, another child or children.
Staff may observe changes or behaviours in a child that may indicate that a child needs help.
This document is used alongside other nursery policies and procedures.
We also follow guidance from documents such as
Our nursery has a clear commitment to protecting children and promoting welfare.
Should anyone believe that this policy is not being upheld, it is their duty to report the matter to the attention of the nursery manager/Child Protection Coordinator at the earliest opportunity.
Should you wish to talk further about Child Protection and the safety of children, please feel free to contact the Nursery Management.
RHN management will regularly review and update this policy where appropriate and make sure it complies with any legal requirements and any guidance or procedures issued by the Child Protection Board.
At Rocking Horse Nursery, we are aware of the importance of transitions.
Parents are given prior notice (either verbally or via email) of their child moving to the next age group (department) and encouraged to discuss any concerns they may have.
Visits are arranged for the child the week before the intended move and are flexible to meet the needs of the child.
Parents are offered an induction tour of the new department and a chance to talk with the staff.
In most cases children will move to the Pink room around their 2nd birthday and to the Green room around their 3rd birthday but the needs of the child will be prioritised.
Always approach a member of staff before taking your child home from the room or the garden.
Please ensure that the door is closed on entering and leaving the building/garden.
Please arrive in plenty time if you require detailed feedback on your child's day.
It is essential that we are informed if a different person is collecting your child.
Although it is acknowledged that it is not always possible a prior introduction of this person to the staff is appreciated.
A photograph or a detailed description is acceptable especially if the arrangement is short-noted.
When adults (even known to staff) turn up unannounced then the regular (named) person will be phoned before the child is allowed to leave.
It is helpful for us to know if you are planning an early pick up or if you are running late for any reason.
When picking up your child at closing time please ensure you inform a member of staff if you require to re- enter the building or a department.
If a member of staff is taking your child home on a one-off occasion, please give written permission stating the child's name and date of birth, staff name, parent name, signature and date.
The Nursery will not be held responsible once the member of staff and the child has left the Nursery premises.
Staff are not permitted to take children to the staff member's house.
Complaints will be accepted orally or in writing.
Issues raised will be dealt with as indicated below using whichever of the three given frameworks is appropriate to the complaint made.
If a parent/carer wishes to raise an issue, he/she should raise it with either the child's key-worker, department's Lead Practitioner or the Management by arranging an appointment.
Should the matter not be resolved, it will be brought to the attention of the Board of Trustees, one of whom will meet with all parties involved.
Should an issue be raised by an individual parent/carer, or via the Parents Plus Support Group, it will be explored and dealt with appropriately by the Management, who will approach the relevant bodies for advice and support.
The Board of Trustees will be informed as necessary.
The outcome will be reported to all parties.
Should you have an issue with a member of staff then the management will deal with this issue directly.
The member of staff will be required to follow the Nursery Grievance procedure.
Complaints can also be made directly to the Care Inspectorate
Care Inspectorate
Compass House
11 Riverside Drive
Dundee
DD1 4NY
Telephone - 0345 600 9527
E-mail - enquiries@careinspectorate.gov.scot
At all points throughout these processes the parent/carer/member of staff raising the issue will be kept informed of progress.
All complaints will be dealt with within two weeks and resolved as soon after this time as practicable.
A written record will be kept of the complaint and the process involved and will remain in a complaints register for up to three years after the child has left the nursery.
We strongly encourage people to follow the complaints procedure correctly in order for complaints to be dealt with swiftly and appropriately.
At Rocking Horse Nursery, we endeavour to take positive steps to ensure that all children, parents and staff are treated fairly, with dignity, respect and within a climate of confidentiality.
We believe that children and parents have a right to expect that confidentiality will be respected and maintained.
We recognise that we hold sensitive/confidential information about children and their families and the staff we employ.
This information is used to meet children's needs, for registers, invoices and emergency contacts.
We store all records in locked cabinets or on password protected computer accounts in line with data protection registration and any information shared with the staff team is done on a 'need to know' basis and treated in confidence.
This policy will work alongside the Privacy Notice to ensure compliance under General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR).
Legal requirements
Procedures
It is our intention to respect the privacy of children and their families and we do so by:
All the undertakings above are subject to the paramount commitment of the nursery, which is to the safety and well-being of the child.
Staff work to a professional code of conduct set by the Social Services Council, which respects the varied needs, and characteristics of the children in their care.
It is important that staff and parents share with each other significant events and developments and the nursery has a range of effective methods (such as parents meetings and e-mails using a mailing list), which it uses to communicate with parents.
If you have any ideas to aid effective communication please inform staff.
Communication between home and nursery needs to be two-way with staff informing parents about expectations but also listening carefully to parents' concerns and hopes for their children.
Specialist Agencies
Parents wishing to discuss a confidential matter, and who feel more privacy is needed, are welcome to make an appointment with a member of staff.
An arrangement will then be made for a mutually agreed time.Sometimes nursery staff will advise parents that involvement of a specialist agency would benefit the child.
Preparatory discussion with parents takes place before the nursery approaches an agency on behalf of the child and family.
This may include sharing information about a child's progress with a specialist agency.Parents will always receive a copy of any report written by nursery staff for specialist agencies.
Parents will also receive invitations to attend progress meetings held in nursery.
Parents receive progress reports from specialist agencies.
Some agencies send a copy of the report to the nursery.
This is placed in the child's confidential file.
General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR) compliance
In order to meet our requirements under GDPR we will also undertake the following:
We will ensure our terms & conditions, privacy and consent notices are easily accessed/made available in accurate and easy to understand language and only contact you with information regarding your child.
We will not share or use your data for other purposes.
Everyone in our nursery understands that people have the right to access their records or have their records amended or deleted (subject to other laws and regulations).
We will use your data only for administration purposes and to ensure that we provide the best possible service for each child.
This is the emergency evacuation procedure which all personnel will follow.
We have a detailed emergency plan that all management are aware of.
The evacuation procedure is the same in each emergency situation.
All personnel will locate at signposted muster point by Kings Hall.
Should entry back into the building not be permitted then all personnel will re-locate in Crombie Hall Television Lounge where all parents/carers will be contacted and asked to collect their child immediately.
In all circumstances the Board of Trustees will be informed should such an event as the above occur.
Please come into the playroom with your children when you arrive.
We like to see you each time and feel that we are sharing the settling-in process at the drop off time on a daily basis.
The staff will try to inform you of the day's activities at the end of each session and the child's eating and sleeping habits.
You are welcome to meet with the staff at a mutually agreed time to discuss your child's progress, or any other relevant issue.
It is helpful if parents communicate information about their child at the start of each session, e.g.
disrupted sleep, no breakfast and any concerns about health.
Due to the heavy demand for places, we have had to establish a policy that parents who leave the University can retain the child's place in the Nursery only until the end of that academic term.
Nursery places will not normally be held open for sabbatical, research or any other leave of absence.
In the event of unforeseen difficulties, the management have the power to advise a parent to remove a child from the Nursery either temporarily or permanently.
A final decision on removal will only be made in consultation with the Trustees.
Rocking Horse Nursery is committed to ensuring equality and diversity for all staff and service users and providing an environment where all are respected, and which is free from discrimination, prejudice, harassment, bullying or intimidation.
This policy is intended to create a culture where all forms of discriminatory behaviour are unacceptable and will not be tolerated.
RHN will apply the Equality and Diversity Policy to all areas of employment including:
recruitment and selection of staff, promotion opportunities, training and development opportunities, discipline and grievance procedures, redundancy procedures and dismissals .
Staff are selected on the basis of occupational skills requirements and irrespective of colour, race, nationality, disability, religion or belief, family circumstances, gender, pregnancy or maternity status, age or any other circumstances.
The Rocking Horse Nursery welcomes applications for children's places from any background and will treat all children with respect and dignity.
At Rocking Horse Nursery, we believe that discrimination is unacceptable towards the treatment of children or staff or in the provision of any service the nursery offers.
The management has overall responsibility for the implementation of the Equality and Diversity Policy and to monitor the policy on a regular basis to ensure its continuing effectiveness.
This includes informing staff, students and service users where the Equality and Diversity Policy can be found.
Management expect all staff and nursery personnel to behave in accordance with this policy, and commitment to implementing this policy will form part of each employee's job description.
It is the responsibility of all Nursery personnel to behave courteously and respectfully towards each other and to ensure that their behaviour does not cause unnecessary offence or upset.
The Nursery will take all possible steps to protect Nursery personnel from discriminatory behaviour by any individual or group.
We adopt a “Zero tolerance ” approach to discrimination of any kind.
Should anyone believe that this policy is not being upheld, it is their duty to report this matter to the attention of the manager at the earliest opportunity.
Management will investigate alleged breaches of the Policy and report to the Board of Trustees.
Any staff involved in behaviour which will be considered as gross misconduct under the Nursery's disciplinary procedures, and the person concerned will be subject to disciplinary action under the relevant procedures.
Children are made aware that different race, culture, physical abilities exist and are encouraged to respect those differences.
The curriculum offered in the nursery encourages children to develop positive attitudes to people who are different from them.
It encourages children to empathise with others and to begin to develop the skills of critical thinking.
Information for this document which has been taken from:
Setting The Table (Nutritional Guidance and Food Standards for Early Years Childcare Providers in Scotland 2014) Published by NHS Health Scotland
“ This guidance celebrates the contribution that childcare providers can have in shaping the future eating patterns of young children in Scotland.
Implementing this guidance will:
All food is prepared by staff who have training in Food Hygiene.
All Local Authority guidelines are followed in Food Preparation.
At Rocking Horse Nursery we are aware that children may have or develop an allergy resulting in an allergic reaction.
Our aims are to ensure allergic reactions are minimised or, where possible, prevented and that staff are fully aware of how to support a child who may be having an allergic reaction.
From 13 December 2014, we will incorporate additional procedures in line with the Food Information Regulations 2014 (FIR).
The nursery manager/staff member must:
Health and safety matters are a priority for the Nursery.
We will endeavour at all times to ensure that the health and safety of staff at the nursery, the children for whom we care and any visitors to our premises are cared for in a safe environment.
We will:
The co-operation and active involvement of everyone is essential if we are to provide a safety and healthy environment in the Nursery.
Our Systems and procedures can always be improved.
A formal review of the health and safety arrangements will be undertaken at least every 12 months and at other times as required.
Anyone who has suggestions for making our arrangements more effective should contact the management.
The Manager (Sarah Walker) has overall responsibility (in her absence the Assistant Manager- Donna Wilkie, Laura Stuart and Dawn Holmes) for the implementation of the health and safety policy.
The Manager reports to the Board of Trustees about any problems or decisions that have to be made regarding health and safety.
The Nursery is provided with advice on health and safety matters by the Safety Adviser from the University of Aberdeen and by The Local Authority Environmental Health Department
Monitoring
Health and safety monitoring is carried out to help us evaluate whether the Department's health and safety arrangements are working the manner intended.
While we are always on the look out for health and safety problems, formal monitoring checks using a check list will take place annually at the very least, and will be carried out by a group led by the Management.
All staff will be informed of the findings.
New Staff
Staff new to the Nursery will receive training in our health and safety procedures.
The Manager will keep records of training.
The Manager will determine what health and safety training is required by other members of the staff and ensures that it is provided.
Health and safety issues are discussed at staff meetings.
First Aid
First aid materials are kept in the changing area, staffroom and office.
A burns first aid kit is located in the kitchen.
All staff will receive basic first aid training.
There are at least two members of staff in the Nursery who hold a formal First Aid certificate.
First aid boxes are monitored, maintained and checked on a regular basis, staff inform management if supplies are low so more can be purchased.
Fire safety arrangements
Arrangements for responding to a fire are given on the white FIRE notices posted around the building.
All staff will be trained in the particular arrangements evacuating children from the building and their role in those arrangements.
Fire Drills are held at least once a term while there are children in the building to test our procedures.
All fire escape routes are clear of obstructions.
Fire risk assessment is updated annually.
Accidents
Staff should report all accidents immediately to the Management.
The following must be reported
There are several reasons for reporting accidents.
The most important is to enable us to take action to prevent a similar accident happening in the future (perhaps with more severe consequences).
Records of accidents and the results of the investigation will be kept by the Management in the office who will also ensure that, where necessary, accidents are reported to, The Health and Safety Executive and to the University Safety Advisor.
Accidents involving children will be reported to parents or carers who will be asked to acknowledge receipt of information about accidents by signing a record to be kept in the office.
Adverse weather conditions
During adverse weather conditions, on occasion it may be necessary to close the nursery early for children and staff for safety reasons.
During bad weather we take guidance daily on travelling conditions and weather forecasts from local resources and it is the management's decision on when to close the nursery early to ensure the safety of children, parents and staff.
Risk Assessments
The Manager will ensure that risk assessments are carried out for all activities in the Nursery and the findings will be recorded.
Records of the findings will include details of the steps we take to ensure that risks are adequately controlled.
Copies of the record of the findings are available in the staff room or can be obtained from the Manager.
Copies will be made available to parents on request.
Please telephone or e-mail the nursery to inform us if your child is going to be off ill or for advice on whether your child can attend nursery.
If your child is absent and we have not heard from you after one day we will contact you to check on the well being of your family.
If your child has SICKNESS and/or DIARRHOEA - you must exclude them from nursery for 48 hours after the last bout of vomiting or diarrhoea.
Infection in a nursery spreads rapidly, not only among children but also among staff.
Co-operation in following these guidelines is ESSENTIAL.
If your child is feeling unwell for any reason we would encourage you to keep them at home.
If your child is on antibiotics they can attend nursery as long as they are feeling well.
If a child becomes unwell at nursery parents will be contacted to collect the child.
In regards to all illnesses and infections we follow the exclusion guidelines set by NHS Scotland.
We will display information regarding each illness/infection as they occur.
It is important that you read these notices for information on the signs/symptoms and exclusion periods.
In conjunction with the NHS Health Protection Team and the nursery requirements we ask that you adhere to these guidelines at all times.
Fresh air and exercise are paramount and staff realise the importance of regular exercise.
The Rocking Horse Nursery prides itself on its large garden area which is checked daily for undesirable objects and a risk assessment form is completed.
All plants in the garden are safe.
We encourage children to have their own wellies and outdoor clothing, the nursery does have outdoor wetsuits available to protect clothing.
When outdoors with the children we try to cover the 4 capacities of the curriculum and prefer to think of the garden as an extension to the classroom.
When outdoors we have the opportunity to become:
All areas of a child's development are catered for through a range of activities such as:
running, jumping, hopping, skipping, balancing, climbing, marching, ring-games, football, ball skills, imaginative play, role-play, listening to and carrying out instruction, planning and discussion about the outdoor area and what we can do each day.
Learning about weather, growing cycles, the changing seasons, respect for living things, - animals, insects, plants, and trees, bushes, and flowers, vegetables and literacy and numeracy.
The children are always supervised in the garden.
Staff will intervene when, where and as required giving the children freedom to choose and explore and interact with friends.
There are times when the garden is used for specific exercises and activities, promoting teamwork amongst the age groups.
At Rocking Horse Nursery we aim to develop and promote a deeper understanding of the wider community by taking the children out of nursery for activities, which provide adventure, exploration, challenge and enjoyment.
The children go for walks around the University campus, the playing fields, the Botanical Gardens, Seaton Park and the local shops.
Occasionally we will go into town or to other places of interest.
Safety is of paramount importance.
The risk assessment will include details of:
In the event of a child being lost, the Lost Child Procedure will be followed .
Adult to Child Ratio for outings
0-2's 1 adult - 2 children walking with reins.
1 adult - 1 child walking with reins + 1 buggy
2-3's 1 adult - 2 children walking with reins
1 adult - 2 children walking with reins + 1 buggy
3-5's 1 adult - 2 children walking
2 adults - 6 children walking with an adult and 2 children front and back and 2 children in the middle.
3 adults - 12 children walk as above with third adult in the middle of the line
The following extract is taken from a Local Authority statement:
'The general obligation on the teacher is to take reasonable care.
The response of a teacher to any given situation therefore has to be that of a reasonable parent.'
In conclusion taking the children out into the local and wider community as part of a group, or whole class experience, presents many opportunities for widening their knowledge and understanding of the world, extending personal and social development.
The Rocking Horse nursery policy provides a framework for ensuring safety and good practice whenever children are taken beyond the nursery grounds'
At the Rocking Horse Nursery we aim to involve our children, parents and staff fully in the running and evaluation of the nursery.
We believe in a working partnership with our parents and aim to ensure regular two way communication which will enhance the self-assessment of the nursery.
We involve the children in the running and evaluation of the nursery through the use mind-mapping where children express their views and opinions on different aspects of the nursery.
Children are actively involved in the planning process and can choose what they would like to learn about.
Plans are displayed in the departments for parents to comment on.
Parents in all age groups are offered an informal meeting to discuss their child's development and needs.
The Board of Trustees can be contacted directly.
We believe that children flourish best when they know how they and others are expected to behave.
Children gain respect through interaction with caring adults who act as good role models, show them respect and value their individual personalities.
The nursery encourages and praises positive, caring and polite behaviour at all times and provides an environment where children learn to respect themselves, other people and their surroundings.
Children need to have set boundaries of behaviour for their own safety and the safety of their peers.
Within the nursery we aim to set these boundaries in a way which helps the child to develop a sense of the significance of their own behaviour, both in their own environment and those around them.
Restrictions on the child's natural desire to explore and develop their own ideas and concepts are kept to a minimum.
In some instances a reward system, such as using stickers or certificates may help.
It may be useful to ignore unwanted behaviour (as far as possible) and to concentrate on the positive using praise to reinforce good behaviour.
It is important to build a positive image with both child and parent.
Children can expect to be valued and respected as unique individuals through acknowledgement of positive actions and attitudes.
Guidelines for Promoting Positive Behaviour
Implementation of the procedure
The nursery team will employ strategies to avoid situations where children receive adult attention only in return for undesirable or unacceptable behaviour.
The staff will also look for opportunities to use praise as a means of reinforcing examples of desirable positive behaviour such as turn taking, kindness, helpfulness and willingness to share toys, games and equipment.
Adults in nursery will not shout or raise their voices in a threatening way and physical punishment, such as smacking, shaking (or the threat of these) will not be permitted.
The nursery does not use sanctions such as the naughty chair or sending out of room as these can be humiliating to the child.
Children who are not behaving within the expected boundaries of the department will be given one-to-one adult support in working towards an understanding of what went wrong and establishing a better outcome.
In some circumstances this may involve having 'time out' with an adult to 'talk through' the situation.
Occasionally when unacceptable behaviour has occurred, staff may need to take action for the child's own safety, or the safety of others.
In all instances behaviour problems will be handled sensitively and in a way that is appropriate to the child's age, developmental stage and level of understanding.
The nursery team will discuss recurring problems.
The team will be aware that some kinds of behaviour may be indicative of, or arise from, a child's special needs.
Targeted observations may establish a pattern or signal the cause.
The nursery team will work in partnership with the parents and try to gain their co-operation in promoting and reinforcing positive behaviour.
Findings, tactics and strategies to overcome or modify the behaviour will be shared and discussed.
Each child is encouraged to respect all nursery materials and equipment
Each child is encouraged to respect other children and adults
In cases of serious misbehaviour, such as racial or other abuse, the unacceptability of the behaviour will be made clear promptly through means of explanation.
In all cases of unwelcome behaviour it will be made clear to the child that it is the behaviour and not the child that is unacceptable.
Each case will be assessed on its own merit.
The parents will be informed of the problem and, in discussion with the Nursery Management and staff involved, a decision will be made on whether there is a need for guidance from professionals.
Parents are informed and consulted on all behavioural issues involving their child.
Staff recognise the importance for parental co-operation and consultation in dealing with these issues.
Staff will work in partnership with parents to lay foundations from which the children will grow into happy, independent thinking and self-confident individuals.
We understand that children may use certain behaviours such as biting as part of their development.
Biting is a common behaviour that some young children go through and can be triggered when they do not yet have the words to communicate their anger, frustration or need.
The nursery uses the following strategies to prevent biting: sensory activities, adequate resources and staff who recognise when children need more stimulation or quiet times.
However, in the event of a child being bitten we use the following procedures.
The most relevant staff member(s) will:
In cases where a child may repeatedly bite and/or if they have a particular special educational need or disability that lends itself to increased biting the nursery management will carry out a risk assessment.
If your child has been bitten do have empathy for the parent/carer of the child who is the biter.
Biting is a difficult anti social habit and it is often a learning process that children go through when learning about socially appropriate behaviour.
The staff endeavour to build positive relationships with Parents/Caregivers and children.
2.
The staff are trained to assess each child's individual strengths and needs and work together to create a warm and caring environment.
3.
The staff are there to offer support and advice if required.
4.
The nursery has a policy on the admission process which is distributed to parents.
5.
Parents are given access to an online Information Booklet to allow them to familiarize them of the nursery's policies and procedures.
6.
Parents are invited to arrange a meeting with the Nursery Management/Key workers/Lead Practitioners to discuss any concerns about their child.
If staff have a concern about a child, the parent will be approached after a reasonable period of observation.
Decisions on nursery policy will be determined and annually reviewed by Nursery personnel.
Consultation with parents will take place to provide opportunities for their views.
The nursery staff welcome any relevant information given by parents.
Information will be displayed in notices (on department notice boards) or sent via e-mail to all parents.
Parents are invited to become actively involved in the support group for the nursery 'Parents Plus', to enjoy social activities and help with raising funds for equipment.
The notice boards will contain information on :
The staff and management of the nursery are very aware that there is nothing more important to parents than their children.
We understand that when concerns and issues arise concerning children emotions can run high.
We will however not tolerate parents/ prospective parents acting in a hostile manner towards staff.
We will always approach and respond to issues calmly and politely and expect parents/ prospective parents to do the same.
If you are found to breach this policy your child's place at the nursery may be at risk.
It has often been said that the first five years of a Childs life can influence their love of learning, and can help to develop their own personal self worth, and how positively they perceive themselves in the world that they live in.
Rocking Horse Nursery staff want to promote a positive exciting learning environment where children are acknowledged as special unique individuals, with their own interests and needs.
Staff use lots of praise, and support children as they take part in their curriculum activities to promote children's self esteem, and to encourage children to ask questions and extend on their knowledge further.
Staff are flexible to ensure that moments are not missed when a child shows interest in something in their learning environment or the world around them.
Children's curiosity is encouraged and supported .
Make sense of real-life situations
Develop awareness of themselves and others
Explore, investigate and experiment
Be actively involved in learning
Draw and test their conclusions
Develop self-confidence
Express their ideas and feelings in many different ways
Reenact previous past events through the use of imagination
Act out and come to terms with experiences at home or with friends
Be solitary, quiet and reflective
Collaborate with others
Take the initiative on their own terms
Develop relationships
Practice skills
Consolidate previous learning
Be challenged in new learning.
Lots of support and encouragement
Ongoing praise and reassurance
Opportunities to build independence
Time to build relationships
Familiar routines
Time to engage in new experiences
Small and secure spaces
Time to be quiet and to rest.
Listen to what children say
Make time for one-to-one activities and discussions
Be flexible in planning
Be consistent in responses and praise
Know when to intervene
Give more direction when teaching new skills
Allow time for “settling in”
Introduce new routines gradually
Provide appropriate behaviour boundaries where children feel secure knowing the expectations that adults have of them.
'Pre -Birth to Three: Positive Outcomes for Scotland's Children and families, was introduced in Scotland in 2010 by the Scottish Government.
This document acts as a foundation for a child's future learning and development which is taken forward in “A Curriculum Framework for 3-5's”, and is based on the same concept that care and learning are inseparable.
There is increased recognition that a child's earliest years are vital.
The 4 Key features of the Pre-Birth to Three document, through which effective support and learning opportunities for young children can be developed, are the Rights of the child , Relationships, Responsive care and Respect.
To develop in these areas adults should:
Learning Teaching Scotland 2010
Staff will observe the children and this information is used in planning for the next stages for the individual child.
We gather our observations to assess their strengths, interests and development needs.
Plans are displayed in the departments.
The activities are implemented over the week and evaluated.
Each individual child in the departments are assigned a member of staff who will be their key person .
The key worker has a variety of roles and is responsible for the following:
The staff follow guidance from the Building the Ambition document (2014) which offers support in all areas of early learning and childcare.
The main aims of the guidance are as follows
Building the Ambition (2014) Scottish Government
0-3's Early Learning and Childcare
If a member staff does not approach you at the table in front of the nursery please use the buzzer security system in place and buzz the office buzzer.
Staff are aware not to let anyone they do not know enter the building.
The office is situated next to entrance vestibule so any visitors to the building are approached by the office staff.
Nursery staff only can gain access to the building using their staff ID swipe cards on a swipe entry system.
There are CCTV cameras in the garden area, the car park and in front vestibule.
There is an intruder alarm system in place which is set each night and motion sensors which would activate the alarm to notify security of any intruders.
All windows are only opened at the top so entry/exit to the building cannot be gained this way.
The nursery garden is a secure area surrounded by high fences and wall.
Policy on Whistleblowing
At RHN we expect all our colleagues to act professionally and promote the highest standards at all times, however there may be occasions where individuals feel we do not meet these standards and are therefore encouraged to use this policy and procedure to draw our attention to any perceived malpractice or wrongdoing, and will be supported in so doing.
This policy is designed to allow nursery personnel to report certain types of wrongdoing, raise concerns or to disclose information that shows malpractice.
The wrongdoing you disclose should be in the interest of the public.
It is reasonable to expect people to use it, rather than to air concerns or disclose information outside the nursery.
Employees will suffer no detriment of any sort for making such a disclosure.
You can raise your concern at any time to the management team about an incident that happened in the past, is happening now, or you believe will happen in the near future.
We encourage colleagues to talk through any concerns at the earliest opportunity to enable any problems to be resolved as soon as they arise.
Such concerns might include the following: financial malpractice, failure to comply with legal obligations (including SSSC code of conduct), dangers to Health and Safety and the environment, that criminal activity has been, is being or is likely to be committed, professional malpractice, improper or unethical behaviour.
It is not necessary for the employee to have proof that such an act is being, has been, or is likely to be committed; a reasonable belief is sufficient.
Personal grievances (eg bullying, harassment, discrimination) are not covered by whistleblowing but would be reported under our grievances policy.
If however you are witness to any of these grievances but not the direct recipient you would report using the whistleblowing policy.
You may become aware of information which you believe indicates that a child is/may be or is likely to be in risk of danger.
If this information relates to child protection then the nursery child protection policy should be followed.
Allegations should be made to the Management, or if the allegation concerns the Management, to the Board of Trustees of the nursery.
We encourage employees and others with genuine concerns about any person linked with the setting and/or others (e.g.
Parents/Carers) to come forward and voice those concerns without fear of reprisals.
The Board of Trustees and the Management of Rocking Horse Nursery recognise the duty of the nursery to investigate and support anyone who discloses any information.
Any disclosure or concerns raised will be treated seriously, will be dealt with in a consistent and confidential manner.
The person to whom the allegation is made will be responsible for acknowledging it immediately, for making a record of its receipt and of the subsequent action and for reporting the outcome to the person making the allegation.
The Board of Trustees will be informed subsequently.
Any allegation made will be investigated either by the person to whom the allegation is made or a person appointed by him/her and dealt with as swiftly or sensitively as possible.
Any management employee who inappropriately deals with a whistleblowing issue (e.g.
failing to react or disclosing confidential information) may be deemed to have engaged in gross misconduct which could lead to dismissal
The person against whom the allegation is made must be told of the allegation and of the evidence supporting it and be allowed to comment before the investigation is concluded and a report made.
Any allegation will be treated as confidential to the receiver, until a formal enquiry is launched.
Thereafter, the identification of the person making the complaint may be kept confidential, if requested, unless this is incompatible with a fair investigation or if there is an overriding reason for disclosure.
It should be noted that allegations made anonymously are much less powerful, however may be considered depending on the seriousness of the issues raised, the credibility of the allegations and the likelihood of confirming them.
Person's attempts to conceal misconduct or found to have been deterring other nursery personnel from raising a genuine and serious concern will be investigated and employees treated as having committed a serious disciplinary offence.
Persons found to have knowingly made false or malicious allegations may be treated as having committed a serious disciplinary offence.
This also applies to any employee who is involved in victimising employees who make a disclosure.
For further guidance in the use of the disclosure procedure, employees should speak in confidence to the nursery management.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/rocking-horse-nursery/apply-for-a-place:
Admission to the nursery is on a "first come, first served" basis taking into account the mix of ages and the balance of staff and student parents at any one time.
We can accommodate children from the age of 3 months until school age - please see Aberdeen City Council website for school details.
Anyone interested in applying for a place should complete and return the application form by email or post it to the nursery.
Email: rockinghorsenursery@abdn.ac.uk
We cannot guarantee that a place will be available when you want it, but the earlier you apply, the better.
Data Protection Privacy Notice for parents applying for a place.
We require the following information from you in order to process your application.
Child's name
Child's date of birth
Requested start date
Parent's names
Staff or Student ID numbers
Department
Course title
Home address and telephone numbers
Work address and telephone numbers
Email address
Session required.
We will only use this information to process your application.
In some cases this information may be passed on to other University departments but only to ensure you are eligible for a place at the nursery.
If you ask to be removed from our waiting list your application form will be destroyed.
Any information you have been sent via email will also be destroyed.
Fees and nursery policies can be found here.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail:
The University of Aberdeen prides itself on delivering excellent catering and retail services for its staff and students.
We operate a variety of outlets over both campuses where you can find refreshments in our Aberbean Cafes and delicious hot and cold lunch options in our RockSalt Food Court.
We also have our Bear Essentials shop in the Student Union Building where you can stock up on your stationery and purchase branded clothing and gifts.
The Student Union is the perfect place to relax during a busy day.
The Rocksalt Food Court can be found on the first floor and offers a variety of food and drink.
On the ground floor you'll find Subway and Union Brew, the Students' Union run café, as well as the Bear Essentials shop.
Whether it's Old Aberdeen or Foresterhill, you're never far away from one of the campus cafés.
The one stop shop for university branded gifts and clothing!
Tell us about your experience of our cafés or outlets on campus.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/student-union-building:
Come and along and join us in the RockSalt Food Court where we have a variety of refreshments for you to enjoy including a wide range of tasty vegan and vegetarian dishes.
Our self-serve cashless kiosks allow you see everything we have on offer, so it couldn't be easier to place your order!
Craving a delicious, indulgent snack or meal on campus?
Our Loaded Fries Counter serves up a variety of mouth-watering loaded fries to satisfy every appetite.
From bold and spicy toppings to cheesy, savoury favourites, there’s something for everyone.
Whether you're a fan of classic flavours or seeking a vegan-friendly option, we've got you covered.
Menu Highlights:
Our loaded fries are perfect for lunch, a quick study break, or a satisfying treat between classes.
Stop by and treat yourself to the ultimate comfort food experience – loaded to perfection!
Open Monday - Friday 11:30am to 3pm
New menu coming January 2025!
Open Monday - Friday 11:30am - 3pm
Fresh, wholesome, and full of variety – our Salad Bar offers a vibrant selection of nutritious and satisfying options to keep you fuelled throughout the day.
From crisp salads and hearty soups to baked potatoes and freshly prepared sushi, there’s something for every craving and dietary preference.
Whether you’re in the mood for something hearty or light, hot or cold, our Salad Bar has something to hit the spot.
Perfect for a healthy lunch, a quick bite, or a comforting meal between classes.
Stop by and mix it up – fresh flavours, every day!
Open Monday to Friday 11:30am - 3pm
Halal dishes available.
Haddock is sourced daily to provide you with a fresh, delicious fish supper from sustainable suppliers.
Open Monday to Friday 11:30am to 3pm
The Bear Essentials offers you cheap meal deals for a quick lunch and a great selection of snacks and drinks.
It also offers University clothing, a huge range of stationery items and University branded gifts and keepsakes, all at affordable prices.
Opening Hours:
Monday to Friday
9am - 4:30pm
Union Brew is the café on the ground floor run by AUSA.
For more information and to see what events are on please check the Facebook site.
On the ground floor of the student union you'll find Subway where you can takeaway a wide range of sub sandwiches.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/campus-cafes:
Whether you're out and about at Old Aberdeen or up at Foresterhill you're never too far away from one of our cashless cafés.
Offering hot food on the move or a sit down bite, the Aberbean menu provides a wide range of great tasting food with an extensive offer that includes healthy snacks and a wide range of vegetarian and vegan options.
We stock no cost dairy free alternatives, for speciality coffees, hot chocolate and teas, and our affordable meal deals are a great option for those on a budget.
Looking for a casual place to hold a meeting or to escape the office and recharge?
The AberBean Hardback Café with its wide selection of hot and cold food and drink is the perfect place for both.
Opening Hours
Summer Vacation Hours: Monday to Friday 9:30am to 2:30pm
Have some time to kill between teaching or looking for something light for lunch?
AberBean MacRobert offers a wide selection of refreshments including hot drinks, toasties, paninis and soup.
AberBean Suttie Centre can be found at Foresterhill in the Suttie Centre, here you can purchase a variety of hot and cold drinks, delicious hot snacks and sweet treats.
Your Zero Waste café on campus.
Find out more from their facebook page.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/delivered-catering:
Whether it’s a small informal buffet, a working lunch or some sweet treats with tea and coffee our Delivered Catering menu offers a wide range of options and our dedicated team are on hand to offer advice on what best suits your needs.
Click here for our Terms and Conditions

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/delivered-catering/tea-coffee-and-accompaniments:
We have a delicious range of sweet treats available that can be enjoyed with a cup of tea or coffee or even on their own if you need a mid afternoon pick me up!
Minimum of 24 hours notice for ordering.
Price: £1.75 per person
Minimum order of 10
Only available when ordering a food item.
Price Per Packet: £0.45
Price with Tea/Coffee: £2.20 per person
Minimum Order of 10
Price Per Packet: £0.80
Price with Tea/Coffee: £2.55 per person
Biscuit selection includes gluten free and vegan options (Please detail when placing an order if a specific quantity of gluten free and/or vegan biscuits is required.)
Price: £0.95 (One piece per person)
Price with Tea/Coffee: £2.70
Price: £1.10 (One piece per person)
Price with Tea/Coffee: £2.85 per person
Price: £0.65 (One muffin per person)
Price with Tea/Coffee: £2.40
Price: £3.10 (One cake per person)
Price with Tea/Coffee: £4.85
Price: £2.95 (one cake per person)
Price with Tea and Coffee: £4.70
Vegan
Minimum order: 10
Price: £2.65 (one cake per person)
Price with Tea and Coffee: £4.40
Minimum Order: 10
Price: £1.45 per bar
Price with Tea and Coffee: £3.20
Gluten Free Available
Box of Crawfords Assorted Biscuits (3pk x 100): £35.00
Box of Walkers Shortbread Rounds (1pk x 200): £43.00
If you would like to order additional items for your event we offer a range of sundries which you can view here .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/delivered-catering/refreshments:
RockSalt Still and Sparkling Filtered Water
425ml: £1.95
750ml: £2:75
Our water is bottled on site in reusable glass bottles.
Please help us reach our sustainability goals by returning the bottles after your event.
Orange/Apple/Cranberry Juice
Price: £3.00 per 1 Litre
Serves approx.
6 glasses

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/delivered-catering/rocksalt-breakfast--bakery:
Looking to kick start the day right, enjoy our breakfast rolls or pastries at your morning meeting!
The notice period required for ordering is 72 hours .
Price: £1.90 (2 pastries per person)
Price with Tea and Coffee: £3.65
Assortment of mini danish pastries
Price: £2.20 (includes flora and jam portion)
Price with Tea and Coffee: £3.95
Butter and vegan croissants available.
Price: £2.20
Price: £3.45
Minimum Order:10

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/delivered-catering/buffets:
Hosting a lunch or evening event and looking for something light?
Choose from our simple classic buffet which offers traditional favourites such as sausage rolls or our delicious finger fork buffet which includes a mix of cocktail skewers, savoury bites and vegetarian delights.
Our minimum order caters for 10 people and we require 72 hours notice .
Price: £16.75 Per Person
Please select 5 items from our delicious buffet range.
Additional items can be ordered at a cost of £2.65 per person with a minimum order of 10.
Price: £8.95 per person
Each person will receive two of each item.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/delivered-catering/individual-boxed-salads:
We have delicious individual salads on offer prepared by our very own chef team, including vegan and gluten free options.
Orders must be be placed a minimum of 72 hours in advance.
How To Order
Price: £6.30
Price: £5.80

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/delivered-catering/soup-and-sandwich-platters:
Our sandwich platters come in a variety of sizes and with a fantastic selection of fillings, offering more choice and flexibility when ordering.
They also come with their own pop out allergen card which can be displayed next to the platter to let your guests know what each filing contains.
Please place orders by 10am, 72 hours in advance.
If your platters are required for a Monday or a Tuesday orders must be placed the Friday before.
If you require platters out with this time period please contact the Rocksalt Delivered team directly.
*Images for illustration purposes only*
Half Platter (Serves 5): £16.95
Full Platter (Serves 10): £31.90
Fillings:
Half Platter (Serves 5): £17.95
Full Platter (Serves 10): £33.90
Half Platter (Serves 5): £20.95
Full Platter (Serves 10): £39.90
Seafood Sandwich Platter
Half Platter (Serves 5): £19.95
Full Platter (Serves 10): £37.90
Half Platter (Serves 5): £27.70
Our delicious soup of the day comes with a bread roll and a portion of flora.
The minimum order for soup is 10 and we require 72 hours notice.
Price: £8.75 per bag
Contains:

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/delivered-catering/rocksalt-desserts:
Our in house chef team have created a range of delicious desserts to enjoy at any event or meeting.
Each option requires 72 hours notice .
Price: £4.20
Price: £3.15
Price: £15.75
Box of 6 brownies
Price: £20.95
Serves 10 People
Price: £10.45

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/delivered-catering/big-mannys-pizza:
Big Mannys' NYC-Style Pizzas are baked fresh to order and hand stretched with their top secret recipe pizza dough.
Available to order Monday to Friday from 11:30am to 4pm with free delivery!
If you would like to order out with these times please contact hospitality Minimum notice period 72 hours per order.
A Classic Margherita Pizza.
Marinara Sauce, Mozzarella & Oregano.
£19.95 per pizza (8 slices)
Allergens: Gluten, Milk
A Classic Pepperoni Pizza - Mozzarella Cheese, Pepperoni, Big Mannys' Herbs.
A Fresh Veggie Feast!
Onions, Peppers, Mushrooms, Olives, Big Mannys' Herbs.
Allergens: Gluten
A Hotly Debated Pizza...
Ham & Pineapple with a touch of Oregano.
A BIG Feed!
Mozzarella Cheese, Chicken, Pepperoni, Onions, Big Mannys' Herbs, Crispy Onions.
Served with tomato or BBQ base
[may contain small pieces of bone]
Gluten Free Base (not suitable for coeliac)
£16.75 per pizza

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/delivered-catering/sea-salt-and-sole:
Award-winning fresh fish and chips from the team at Sea, Salt and Sole.
Fresh seafood, the best chips and all manner of specialty chicken, pork, beef and pudding dishes now available to order as part of Delivered Catering.
Minimum notice period 72 hours, available Monday to Friday 11:30am to 3pm.
Delicious soup made with Smoked Haddock, Onion and Potato.
Served with a Cheese Scone
Haddock Fillet Single: £5.00
Haddock Fillet Supper: £7.00
Scampi Single (7 pieces of scampi): £4.50
Scampi Supper (7 pieces of scampi): £6.50
Macaroni and Chips topped with crispy onions and contains Lea Perrins sauce.
£3.95

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/delivered-catering/alcohol-selection:
Finca Valero Macabeo D.O.
Carinena - Spain (Abv 12.5%)
Price: £19.00
Made from the Macabeo grape, this fruity white has refreshing peach and apple notes on the palate and a fresh acidity on the finish.
Finca Valero Tempranillo Garnacha - Spain (Abv 12.5%)
Made from Tempranillo and Garnacha grapes, this easy-going red boasts dark berry fruits with a hint of pepper on the finish.
El Muro Rosado - Spain (Abv 12.5%)
Bright strawberry-pink in colour.
Floral and red fruit aromas dominate the nose, while the palate is well-structured with a good finish.
Corzetti Prosecco - Italy (Abv 10.5%)
Price: £25.00
A fresh, light and elegant style of Prosecco.
Not too high in alcohol, it is soft with floral aromas and flavours of citrus fruits, pears and a touch of sweet melon.
Case of 24 Beer: £36
Selection of Bottled Beer - Non alcoholic options available
Case of 24 Cider: £36
Selection of Bottled Cider - Non alcoholic options available

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/delivered-catering/waiting-staff:
Whether it be a special occasion, celebration or drinks reception, our team of waiting staff can ensure all guests are well looked after - we recommend staff arrive 30 minutes prior to your guests, to ensure the venue is properly prepared and catering laid out accordingly.
Our staff shall pour and top-up drinks, circulate the crowd to serve canapés or man the catering stations, depending on the catering ordered.
The venue shall be kept tidy, with the waiting staff cleaning the area at the end of the event, again requiring 30 minutes once all guests have left.
We recommend having one member of staff per 50 guests for a simple wine reception, but if you wish to have a more interactive service then two members of waiting staff would be optimal.
All staff members wear a standard black University of Aberdeen crested shirt.
Waiting staff are charged at £16.50 per hour , per staff member, for a minimum of 3 hours each (includes the setting up/clearing down time advised).
We require 5 working days' notice for a requirement of staff, with the cut-off being 10.00am on the deadline date.
Orders received after this time may not be accepted.
To request waiting staff via One Source .
Please input the total staff hours required for your event.
External Customers: Please advise how many staff you wish to have present, and the required time period in your order form.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/delivered-catering/sundries:
Box of Flavoured Tea (20 teabags per box)
Internal Customers: Please state your choice of flavour in the External Comments section of the order form.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/delivered-catering/allergen--special-dietary-requirements:
Here at Rocksalt Delivered we understand the danger to those with allergies and you will find allergen information is provided with all our delivered catering items.
Our food however is prepared in areas where allergenic ingredients are present and we therefore can not guarantee that our products are 100% free of specific allergens.
We also strive to cater for every customer therefore if any of your guests have special dietary requirements please contact us directly to ensure everyone is catered for on the day.
On our website you will find some of our dishes are labelled as gluten free, vegan or vegetarian however if you have any questions please let us know.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/delivered-catering/how-to-order:
Once you have decided on your catering requirements, please follow the instructions detailed in the following pages for either University of Aberdeen staff or external customers.
Please be advised the universities catering service Rocksalt Delivered is the only catering permitted on Campus, no other external catering (including drinks) is allowed without prior consent from Campus Services.
All orders from University of Aberdeen customers should be placed via the internal finance system .
Search for " Campus services " to display the full list of Delivered Catering items.
If you have any questions head to our terms and conditions section where you will find all the answers you need or have a look at our How To Guide for step by step instructions.
External customers once you have decided upon your catering requirements, please complete the External Customers order form, and return to hospitality@abdn.ac.uk .
Orders are processed within 24 hours, and once completed, you shall receive a confirmation email.
Please note, VAT is not included in the prices shown on the menu, but is provided in the price breakdown included in your confirmation.
If your company or department operate a purchase order system or similar, please provide a reference number when possible on the order form.
Invoices and payment details shall be provided after the event date.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/bear-essentials---gifts-and-clothing:
Bear Essentials is the one stop shop for all things University of Aberdeen!
We offer a huge range of University branded clothing, gifts and stationery as well as delicious snacks and refreshments if you're feeling peckish.
Located on the ground floor of the Student Union Building we are open 9am - 4:30pm.
University branded gifts and clothing are also available from our online shop abdnshop.com .
Click on the link to see the full range available but in the meantime, here's a sneak peek!
From £20.99
Multiple colours available!
£14.99
Multiple styles and colours available!
£36.99
See the website for all our keepsakes!
£18.99
We sell ties too, see our website for different styles!
From £13.99
Everyone loves a teddy bear!
See our website for all the bears we have available, we even have a special one just for graduation!
From £5.99
Water bottles to insulated travel mugs we sell all kinds of drinkware!
From £10.99
No matter your tipple we have branded glassware for those special occassions!
From £6.99
We all love a cuppa, how about a university branded mug to enjoy it in!

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/rocksalt-connect:
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/rocksalt-connect/privacy-policy:
We collect certain information or data about you when you use the app.
This includes:
We use this information for the following purposes:
We collect and use your personal information when you r egister on the app, place an order, subscribe to our newsletter, respond to a survey or fill out a form.
Our lawful bases on which the University routinely processes your personal information are your consent to fulfil the University's contractual relationship with you.
We will disclose your personal information to the RockSalt Connect Food Court outlet from whom you have ordered food or beverages.
We may disclose your personal information to Kappture Ltd who assist us in providing the services we offer through the RockSalt Connect platform, including; processing transactions, fulfilling requests for information, receiving and sending communications, updating marketing lists, analysing data, providing support services or in other tasks, from time to time.
Any agents or contractors used will only use your information to the extent necessary to perform their functions and appropriate contractual terms will be in place to specify what tasks they are to undertake.
We may disclose your personal information if required to do so by law, to protect against legal liability or if we believe that such action is necessary to prevent fraud or cybercrime.
this information confidential.
We may also release your information when we believe release is appropriate to comply with the law, enforce our site policies, or protect ours or others rights, property, or safety.
However, non-personally identifiable visitor information may be provided to other parties for marketing, advertising, or other uses.
Your information will deleted on an annual basis.
We will also retain Usage Data for internal analysis purposes.
Usage Data is generally retained for a shorter period of time, except when this data is used to strengthen the security or to improve the functionality of our Service, or we are legally obligated to retain this data for longer me periods.>
Occasionally, at our discretion, we may include or offer third party products or services on our app.
These third party sites have separate and independent privacy policies.
We therefore have no responsibility or liability for the content and activities of these linked sites.
Nonetheless, we seek to protect the integrity of our site and welcome any feedback about these sites.
This privacy notice only relates to information collected through our app and not to information collected offline.
What are cookies?
A cookie is a small text file that is stored on your computer or mobile device when you visit a app.
We use them to:
Cookies used by this site
We use this software to collect information about how you use the app.
We do this to help make sure the site is meeting the needs of the users and to help us make improvements.
Google Analytics stores information about:
We don't collect or store your personal information (e.g.
your name or address) so this information can't be used to identify who you are.
These are set by someone other than the owner of the app you are visiting.
We do not have control over third party cookies.
On some pages of our app, other organisations may also set their own anonymous cookies.
They do this to track the success of their application, or to customise the application for you.
Examples of this are when you use social-media sharing button (e.g.
Facebook), the social network that has created the button may record that you have done this.
These are stored while you are browsing the app and are deleted from your device when you close your browser e.g.
Chrome, Internet Explorer or Safari.
These are saved on your computer and are used when we need to know who you are for more than one browsing session.
For example, we may use them to remember your preferences for the next time you visit the app
It is usually possible to stop your browser accepting cookies, or to stop it accepting cookies from a particular app.
However, this may affect your experience and the functionality when using the app.
All modern browsers allow you to change your cookie settings and you can usually find these settings in the 'options' or 'preferences' menu of your browser.
For more information about the University processes your personal data, please see the Current Students Privacy Notice .
If you have any questions about how your data is handled, please contact the Information Governance Team at dpa@abdn.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/rocksalt-connect/terms-and-conditions:
These terms and conditions apply to the APP RockSalt Connect .
Please read this statement carefully.
If you do not wish to be bound by these terms and conditions then you should not download this App.
Before you can place an order using the App, you must accept these terms and conditions by ticking the “I agree to the Terms & Conditions” box.
These terms and conditions apply to all app orders for the supply of products by RockSalt Connect to the customer.
All orders for the products shall be deemed to be an offer by the customer to purchase the products in accordance with these terms and conditions.
The acceptance of orders for the products shall be at the entire discretion of RockSalt Connect.
Our acceptance of an order occurs when you receive an on-screen message confirming your order has been placed at which point, your contract with RockSalt Connect is made and up until this point, we may decline to provide you with the goods without giving any reason.
Any goods displayed or provided on this site are done so on an "if available" basis.
Unless stated in writing, the prices quoted by RockSalt Connect on the app are inclusive of VAT.
The price of the products will be as quoted on the app at the time you confirm your order (by clicking the Pay & Finish button) subject only to any inadvertent technical mistake which we shall not be liable for.
Online credit card payments are secure.
You must to be the owner of the card you are using.
On submitting your order details, you are making an offer to us to purchase the product(s) you have specified in your order form.
Our goal is to provide the best food collection service possible and we have an excellent reputation for on-time collections.
Unfortunately things don't always go to plan, occasionally preventing us from achieving this.
It is the responsibility of the customer to ensure that they are available to collect the products at the requested time.
We reserve the right to refuse your order should it be necessary.
In the event of RockSalt Connect needing to issue a refund we will endeavour to credit your account within 7 - 10 working days.
Once an order has been successfully transmitted to store, it is not possible to cancel the order.
App only offers, promotions or discounts cannot be used in conjunction with those offered on site.
App discount vouchers are only redeemable via the app.
By submitting your information you consent to the use of that information as set out in the privacy policy statement found on the app and online at Privacy Policy Students .
To the fullest extent permitted by law, RockSalt Connect excludes all liability arising out of its supply of the products and in particular shall not be responsible for any loss or damage, arising directly or indirectly out of or in connection with delay beyond the estimated time of collection; any circumstances over which RockSalt Connect had no control of the consequences and which RockSalt Connect could not avoid by the exercise of reasonable care, or any indirect or unforeseeable loss suffered or incurred by the customer or others in any event, RockSalt Connects liability to the customer will not exceed the total price charged for the relevant items nothing in these conditions shall affect the statutory rights of the customer hypertext links in this site will lead to websites which are not under the control of RockSalt Connect.
RockSalt Connect accepts no responsibility or liability in respect of the material on any app which is not controlled by RockSalt Connect.
RockSalt Connect has taken every care in the preparation in the content of this app.
RockSalt Connect disclaims all warranties, express or implied, to the fullest extent permitted by law, as to the accuracy of all information contained herein these exclusions of liability shall not apply to any damages arising from death or personal injury caused by the fraud or negligence of RockSalt Connect.
Sales on this app are governed by Scottish law and you agree to submit any dispute to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Scottish courts.
All orders are subject to these terms and conditions and no amendments will be accepted by us.
These terms and conditions do not affect your legal rights.
These terms and conditions only cover the APP.
Any other app or web sites to which you link from this site may be governed by their own terms and conditions.
We accept no responsibility or liability for the content of web sites which are not under our control.
We are required by law to tell you that sales can be concluded in English only and that we do not file copies of customer contracts:
Rock Salt University of Aberdeen, University Office, Kings College, Aberdeen, AB24 3FX
Company Reg.
SC013683 Tel: 01224 272660
e-mail: rocksalt@abdn.ac.uk
We do not guarantee that this app will be compatible with all customers mobile phones.
RockSalt Connect owns the copyright in all materials on this app, which may not be used, downloaded, copied, reproduced, republished, posted, broadcast or transmitted.
You agree not to adapt, alter or create any derivative work from any material on this app, or to restrict or inhibit the use or enjoyment of this app by anyone else.
It is not permitted to create any link to or from this app without our prior written consent.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/mindful-menus:
Cost of Living breakfast offer is available on the dates and locations below:
MacRobert & Suttie
Monday to Friday 9am - 10.15am
Breakfast offer available to purchase at a price of £1.50.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/food-drink-and-retail-feedback:
Tell us about your experience of our cafes or outlets on the Aberdeen campus.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/fairtrade-and-sustainability:
The University of Aberdeen and AUSA support a range of different events and activities with a Fairtrade presence throughout the year.
The focal point for those efforts is Fairtrade Fortnight when we provide a range of activities, events and offers to celebrate and raise the profile of Fairtrade at the University.
As well as on-campus activities, the University is pleased to support Aberdeen's city-wide campaign.
Full details of events to support that campaign are available from Aberdeen for a Fairer World .
Every year, typically during February & March, sees Campus Services run a range of activities during Fairtrade Fortnight such as:
As a part of a wider commitment to increasing the availability of Fairtrade products on Campus and awareness of Fairtrade within the University, Campus Services supplies Fairtrade coffee, black tea and sugar in all its delivered catering orders and eateries.
Fairtrade Wine and Fruit Juice options are also available for you to select.
Wherever you are on campus, you have the power to impact positively on the lives of people around the globe through just by buying a coffee.
Together with our commitment to provide Fairtrade products across all our eateries, we strive, where possible to ensure that any packaging is biodegradable or can be recycled.
Following the success of last year, we continue to recycle the coffee grinds from the staggering 116,700 cups of coffee (in one shape or another) we serve up monthly and give it away to the keen green finger people amongst you.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/fairtrade-and-sustainability/fairtrade-at-the-university:
The University of Aberdeen and the University of Aberdeen Students' Association (AUSA) were awarded Fairtrade status in April 2007 following active campaigns co-ordinated by the Fairtrade Steering Group, now known as the Fairtrade and Sustainable Procurement Steering Group.
Our Fairtrade status has been renewed every two years since.
We thank everyone who has been involved over the years for their valued contribution.
"Achieving Fairtrade status further underlines the University of Aberdeen's commitment to recognising and helping promote cultural and social awareness amongst its students, staff and visitors"
University Management Gr
Since its initial development the group has seen a number of members come and go, but is currently represented by the following staff and students:
The University's Fairtrade Policy is available in the institutional Policy Zone (search Fairtrade)
The University's Fairtrade certificate
The AUSA Fairtrade Policy

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/fairtrade-and-sustainability/where-can-i-buy:
Wherever you are on campus, you can show your support for Fairtrade.
Fairtrade products are available in all University operated cafes in Old Aberdeen and at Foresterhill.
University hosted meetings, conferences and events have Fairtrade products on offer including a selection of Fairtrade wines.
The Corner - the AUSA's food co-operative - operates out of the AUSA building and stocks a range of Fairtrade and organic goods.
Fairtrade products can also be purchase from our Cafe outlets in the Suttie Centre and IMS on the Foresterhill Campus.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/fairtrade-and-sustainability/friends-of-fairtrade:
Become a Friend of Fairtrade at the University of Aberdeen and keep up-to-date with campus events, new product lines, special offers and more become involved in Fairtrade events by volunteering on stalls and through taste sessions.
Friends of Fairtrade can get involved in planning and participating in the events during Fairtrade Fortnight as well as other events throughout the year, spreading the word and encouraging their friends to get involved.
To join, simply send us your contact details by email via fairtrade@abdn.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/old-aberdeen/food-drink-and-retail/fairtrade-and-sustainability/sustainability:
Sustainability is a major part of our planning in Campus Services.
We are committed to helping the environment and increasing awareness within the University community.
As one of the largest departments in the University, we have changed the way we do things in our Halls of Residence, in our Cafes, in our Restaurants, and in our shops.
We are constantly working to reduce emissions and improve the sustainability of the service we provide for students, staff, visitors and other customers on a daily basis.
Among the key initiatives we have introduced are:
On an annual basis, Campus Services accommodates over 3000 new students in our Halls of Residence, who continue to make their carbon footprint distinctive in today's shrinking world, is a real challenge.
A small change to their everyday behaviour would contribute significantly to a greener Scotland and we are focused on getting that message across to them.
Our new 'Vending' contract has requested the requirement to reduce emissions through reduced running costs, more efficient insulation, reduced materials used in construction, lighter machines using less fuel to transport and improved reliability requiring less site maintenance visits.
Additionally, in Campus Services we have reduced the number of deliveries by consolidating the number of suppliers; for example, we are about to introduce an initiative where by our daily dairy supplier who currently delivers in their own vehicle, will have their milk and produce delivered to us via our Fruit & Veg supplier.
This one example alone reduces the number of vehicle movements to our sites by over 3,750 a year!
Campus Services are extremely proud to say that we have achieved the Healthy Living accolade within the Student's Union Building and are striving to achieve this within our other sites around Campus.
We are committed to making the food we serve to you healthier.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/foresterhill:
With a host of modern facilities, Foresterhill is home to our Life Sciences and Medicine disciplines
Our Foresterhill campus provides for the provision of high quality health services, education and research.
It is jointly owned by NHS Grampian and the University of Aberdeen.
Foresterhill also contains a number of food outlets and other services for staff, students and visitors.
There are two campus cafes at Foresterhill, one in the Suttie Centre and one in the IMS.
Staff can also order events catering.
The world's first full-body MRI scanner, developed at the University in the 1970s, is on permanent display in Aberdeen Royal Infirmary.
The Medical Illustration team provide a comprehensive range of design, photography, audio visual and video production services.
The free 9U bus service runs several times daily for students and staff travelling between Foresterhill, Old Aberdeen and Hillhead.
Our range of maps will help you get to where you're going.
View an A-Z list of our comprehensive range of campus maps.
A birds-eye map of our Foresterhill Campus.
Purpose-built teaching and learning centre for use by students, healthcare staff and health practitioners.
Supports and co-ordinates research in the School of Medicine, Medical Sciences and Nutrition.
Purpose-built facility which houses both academic and dental care facilities.
Home to the Clinical Research Facility, Institute of Applied Health Sciences and the Imaging Department.
Houses the Aberdeen Biomedical Imaging Centre which seeks to improve diagnostic imaging technologies and better understand disease.
The Rowett Institute of Nutrition and Health is at the heart of the Foresterhill campus.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/marischal-college:
Marischal College was founded in 1593, becoming Aberdeen's second university.
King's College had been founded in 1495.
The two Colleges merged in 1860 to form the modern University of Aberdeen.
Medicine and Law were taught at Marischal and Arts and Divinity at King's College.
Construction of the current Marischal College building began in the 1830s and a second phase was completed in 1906.
This additional construction made it the second largest granite building in the world.
The teaching and research traditionally based at Marischal is now hosted at the Foresterhill and King's College campuses, and the Marischal College building is leased to Aberdeen City Council, and since 2009 has been the Council's headquarters.
Until 2008 the Marischal Museum was open to the public at Marischal College.
The building still houses closed displays and the collections are available to view online in a virtual museum.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/maps/travelling-to-our-campuses-in-aberdeen:
The University is located within a city at the heart of a diverse and thriving regional economy.
Aberdeen's pivotal role in the international oil and gas industry means that it enjoys excellent communications and travel links.
Aberdeen's international airport is served by a number of major carriers, providing an extensive network of routes throughout the UK, direct to Europe and worldwide through major hubs.
There is a frequent bus link or taxis available to take you to the city centre.
First-class roads south to Edinburgh, Glasgow, and onwards, carry fast coach services linking Aberdeen with the UK's major cities.
Competitive return fares, using Travelcard schemes, make coach travel popular with students.
Rail services connect Aberdeen both north and south.
There are regular direct trains to London, and services from Edinburgh and Glasgow link with other mainline routes.
Inverness, the scenic West Coast and Highlands are reached northwards.
S
For Old Aberdeen
Entering the city from the south or west, follow signs for the A90 (Fraserburgh and Peterhead).
This leads round the ring road (Anderson Drive).
Exiting from a roundabout (signed Old Aberdeen) onto Cairncry Road, continue to follow the A90 signs through two further roundabouts onto St.
Machar Drive.
After a third roundabout, the road bisects Old Aberdeen and local signs will direct you to University sites.
From the north, Old Aberdeen is signposted on the A96 (from Dyce and Inverness) and on the A90 (from Peterhead).
Old Aberdeen Postcode: AB24 3FX
For Foresterhill Campus
Exit right (A9011) onto Ashgrove Road West, continue beyond the junction with Foresterhill Road, then turn right on to Cornhill Road when the bus turning area is close to the Medical School car park.
From the north, Foresterhill is approached via the A96 (from Dyce and Inverness) and the A90 (from Peterhead) and thence to the A90 (North) Anderson Drive.
Foresterhill Postcode: AB25 2ZD GPS: Lat: 57:09:23N (57.15634), Lon: 2:08:05W (-2.1346) Grid Ref: NJ919072
You can also use the Stagecoach services from Adelphi or Union Square Bus station up King Street past the University.
Nearest Stops to Foresterhill Campus
You can also use the Stagecoach service from Guild Street or Union Square Bus station to the main entrance of Aberdeen Royal Infirmary on Foresterhill Road.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/maps/maps-for-download:
Old Aberdeen is the historic heart of the University.
Old Aberdeen campus combines historic buildings with state-of-the-art facilities.
An accessible, illustrated map of our Old Aberdeen campus.
The Foresterhill campus provides for the delivery of high quality health services, education and research.
An illustrated map demonstrating the appearance of the buildings on our Foresterhill campus.
Our medical science teaching and research facilities span several buildings across the Foresterhill campus.
The recommended route for students travelling on foot from the Old Aberdeen campus to Hillhead is via King Street.
An illustrated map of our Hillhead student village, located beside the picturesque Seaton Park and a short 20 minute walk or 5 minute bus ride from King's Campus in Old Aberdeen.
An illustrated map of the city centre.
Aberdeen is a vibrant, creative and ambitious city, known for its historic charm and cosmopolitan community.
The city of Aberdeen has something for everyone.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/maps/your-location:
If you click the "Detect My Location" button, your browser should ask your permission to provide us with your device's GPS data.
Our calculation of your position is only as good as the data available from your browser, so it may be approximate.
If you wish to select an alternative geolocation, just click on the map and we'll use those coordinates instead.
Positional data you share with us is used solely to provide the "Get Directions" feature of the Campus Maps section; the data is stored in a cookie in your browser for 30 minutes, after which time your browser should again prompt for permission to use your positional data.
Note that this feature will only work if you accept functional cookies .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/strategy-and-governance/chancellor:
Her Majesty Queen Camilla was installed as Chancellor of the University of Aberdeen in a ceremony in the University's Elphinstone Hall in June 2013.
Her Majesty has a busy working life, supporting over 70 charities and organisations as their President or Patron and supports her husband, King Charles III, in his work.
Her Majesty's charity work is varied but several themes prevail: health and well-being, literacy, helping those in need, heritage and the arts, and animal welfare and, more recently, highlighting organisations which support victims of rape and sexual assault.
Queen Camilla, like her husband, is also very committed to supporting local food producers and encouraging children to learn more about where food comes from, and to eat healthily.
Her Majesty is President of the National Osteoporosis Society (NOS) and for many years has promoted understanding and raised awareness of osteoporosis, having lost both her mother and grandmother to this condition.
In January 2007 Her Majesty visited the University's new bone density scanner while opening the new Health Sciences Building at Foresterhill.
Her Majesty Queen Camilla is also President of Barnardo's, ShelterBox and Maggie's Cancer Caring Centres.
With her particular focus on literacy, Her Majesty, in January 2011, stepped aboard the Reading Bus at King's College, during a visit to celebrate the success of this local project in promoting reading with children in Aberdeen City.
In April 2012, Her Majesty visited the University's School of Education to see new approaches to training teachers in greater awareness and understanding of the educational and social problems that can affect children's learning, and strategies to support and deal with such difficulties.
Her Majesty, as Chancellor, takes an active interest in the life and work of the University, and has already conferred a number of honorary degrees.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/inclusive:
In 1495 we were founded on the principle of being open to all and dedicated to the pursuit of truth in the services of others.
We still have that purpose and continuously work towards a more inclusive community.
Our commitment to inclusion guides our education, our research, and the projects we deliver.
We aspire to lead our sector in promoting health and wellbeing and celebrating diversity.
We welcome staff and students of all backgrounds and connect with our communities and partners, locally, nationally and internationally.
This page provides an overview of the University of Aberdeen's commitments, initiatives and resources on equality, diversity and inclusion.
Care for the wellbeing, health and safety of our diverse community, supporting and developing our people to achieve their full potential
Encourage widening access to study, by having fair and flexible entry routes, offering diverse qualifications, and providing a range of modes of delivery; our students will be able to succeed whatever their personal and social background
Develop a research portfolio that promotes national and international collaboration with stakeholders, including companies, organisations and governments
Secure the highest standards of equality, diversity and inclusion, achieving accreditation across multiple strands and characteristics
Eliminate pay gaps across all protected characteristics
A collection of student and staff blogs focused on equality and diversity.
Highlights support, information, events and resources related to equality, diversity and inclusion for students.
Highlights support, information, equality network groups and resources related to equality, diversity and inclusion for staff.
We do not tolerate any form of discrimination and will not condone any acts of harassment, bullying, violence and sexual misconduct.
The University is committed to supporting all those who are affected by any form of harassment, bullying, violence and sexual misconduct.
We are committed to working in partnership to combat and address GBV in our community and wider society.
We aim to create an outstanding and inclusive educational environment, to ensure every student has the opportunity to reach their potential.
Our goal of creating an antiracist culture and ethos on campus moves a step forward with the formal launch of our Antiracism Strategy 2022-2025.
A programme of events, blogs, podcasts and talks which will provide opportunities for our community to engage with the ethos of Black History Month - to be Proud To Be.
International Women's Day falls on the 8th of March each year, has been celebrated across the world since the early 1900's.
Relive our inspiring events from the latest annual International Women's Day celebration.
Maintaining our mental wellbeing can be difficult, and it's difficult in different ways for different people.
Our Wellbeing pages, contain lot of ideas to help you with your Wellbeing, such as connecting with others, learning new skills or being more active.
We have dedicated site sections for both staff wellbeing and student wellbeing .
The BeWell Podcast series focuses on topical wellbeing issues from student pressure points to national wellbeing campaigns.
The series is hosted by Wellbeing Adviser Bekah Walker who is joined each week by guest speakers from our staff and student community.
We ensure that our written or recorded information is inclusive and accessible to all students.
The University does not tolerate any form of discrimination and will do all that we can to support students and staff who have been affected by any acts of harassment, bullying, violence and sexual misconduct at any time and anywhere.
Use our online reporting tool to report any incidents of this type.
The University of Aberdeen commits to taking bold, ambitious and effective action to support its work on equality, diversity and inclusion and to create a safe, respectful culture in which its community can work and study.
This includes proactively challenging inappropriate behaviour and systemic inequalities.
The Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee is responsible for the strategic direction of all Equality, Diversity and Inclusion activities supporting the Aberdeen 2040 strategy.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/inclusive/news:
Page 1 of 21 Results 1 to 10 of 203 , 23 May - 06 August 2025
Find out about some of the amazing research being undertaken at the University in the behind-the-scenes podcast, Tall Ships Aberdeen: Dockside Diaries.
Postgraduate psychological studies student Morven Reddy is no stranger to the Tall Ships Races.
This summer she'll be setting sail as a sail trainee, racing from Dunkirk in France to her home city of Aberdeen.
A student intern is making waves in the maritime sustainability sector by helping calculate the carbon footprint of the Tall Ships Races Aberdeen.
Locum Emergency Medicine consultant Dr Leia Kane will be part of a crack team of medics on stand-by to deal with any mishaps involving the 400,000 plus visitors attending this summer's Tall Ships Races Aberdeen.
Hundreds of Aberdeen sail trainees embarking on the adventure of a lifetime as part in the Tall Ships Races 2025 don't know it but they are successfully navigating the event thanks to a helping hand from University student Kyle Buchan.
A project which aims to increase the number of people with learning disabilities who secure employment in the north-east of Scotland held its annual graduation ceremony at the University of Aberdeen last week.
A University organisation working to end Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) has been granted charitable status as The FGM Education Project, SC054187.
The FGM Education Project was co-founded by Dean for Enterprise & Innovation Dr Heather May Morgan and graduate Dr Victoria Kinkaid, and is run by volunteer students and alumni from...
As the weather starts to get better, a stunning new addition to the University of Aberdeen's Cruickshank Botanic Garden is set to offer visitors an additional peaceful place to gather their thoughts.
On 22 May 2025, the University of Aberdeen hosted the second World Energy Business Schools (WEBS) Conference, reaffirming its commitment to global collaboration on energy and sustainability challenges.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/inclusive/events:
Sorry, there are no upcoming events to display.
Subscribe to our Event RSS feed to be kept up-to-date with forthcoming events.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/inclusive/support:
Remember!
In an emergency always call 999.
The University is committed to supporting all those who are affected by any form of harassment, bullying, violence and sexual misconduct; this includes victims as well as those they have disclosed to or those who have witnessed incidents.
We are focused on providing a holistic support approach which includes support for physical health, mental health as well as academics/work life.
To do this, the University has in house support for staff (HR) and students (Student Support).
We are also connected to a wide range of external organisations.
If you are the victim of any form of harassment, bullying, violence and sexual misconduct we strongly recommend that you report it , but also take care of yourself.
We advise that you do the following things.
In the case of sexual misconduct, you may want to check for pregnancy and STIs.
Remember you can take the morning after pill within 72 hours.
This can be done at any pharmacy or a sexual health clinic .
You may be in shock, scared, angry, or you may not know how you feel.
All these responses are normal.
Find support for your mental wellbeing in the 'worried about mental health' panel below.
Remember that this was not your fault, what happened was not OK.
Click here for more information on reporting.
If a friend, colleague or student decides to tell you about an incident of sexual violence or harassment that they have suffered from, you may not know how to respond.
Here are some dos and don'ts on how to respond.
Responding to a disclosure can be a traumatic experience and you should seek support if you feel you need it.
You should never disclose a victim's experiences without their permission but you can talk confidentially to a number of services including HR (staff), Student Support or an external service like Rape Crisis and for more information on other services visit the External Services tab.
If you have any questions or concerns regarding sexual violence, harassment or an incident you just don't think was OK, you can speak to a member of the Student Advice and Support Office team.
Students in Qatar should contact the Student Hub Team.
If you need to speak to someone when the Student Advice and Support Office is closed.
There are a number of support options for staff.
Staff in Qatar should contact HR - hr@afg-aberdeen.edu.qa .
Traumatic events can result in different responses.
If you are a survivor of sexual violence or harassment, however you feel is a valid response.
Everyone responds differently.
Remember that you are not to blame.
It was not your fault and you are not alone .
If you are struggling to cope after being a victim, witnessing or having someone disclose to you, we strongly recommend you seek professional help and advice.
The University is here to support you.
For mental health issues we have the following services;
Students:
Staff:
There are also a number of charities and services which can support you.
Please check on the tab below, a list of External Services and short descriptions of how they can help.
Although we recommend seeing professional help where possible, there are a number of self-care options.
Remember that everyone reacts differently in response to traumatic events, and that's OK.
In the same way, everyone finds different ways of managing their mental health.
It might be painting, going for a run, spending time with friends, writing a journal, taking up a new hobby etc.
Find what works for you.
Sexual Violence can result in a range of physical and mental trauma.
If you need emergency medical attention, call 999.
If you have been a victim of sexual violence you may need some time to process what has happened, and you may decide that you do not wish to report the incident.
These are your choices and not making an official report does not prevent you from seeking support.
However it is very important that you seek medical help as soon as possible after the incident.
This is because of the risk of pregnancy or STIs.
You may also have cuts, bruises or other injuries which need to be seen to.
The following services can provide the medical help you need.
If you decide to report to the police you can do so by calling 999 (if the situation is currently an emergency) or 101 , they will be able to refer you for a forensic medical exam and assess your physical health.
Read more information on forensic medical exams at nhs.uk .
Remember you don't have to go through any of this alone.
You can take a trusted person with you to any appointments you make, or ask them to help you make the booking.
As with all medical information held by the NHS, your details will be held as confidentially as possible by all the services listed above.
The University aims to provide all the support that we can to assist with you recovery and ensure the mental and physical wellbeing of all staff and students.
However, there are a number of local and nationwide services that provide free and independent support and services.
Below you will find a list of services with a brief description of how they can help.
It includes services that can assist in both your mental and physical wellbeing.
We will be updating this list as we learn about new services in the area.
You will also find information and specific resources and support here .
For their nationwide website and information on other local branches.
For treatment of physical injuries as well as STI and pregnancy testing and treatment you can use anyone of the following services.
You can speak to your GP or call 111 to discuss and mental health issues and possible treatments.
You can also mention it at any sexual health clinic appointment or at A&E, they will be able to direct you to suitable services.
In an emergency always dial 999 - when a life is in danger, a crime is in progress or a suspect is nearby.
If the situation is not an emergency but you would like to speak to the police you can call 101, the non-emergency police phone number.
The police can refer you for forensic medical examinations, and collect other evidence, which can make up a significant amount of the evidence if you decide to press charges.
Police Scotland has established a National Rape Task Force that includes Rape Investigation Units in each of the 14 local divisions across Scotland.
These units are led by Detective Inspectors and staffed by specially trained officers.
Based in South London but has a national Freephone helpline for female survivors of sexual violence.
The helpline provides a supportive, non-judgemental, safe space for survivors and allow them to begin to talk about their experiences.
For male survivors of sexual violence, either as a child or as an adult.
Survivors UK provides an online helpline - Monday to Friday : 10:30pm-9pm and Saturday to Sunday : 10am-6pm.
This service is also available to close friends and family of survivors.
24/7 helpline contact: 116 123
The Samaritans offer a 24 hour helpline for anyone who needs them.
They offer a safe place for you to talk about whatever's getting to you.
It doesn't matter if you're a victim, a witness, have been disclosed to, or you are worried about someone else, The Samaritans are there to listen.
The University of Aberdeen is committed to challenging racism and racial inequality in our institution and taking proactive action to create a learning, working and social environment, in which our Black, Asian, and Other Minority Ethnic students and staff members feel safe.
We acknowledge the racism in the everyday life of our racialised community members, and the institutional racism which they have to navigate.
These webpages will provide information on resources, actions, and groups.
This charity provides a number of online self-help resources and publications to help you understand your mental health.
This can be useful if you are struggling to cope after witnessing or experiencing an incident of sexual violence or harassment, or if you have been disclosed to.
If you would like to know more about mental health, visit our ' worried about mental health ' tab above.
There are lots of resources available to staff at the University.
There are lots of resources available to staff at the University.​​​​​​​

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/inclusive/support/online-reporting-tool:
In an emergency situation call 999 for immediate support.
This includes all forms of:
This list is not exhaustive.
There are several ways you can report GBV to the university.
The University will never ask you to sign a document, or statement, that means you cannot discuss what has happened to you with anyone else.
These documents, often called NDA's (Non-disclosure agreements) are not part of the University approach to managing cases and we are signatories to a sector wide commitment in Scotland not to use them.
Use our online reporting tool to report any incidents or acts of harassment, bullying, violence, targeted hate, or sexual misconduct.
You don't have to complete the report form to get help, you can speak to a Member of HR.
You don't have to complete the report form to get help, you can speak to a Student Support Adviser.
The following members of staff have access to all reports (both staff and students):
The following members of staff have access to student reports only:
The following members of staff have access to staff reports only:
You don't have to complete the report form to get help, you can speak to a Member of HR or Student Support Advisor

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/inclusive/support/online-reporting-tool/harassment-reporting-statistics:
The University collects data from all reports made using our Online Reporting Tool.
These will be published quarterly from the 2023 Academic Year.
Data from the tool will be published quarterly below.
Our Online reporting tool was launched in early 2019, initially focused on taking reports about sexual harassment and violence.
Since spring 2020 the tool was expanded to receive reports of all forms of harassment.
Over the years, changes have been made to maximise the impact of the tool, and this will result in slight changes in the way our data is presented over time.
A summary of the data from the reporting tool, are available through the report links below.
2019/20 Academic Year – 2022/23 Academic Year A summary of the initial data from the tool, covering the first 4 years of operation is available in the report below.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/inclusive/support/gender-based-violence:
You can leave this webpage at any time by pressing the Hide Page button at the side.
If you are worried about someone seeing what you are searching, Women's Aid has a document to help you cover your tracks online .
Gender-Based Violence (GBV) is abusive behaviour directed at someone because of their gender.
It is a result of deep-rooted gender inequalities and perceived gender roles within society.
It takes the form of actions that result in physical, sexual, and psychological harm or suffering or compromise a person's dignity.
This can include coercive behaviour or denying someone their freedom.
More information about what GBV is and support for those who have experienced it can be found below.
The University of Aberdeen and Students' Union are committed to working in partnership to combat and address GBV in our community and wider society.
Neither organisation tolerates any form of GBV and are both committed to providing safe and welcoming campuses for all members of our community.
In April 2022, the University of Aberdeen and Students' Union re-signed a Statement of Commitment to address GBV in our community.
The Joint Statement is a signed promise made by the University and Students' Union to work together to address GBV on campus.
Both organisations understand that there is work to do as a university to provide the best support to victim-survivors of GBV and to support the global work to end it in society.
Work towards our Joint Statement will be undertaken by both the University and Students' Union and will also be supported through partnership working in our Addressing GBV and Sexual Harassment Strategy Group.
At the University of Aberdeen, we are working to promote an understanding of what GBV is and provide support for students and staff who have experienced it.
We acknowledge that sexual violence and harassment happens on campus and in the wider community.
We do not tolerate it.
We want our campuses to be safe and inclusive environments for everyone.
More information about what GBV is and the support available to those who are, or know somebody who is, experiencing it can be found below.
You can use our Online Reporting Tool to report any form of harassment, assault, or violence you, or someone you know, has experienced.
You do not need to make a report to the police or University.
If you just want to speak to someone about your experience or any feelings you have, you can contact our support services using the 'Support' panel at the side of the page.
These documents, often called NDA's (Non-disclosure agreements) are not part of the University approach to managing cases and we are signatories to a sector wide commitment in Scotland not to use them - Confidentiality clauses in Scottish higher education — Universities Scotland (universities-scotland.ac.uk) .
If you choose to report Gender-Based Violence to the University, your personal details, including those pertaining to your sexual orientation, gender identity, and employment (including engagement in sex work), will not be shared with any other person (including your emergency contact) without your consent nor will that information be disclosed as part of any University investigations or disciplinary proceedings related to your report without your consent.
Gender based violence (GBV) can affect people of every gender, age, ethnicity, socio-economic status, sexuality, or background.
It can include physical, sexual, verbal, or psychological abuse.
The perpetrator can be a trusted partner, friend, colleague, classmate, parent, or a stranger.
It is not accepted in any form at the University of Aberdeen.
You have the right to feel safe in your relationships, free from physical or verbal violence.
The University recognises that although GBV is experienced mostly by women and perpetrated mainly by men, men can also be victims.
GBV also includes violence against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and non-binary (LGBTQ+) people in the form of homophobic, transphobic, biphobic or enbyphobic abuse.
Victim-survivors of GBV are never to blame.
The guilt and blame lie entirely with the perpetrator.
Victim-survivors should never feel responsible for the perpetrator's actions.
Examples of GBV include, forcing your partner to have sex with you, telling your partner what they can wear or who they are allowed to speak to, or groping someone on a night out.
This list gives a few examples and is not exhaustive.
Anything that makes someone feel unsafe, humiliated, or controlled may be considered an act of GBV and is not okay.
Different cultures and countries might have different opinions and views about what is considered okay.
At the University of Aberdeen, we have standards that we expect to be met (see more at Code of Practice on Student Discipline (Non-Academic) ) and behaviours that we will not tolerate.
We will not tolerate GBV directed at any of our students, staff, or visitors.
The following information has been taken directly from the Women's Aid website :
Coercive control is an act or a pattern of acts of assault, threats, humiliation and intimidation or other abuse that is used to harm, punish, or frighten their victim.
This controlling behaviour is designed to make a person dependent by isolating them from support, exploiting them, depriving them of independence and regulating their everyday behaviour.
Coercive control is a criminal offence and creates a sense of fear that pervades all elements of a victim's life.
It works to limit their human rights by depriving them of their liberty and reducing their ability for action.
Experts like Evan Stark liken coercive control to being taken hostage.
As he says; 'the victim becomes captive in an unreal world created by the abuser, entrapped in a world of confusion, contradiction and fear.'
If you're sexually active, it is important to stay safe and be informed.
You should never feel pressured to have sex.
Everyone has the right to be safe in their relationships free from physical and verbal violence.
It is important to give your consent (permission) every time you take part in any sexual activity.
Consent cannot be given if you are heavily under the influence of alcohol or drugs, if you are asleep, or if you are being threatened with physical violence.
These examples are not exhaustive.
If you have not willingly agreed to do something, no matter the circumstances, you have not given consent.
If someone tries any form of sexual act with you without your consent, it is sexual assault and considered a criminal offence.
The University does not tolerate sexual violence or harassment.
If you have been a victim of any form of sexual violence and would like to make a report to the university, you can do so by using our Confidential Reporting Tool or you can make a report to the police .
Additionally, if you do not want to speak to the University or the police at this time, and you have been a victim of sexual violence in the last 8 days you can contact your local SARCS (Sexual Assault Response Co-Ordination Service) who can provide medical support and advice.
What is Consent?
Sexual consent means a person willingly agrees to have sex or engage in a sexual activity.
This is known as a 'free agreement'.
To give consent, the person must be able to make their own decisions.
Consent is not a one-off - it can be withdrawn at any time.
Being in any form of relationship, whether it's a first date or a long-term partnership, does not give anyone the right to participate in sexual activities without consent.
It is important to remember:
Withdrawing Consent
You might give consent and then later withdraw it.
That is okay, and always your choice.
You can give and take away consent at any point before or during the thing you may have given consent for.
You might give consent for one thing but not another, this is okay too and if the person you are with does not accept this and continues, they are doing so without consent.
You have a right to be in control of your body and what happens to it.
How and when can consent be given?
Consent can be given through many different actions.
It is important not only to listen to their words but also to consider their body language.
If someone initiates sex, then that may be a sign of consent.
If someone is hesitating or not actively participating, then they may not be comfortable with what is happening.
Always make sure your partner is comfortable.
You can do this by asking things like “is this okay?” and “do you enjoy this?”
If someone is unsure or if they say maybe, it does not mean 'convince me'.
You should not try to persuade them or make repeated attempts to have sexual contact.
Rape is a form of sexual violence.
It is a criminal offence and has male and female victims.
When a person uses their penis to penetrate another person without that person's consent, it is rape.
Rapists are not always strangers; they can be partners and trusted friends too.
If you have not consented to have sex with that person, or you have withdrawn your consent, it is rape.
Rape only incudes penetration by a penis, it does not include penetration by fingers or any other object.
This is sexual assault by penetration and is a criminal offence considered as serious as rape.
If you have been assaulted in the last eight days, you can contact your local SARCS (Sexual Assault Response Co-Ordination Service) by calling 0800 148 88 88 .
This NHS service can help you get the support and medical assistance you need.
They can also help you make a police report, however, this is entirely your choice and there will be no pressure to do this.
What is harassment?
Harassment is when someone repeatedly behaves in a way that makes you feel scared or threatened.
Harassment can come from someone that you might know, or a stranger.
It might include bullying from classmates or colleagues, online abuse (including cyber-stalking), sending unwanted gifts, letters, emails and phone calls, or making unwanted visits.
If someone's behaviour is unwanted and has happened more than once, it can be considered harassment.
What is Stalking?
Stalking is a more aggressive form of harassment.
In the case of stalking, the stalker will have an obsession with the person they are targeting.
You can be stalked by someone you know.
This might be an ex-partner of someone you used to be friends with.
It might also be a stranger.
Even if it is someone you know, or have known, if they are making you uncomfortable, it is considered stalking, and is a criminal offence.
Stalking might include, regularly following someone, watching, or spying on someone or repeatedly going uninvited to where they live or hang around.
The National Stalking Helpline can provide advice and support.
Online stalking and harassment
Online stalking and harassment can happen over social media, gaming sites or online chatrooms.
Stalking and harassment can happen online by people you might never have met.
Sometimes the harassers will use these platforms to get personal information from people, send threats to share private information and photographs or send viruses.
This can leave the victim-survivor feeling anxious and scared.
You can access advice and support from The Cyber Helpline .
Spiking is a crime and can be a means to make a secondary crime, such as sexual assault, easier.
More information about spiking and the signs to look out for can be found here .
Sexual harassment is any form or unwanted behaviour of a sexual nature that makes you feel humiliated or intimidated, or that creates a hostile environment.
Victim-survivors of sexual harassment can feel anxious and/or depressed and might face additional challenges such as difficulties focusing on course work or not sleeping properly.
Sexual harassment has several forms.
It includes things like paying excessive unwanted attention to someone or commenting on the way someone looks.
Calling someone names based on their sexuality or gender or talking to someone in a sexual way that makes them feel uncomfortable can also be considered sexual harassment.
It can happen in person or online.
Domestic violence can include physical, emotional, and sexual abuse within intimate relationships or between family members.
It does not just include married couples or people living together.
Domestic violence can affect anyone in a relationship irrespective of age, the length of relationship, or living situation.
Anyone can be a victim of domestic violence and anyone can be a perpetrator.
Domestic violence can happen in several ways.
It includes controlling and threatening behaviour that makes you feel unsafe or belittled.
This can include things like someone you know telling you what to wear or who you can speak to, someone that you trust reading you emails without your permission or putting pressure on you to have sex.
Domestic violence is a criminal offence.
The NHS website has a list of things that could be considered domestic violence and external support services available to you.
A forced marriage is where one or both people do not, or cannot, due to severe learning difficulties or mental health conditions, consent to the marriage.
In cases of forced marriages, pressure or abuse is used to force the person or people into marriage.
Forcing someone to get married against their will is a criminal offence in the UK.
It is considered a form of domestic abuse.
The UK Government considers forced marriages a severe breach of human rights.
Forced marriages can sometimes happen due to pressure from family members who are forcing marriage because they believe that it is what is best for those involved.
For some people, forced marriages are seen as part of their culture or religion.
There might be threats of physical, psychological, or financial abuse.
This abuse can often continue even after a forced marriage has happened.
You have the right to choose who you marry, when you marry or whether you want to get married at all.
You can contact the National Domestic Abuse and Forced Marriage helpline who can provide support and advice to anyone experiencing domestic abuse or a forced marriage.
This helpline can also help family members, friends, colleagues, and professionals who support them.
Commercial Sexual Exploitation refers to sexual activities being complete in exchange for something such as drugs, shelter, food, money, or protection.
Examples of commercial sexual exploitation include prostitution, sex trafficking and pornography.
Exploitation of people by these means of 'entertainment' is linked to gender inequality and sexual violence.
Many people that are involved in commercial sexual exploitation do so because of a lack of choice.
The University can provide emergency accommodation and financial support if this is a factor preventing you from leaving.
Forcing someone to complete sexual acts in exchange for drugs, shelter, food, money, or protection is a criminal offence.
Those who are being forced to complete these acts are never to blame.
Female genital mutilation (FGM) involves the partial or total removal of female genitalia or other injury to the female genital organs.
There are no health benefits for the girls or women this happens to.
FGM tends to happen to girls between infancy and the age of 15, generally before they have undergone puberty.
It is a severe breach of human rights and is considered child abuse.
It is a criminal offence in the UK.
FGM can lead to immediate and extended health problems.
It can lead to infections and scar tissue.
In the long term it can cause mental health problems such as depression and PTSD.
If you have experienced FGM, you can speak to your GP who can provide medical support and advice.
It can be difficult to know what to do or say if a friend, partner, or family member discloses sexual violence to you.
It can be frightening and distressing.
Here are some tips about what to do if you are supporting someone who has experienced GBV:
It is important to look after yourself as well, and sometimes that may involve acknowledging that you cannot meet the needs of the person who has experienced GBV.
It is not your role to provide ongoing, specialist support, and it is okay to put boundaries in place.
Rape Crisis Scotland offer support and advice to those supporting survivors of GBV - there are helpful support guides here .
Proud to have been awarded the EmilyTest Charter.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/inclusive/support/gender-based-violence/how-to-report-incidents-of-gbv-and-misconduct:
We know that making a report of a GBV or misconduct can be really challenging.
We have advisers on campus that are here to listen, and believe, everyone who makes a disclosure.
It is important to know that you are never to blame for what has happened to you, it is always the responsibility of the perpetrator.
You have the right to feel safe and supported.
The University was proud to work with the sector on creating a joint statement in 2019 prohibiting the use of NDA (non-disclosure agreements) and confidentiality clauses in cases of harassment.
This statement was signed up to by all Scottish institutions at the time and remains in place today.
As outlined in the statement:
“Scottish universities do not use confidentiality clauses to prevent victims of harassment from speaking out.
It is critical that all our staff and students are safe and supported, and we would consider any such use of confidentiality clauses to be wholly unacceptable”.
The University will never attempt to silence a victim or survivor from speaking out about their experiences as they proceed through any University process in relation to their support.
The full statement can be found on the Universities Scotland website.
Within our University community, we want to foster a safe and inclusive environment for learning and working and we are committed to having a fair and transparent reporting process for everyone.
If you have experienced GBV and would like to formally report this, you may be able to do so under our Code of Practice on Student Discipline (non-academic) (also known as “The Code”).
To access a student-friendly guide to The Code, please click here.
The Code sets out what the University considers to be 'misconduct', what the process of investigation is for students who report misconduct or are reported to have engaged in misconduct under the Code, and the different outcomes that may follow an investigation.
“Misconduct” refers to any behaviour which can cause material damage, physical harm, emotional upset, mental harm or threaten the safety of anyone involved.
All forms of GBV constitute non-academic misconduct.
Who does the code apply to?
When does the code apply?
You can report an incident of GBV under The Code if it meets at least one of the following criteria:
What is the process?
INITIAL REVIEW
The reported GBV is considered by the Case Manager who decides whether it meets the requirements of The Code.
If so, an investigation will begin, and any immediate safety concerns will be addressed following discussion with senior staff in Student Support.
If not, the case will not progress and an alternative process may be used (e.g., Complaints Handling Process, Fitness to Practice Process).
If the reporting party is not satisfied with the outcome of the initial review, they can appeal this.
In cases of urgency, the Principal (or Senior Vice-Principal or University secretary) shall have the power to authorise immediate action to temporarily exclude or suspend the reported party from accessing campus locations (including University accommodation) or to limit their ability to remain a registered student.
INVESTIGATION
As informally as possible, the Investigator will establish the facts of what has happened by speaking with any parties they feel are appropriate.
Examples of conclusions that the Investigator may reach are as follows:
The reporting party will always be informed of the outcome of an investigation.
REVIEW PANEL (if applicable)
The review panel will be convened by a member of the Disciplinary Investigation Group, along with two other panel members (one of whom will be a student representative) and can take place in person or virtually.
Where a case of misconduct involves alleged sexual or personal violence, an impacted party will not be expected to share space with the reported party.
The panel will examine and discuss relevant information before inviting the reported party to make a statement, ask any questions they might have, and state whether they admit or deny the case of misconduct put forward against them.
The convener will conclude the review panel by outlining next steps the panel may need to take, and letting the reported party know the expected timeframe for an outcome to be issued.
APPEALS
A reported party can appeal any decision made throughout the investigation process if there are valid grounds to do so.
Specific grounds for appeal are outlined within the full Code of Practice on Student Discipline (non-academic).
Stage 1: Initial Review - 1 week
- Completed within 5 working days of the case being raised with a Case Manager.
Stage 2: Investigation - 2 weeks
- Decision will be reached within 10 working days of the initial referral from a Case Manager.
- Review panel will normally be organised within 10 days of it being requested by an Investigator.
Stage 3: Review Panel - 2 weeks
- From start to finish, the review panel will be completed within 10 working days.
- 72 hours before the review panel, all parties involved will be given a copy of the relevant papers.
- Decision of the review panel will be communicated to the reported party within 5 working days.
Stage 4: Appeal - 2 weeks
- A reported party has 10 days to appeal a review panel decision.
The average length of time a formal investigation of non-academic misconduct takes is 3-7 weeks.
Please note, the timescales listed above are approximate and are subject to change on a case-by-case basis.
The Burden of Proof used for investigations under The Code is the “balance of probabilities”.
This means that any outcome will be based on whether the reported misconduct is more likely than not to have taken place, based on the information provided by all parties during the investigation.
This is different to the burden of proof used in criminal justice investigations (“beyond reasonable doubt”).
Examples of outcomes that can be put in place for the reported party after the Initial Investigation:
Examples of outcomes that can be put in place for the reported party after the Review Panel:
What does the University mean by….
Expulsion?
Students who are expelled are not allowed to attend the University or engage with any University activities.
They are not typically eligible to re-admit unless a request is made to and approved by the Senior Management Team.
Suspension?
Students who are suspended are not allowed to attend the University or engage with any University activities for a set period of time.
Exceptions may be made if, for example, a suspended student needs to sit an on-campus exam.
Exclusion?
Students who are excluded will be restricted from attending or accessing the University or any of its services, locations, or activities.
This may extend to restriction on access to other places such as hospital wards or school premises (if access to such places is an integral part of the student's programme of study or professional training).
No, no information will be shared with your family without your consent unless you are at significant risk of harm.
No, no information will be shared with your School without your consent.
No, reporting to the Police is entirely your choice.
This does not matter and you will not be judged or penalised for this.
You will be listened to and believed.
You can choose to stop the investigation at any point - you are in control.
The reported party can request a different time and date for the meeting.
If they do not attend the re-arranged meeting, the case will still be considered, and a decision made in their absence.
The University cannot conduct a criminal investigation into misconduct.
However, we can still investigate reported misconduct under The Code and deliver an outcome in keeping with the limits of The Code.
If there is a live criminal investigation into the reported misconduct, the University may decide to postpone an investigation under The Code until any criminal proceedings are concluded.
These two types of investigation are independent of one another and may or may not reach the same conclusion(s).
The same investigation procedures under The Code apply, and you will not be disadvantaged in any way.
We work with funding bodies to make use of additional funding years when available, and also have funding available to support you with emergency, and ongoing costs related to your experience(s).
We may be able to support you with travel expenses, living costs, and emergency accommodation.
We also have a supply of stationary items, clothing, and bedding that can be provided to try and minimise any disruption to studies.
We will do our best to cater for any need, so please do reach out and ask for support.
You do not need to make a report to the police if you have been a victim of GBV.
However, if you would like support making a police report, the Student Advice and Support team can help you with this.
You can report a crime to the Police through the following methods:
*The University has recently become a 3rd party reporting venue, which means we can report to the Police on your behalf.
Please get in touch with Student Support to find out more about this.
Alternatively, if you have been a victim of sexual violence in the last 8 days you can contact your local SARCS (Sexual Assault Response Co-ordination Service) who can provide medical support and advice.
They can also support you to make a police report.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/inclusive/support/gender-based-violence/support-available:
You can speak with a Student Support Adviser about your own experiences of GBV, or if you are worried about someone else.
They provide confidential, in-the-moment advice and guidance in relation to next steps and can ensure any reasonable adjustments are made to allow you to successfully engage with your studies.
Every member of the team is trained to manage initial disclosures of GBV and will listen and treat you with dignity and respect.
If you have any specific requests in relation to the support you will receive (e.g.
you would prefer to speak with a member of staff who identifies as female) please let us know and where possible, we will honour this.
The Student Advice and Support Team may be able to provide you with financial or accommodation support (there is no requirement for a formal complaint to have been made, or specific details of GBV experienced on campus to have been shared, for accommodation to be arranged).
Speaking with the team for advice and support will not instigate a formal investigation process.
More information about the Student Advice & Support Team can be found here .
Our Student Helpline is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year and offers free of charge emotional support.
A trained counsellor will answer your call and is there to listen and answer any questions you might have.
Our Online Reporting Tool can be used to report incidents of GBV, with the option to tell us about what happened in your own words.
You can provide your personal details if you want to, but there is also an option to report anonymously.
In both cases, you will have access to support, and neither will instigate a formal investigation process unless you want that to happen.
Your report will be accessed and responded to within two working days by a member of the Student Advice & Support Team.
At the time of writing (August 2023), this would typically be Lisa Kilgour (Student Support Adviser specialising in GBV prevention and support) and/or Jemma Murdoch (Deputy Head of Student Support Services).
If you have provided your personal details, you will be offered an appointment with a Student Support Adviser to discuss your report and next steps.
This can be in person, over the phone or via MS Teams - whatever feels most comfortable for you.
Counselling is a talking therapy which gives you the opportunity to explore with a qualified counsellor issues which are causing you concern or distress.
All members of the team are trained to manage initial disclosures of GBV, and some have specific training in trauma-informed counselling methods and Understanding and Responding to Sexual Violence.
The University Counselling Service offer one appointment at the time you need to talk, rather than a block of future appointments.
This does not mean you are limited to one appointment; it just means you book one at a time.
Many students find that one appointment is all they need, whilst others return to see them again - it is all about what works best for you.
The Chaplaincy Service offer a confidential, non-judgemental listening ear for multi-faith students as well as those who do not express any faith.
You can drop in any time to access a quiet space or speak with Marylee, the Chaplain.
The University has its own 24/7 Security Team who are based at the Old Aberdeen Campus and the Foresterhill Campus.
The Security Team can assist with a wide variety of emergency and non-emergency matters, including GBV.
The Security Team can be contacted 24 hours a day, 365 days a year on:
The Student Advice and Support team have strong links with all of the external services listed, so please do not hesitate to get in touch if you would like to know more or would like some help to contact a service.
The team can also book a space on campus for you to talk with someone from any of the listed agencies, with or without the support of an Adviser.
You can contact them by email at student.support@abdn.ac.uk .
If you have been raped or sexually assaulted and think you might be pregnant, the emergency contraceptive pill is available at any pharmacy free of charge and is effective for up to five days following unprotected sex (although it is best taken as soon as possible to be most effective).
If you go into the pharmacy and ask to speak with the pharmacist about emergency contraception, they will arrange an immediate consultation with you, and you will be given the contraceptive pill.
There is also an option to buy the contraceptive pill from the pharmacy if you don't want to have a consultation with a pharmacist.
It may be useful to get a Sexually Transmitted Infection (STI) check.
This can be arranged through your GP or by contacting the Aberdeen Community Health and Care Village on 0345 337 9900 .
You can also use this number to arrange an NHS secure video call to discuss your sexual health.
More information about STIs and sexual health can be found on the NHS website .
If you have been sexually assaulted in the last eight days, you can start the process of accessing a SARCS by calling 0800 148 88 88.
SARCS (Sexual Assault Referral Co-Ordination Service) is an NHS service that supports anyone who has been a victim of any form of sexual assault regardless of gender, age, or the type of incident.
SARCS can provide a range of support including crisis care, medical and forensic examinations, emergency contraception and testing for STIs.
They can also provide information about mental health and sexual violence support services.
More information about SARCS and what you can expect when you phone the service can be found on their website .
Rape Crisis Grampian offers support, advocacy, and information for anyone over the age of 13 who has been raped or sexually abused at any time in their life, and they are open to all genders.
There is no obligation to disclose what has happened to you, and the sessions will be taken at your own pace.
Please visit the Rape Crisis Grampian website for more information.
Grampian Women's Aid offers a free, confidential, specialist service to women, children and young people in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire who have experienced domestic abuse from an intimate partner or ex-partner.
They can give you advice on how to stay safe and can provide temporary accommodation if you're unable to stay in your home.
If you leave a message on their phone, they will only call you back if you have said it is safe to do so, and the call will be from a withheld number.
Please visit the Grampian Women's Aid website for more information.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/inclusive/support/gender-based-violence/training:
On this page, you can find some Gender-Based-Violence support and prevention training which is available for staff and students.
This online tool is a learning resource for professionals.
It's an awareness-raising resource and serves as an introduction to domestic abuse and coercive control.
The tool provides an overview of the main considerations when responding to domestic abuse, however it does not replace specialist domestic abuse training.
Access the Domestic Abuse Awareness Raising Tool tool here .
L.I.S.T.E.N is a new risk assessment tool developed by the Scottish Charity EmilyTest.
The tool is designed to give staff across Further and Higher Education institutions the skills to offer in-the-moment support to a victim/survivor of sexual violence or harassment, ensure they are safe and put in place clear next steps for support.
Emily Drouet was a University of Aberdeen student who started studying her Law degree in 2015.
Tragically, Emily took her own life in March 2016 within our Student Accommodation, after experiencing Gender Based Violence at University.
Given our direct connection to Emily's story, we are honoured to be rolling out L.I.S.T.E.N training.
In the training, you will hear from Fiona Drouet (Emily's Mum) and the EmilyTest training officer, who will set the scene as to the importance of this work and the family's experiences surrounding Emily's death.
This is, of course, difficult to hear, especially for colleagues in Aberdeen, but it is important that this message is delivered to outline the impact L.I.S.T.E.N can have in preventing suicide in the future.
There will also be in depth conversations about suicide and discussions around lived experience of Gender-Based Violence.
As a reminder, all staff at the University can access support from the Employee Assistance Programme (a 24/7 helpline), arrange a counselling or debrief session with our University Counselling Service or speak with their line manager to seek support for anything that L.I.S.T.E.N raises with them.
You can also reach out to Nick Edwards (Deputy Director of People) or Lisa Kilgour (Student Support Adviser specialising in GBV prevention and support) to discuss any element of the training before, during, or after attending.
New session dates will be advertised when they become available.
If you would like to attend a L.I.S.T.E.N session, please complete the expression of interest form .
Featuring leading behavioural and legal experts combined with original drama and compelling first-person accounts, this course takes a fresh look at the nature of sexual harassment, setting out the moral and business case for tackling it and providing guidance on bringing about positive cultural change through the use of bystander interventions, robust sexual harassment policies and effective reporting systems.
This is an online course as part of the Skills Booster E-learning training provided by Staff Development and can be accessed at any time by visiting the Skill Boosters website .
We all have a role to play in putting an end to sexual harassment in the workplace, whether it's by re-thinking our own attitudes and conduct, challenging the behaviour of others, supporting victims or working together to bring about cultural change in our organisation.
Combining powerful drama and first-person stories with insight from leading behavioural experts and practical strategies for action, this short course examines the nature of sexual harassment in the workplace and its impact on staff and sets out practical steps for tackling the problem.
The training is an interactive, engaging Gender-Based Violence (GBV) E-learning module designed to give an overview of issues related to GBV.
It uses a range of learning tools, such as quizzes, videos, and case studies to give students an introduction to the topic.
The module includes signposting to support and self-care reminders throughout and takes around 40 minutes to complete.
The E-Learning module created by Rape Crisis Scotland gives a brief introduction to GBV issues for students.
The module is developed specifically for the Scottish context and includes a gendered analysis in line with Equally Safe in Higer Education (ESHE), Scotland's strategy to prevent violence against women and girls; Scotland-specific support information for survivors of GBV and their supporters; Scottish legislation and legal definitions; and links to the wider Equally Safe in Colleges and Universities project and the ESHE Toolkit.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/strategy-and-governance/pro-chancellor:
Professor Iain Torrance was appointed Pro-Chancellor in February 2013.
Professor Torrance was born in Aberdeen and educated at the universities of Edinburgh, St Andrews and Oxford.
After ministry in Northmavine Parish in the Shetland Islands, he taught at Queen's College, Birmingham, and then Birmingham University, before returning to Aberdeen in 1993.
He served as Dean of the Faculty of Arts & Divinity before being elected Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland in 2003.
He was President of Princeton Theological Seminary in New Jersey from 2004 to the end of 2012.
While there, he led the institution through the financial downturn of 2008 and built their new library.
Appointed a Chaplain to HM The Queen in 2001, in 2013 he was appointed Dean of the Chapel Royal in Scotland and in 2014 Dean of the Order of the Thistle.
He retired from both Deanships in July 2019.
He has been granted honorary degrees by the Universities of St Andrews, Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Debrecen Reformed Theological University in Hungary and King University, Tennessee.
He was elected a Corresponding Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 2007 and became a Fellow (FRSE) on his return to Scotland at the beginning of 2013.
He was appointed a Knight Bachelor in the New Year Honours List 2018 for services to Higher Education and Theology, and a Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (KCVO) for his service to The Queen in July 2019.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/strategy-and-governance/court-members:
Members of Court may be contacted via the Clerk to Court: Bruce Purdon
Register of Interests - including independent, elected, nominated Court and ex officio lay members of governance committees
Iona Fyfe
Iona is a director of the Traditional Music and Song Association, a charity which promotes and preserves traditional music through advocacy and education at a range of levels and abilities.
Iona is a strong advocate of life-long learning, and is particularly passionate about access to music making, sport and creative endeavours as a vehicle to establishing a well-being economy.
In 2022, Iona joined Kansas City-based Folk Alliance International as a director, helping to develop the organisation's strategic plan and EDI framework.
Iona also has experience in fundraising.
She is a member of the Scottish Government's Cross-Party Group on Music and the Scots Language.
During the pandemic, Iona co-founded and voluntarily acted as Communications Officer for Oor Vyce, the campaign for the legal recognition of the Scots Language, including the Doric dialect of Scots.
The organisation is helping to oversee the new Scottish Languages Bull, which will see an update to the Gaelic Language Act, and a brand-new Scots Language Act.
In 2021, Iona changed language policy at Spotify when she successfully campaigned for the company to add the Scots Language to its platform.
Email: rector@abdn.ac.uk
Julie Ashworth
Julie is Chair of the Institute of Directors (IOD) Scotland and the current Chair of Scottish University Chairs.
She is a member of the Scotland Business Advisory Board, Non-Executive Trustee of the Advance HE Board, ICAS Council (Institute of Chartered Accountants Scotland), the Universities Chairs UK and sits on the Expert Advisory Group UK for Diversity and Inclusion.
She is the Scotland lead for WB Directors UK, formerly Women on Boards), and Founder and CEO of Broadreach Leadership, which works with companies and organisations worldwide on Board and executive development.
Julie is also an active member of Chapter Zero.
She is an experienced Executive and Non-Executive Director, Chair, Board Advisor, Angel Investor and Founder, and has worked with a range of businesses and charities across a range of sectors and geographies.
George Boyne
Professor Boyne is Principal and Vice-Chancellor of the University, an appointment he has held since August 2018.
Richard Hepworth-Young
Dr Richard Hepworth-Young was appointed to the University of Aberdeen as Lecturer in Mathematics in 2011.
He was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2016, and to Reader in 2022.
Richard has been an elected member of Senate since 2018, a member of the University Education Committee from 2021 to 2022, and a member of the Senate Business Committee since 2023.
Richard's research focuses on algebraic topology.
He teaches a variety of mathematics courses, and received the university's Excellence Award for Undergraduate Lecturer of the Year in 2021.
Joachim Schaper
Professor Joachim Schaper studied Theology, Philosophy and Assyriology at the University of Tübingen and Theology at the University of Cambridge.
He was a Research Fellow at Clare College, University of Cambridge and taught as a Privatdozent in Old Testament at the University of Tübingen from 1999 to 2005.
In 2005 he joined the University as a Reader in Old Testament, was appointed to a Personal Chair in 2006, and translated to the Chair of Hebrew and Semitic Languages in 2012.
Diane Skåtun
Dr Diane Skåtun is a graduate of the University of Aberdeen.
Her first degrees are in Political Economy and then Economics from the University of Glasgow before coming to Aberdeen and being awarded a PhD in Economics.
She joined the Health Economics Research Unit at the University in 1999 where her research focuses on how financial and non-financial incentives influence the behaviour of the healthcare workforce.
Ilia Xypolia
Dr Ilia Xypolia is Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at University of Aberdeen.
She is an elected senator for the School of Social Science since 2018.
In 2022, Ilia was elected as a Senator Assessor to the Court.
Ilia is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
She is also the Reviews Editor of the refereed periodical Journal of Global Faultlines.
Her interdisciplinary research focuses on democracy, nationalism and imperialism.
Martin Barker
Dr Martin Barker is senior lecturer in the School of Biological Sciences, with strong teaching interests in inclusion, widening access, pastoral support, disability provisions, staff-student communication and also innovative methods in assessment and feedback.
Martin's research interests focus on plant ecophysiology and forest canopy research.
He has promoted plant biology in public lectures, TV and radio.
His career has in higher education has previously been centred (chronologically) at the universities of Sussex, Exeter, Hertfordshire, Lancaster, Brunei and Florida.
Martin has also been a school teacher and has written several textbooks on biology.
Since joining the University of Aberdeen in 2009 Martin has served on numerous committees, Senate (2017—2020; 2023—) and is also the honorary Quaker chaplain.
Outside the university, Martin's contributions include President of the Friends of the Cruickshank Botanic Garden, and previously Chair of Governors, Bachlaw Projects (Banff), and parent teacher associations of local schools (Aberdeen).
Iain Grant
Iain is an alumnus of the University, having qualified with a degree in Politics and International Relations in 2004.
He started his career at the University within Academic Services in 2006, working his way via a number of posts to the position of Head of Strategic Planning in 2017.
Iain managed the institutional strategy development process in 2019 for Aberdeen 2040, and his portfolio was expanded in 2021, to include leading the University's Project Management Office (PMO); reflecting both his experience and qualifications in that space, having completed an MSc in Project Management via distance learning in 2017.
Helen Martin
Dr Helen Martin is a lecturer in Mathematics Education where she specialises in pedagogical design capacity and professional decision-making.
Her research and teaching are based on the design principles 'valuing diversity, developing flexibility and making connections' with an emphasis on how 'others' make sense of doing mathematics, becoming and being mathematicians within a community.
Helen has led collaborative projects across universities around E-Formative Assessment, online study sessions for primary pre-service teachers and Multiplicative and Algebraic Reasoning across Scottish schools as well as continuing to work at a National level with the Scottish Government, Scottish Mathematics Council and Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Owen Cox
Owen Cox is a Security Liaison Officer within the Directorate of Estates and Facilities.
He is also the Branch Chair of the Unison Aberdeen Universities trade union, as well as co-chair of the Unison Scottish Higher Education Committee which incorporates all of the HE branches based in Scotland.
He has had quite a varied career across his working life including working for British rail as a shunter, working in hotels in a number of positions (food service, accommodation, housekeeping, conference and events and as an auditor of the daily hotel business).
He also worked as a Facilities Manager in the oil industry, in a number of locations including Africa and Scandinavia.
He has worked at the University since 2004.
Christina is the Student President of the Students' Union (AUSA) for the year 2024/2025 and a trustee for Court.
She graduated from the University of Aberdeen in 2024 with a Master of Arts in Politics, Spanish and Latin American Studies.
Christina has a broad experience in political campaigning, having been the president of a regional youth organisation and an intern for a member of the German Parliament.
Her research has focused on football fan protest against the growing commercialisation of the game.
Karim's role is:
Lesley has a wealth of business experience operating globally in energy and materials markets with specific expertise in Human Resources.
Most recently she held the position of Executive President - People and Organisation in Wood plc, a FTSE listed organisation.
In this capacity she worked closely with the board on driving a new strategic business agenda of growth and transformation.
She also formed part of the Remuneration Committee shaping Remuneration policy.
She is credited with having taken a lead role in improving diversity and overall employee engagement.
Before becoming part of Wood, Lesley held senior positions in Human Resources with AmecFosterWheeler, Canadian Natural Resources (CNR), Weatherford, Baker Hughes and BAA plc - Aberdeen Airport.
She holds an MBA and is very committed to employee development.
She is known as an inspirational leader, a strategic thinker who designs and drives change as well as knowing what it takes to achieve assured operational results in a business.
She is renowned for her professionalism, pragmatism, insight, curiosity and integrity.
She lives in Deeside with her family and besides exploring the world, she enjoys walking with her black labrador Hamish, golfing, pilates, yoga and most importantly socialising with friends old and new.
Ewan is a distinguished executive with a robust academic background, holding degrees from both the University and HEC Paris, where he earned an Executive MBA.
He is also a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Over his 30-year career, Ewan has amassed extensive experience in finance and audit, beginning with General Electric, where he held senior roles across the UK, USA, and Australia.
Ewan's career trajectory includes prominent CFO positions within publicly listed companies across diverse sectors including Retail, Technology, and Banking, spanning Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and Australia.
Currently, he is the Deputy Chief Executive Officer at Snoonu, a leading technology start-up based in the Middle East.
In addition to serving as an independent member of the Court, Ewan sits on the University Finance and Resources Committee, and chairs the Investment Committee.
Ayten is an accomplished leader with extensive experience in the energy industry.
As bp’s Head of Country in Georgia, she drives strategy implementation, government relations, and external affairs while embedding sustainability into business practices.
Throughout her career, Ayten has championed operational excellence, innovation, digital transformation and stakeholder collaboration.
She is also a dedicated mentor supporting emerging leaders and professionals in advancing their careers and building high-performing teams.
Ayten has served on the boards of prominent business associations in Georgia, where she has  contributed to shaping strategic initiatives and promoting cross-sector collaboration.
Ayten is an executive sponsor for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in her region, working across geographies to create an inclusive and equitable workplace.
Ayten holds a degree in Petroleum Engineering from the Azerbaijan State Oil Academy and an MBA from Warwick Business School.
She is currently pursuing a Doctorate at Warwick Business School, with her academic research focused on digital transformation and organizational behaviour.
Luke is an experienced IT professional, most recently Chief Information Officer of Wood Plc.
He is a Computer Science graduate of Aberdeen University and over the last 35 years has worked for a number of large global companies across the energy, manufacturing and engineering sectors.
He lives in Aberdeen with his family but has travelled extensively and worked across a broad range of cultures.
As CIO of Wood Luke led the global IT Function supporting 36,000 people across 60 countries.
His experience includes IT operations, strategy, change programmes, business due diligence, integration, cyber security and risk management.
Along with Court Luke is a member of the University Audit and Risk committee and the Pension Advisory Group.
Luke was appointed Senior Independent Member of Court in February 2024.
Fiona Islam is an accomplished and results-driven global business executive with a wealth of experience having worked for near two decades in a top tier Global Investment Bank in London.
Her experience spans over Global Sales Business Management, Regulatory Program Management, Strategic Business Transformation and Change Management in large complex initiatives, across all asset classes and region's.
Fiona primary role is to lead strategic initiatives that shape the bank's investments, vision and execution across Fixed Income, Currencies, Commodities, Equities and ESG products.
Fiona has held several high-impact roles, including leading J.P.
Morgan's Brexit and MiFID II regulatory implementations and overseeing multi-billion dollar global revenues for the Global Sales Senior Leadership team.
Her reputation as a trusted business advisor and tenacious client negotiator is built on her ability to translate complex business challenges into clear, actionable strategies.
She excels in managing large, diverse teams across multiple regions, driving profitability, and enhancing organizational effectiveness.
Fiona holds a BA Joint Honours in French and German from the University of Aberdeen and is deeply committed to supporting future leaders be that in the private or public sector.
In addition to her corporate roles, she mentors young professionals and female entrepreneurs through various initiatives and is a trusted mentor for the The Princes Trust.
Fiona's appointment to the University of Aberdeen Court allows her to contribute to her former University, one she is extremely proud of, and allows her to contribute to the strategic direction of the institution.
Gary is a graduate of the University in Economics and of the University of Bath where he completed an MBA.
He trained in Aberdeen as a Chartered Accountant before a career in industry in which he has held senior positions in Corporate Finance/Development, Strategy and Legal at Dowty PLC, British Aerospace and Laird PLC.
Gary has significant experience in Merger & Acquisitions and patents.
At Laird PLC he created Laird Technologies from start-up to become the global market leader with annual revenues in excess of £1 billion and facilities in Europe, the Americas and Asia.
Since retiring from Laird PLC, Gary has undertaken a number of non-executive Director roles and is currently on the boards of SAS International, Frimley Health FT, Aster Group and FAC Technology.
Previous roles include Senior Independent Director/Deputy Chair at Hampshire Hospitals FT and Trustee & Audit Chair at the William Harvey Research Foundation.
He is Chair of a number of Board Committees for these organisations including Audit &Risk, Finance and People and a Trustee of Pension Funds.
Caryn is a finance lawyer and a graduate of the University of Edinburgh.
She is a Partner at international law firm CMS Cameron Mckenna Nabarro Olswang LLP and is Managing Director of their business in Asia and the Middle East.
She is also the Chair of their Audit and Risk Committee.
Prior to its merger with CMS in 2014, Caryn was joint managing partner of Dundas & Wilson CS LLP.
She is qualified as a lawyer in both Scotland and England and has over twenty years of experience in all areas of debt finance, acting for both financial institutions and corporate borrowers.
Caryn was also a member of the CBI Scotland Council 2016-19
Biography to follow
Alison Rankin is a graduate of both the University of Aberdeen and the University of Glasgow and is a Chartered Surveyor.
As an experienced property professional, she has extensive corporate occupier experience across various asset classes and industry sectors.
She is skilled in leading proactive property initiatives, change programmes and has a strong track record in sustainability, procurement, divestment, and acquisition programmes.
Currently she serves as the Global Head of Workplace Services at Schroders plc, a FTSE 100 Company, where she oversees facilities management of the operational real estate, the group travel programme, physical security, and operational sustainability.
Alison also sits on the Board of CoreNet UK Chapter, which aims to represent the business and public sector occupier and to unify the profession of Corporate Real Estate through a multi-disciplinary approach to education, networking, research and communication.
Adaku Ufere is an award-winning energy attorney and sector leader, with extensive experience in designing and delivering large, complex projects in the energy sector and leading teams to successfully transform the energy landscape in sub-Saharan Africa.
As the Chief of Party for USAID and Power Africa's West Africa Energy Program Adaku provides operational and technical direction and leadership to a consortium of eight subcontractors and over 80 full and part-time staff, to advance energy policy and regulatory reform, accelerate investment, and increase power generation and access to electricity across 23 countries in West and Central Africa.
Adaku has a Law Degree from the University of Nigeria and a Masters in Oil & Gas Law from the University of Aberdeen.
She has also earned certifications in Energy Sector Leadership from the UNISA Graduate School of Business Leadership, in Public Management from the University of California, Davis and in Gender & Sexuality from the University of British Columbia.
Adaku is a Mandela Washington Fellow, an Obama Foundation Leader Africa and an Exceptional Alumni of the University of Aberdeen.
She has also been awarded one of the 40 under 40 Leading Lawyers in Nigeria, Attorney of the Year at the African Legal Awards, Young African Professional of the Year and 100 Most Inspiring Women in Nigeria, among others.
Adaku is a globally respected conference speaker, and has published articles in energy, gender and project finance.
(Not a formal Court member but 'In Attendance')
Shona is a graduate of the University of Aberdeen with a MA (Hons) in English and Management Studies.
Upon graduation, she embarked on a commercial graduate traineeship with the John Lewis Partnership progressing through several store retail management positions across London and the South East of England.
Throughout her subsequent 20 year career with the Partnership, Shona has gone on to specialise in Human Resources, undertaking head office and regional roles for both the John Lewis and Waitrose brands across the Partner lifecycle.
These include learning and development, recruitment, policy and procedures and organisational development and design in support of significant pan Partnership transformational change.
Currently Shona is a People Partner (HR Business Partner) providing operational and strategic HR support to the enterprise level leaders, and their teams, across the Chairman's Office.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/sustainable:
Aberdeen 2040
Our Aberdeen 2040 strategy identified Sustainable as one of four core themes alongside Inclusive, Interdisciplinary and International.
Whether you're interested in medical advances, improvements in emissions reporting, action to address inequality, or research into the impacts of climate change, learn more about how our interdisciplinary approach is breaking boundaries in our latest SDG Report.
At Aberdeen we work across borders and disciplines to protect the future of our planet.
We strive to set an example to our sector and to society.
In an era of significant global challenges, we are committed to exploring more sustainable solutions and breaking with convention in order to work towards Net Zero before 2040.
The University is committed to not only achieving Net Zero, but also to considering the sustainability of our decision making, the quality and global relevance of our research, and our role in developing active and engaged graduates whose global mindset and cross-disciplinary approach enable them to go beyond boundaries to tackle the  complex challenges facing our society.
Encourage everyone within our community to work and live sustainably, recognising the importance of our time, energy and resilience
Educate all our students and staff to be leaders in protecting the environment
Excel in research that addresses the climate emergency, enables energy transition and the preservation of biodiversity
Achieve net zero carbon emissions before 2040
Generate resources for investment in education and research year on year, so that we can continue to develop the people, ideas and actions that help us to fulfil our purpose
We use the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a framework to help articulate our academic and operational sustainability activities, with positive contributions to all 17 SDGs.
Commitment 19 of the Aberdeen 2040 Strategy details our commitment to achieving Net Zero before 2040.
This commitment covers all three emissions scopes and will impact all aspects of life at the University.
The University of Aberdeen is delighted to be a signatory of the sector-wide Concordat for the Environmental Sustainability of Research & Innovation Practice and to be a participant in the Laboratory Efficiency Assessment Framework through which we are pursuing accreditation in some of our laboratory spaces.
THE Impact Rankings 2025
QS Sustainability Rankings 2025
Our interdisciplinary research is challenge-led, impactful and built on sustainable partnerships that ensure we can tackle major societal challenges and support the UN's Sustainable Development Goals.
Our work on the energy transition brings the power of dynamic, interdisciplinary research to bear on the climate crisis.
Our colleagues  are  involved in all areas of energy-related research and emphasise supporting industry and policy makers in the transition to clean, sustainable energy and renewables.
Our research crosses the broad themes of understanding the fundamental biological and physical consequences of environmental changes, from the gene to global levels and from the Arctic to Antarctic.
The University's sustainability legacy is the impact of our teaching and research and the contribution of our graduates as active, global citizens.
From degrees to short courses, our energy-related online courses can help you to learn new skills and progress your career whilst helping to support a sustainable future.
The University of Aberdeen offers a wide range of advanced postgraduate programmes that support the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Find out more about how to get involved with AUSA's environmental societies and conservation projects and how to support local campaigns.
On campus we are working to reduce our energy consumption, improve energy efficiency, reduce waste volumes, support biodiversity, encourage sustainable travel and reduce our carbon footprint.
The committee co-ordinates the development, implementation and review of the activities which underpin our commitment to sustainability as outlined in the Aberdeen 2040 strategic plan .
If you are in industry and would like to work with us to support a sustainable future, we are keen to hear from you.
As set out in the Aberdeen 2040 strategy, we are committed to achieving net zero carbon emissions before 2040 (Commitment 19).
Business travel underpins a cross-section of our activities, including education, research and student recruitment.
The environmental impact of travel, particularly regarding carbon emissions, resulted in taking a fresh look at how we conduct these essential elements of our core business.
The University is committed to generating resources for investment in education and research year on year through a responsible and sustainable investment policy, whereby investments achieve the best return possible.
Find out more about our social responsibility initiatives in the local community.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/sustainable/sdgs:
In consulting about our Aberdeen 2040 strategy, our academic and student community highlighted the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a framework that should inform our academic and operational sustainability activities.
We are committed to working with the SDGs to help us articulate the positive sustainability impacts of our research and teaching, and to help us prioritise improvements in operational practice.
Our first Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Annual Report was published in autumn 2021.
It showcased research, curriculum, community, and operational initiatives and reflected the breadth of activity happening across the University of Aberdeen with a positive impact on one or more of the SDGs.
We intend to report annually on our progress and to work to find new ways to embed the SDGs in everything that we do.
We entered the inaugural Times Higher Education Impact Rankings in 2019 and have participated actively since.
We welcome the increased awareness these rankings have given to the UN SDGs across the global HE sector.
In the 2025 edition we ranked among the top 100 universities in the world for our support of the Sustainable Development Goals:
The University is ranked for its three strongest (scaled) SDGs along with SDG17 which is mandatory.
The University has also been ranked within the top 100 in the world for a further three SDGs:
As part of the formal launch of our Aberdeen 2040 strategy, we signed the global SDG Accord (external site).
In June 2020, we submitted our first annual SDG Accord Report.
That exercise saw us collate examples of activity across all 17 SDGS for the first time, and served as the template for the development of our own stand-along annual SDG Reports - first published in late 2021.
The University of Aberdeen offers a wide range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses and programmes that relate to sustainability and to activities designed to address the Sustainable Development Goals.
For a full listing of courses relating to sustainability and for courses mapping on to our strategic “sustainability” theme, type the word “sustainable” into the search bar here https://www.abdn.ac.uk/registry/courses/
We work with national government and regional nongovernmental organisations (NGOs) to work towards policy development that addresses the United Nations Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs).
We participate in cross-sectoral dialogue and collaborate internationally to gather and measure data for the SDGs.
Through our work, we develop international best practice for tackling the SGDs and collaborate with NGOs in student volunteering, research and education.
You can find more information on these topics in the documents below:
Researchers are working with Unilever and industry to tackle climate change associated with the global food chain.
Our researchers are supporting a project to reduce pollution, congestion and emissions in urban areas.
Research has underpinned new dietary guidelines around the world that link nutritional and sustainability data.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/sustainable/students:
From growing vegetables to climate campaigning, Environment & Ethics is your portal to all of the sustainability related student projects, societies and campaigns at AUSA.
The Environment and Ethics committee is the outlet for your environmental and ethical concerns and a great way to show your support for sustainability.
AUSA's Environment & Ethics Committee supports a number of projects and activities.
To find out more about how you can get involved, visit the E&E page via the link below.
Join an environmental society, volunteer in the local community, or get involved in conservation work; our students can access a wide range of societies and groups.
Want your voice to be heard?
Student life wouldn't be the same without campaigns to get behind.
Find out how you can have your say and get involved in local activism.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/sustainable/around-campus:
We support a number of academic biodiversity initiatives.
Our campus is home to a range of plant and animal species and hosts an array of student, academic and community initiatives that seek to promote and preserve biodiversity.
From bat and bird boxes to schools engagement activity; from student growing projects to community links through the Friends of Cruickshank Gardens, there are a range of initiatives to support biodiversity.
Please see also the Biodiversity section of our Environmental Sustainability Policy.
Our new build and refurbishment projects reflect the institutional commitment to sustainability.
The Sustainable Buildings section of the Environmental Sustainability Policy sets out the University's commitments to sustainability in the context of campus development, whether it be refurbishment or new build.
These commitment were initially exemplified in our Sir Duncan Rice Library and the Suttie Centre both of which secured BREEAM 'Excellent' ratings and were recognised nationally.
Our projects have reinforced these commitments by embedding technologies such as micro-renewables (e.g.
solar panels on our SDRL and on residential blocks at Hillhead) and other sustainability initiatives such as rainwater harvesting (e.g.
our SDRL and Rocking Horse Nursery).
Most notably these include the completion of our Green Gown award winning Passivhaus 'Rocking Horse Nursery' (our on-campus pre-school childcare facility for staff and students).
Meanwhile, our new Rowett Institute of Nutrition and Health building is on target to secure an 'Outstanding' in the BREEAM methodology and was shortlisted for a 2015 BREEAM award.
Links to articles on these projects can be found below:
Further information on the work of the Estates Projects team can be found here .
As part of our Aberdeen 2040 strategy, the University has committed to being net-zero before 2040, with an interim target of a 25% reduction of Scope 1 & 2 related emissions by 2025 articulated in the accompanying implementation plan.
We are in the process of developing a programme of projects linked to heating and energy use to deliver on that ambition, with further interim targets to be set, including for Scope 3 emissions.
Prior to the net-zero commitment made in Aberdeen 2040, our previous Carbon Management Plan (CMP) had outlined the commitments and projects we had identified to reduce our carbon footprint.
Details of that 2016-2021 CMP can be found here .
It identified an array of projects to improve energy efficiency across campus and progress against the plan was positive, with reductions exceeding the 20% target within the first two years.
As with much of the sector, the simultaneous expansion of campuses, coupled with demands for energy intensive equipment are a constant challenge.
Despite these challenges, incremental improvements have helped to keep emissions in check and improve energy efficiency.
Yet for every successful initiative, demands for new equipment or new or refurbished buildings mean the work to embed energy efficiency in all that we do continues.
One of the ways the University is using to engage our staff and students is through the use of Climate and Sustainability Assemblies.
Globally, nationally and locally, there is a growing movement to include communities in policy making through assemblies that discuss issues such as climate change.
This participatory approach actively involves people and communities in decision making and generates new ideas for action on sustainability.
The University aims to run one or two assemblies each academic year on different topics related to sustainability.
These forums will gather staff and student feedback that will in turn shape policy and action in support of a greener, more sustainable future for the University.
Biodiversity
Our first assembly focussed on Becoming a Nature-Positive University and was held on 15th March 2023.
It explored how we can make our campus a greener, more inviting place for people and nature.
The outputs of the assembly have been considered by the Sustainable Development Committee and will now be used to inform the development of a new biodiversity policy and biodiversity action plan.
The report of that first assembly can be found here .
Laboratories
Our second assembly focussed on the issue of Sustainable Laboratories and took place on 4 October 2023.
We heard from two inspiring visiting speakers before colleagues from lab-based disciplines across the University workshopped issues including procurement, LEAF accreditation, single-use plastics, equipment sharing, and improved recycling.
The report of the Green Labs assembly can be found here .
Future Events
Further topics are being considered and the next Assembly should take place in the autumn of 2024.
We are working to reduce our energy consumption and to improve energy efficiency, helping reduce CO2 emissions and operational costs.
The University's electricity and gas consumption is equivalent to that of a small town.
It is, therefore, essential that we seek to improve our energy efficiency, use energy from renewable sources where possible, and reduce our emissions from energy use.
Energy related queries can be directed to our Energy Manager or phone 01224 273266.
Our Old Aberdeen campus is served by a gas-fired Combined Heat and Power (CHP) plant, opened in 2007.
This facility generates the majority of the electricity consumed by our Old Aberdeen operations (supplemented by grid electricity) and diverts the by-product of that process (steam) to heat the campus.
The grid electricity we purchase for all our main academic sites is backed by Renewable Energy Guarantee of Origin certifications, exceptions are our student residences and a handful of remote or independently supplied sites.
As part of a major refurbishment of our main student residence (Hillhead), we have installed an extensive solar panel array.
We are, as part of our net-zero deliberations, actively investigating options for the eventual decarbonisation of our campuses, with the aim of eventually moving away from gas-fired systems.
We also work to ensure that all new buildings conform to high energy efficiency standards.
In addition to major infrastructure projects, the University has invested in a number of energy efficiency (and emissions reduction) measures.
Some examples of such initiatives are:
Our Sustainability Team also works with staff and students to raise awareness of energy related issues - with stalls at staff and student fayres (e.g.
during Fresher's Week), awareness sessions, public talks, and contributions to undergraduate and postgraduate teaching programmes.
The team's considerable impact in reducing the institutional carbon footprint as part of our 2016/2021 Carbon Management Plan was recognised with a number of notable successes in the Energy Managers Associaton awards in both 2017 and 2018.
Details of our Energy performance in recent years is available in the following documents:
Energy Reports (including Carbon and Water)
Utilities Reports
Details of the measures individuals can take to reduce energy use include:
We support the sector-wide commitment to sustainable procurement.
The University's Procurement Team is based in the Directorate of Finance and we can be contacted at procurement@abdn.ac.uk or visit our webpage .
The team oversees purchasing activity and manages contracts used across the University for items from paper to vehicles.
They also provide a full range of central tendering services and ensure that procurement remains compliant with our own regulations and national legislation.
We recognise the growing role of procurement as a driver of sustainability performance and are investigating ways to work internally and across the sector to ensure procurement activity supports sustainability objectives.
We are delighted to have been part of the Advanced Procurement for Universities and Colleges (APUC) working group on Sustainable Procurement that has introduced a Supply Chain Policy and Code of Conduct.
Procurement Emissions Summary
We welcome the work of APUC in providing all universities in Scotland with an estimate of their greenhouse gas emissions from procurement activity.
These reports were first produced for the sector in 2012/13 and they provide a high-level estimate of the greenhouse gas emissions from the sector's wider procurement of goods and services.
Emissions derived from those aspects of activity generally included in institutional climate change and carbon reporting returns are excluded e.g.
energy, waste and transport.
The principal findings of that exercise are included below:
Modern Slavery Statement
The University's Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement is made pursuant to Section 54 of the Modern slavery Act 2015.
It is designed to demonstrate our commitment to the Modern Slavery Act 2015, (and specifically to section 54 (1)), and the Human Trafficking and Exploitation (Scotland) Act 2015 by informing our students, staff, partners and the public about the University of Aberdeen and its policy with respect to modern slavery, human trafficking, forced and bonded labour and labour rights violations in its supply chains.
Electronics Watch
The University of Aberdeen Procurement Team worked with the AUSA and became a founding member of Electronics Watch in 2015, an independent organisation that works to ensure good working conditions in factories providing goods bought by public sector members.
We regularly provide reports to them of ICT equipment we buy and where they are produced.
Electronics Watch works with civil society organisations in the countries where the factories are located to monitor working conditions.
In early 2017 following a proposal from the University of Aberdeen, the Procurement Strategy Group for Scottish Universities and the Procurement Strategy Group for Scottish Colleges, unanimously agreed to add their collective weight to a call for all institutions to obtain membership of Electronics Watch via a collective arrangement organised and managed by APUC (Advanced Procurement for Universities and Colleges), their Centre of Procurement Expertise.
It is understood that Scotland is the first country in the World where all the Universities and Colleges in a country (or indeed all organisations within an entire sector of any type) will be members of Electronics Watch.
The Sustainability team in Estates & Facilities has developed an e-learning module that is designed to give all staff (and in a future edition, students) an overview of sustainability issues, their national and international context, why the University must take them seriously, and some ideas for how to embed sustainability in your day-to-day roles.
The module contains information on the local and global context of climate change, our institutional emissions profile, and commentary on key sustainability challenges in areas like procurement, travel and energy, as well as more besides.
The aim is to include the module as part of the induction programme for new staff, but we'd encourage ALL staff to work through the module as there's something for everyone there.
We'd also welcome feedback by way of beta testing to ensure it is being pitched at the right level.
Scores in the knowledge checks aren't being tracked at this stage as its intended as an awareness raising tool rather than as a 'test'.
The module takes 45-60 minutes to work through.
The module can be found on the University's training pages here Sustainability E-Learning Module and any feedback you have can be sent to sustainability@abdn.ac.uk .
Through collaborative initiatives and the pursuit of technological efficiency we work to ensure our IT systems support sustainability goals.
The use of ever more energy efficient technology and the need to consider sustainability in all IT procurement decisions have been established as priorities under a commitment to "Deliver Greener IT", one of the six strategic aims of the IT Services Strategic Plan 2012-2016.
The first in a series of collaborative data centre projects between the University of Aberdeen, Robert Gordon University, and North East Scotland College opened in 2013.
Given the substantial financial and carbon savings such collaborative projects can deliver for the sector, further projects are being developed with educational and other partners.
Details of the Edward Wright Building data centre, which scooped several national awards, including a sector Green Gown Award, a British Computing Society UK IT Industry Award, and a Scottish Green Energy Award are available below.
Read more
In recent years the University has introduced a number of technology initiatives to improve energy efficiency and reduce waste.
Further virtualisation, greater use of shared data centres and the consolidation of print services across the campus will continue to drive down energy use, support the delivery of carbon targets and reduce costs.
Our Sustainable Travel Plan aims to reduce the impact of staff, student and visitor travel by encouraging alternative travel methods including active travel (e.g.
walking & cycling) or using public transport (e.g.
the free inter-campus bus service).
As one of the largest employers in the North-East of Scotland, and with a sizable student population, the University recognises that it has a significant impact on the region's transport network through both the conduct of its activities and commuting associated with study and work.
Transport related queries can be directed to our Facilities Manager (Transport & Waste) or phone 01224 272254.
The development of a sustainable travel plan is a significant element in the fulfilment of our institution wide commitment to sustainability and social responsibility.
It is also a central requirement of planning conditions set by local and national government as part of new capital projects.
Our Sustainable Travel Plan aims to:
The full plan is available via the University's Policy Zone .
Initiatives in support of the Travel Plan include extensive cycle infrastructure (see below) and free inter-campus travel for our staff and students on the 9U shuttle bus.
Our campus also has a number of traffic calming measures such as speedhumps and pedestrian-priority zebra crossings to improve safety.
During campus events e.g.
University Open Days and Graduations, the main campus transit roads are closed to public traffic, with only designated and emergency vehicles able to access the site.
The High Street, the main public road on campus, has restricted access e.g.
for residents and emergency vehicles only.
The University conducts biennial surveys of staff and students to gauge travel behaviours and assess progress towards the goals outlined in the plan.
Travel Survey Reports detailing the outcomes of those surveys are available below:
Among the initiatives we use to encourage sustainable travel behaviours at the University are:
The University also supports an occasional cycle-to-work scheme for staff.
Details are widely circulated when this scheme is in operation.
The campus also hosts BeCycle , a local community bicycle workshop.
The University is also well served by a range of public transport options and we encourage staff and students to use these wherever possible.
Bus services are provided by First Group and Stagecoach Bluebird.
Commuter rail services link Aberdeen with Portlethen, Stonehaven, Laurencekirk, Inverurie and Huntly.
Inter-city services provide connectivity to stations across the UK.
It is also possible to walk between our campuses, student residences and the city centre.
While walking times vary by individual, our two main campuses are around 35-40 minutes apart by foot.
We aim to reduce the volume of waste we produce and to encourage reuse and recycling.
As part of our effort to make efficient use of resources, we aim to embed waste management into corporate policies and processes and to adopt the principles of the waste hierarchy - REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE.
Our aims are to reduce the volume of waste generated in the first place and the volume sent to landfill, while improving reuse and recycling rates.
Waste related queries can be directed to our Facilities Manager - Transport & Waste or phone 01224 272254.
The environmental benefits of diverting material from landfill are clear, but there are also legislative and financial drivers that encourage us to reduce waste at source while improving our recycling and reuse rates.
Scotland's Zero Waste Plan sets out the Scottish Government's vision for a zero waste society.
It sees all waste as a resource and aims to ensure that waste is minimised; valuable resources are not disposed of in landfill; most waste is sorted; and only limited amounts of waste are left to be treated.
In recent years the University has used a range of innovative ways of diverting waste from landfill.
These have included:
Our headline waste arising data is recorded year-on-year and fully itemised by category in relation to its emissions impact as part of our annual Public Bodies Climate Change Duties reports.
Headline waste arising data under 4 categories i.e.
Reuse (Internal or External), Recycled, Energy from Waste, Disposal (Landfill) and is shown on the table below in metric tonnes.
Reuse
Recycled
Energy from Waste
Disposal (Landfill)
Total
2023/24
Nil
528.454
284.156
812.610
2022/23
7.979
606.454
314.221
3.640
932.294
2021/22
1.751
573.694
265.178
17.800
858.423
2020/21
3.074
483.362
211.970
6.280
704.686
2019/20
0.200
593.973
313.744
7.320
915.237
2018/19
1.668
734.710
355.582
12.358
1104.317
2017/18
7.432
953.872
499.592
0.500
1461.396
Historic annual Waste Reports are available as follows.
Staff and students at the University can assist in these efforts by considering how the waste they generate will be disposed of and by helping to minimise waste wherever possible.
The University has extensive recycling facilities around campus, and has contracts in place to recycle a wide variety of materials.
Secure paper disposal and recycling consoles are distributed across campus.
Detailed guidance is available to staff colleagues (via the Estates section's operational pages at the link below) on all aspects of waste disposal.
Examples of the activities you'll find guidance on include:
For more information visit the Waste and Recycling page
The University recognises that water is a valuable resource.
Managing and reducing water consumption is part of a rounded approach to resource efficiency.
The University is committed to reducing water usage in order to secure both environmental benefits and to minimise the impact of water usage costs.
Reporting: We actively monitor the volume of water we use, compiling metered consumption data annually and publishing our water usage as part of our Public Bodies Climate Change Duty reporting.
Targets: We aim to reduce water usage and improve water efficiency.
Our Environmental Sustainability Policy outlines a target to reduce water use year-on-year.
Drinking Water: We have installed plumbed in water supplies at facilities across campus, providing free drinking water for staff, student and visitor use.
Regulation: Our use of water is covered under the regulations and byelaws imposed by the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA) and Scottish Water.
Through its use of water in taps, toilets, research, catering and residences, the University is classified as a 'large' water user by Scottish Water.
In recent years the University has introduced a number of initiatives and water saving technologies.
The University has been active in replacing bottled water coolers with plumbed in water fountains to provide free drinking water for staff, students and visitors - these appear in, for example, our Sir Duncan Rice Library, MacRobert cafe, Student Union Building, and University Office staff kitchens to name but a few.
While this notionally increases mains water consumption, it avoids an array of environmental issues associated with the transportation, disposal and use of bottled water supplies and associated single-use (mostly plastic) containers.
It also ensures that free drinking water is available campus-wide .
Regulations
Our use of water is overseen by the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA) who are responsible for the water regulations that ensure users abide by environmental and other protections, including discharges, abstraction, and pollution control.
Waste Water Treatment
For almost every drop of water we use, we generate waste water that also needs to be processed.
This comes from our toilets, kitchens, and academic uses e.g.
in laboratories.
Our waste water passes through our drains into the Scottish Water sewer network, and on into their waste water treatment plants.
Waste water is then filtered and cleaned before being returned to the environment.
More details on Scottish Water's processes can be found here .
Details of our water usage and consumption is published annually as part of our Public Bodies Climate Change Duty reporting.
These reports include a tally of the emissions associated with our usage of water on campus but also with the transmission and distribution of that water.
Our PBCCD reports since 2015/16 are all available online here .
While the University has an institutional role in reducing water consumption, staff and students also have an important role to play.
By adopting simple behaviours we can all support this objective.
By only using the water we need, not letting taps run when not in use, and reporting any leaks we see (via extension 3333) we can all do our bit.
Awareness posters around campus support this effort by encouraging staff and students to be aware of water usage and to report any leaks or faults they find.
Where more complex issues regarding the use of water emerge, for example in the cooling of laboratory research equipment, the Estates & Facilities team is happy to provide advice e.g.
on whether there may be more effective ways to chill equipment.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/sustainable/contact-us:
The University has a small but dedicated group of staff, each leading on different aspects of the sustainability and social responsibility agenda.
Fraser Lovie provides strategic and policy advice to the Sustainable Development Committee and encourages operational and academic input to the full-range of sustainability issues.
Tel: 01224 273165 Email: f.lovie@abdn.ac.uk
Chris Osbeck is the University's Transport & Waste Manager.
His role includes the development of initiatives to alter staff and student travel habits towards sustainable alternatives such as walking, cycling and using public transport.
Tel: 01224 272254 Email: c.osbeck@abdn.ac.uk
The University's Energy Manager has a remit that includes the sourcing of energy, how it is supplied, how much is used, and what carbon dioxide is emitted as a result.
The EM also manages the supply and use of water.
The wider Energy Management team consists of staff with responsibility for implementing energy and water saving measures and increasing staff and student awareness of these.
Tel: 01224 273266 Email: sustainability@abdn.ac.uk
Chris Osbeck is the University's Transport and Waste Manager.
Chris is responsible for co-ordinating the collection of all types of waste from the University as well as implementing new initiatives to minimise waste, increase reuse, and to recycle more.
For enquiries or information on the following issues please see the email address or web pages below:
If you have any questions about specific sustainability initiatives at the University of Aberdeen, please contact sustainability@abdn.ac.uk
Follow us on social media at:

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/sustainable/news:
Page 1 of 14 Results 1 to 10 of 138 , 29 January - 08 July 2025
Land managers, farmers, foresters, researchers, and policy makers will gather in Aberdeen for a landmark event to explore how integrating more trees into farmland could play a pivotal role in tackling climate change, improving biodiversity, and supporting resilient rural economies.
A study focused on protecting Scotland's capercaillie population by managing predators through non-lethal means has seen brood numbers double in target areas.
Nutrition scientists are recruiting an army of seed sowers to help them understand how Scotland could better exploit its underutilised - or "marginal" - lands.
Innovative approaches to helping Scotland secure long-term leadership in sustainable energy solutions and deliver an orderly energy transition were showcased by the University of Aberdeen at Holyrood last night.
The University of Aberdeen is to co-lead a major project designed to cut the carbon footprint of clinical trials.
The University of Aberdeen have been announced as a core organisation in a new UK-wide hub tasked with developing new ways to help the NHS dramatically cut its carbon footprint.
The University of Aberdeen has been awarded funding by the European Space Agency (ESA) to create a digital twin of the Arctic islands at the forefront of climate change.
Baukje de Roos to co-lead Scotland Beyond Net Zero food theme
More than twenty researchers from across the world have come together to publish a collaborative book, ‘Decoding Marine Genetic Resource Governance Under the BBNJ Agreement’, which is set to launch at the International BBNJ Symposium in Singapore taking place from the 18-19 February 2025.
The book provides practical guidance and...
Academics at the University of Aberdeen have compared attitudes and knowledge around sustainable eating - and willingness to reduce the amount of meat consumed - over a 10-year period.
They found that although initiatives like ‘Veganuary’ were helpful in introducing people to alternative diets, this was not sustained in most of...

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/sustainable/fossil-fuel-divestment:
As part of our Aberdeen 2040 strategy the University has made a clear commitment to show leadership in working for the sustainable future of our planet by, for example, committing to net zero carbon emissions before 2040.
In addition, the University is committed to generating resources for investment in education and research year on year through a responsible and sustainable investment policy, whereby investments achieve the best return possible.
Our community has worked in partnership as part of this shared aim, including constructive discussions with the University of Aberdeen Fossil Free Campaign, AUSA and the wider student community about various related issues including financial divestment from fossil fuels.
The Sustainable Investment Policy is available in the University's Policy Zone.
As a result, the University is committed to using our unique position and influence to encourage and support the transition to the low carbon economy.
By 2025 we aim to have completed a process of ensuring that any investment in the energy sector actively reflects our own aspiration to support energy transition, through our research, teaching and other institutional activities.
For decades, the University has worked in partnership with the energy industry for the benefit of our region, the University and our students.
It has provided financial support for our world leading research, and through philanthropic support it has created scholarships to enable student access to our education.
Further, it has funded initiatives which support the wellbeing of our student community, including the provision of valuable work placements.
We will continue to work with the energy sector in this way, as part of a just transition to a greener, more sustainable future.
We continue to value our industrial partnerships, and the benefits they bring to our students and research activities.
As we commit to divest from fossil fuels, we remain committed to working with and supporting the energy industry through our education and research, helping to meet wider industry and societal ambitions around Net Zero via a range of initiatives including our Centre for Energy Transition.
Fossil fuel divestment is when an organisation or investment fund sells any direct financial investments it has in companies that extract fossil fuels such as coal, gas, oil, and tar sands.
These may be directly owned shares, or investments in pooled and tracker funds.
Through Aberdeen 2040, the University made a clear commitment to show leadership in working for the sustainable future of our planet, evaluating all our actions for their impact on the environment.
The decision to divest from fossil fuels relates directly to that commitment.
It is a decision we have taken with and for our community and is consistent with our commitment to achieve Net Zero before 2040.
It acknowledges the student voice, recognising the impact climate change has on future generations.
The impact of society's continuing reliance on fossil fuels has a significant impact on global climate change and the transition to more sustainable sources of energy is now crucial.
The University's position in working closely with the energy sector based within our local community enables us to support the sector's ongoing efforts towards a sustainable energy transition.
As such, a policy of divestment from fossil fuels may support and further encourage this transition process within the energy sector.
These social responsibility and sustainability agendas are particularly relevant as we enter the recovery phase of the Covid-19 pandemic at a time when energy transition and a diversification of traditional local economic drivers in the north east of Scotland is accelerating.
The University is committed to using our unique position and influence to encourage and support the transition to the low carbon economy.
Currently, the University does not invest directly in any fossil fuel company, and indirect holdings in pooled assets are less than 3% of the total investment portfolio.
As we pursue the alternative opportunities outlined below, we will reduce those holdings in pooled assets to zero by 2025, or sooner if practical.
To achieve this, we will seek to find alternative investments in pooled funds and will continually benchmark our success over the next four years, monitoring and reporting on our progress across a broad range of metrics.
In addition, by 2025, we will seek to invest a proportion of our funds (at least 5% of our portfolio) in an impact and thematic investing programme.
This programme will invest directly or through pooled funds in businesses and sectors which are explicitly aiming to deliver an environmental and social return in addition to a financial return across a range of sustainability themes.
In doing so, we recognise that existing energy companies are increasingly actively involved in energy transition.
Where there is clear evidence that what were traditionally fossil fuel companies are leading the transition to clean technologies, then we may invest in them to signal our support for that leadership.
Where we do so, we will continually monitor these companies to ensure that they are making progress in sustainable energy delivery.
The University has no direct investment in companies related to fossil fuel extraction, but there is some limited exposure (2.38%) through the pooled funds we currently invest in, which equates to £1.4M.
The decision signals the University's commitment to sustainability.
The revised approach to investment is consistent with our wider commitment to achieve Net Zero carbon emissions before 2040.
A number of studies and publications have indicated that divestment from fossil fuels has a negligible or potentially positive impact on the financial performance of investment portfolios, albeit performance will depend to a large extent on the performance of third-party fund managers to generate excess returns.
As always, we will adopt a careful, managed approach to ensure that our investments are protected.
Yes.
Through our research, education and other activities we are committed to working in partnership with the energy industry as part of a just transition to a greener, more sustainable future.
The University of Aberdeen has long-standing relations with the energy sector, and a track record of working in collaboration to support training and advancements.
We will continue to work with the energy sector to train the next generation, in support of our commitment to net zero before 2040.
Industry funding for research remains vital if we are to meet wider societal ambitions around Net Zero.
In addition, there are opportunities to benefit from new sources of funding as climate change becomes an ever greater focus for grant awarding bodies and other research funders - as well as a rapidly transforming energy industry.
The transferable skills that we teach on our energy related programmes will support energy transition.
Our curriculum portfolio is kept under regular review, in consultation with stakeholders as we continue to evolve our training skills to meet current and future demand.
In addition, we recognise that different countries are at different stages in their work on this issue and we are committed to working with a broad range of our stakeholders to advance thinking on sustainability more widely through our education and research.
We believe this approach opens up new areas of expertise and supports skills and training needed for a just transition.
The University's Sustainable Investment Policy has evolved regularly in recent years.
From initially adopting an ESG (Environmental, Social & Governance) approach that saw investment decisions and exclusions guided by the principles of the UN Global Compact, a more focussed shift in January 2020 saw the Investment Committee take the decision to divest from coal and tar sands.
We recognise this is a rapidly evolving area and as such our approach to divest from fossil fuels, has remained under review.
This process was given added impetus by wider societal and sector developments, the launch of our Aberdeen 2040 strategy, which makes clear our commitment to sustainability through our research, education and investments, and discussions with our student body.
Our investments are governed by a Sustainable Investment Policy, which is managed through the Investment Committee.
The Sustainable Investment Policy stipulates that we will endeavour not to invest in companies that fail to comply with the 10 principles underlying the UN Global Compact, which calls on companies to align with universal principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and take actions that advance societal goals.
The University has already committed to not directly investing in companies whose business has a significant interest in tobacco, weapons and/or coal and tar sands.
Our Sustainable Investment Policy will now be amended to reflect the commitment to reprofile our investment portfolio away from fossil fuels.
Energy transition forms a key part of the University's Aberdeen 2040 strategy where we pledge to show leadership in working for the sustainable future of our planet through our research, teaching and other activities.
We believe we are in a very strong position to make progress in our regional and global contributions to sustainability.
Research
Across multiple disciplines, our academics are making a direct contribution towards addressing the climate crisis.
Teaching
Other activities
As a University we are undertaking a number of activities to reduce our carbon footprint, as we work towards our aim of Net Zero carbon emissions by 2040.
During the first half of 2022, with the support of our Investment Advisors, our Investment Committee approved the transition from some of our existing pooled funds to those with less exposure to fossil fuels.
As at 31 July 2022, the percentage of our portfolio exposed to fossil fuels had reduced to approximately 0.36%.
The Investment Committee continues to consider other investment opportunities and is looking to enhance our reporting in this area.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/sustainable/community-and-engagement:
Since 2008 the University has been working with Reusing IT to give ex-University IT a new home in education projects in the developing world, mostly in Africa.
With a vibrant programme of events - exhibitions, performance, public lectures, art installations and more, there's something for everyone to enjoy.
The University was awarded Fairtrade status in 2007 following a joint staff and student campaign.
We continue to support and actively promote Fairtrade across campus, even in the Nursery!
The University looks to provide a healthy working environment for all staff.
This dedicated campaign supports and encourages staff to look after their physical and mental health.
Alongside environmental strands, the University supports a number of campus-focused social responsibility initiatives.
While some of these activities are overseen by the University's Advisory Group on Sustainability and Social Responsibility, many are not.
Strands such as Equality & Diversity; Health, Safety & Wellbeing; and Healthy Working Lives are all pursued and championed in different parts of the University.
With a remit to consider equality issues in both the student and staff communities, the University's Advisory Group on Equality & Diversity works to mainstream these issues across campus, including the University's pursuit of Athena SWAN accreditation.
For full details of Equality and Diversity activity at the University, visit our dedicated Equality & Diversity website.
Queries regarding Equality & Diversity issues can be directed to Janine Chalmers .
Our core HSW team is supported by a network of local safety advisers who work to ensure that our campuses are safe places for staff, students and visitors.
Their work is overseen by an institutional Health & Safety Committee chaired by a Vice-Principal.
Further details are available on the Health & Safety website.
In 2013 the University secured a 'Silver' award in the Scottish Government's Healthy Working Lives programme.
Designed to promote health, safety and well-being, the scheme provides an institutional focus for the development of a range of initiatives that encompass occupational health, physical and mental health, well-being and more.
The University is now working towards Gold accreditation.
Full details are on the Healthy Working Lives website and queries can be directed to healthyworkinglives@abdn.ac.uk .
The University also supports a wide range of social responsibility initiatives that encourage our staff and students to think about their local, national and international responsibilities.
These range from promoting social justice in the developing world through our Fairtrade commitments, to the provision of an extensive and vibrant events programme closer to home.
Having secured Fairtrade status in 2007, the University continues to be an active supporter of Fairtrade issues.
A joint steering group of staff and students oversees our activities, while the University is delighted to support Aberdeen's wider Fairtrade endeavours, having played our part in Scotland becoming a Fairtrade nation in 2013.
Our dedicated Fairtrade website contains further information.
The University has, since 2008, had a Staffing Policy on Volunteering.
As well as detailing University procedure for incoming volunteers, the policy outlines how staff can seek authority to take time off to support voluntary activity.
Organised 'team' events have also taken place in the Seaton Backies , at Cordyce School and in the Seaton Community Woodland .
The University supports a pay-as-you-earn scheme that allows individuals to make tax-efficient donations to the charities of their choice.
Read more for further information on how to give.
Established in 2008, the University's partnership with Reusing IT has seen several hundred pieces of ex-University IT make their way to educational projects in the developing world.
This link was renewed in 2013 and we continue to support this worthwhile cause with periodic donations, most recently in 2016 .
Whether it is the award-winning Aberdeen Internship scheme operated by our Careers and Employability Service for undergraduate students, or a series of community-focused work placement partnerships developed by Human Resources, such as the exciting and widely acclaimed Project Search that helps young adults with additional needs gain work experience and workplace confidence, there are an array of opportunities that allow individuals to benefit from work experience placements in the University.
The Public Affairs, Stakeholder Engagement and Events (PASE) team aims to:
You can find out more about the PASE team, what they do and how to contact them here .
The University supports an extensive and eclectic range of public events.
As well as showcasing the research activity of our academic colleagues through our public engagement with research programme, members of the public can experience a wide range of visiting lectures, musical recitals, multi-disciplinary festivals, exhibitions featuring our rich historic collections and much more besides.
Full details of all public events are available at the dedicated 'What's On' pages of the University website.
The University is part of a number of sustainability networks.
These enable us to share information within and across sectors and keep in touch with partners.
Among those networks are:
We are an active member of the Environmental Association for Universities and Colleges ( EAUC ) and a strong supporter of its activities in Scotland.
We were an early signatory of EAUC Scotland's Universities and Colleges Climate Commitment for Scotland ( UCCCfS ).
As part of that commitment we signed the UCCCfS declaration and submitted a Carbon Management Plan (produced in association with the Carbon Trust).
This sector-wide initiative successfully engaged all of Scotland's Universities and Colleges in tackling institutional sustainability issues.
As well as sector initiatives, the University is an active member of local cross-sector initiatives.
The North East Scotland Climate Change Partnership ( NESCCP ) is an amalgam of public and private sector organisations coming together to discuss climate change issues in the region and to share best practice.
The Partnership has, since its inception, been administered by the two local authorities (Aberdeen City and Aberdeenshire Councils).
Further details can be found at:
More recently we have joined the Sustainable Scotland Network ( SSN ).
Originally established to support the sustainability work of Scotland's local authorities, the SSN is now taking a more hands-on role in providing assistance to all public sector bodies, in part as a consequence of the now statutory requirement to undertake Climate Change reporting under the Public Bodies Duty.
The United Nations Climate Change Conference, COP26 , took place in Glasgow from 1-12 November 2021 and a number of staff and students from the University attended the conference as observers.
On Friday 12 November, a climate capsule containing messages from staff, students and local schoolchildren was buried in the Cruickshank Botanic Garden.
The University of Aberdeen were delighted to have a number of staff and students attend COP26 in Glasgow to act as observers and represent the University.
Watch the presentation in the 'Summary' panel to find out more about their experience at COP26.
Observers that attended COP26 have written posts for our blog on how they found their experience attending the conference in Glasgow.
The University of Aberdeen invited staff, students and local schoolchildren to send messages to the future in a climate capsule that were then sealed within the capsule to be opened on Founder's Day in 2040.
The question we asked was: How would you like the planet to be in 2040?
On Friday 12 November, the final day of COP26, the capsule was buried within Cruickshank Botanic Garden with assistance from local schoolchildren at St Peters' School.
A clean environment, with clean air, clean water, free from marine plastics, using renewable energy and sustainable transport, adapting to climate change and sea level rise, and living with nature.
I hope that in 2040 every decision we make as individuals, communities and countries first asks "what action is best for the planet; its plants, animals and people?
I would like there to be no plastic in the oceans or droughts and for the people to go green and no poverty and good education in all countries.
Please do this for everyone.
Bucksburn Academy Pupil
By 2040 I would like the planet to be a healthy and clean planet.
I would also like climate change to be better by 2040 and the future too.
This would help our planet a lot if this happens, hopefully it will happen.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/sustainable/sustainable-business-travel:
As set out in the Aberdeen 2040 strategy , we are committed to achieving net zero carbon emissions before 2040 (Commitment 19).
In developing the Guiding Principles of Sustainable Business Travel and the Travel Hierarchy, we recognised the importance of
They are designed to reflect the University's expectation that all colleagues will now routinely consider sustainable business travel options and reach decisions on whether (and how) to travel within the framework and ethos underpinning the Guiding Principles & Travel Hierarchy.
Please familiarise yourself with the Guiding Principles & Travel Hierarchy and use them whenever you consider travelling on University business.
They also reflect a growing expectation (internal and external to the University) that many of the changes in behaviour imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic e.g.
online/hybrid activities, will become embedded as normal practice.
The importance of travel (and particularly air travel) in successfully delivering some business-critical and/or academic development activities is recognised within the Guiding Principles.
Therefore, they set out a balanced approach which meets the expectations placed upon us as an institution by our staff and external bodies in relation to the journey to net zero, but also recognises the complexity of various factors governing the choices that have to be made about (i) whether to travel and (ii) travel modes if the travel is unavoidable.
'Business travel' has been defined as any travel by University of Aberdeen staff (regardless of destination, mode or class) away from University campuses, taken in association with University business, and for which the University pays directly .
It is the expectation that all such travel will be undertaken within the ethos and framework underpinning the Guiding Principles of Sustainable Business Travel.
The definition of business travel includes, for example:
It does not include:
If individuals travel on business between the University and another organisation where that external organisation is responsible for funding/reimbursing travel, we will encourage members of staff to align their travel decisions with the Guiding Principles and Travel Hierarchy.
However, it is recognised that this may require specific approval from the external organisation if, for example, the total sustainable travel cost is higher than it otherwise would be.
It is the expectation that the University's approach to encouraging sustainable business travel (as outlined in the Guiding Principles and Travel Hierarchy) will be brought to the attention of individuals from external organisations prior to them undertaking any work for the University to enable them to reflect on the validity and proposed mode(s) of their travel to Aberdeen e.g.
External Examiners and external contractors.
As outlined in the Aberdeen 2040 strategy , the University of Aberdeen is committed to achieving net zero carbon emissions before 2040.
To support the achievement of this ambition, the University has set an intermediate target of a 40% reduction in carbon emissions from business travel by 2025 ( based on the 2018/19 baseline emissions figures* ).
This commitment is set in the context of a wider range of external factors, including a recognition of the global and significant impact of climate change and the climate emergency, the expectations placed upon us to support the achievement of national emissions targets, statutory duties placed on public bodies, and the expectations of funders in this sphere.
The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, particularly the changes which it necessitated in terms of travel behaviours and working practices (and the extent to which they are likely to be embedded as cultural norms), is also an important factor in considering the level and shape of future business travel.
Business travel (both domestic and international) currently underpins a cross-section of University activities, including education, research and student recruitment.
However, the environmental impact of travel, particularly in relation to carbon emissions, has required us to consider the travel associated with all aspects of University activity, including these essential elements of our core business.
Therefore, the Sustainable Development Committee established a Sustainable Business Travel Working Group to develop recommendations on the institutional approach to business travel in future.
We recognise that a 'one size fits all' approach to decisions about business travel is not appropriate in view of the diverse nature of the activities undertaken in each area of the University and the unique personal circumstances of each individual.
Nevertheless, establishing a framework to underpin the decision-making process (where it is possible and appropriate to do so) is important in terms of ensuring transparency, effectiveness and consistency across the University as we continue to reduce our institutional carbon footprint.
We anticipate that the Guiding Principles of Sustainable Business Travel and accompanying Travel Hierarchy will support the implementation of a change process which will encourage a positive change in both individual and institutional behaviours in relation to future business travel.
This guidance will be regularly reviewed and updated by the Sustainable Development Committee to ensure that it continues to effectively underpin the University's efforts to reduce carbon emissions associated with business travel.
Karl Leydecker Senior Vice-Principal and Chair of the Sustainable Development Committee
3 November 2022
*2018/19 was the last full year of carbon emissions data pre-Covid 19 pandemic.
The Guiding Principles of Sustainable Business Travel are designed to reflect the University's expectation that all colleagues will now routinely consider sustainable business travel options and reach decisions on whether (and how) to travel within the framework and ethos underpinning the 4 Guiding Principles:
The Guiding Principles of Sustainable Business Travel aim (i) to inform individual actions and decisions regarding business travel, and (ii) to encourage buy-in from the University community in relation to enhancing the future sustainability of business travel.
Both the Guiding Principles and accompanying Travel Hierarchy were developed by the Sustainable Business Travel Working Group following a University-wide consultation process involving a diverse range of members of staff and Postgraduate Research (PGR) students.
The Guiding Principles and Travel Hierarchy are underpinned by a recognition of the importance of (i) balancing the need to travel for business purposes with the imperative to reduce emissions in line with our obligations to act sustainably, (ii) the context of the geographical challenges facing staff based in Aberdeen whilst also ensuring that the opportunities presented by the levelling of the playing field (as other institutions make similar changes) are fully exploited, and (iii) ensuring that there is equity in the approach adopted across grade boundaries and protected characteristics, including caring responsibilities.
The Guiding Principles & Travel Hierarchy reflect a growing expectation (internal and external to the University) that many of the changes in behaviour imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic e.g.
They also recognise the importance of travel (and particularly air travel) in successfully delivering some business-critical and/or academic development activities.
'Business travel' has been defined as any travel by University of Aberdeen staff (regardless of destination, mode or class) away from University campuses, taken in association with University business, and for which the University pays directly.
The definition of business travel includes, for example, travel to attend a conference, attending meetings, undertaking a recruitment trip, teaching at an overseas campus, visiting overseas research facilities, visits to use/view specialist equipment, attending fieldwork sites, visiting research archives etc.
It does not include commuting, nor does it include travel by University employees paid for by a third party to undertake activity on their behalf e.g.
as an External Examiner - if individuals travel on business between the University and another organisation where that external organisation is responsible for funding/reimbursing travel, we will encourage members of staff to align their travel decisions with the Guiding Principles and Travel Hierarchy.
Informed choices about what travel is required, and the way in which it is undertaken, will be made within a framework which takes account of the importance of business travel, its environmental impact, and consideration of alternative ways of undertaking the activity.
1.1 Prior to decisions being reached on business travel, all staff and Line Managers will be expected to reflect on the Guiding Principles and Travel Hierarchy to reach an informed view on travel decisions.
These decisions will take account of the requirements to: 1.1.1 conduct business-critical activity efficiently and effectively; 1.1.2 be cognisant of specific individual circumstances in relation to travel mode (e.g.
disabilities, caring responsibilities); and 1.1.3 reduce travel where it is possible to do so.
1.2 We will promote and embed the institutional expectation that: • carbon emissions from business travel will not return to pre-pandemic levels; • alternatives to business travel will be adopted wherever they exist, are viable and/or are being widely adopted elsewhere in the sector e.g.
online participation in conferences.
1.3 Information about the environmental impact of business travel and the choices available will be developed and publicised via a variety of media, including the use of the Travel Hierarchy, case studies (including examples of senior managers 'leading by example') and awareness-raising events.
1.4 We will continually review and enhance the University's physical infrastructure and provision of support to hybrid/online events to embed the Travel Hierarchy principles and associated guidance and ensure that they become a genuinely viable alternative to business travel.
1.5 Every effort will be made to incentivise and reward sustainable business travel choices to encourage positive and sustained behaviour change across the University.
Informed choices about business travel will be taken within the context of the Aberdeen 2040 strategy and our commitment to achieving net zero carbon emissions before 2040.
We will adopt a fair and transparent approach to monitoring our progress to meeting this commitment.
2.1 Effective carbon emissions recording and monitoring systems will be established and maintained to support the collection of information on a range of activities with a carbon footprint.
2.2 Schools and Directorates will be invited to consider their contribution towards sustainability and net zero (including how they intend to address business travel) as part of the annual School/Directorate Planning process.
2.3 We will raise awareness of the impact of business travel (and particularly air travel, including variances by class of travel) on the environment with a view to reducing emissions and minimising our environmental impact as an institution.
2.4 We will clearly communicate our expectation that where an activity can reasonably be undertaken without incurring the need to travel by air (i.e.
there will be no significant detrimental impact), an alternative mode of transport and/or virtual participation will be used instead.
Our business travel procedures will be underpinned by a fair, transparent, inclusive and accessible process that takes account of the needs of the individual, teams and the University.
3.1 Policies, processes and procedures underpinning business travel will be bespoke to Aberdeen's institutional circumstances and will consider the specific challenges (and potential opportunities) associated with Aberdeen's geographical position, key business critical activities, and their impact on individuals.
3.2 We will raise awareness of the relevant key processes and services available to support staff and line managers in reaching sustainable business travel decisions, including: • the business travel and reimbursement claims processes; • the services and benefits offered by the University's appointed travel provider.
3.3 We will ensure that, through training and the provision of regular reminders, Line Managers are made aware of their responsibility to: • discuss the utility and value of proposed business travel (particularly by air) with members of their team on a regular basis, and in line with the Expenses & Benefits Policy ; and • only authorise First and/or Business Class air travel which complies with the institutional Expenses & Benefits Policy .
3.4 We will ensure that Principal Investigators (working closely with Heads of School and Professional Services advisers e.g.
Research & Innovation) are made aware of their responsibility to consider options to reduce business travel at an early stage of developing grant applications, and that where travel is planned the associated costs are based on accurately costed and sustainable travel options.
We will ensure that our approach and expectations in relation to sustainable business travel are communicated in an open and transparent way.
4.1 We recognise that enhancing transparency and understanding of the impact of business travel by making accurate data more widely available is likely to positively influence attitudes and encourage behaviour change.
Therefore, we will ensure that information and data outlining the carbon footprint associated with business travel and our progress towards the achievement of the net zero target is published in an open and transparent way via: • Twice-yearly publication of data at School/Directorate level; and • An annual report at institutional level.
4.2 The Sustainable Development Committee will review the Guiding Principles of Sustainable Business Travel on an annual basis to ensure that they continue to effectively underpin the University's efforts to reduce carbon emissions associated with business travel.
4.3 The outcomes of the review process, and any changes made to the Guiding Principles, will be communicated to the University community in an open and transparent manner.
It is the University's expectation that all colleagues will now routinely consider sustainable business travel options and reach decisions on whether (and how) to travel within the framework and ethos underpinning the 4 Guiding Principles.
Colleagues can support the implementation of the Guiding Principles in the following ways:
It is the University's expectation that all Line Managers will promote and support the implementation of the Guiding Principles within their team.
Line Managers can support the implementation of the Guiding Principles in the following ways:
The Travel Hierarchy* underpins the Guiding Principles of Sustainable Business Travel.
It has been designed to support individuals and line managers in reaching decisions relating to business travel that supports business critical activity and the University's commitment to achieving net zero carbon emissions.
* Based on Sustainable Travel Hierarchy, Energy Saving Trust
The Sustainable Development Committee established the Sustainable Business Travel Working Group to develop recommendations for future business travel.
The University of Aberdeen is committed to achieving net zero carbon emissions before 2040 as outlined in the Aberdeen 2040 strategy .
Travel (both domestic and international) currently underpins a cross-section of University activities, including education, research and student recruitment.
However, the environmental impact of travel, particularly in relation to carbon emissions, means that a fresh approach to how we conduct these essential elements of our core business is required.
Therefore, the Sustainable Business Travel Working Group has been established to make recommendations to the Sustainability Steering Group on (i) a revised institutional approach to ensuring that travel identified as being essential to University core business is undertaken in a sustainable manner and (ii) ensuring that appropriate carbon off-setting activities are implemented where required.
Specifically, the Sustainable Business Travel Working Group will:
1.1 Consider the links between, and impacts arising from, University travel for business purposes and carbon emissions;
1.2 Consider the findings and recommendations arising from internal and external reviews of sustainable travel e.g.
carbon-offsetting for business travel to support research grant applications (in line with new funding body requirements) and the Aurora Network Travel Codex;
1.3 Develop a suite of Guiding Principles to underpin and inform the institutional approach to travel for business purposes and the associated approach to carbon off-setting;
1.4 Draw on input from internal and external stakeholders and oversee the commissioning of any external specialist support as appropriate to:
1.5 Recommend appropriate communication, consultation and staff engagement mechanisms to support the implementation of the Guiding Principles of Sustainable Business Travel.
2.1 The Sustainable Business Travel Working Group will comprise the following:
The Working Group recognised that there would be diverse views on sustainable business travel across the University community and was committed to taking its work forward in an open and transparent manner that would enable as many perspectives and views to be gathered as possible.
The consultation process involved a diverse range of staff and Postgraduate Research (PGR) students and included:

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/sustainable/net-zero:
Developed as part of our Aberdeen 2040 commitments, our Net Zero Strategy was approved by Court in December 2024.
As part of our Aberdeen 2040 strategy, Net Zero features as one of four high-level commitments linked to environmental sustainability, with a target to achieve net-zero before 2040.
To support that high-level commitment, we have developed a comprehensive Net Zero Strategy (available here in December 2024) that articulates our baseline assumptions, details a series of emissions decarbonisation pathways, and establishes associated interim and long-term targets consistent with the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi).
All of our emissions reporting (further details below) is consistent with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocols and the Scottish Government's Public Bodies Climate Change Duty (PBCCD).
As part of this approach, we have also begun to populate a register of (already 100+) net-zero related projects and initiatives in areas such as building fabric, heating networks, renewable generation opportunities etc.
These will be brought forward as funding permits.
In order to report our emissions data more publicly, the University has developed an interactive Sustainability Dashboard that provides current and historic data across all three emissions Scopes, in areas including energy, water, waste, business travel and many more.
The dashboard is openly available for staff, students, or the public to review.
Several of the sheets can be interrogated e.g.
to review campus or building specific data.
In-year data is uploaded in batches as it becomes available.
The data comes from a variety of sources e.g.
overall energy use data is based on metered consumption while some of the other data requires a degree of interpretation and the application of some assumptions e.g.
business travel, commuting, and student relocation.
In all cases the data represents our best efforts to report comprehensively based on the information we have available at the time.
The version below is an embedded copy of a Power BI dashboard.
Please expand to full-screen for optimal viewing.
Any queries on the dashboard should be directed to the Sustainability team at sustainability@abdn.ac.uk .
The University monitors and reports the carbon emissions resulting from its operations in a number of ways.
This section includes information on our statutory climate change reporting for the Scottish Government and links to our previous Carbon Management Plan.
Every year, as part of the duty on Scottish public sector bodies to report their actions to tackle climate change we, alongside other universities, colleges, local authorities, NHS trusts and other public bodies, submit a statutory annual report to the Scottish Government.
Details of the PBCCD reporting exercise and all public body reports are available via the Sustainable Scotland Network (SSN) reporting page .
Our reports as part of this exercise are also available via SSN online .
Prior to the net-zero commitment made in Aberdeen 2040, our previous Carbon Management Plan (CMP) had outlined a series of commitments and projects to reduce our carbon footprint.
Details of the 2016-2021 CMP can be found here .
Despite these challenges, incremental improvements help to keep emissions in check, improve energy efficiency, and reduce grid consumption.
As part of the development of our Net Zero strategy, the need for a definitive institutional position on emissions offsetting has emerged as an area for further development.
We intend to begin this discussion in AY 2024/25.
While there are established routes to decarbonising Scope 1 and 2 emissions, the indirect emissions we track under Scope 3 are harder to eliminate entirely.
As such, we anticipate using various forms of offsetting, insetting, or other forms of sequestration to address these emissions.
Until we've developed an approved institutional approach to offsetting that addresses e.g.
the type of emissions we wish to offset, the credibility of any schemes we use, and an agreed institutional process for tracking and managing offsets, it is important that colleagues note that we do not encourage colleagues to independently offset their emissions via publicly available schemes.
In the meantime, there are some narrow circumstances in which emissions will be offset.
These are set out in the University's Expenses and Benefits Policy which highlights, for example, that certain grant funders (notably the Wellcome Trust) now require us to offset elements of research grants.
This process is being overseen by colleagues in Estates & Facilities and Reseach & Innovation and individuals are not expected to undertake this offsetting independently.
Any offsetting that is approved will take place only through institutionally endorsed schemes that meet enhanced quality standards.
Ad hoc schemes, such as those offered by airlines at the checkout stage of online booking, are not supported and should not be used.
Costs incurred in purchasing such offsets will not be reimbursed as these offsets cannot be counted towards reducing our institutional emissions.
Staff wishing to discuss any aspect of offsetting should contact the Sustainability team in the first instance at sustainability@abdn.ac.uk
Our Aberdeen 2040 strategy commits the University to achieving net-zero emissions before 2040.
Our approach will encompass emissions from all sources.
To reiterate this commitment we have signed the Global Climate Letter and the One Planet Pledge .
The Sustainability Team in Estates and Facilities have hosted summer and term-time internships for University students to help enhance our approach to net-zero and to sustainability more generally.
Details of available internships will be shared on the University's careers page.
As part of the University's Net Zero benchmarking exercise, a gap was identified in our data for emissions resulting from students travelling to and from the University from around the world to study.
Having identified that there was no agreed sector methodology, the Sustainability Team employed a part-time student intern through the University's 2022/23 InternPlus Scheme.
Her work resulted in a methodology and associated tool to calculate these emissions with a high level of granularity.
This methodology filled a known gap in our Scope 3 emissions totals and added some 10,000 tCO2e to our emissions profile in 2021/22.
The methodology and associated materials were subsequently presented at a sector workshop facilitated by the EAUC and at the 2022 EAUC Conference, with the materials now widely available for all institutions to use and being developed as part of the EAUC's suite of emissions calculation tools.
International Universities are also now investigating its use as a basis for their own methodologies.
In the summer of 2023, the Sustainability Team recruited an undergraduate intern to support a Biodiversity Mapping project designed to develop spatial mapping of the land we own which, identifying greenspaces and different habitats.
This information is useful in managing our Grounds and Projects, but will also allow the University to develop actionable targets as part of a Biodiversity Action Plan to improve biodiversity within our Aberdeen 2040 commitments.
This 2023 summer internship saw a spatial QGIS map developed from scratch, showing land boundaries and identifying areas of greenspace or developed areas such as buildings.
A mapping methodology called UKHab was then to define and map the different types of greenspace e.g., woodland, grassland, scrub, ponds, wetlands, marine and planted beds.
Of the sites surveyed (Old Aberdeen, Hillhead, Balgownie, Foresterhill, Newburgh, and Hall Forest in Kintore), it was identified that around two thirds of University-managed land is greenspace, totalling 59ha.
This provides excellent scope for biodiversity improvement on campus, such as reviewing how we manage mown areas to encourage wildflowers, and in turn having a positive effect on declining insect species, such as our local pollinators.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/international:
We are a Scottish university that was founded with international connections and we are open to people and ideas from around the world.
Whether in Aberdeen or in Qatar, we welcome students and staff from all nations.
Through outreach and the exchange of ideas, we will teach and research across borders and will provide mechanisms and support for more staff and students to have an international experience.
We will continue to expand our networks and partnerships, seek new opportunities for international and intercultural exchange and offer more transnational education, enabling learning across the globe with key partners.
Provide an international education to learners from all around the world, becoming a more diverse and multicultural community
Equip our graduates for global employment through our curriculum and teaching methods
Harness our research expertise to form partnerships and networks around the world to meet the challenges of our age
Ensure all our students can have an international experience, by studying abroad or working collaboratively with international partners
We have a dedicated campus in Doha, in partnership with AFG.
The Qatar campus runs programmes at undergraduate and postgraduate level and offers students the same great experience as studying in Aberdeen, with access to a range of student services.
The Aberdeen-Curtin Alliance was established in early 2017, combining 500 years of academic strength, history and tradition at Scotland's University of Aberdeen with the ambition and innovation of the rapidly growing Curtin University, based in Perth, Western Australia.
A partnership between the University of Aberdeen and South China Normal University (SCNU) has resulted in the creation of a joint institute specialising in data science and artificial intelligence with three undergraduate programmes on offer.
Our Confucius Institute promotes cultural exchange in partnership with Wuhan University, a comprehensive and key national university in China.
The University of Aberdeen is part of the Santander Universities network, an international group of universities focused on education, employability and entrepreneurship who collaborate to provide part-funded internships for SMEs and exchange programmes for students and staff.
The University is a member of The Association of Commonwealth Universities (ACU).
One of the world's first international university network, the ACU has more than 500 member institutions in over 50 countries.
THE World University Rankings 2025
QS World Rankings 2026
QS World University Rankings 2026
Our university preparation programmes combine supportive staff who are experts in their subject with English language development, helping you to succeed on the undergraduate or postgraduate degree of your choice.
The Language Centre delivers high quality and effective Pre-Session Academic English courses for prospective international students and continues to support them throughout their academic studies through a range of free Academic Writing and Communication Skills classes.
Aberdeen students can spend up to a full academic year abroad engaging with one of our many Go Abroad partners across Europe or further afield.
Hear from our international students about life at the University of Aberdeen.
Researchers are supporting adult learners in Rwanda to improve their life skills in partnership with the University of Rwanda.
Researchers discovered and preserved the largest ever collection of pre-contact Yup'ik artefacts in Alaska.
Our researchers have used innovative technology to create the world's first 3D thermal image of an active volcano on an island near Italy.
Chat with out international team to find out more about studying and life in Aberdeen.
We also have a great network of international Alumni Ambassadors who regularly organise alumni specific activities and events in their local areas.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/international/news:
Page 1 of 18 Results 1 to 10 of 174 , 05 February - 26 June 2025
The first cohort of students from the University of Aberdeen and South China Normal University's Joint Institute have graduated at a special ceremony.
The University has taken a significant step forward in its global expansion ambitions after India's University Grants Commission granted permission to progress with proposals to open a branch campus in Mumbai with a target launch of September 2026.
The latest trends in global supply chains will be the focus of a three day event hosted by the University of Aberdeen Business School this summer.
How the University of Aberdeen should respond to international conflict was the subject of in-depth debate at a groundbreaking event on campus last week.
Thousands of visitors are expected to gather in the North-east of Scotland next year as Europe's leading geosciences conference and exhibition makes its Aberdeen debut.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/strategy-and-governance/dci:
Welcome to the University of Aberdeen's resources for decolonising the curriculum.
As part of our Aberdeen 2040 Strategy and our 'Inclusive' Strategic Theme, the University of Aberdeen is taking forward a Decolonising the Curriculum initiative.
We know from recent reports that racism exists in the sector and that there are degree awarding gaps.
Driven by our ambition to be an antiracist university, we have therefore embedded the ambitions for decolonising the curriculum in our University's Antiracism Strategy.
The purpose of the web resources is to provide support for the work that is taking place to decolonise the curriculum.
The Anti-Racist Curriculum Project is a national project, which brought together colleagues from across the higher education and further education sectors and has produced a set of resources that we can access to support our work on decolonising the curriculum.
The Anti-Racist Curriculum Project Guide can be found here and relates to all aspects of the resources that we have developed.
Education has the power to shape our understanding of the world, and the curriculum plays a critical role in shaping that education.
The curriculum has been influenced by Western perspectives, which have excluded and marginalised knowledge systems from diverse cultures and communities.
At the University of Aberdeen, we recognise that this focus has resulted in an incomplete understanding of the world that can be addressed.
Our decolonising the curriculum initiative aims to give voice to diverse perspectives and knowledge systems, ensuring that our students receive a comprehensive education that reflects the realities of our world.
Join us in our journey towards creating a more equitable and inclusive curriculum that truly represents the diversity of our global community.
Find out more by booking on to one of our upcoming information sessions here (institutional log-in required).
Please check back later in the year
We aim to decolonise our curriculum by identifying, challenging, and transforming pedagogical practices including class activities, course structure, assessment, terminology, and examples used in the delivery of our education.
We have taken the decision as a University to:
There is a great deal of work that colleagues and students across the University have already done to take forward Decolonisation of the Curriculum, and the institutional Group acknowledges the importance of this work and its impact on the way in which the resources have been developed.
Appreciation is given to all those who have contributed to the case studies.
We know that the terminology around Decolonising the Curriculum is contested.
For example, some might refer to diversifying the curriculum, others to an antiracist curriculum.
The use of language is likely to evolve and we will review our resources regularly to keep pace with evidence.
[To note, the University, through the Race Equality Strategy Group, has agreed race-related definitions for its work [see Race Definitions Task and Finish Group.
These are being kept under review ].
Our Group developed a definition which served as a guide to the development of our resources.
We have defined Decolonising the Curriculum as follows:
Decolonising the Curriculum at the University of Aberdeen is informed by our understanding that all British universities and the disciplines taught and researched in them have been indelibly shaped by the racialized hierarchies of knowledge forged through Europe's colonial history.
A colonial mode of knowledge production and dissemination presents perspectives, values, and ideologies particular to Europe as universal, superior, and complete; it marginalizes and makes invisible knowledge produced in non-European geographical and cultural contexts.
Crucially, it also obscures the long history of the co-production between the west and the rest of knowledge (philosophical and scientific), which is central to life as we know it today.
We aim to decolonise by identifying, challenging, and transforming the colonial categories of thought that dominate disciplinary knowledge and its dissemination.
To this end, and driven principally by the goal of restoring epistemic justice to producing and disseminating knowledge, we will review, rethink, and revise pedagogical practices including class activities, course structure, assessment questions, terminology and examples used in class exercises, reading lists, teaching materials, evaluation, and research strategies.
Decolonising the curriculum is not a linear project with a definite end, but an ongoing open-ended process that has its own challenges.
To tackle this profound issue, we will ensure that students and staff with lived experience and from backgrounds historically affected by colonialism are at the centre of the process, while ensuring that it is a collective effort that does not place all the labour and responsibility on them.
Decolonising the curriculum is an extensive piece of work that can seem daunting at the beginning.
For this reason we have broken the process down into 4 thematic areas and have provided information and resources on each and toolkit videos to give examples of how each area might be approached.
The 4 themes to support the work on decolonising the curriculum are:
Welcome to our dedicated web section on the terminology used for Decolonising the Curriculum.
Here, we aim to shed light on the various terms and phrases that are commonly employed when discussing this important topic.
We understand that the language surrounding decolonisation can be nuanced and contested, with different perspectives and approaches emerging.
Through this section, we strive to provide clarity and promote understanding by exploring the evolving terminology and its implications.
Join us as we delve into the diverse terminology surrounding decolonising the curriculum and its significance in fostering inclusive education.
To note, the University, through the Race Equality Strategy Group, has agreed race-related definitions for its work [ see Race Definitions Task and Finish Group These are being kept under review ].
Thanks go to all of those involved in the Steering Group.
The students, academic colleagues, and professional services colleagues who contributed to the work have brought a great deal of expertise, enthusiasm, and commitment to the work.
They have liaised and consulted with others, and developed the resources that are now available for us to use.
Find out more on the Decolonising the Curriculum Steering Group page

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/strategy-and-governance/dci/students-and-staff-as-active-partners:
Welcome to the "Students and Staff as Active Partners" section of the Decolonising the Curriculum web pages.
In recent years, there has been a growing awareness and recognition of the need to critically examine the ways in which knowledge is produced, taught, and learned within our educational institutions.
This process of decolonising the curriculum involves challenging dominant narratives and perspectives, and actively working towards a more diverse, inclusive, and equitable education for all.
Alongside this there has in parallel been a growing awareness of the crucial role students play in shaping and improving the education they receive.
That's why we see students as key partners in the successful development and review of all aspect of our curricula.
We recognise that the traditional approach to curriculum design can often be top-down and disconnected from the experiences and perspectives of students.
By actively involving students in the process, we can ensure that our curricula are relevant, engaging, and reflective of the diverse backgrounds and interests of our student body.
We believe that this collaborative approach to curriculum development is essential to creating an inclusive and high-quality educational experience for all.
This approach benefits not only students but also academic staff and the wider university community.
At the University of Aberdeen, we recognise the vital role that students can play as active partners in this decolonisation process.
By engaging with students as co-creators and co-researchers, we can foster a more collaborative and democratic approach to teaching and learning.
This not only helps to address issues of under-representation and marginalisation within our curricula, but also enriches the educational experience for all students.
In this section, you will find resources and information for students on how you can become an active partner in decolonising the curriculum at the University of Aberdeen.
Staff will find resources on how you can engage with students with the work you undertake to decolonise the course and programmes that you deliver.
From student-led initiatives and research projects, to opportunities for co-creation and co-design, we invite you to join us in this important and transformative work.
Dr Mubarek Nuru Ahmed , The Institute of Applied Health Sciences
As an intern with the Resilient Learning Communities - Learning Better Together project, I collaborated with both staff and students to explore a topic that aligned with the ideals of Decolonising the Curriculum.
Our efforts aimed to enhance connections, foster resilience, and create an inclusive space for cultural dialogue, amplifying diverse narratives within the academic community.
It was crucial to engage in this collaboration to promote an inclusive and equitable learning environment.
The traditional curriculum may not always adequately represent the diverse realities and voices of the student body.
This necessitated a collective effort to dismantle barriers and centre marginalised experiences, fostering open dialogue and mutual understanding.
Despite my demanding academic schedule, I was deeply motivated to contribute to this endeavour, driven by a passion for promoting inclusion and active participation.
Through this collaborative initiative, we laid a foundation for a more inclusive academic community, taking meaningful steps towards broader transformative change.
The initiative, which is still in progress, is geared towards creating resilient learning communities and is expected to have a significant effect on both teaching and learning.
Our initiatives are made with the requirements of postgraduate students in mind, and we especially focus on creating a community that facilitates learning through cooperative communities and discussions.
Student participation is crucial to this process since it not only enhances the curriculum but also humanises the learning experience.
We intend to increase the authenticity and depth of the learning process by incorporating the many viewpoints and real-world experiences given by students into a schedule of zero-credit activities.
When finished, we anticipate that it will offer practical knowledge on how to improve ties and inclusivity.
Our teamwork ultimately attempts to advance a dedication to academic performance and community improvement, highlighting the idea that we learn more effectively as a group.
While our collaboration on the Building Communities project has been incredibly rewarding, I did encounter some challenges.
Balancing the demands of my full-time MSc studies and responsibilities as vice president of public health association of students, alongside the project commitments required careful time management.
In retrospect, the unfortunate timing and overlapping of my thesis as well as longer than anticipated ethical approval process might have been obstacles to time management and how we carried out our tasks
Nevertheless, these challenges have presented opportunities for growth and learning.
Through them, I've gained insights into effective project management and interdisciplinary collaboration.
Looking ahead, the desired impact on the student experience is two-fold: fostering a stronger sense of belonging and facilitating meaningful engagement.
By amplifying diverse voices, breaking down barriers, and cultivating an inclusive environment, we aspire to enhance the overall student experience and contribute to a more united and empowered academic community.
Ritu Vij (Senior Lecturer), Politics and International Relations, School of Social Science
I teach a senior honours seminar, 'Wealth, Poverty and International Order,' that now begins with a session on the historical formation of global capitalism with a particular focus on debates about the concept of 'racial capitalism,' specifically the role of Trans-Atlantic slavery and the Middle Passage.
A student highly sceptical of this attempt to decolonize the curriculum on the teaching of International Political Economy decided to do a deep dive into this literature to examine the nexus between slavery and the formation of the modern political economic order.
During a close reading of texts and multiple conversations with me, she came to understand and appreciate the decolonising project as central to overcoming what the late scholar Michel Rolph-Trouillot referred to as the 'silencing of history.' Teaching 'good history' (Dipesh Chakravarty's term) enables students to begin to apprehend the non-Western word not simply as a site of local vernacular knowledge, the object and target of 'improvement,' but as co-contributor to 'world-making,' a re-orientation that is a key driver of the project of Decolonising the Curriculum.
My current work explores the fault-lines in attempts to universalise 'precarity,' a concept whose provenance in Christian political-theology, Fordist economic organisation and European welfare-state regimes, carries little analytical traction in post-colonial contexts in the Global South.
Reading Afropessimist critiques about precarity's limited reach (on the grounds that Afro-descendants of slaves cannot achieve the status of a worker, precarious or otherwise) led me to immerse myself in the literature on 'racial capitalism.' Some of this work shares problematic assumptions with Afropessimist discourse about the world being inherently anti-Black, a claim I reject.
Engaging with this literature, however, was edifying as it allowed me to read the classic texts in political economy (Smith, Hegel, Marx etc.) from the standpoint of the archives of thought foregrounded by the literature on Afropessimism/racial capitalism.
Incorporating some of this literature, and my encounter with it, into my undergraduate and postgraduate teaching has enriched the work I do in the classroom.
Teaching the literature on 'racial capitalism' to students in my senior honours' seminar was a challenge since, as I confessed at the outset to my class, I remain agnostic on the question of whether capitalist logics are necessarily and always folded into racialized hierarchies.
By sharing both my ambivalence and curiosity about this transdisciplinary field of scholarship, however, I was able to provide, albeit inadvertently, an object-lesson on encountering ideas that challenge our thinking.
De-familiarizing history and categories of thought is central to the decolonising project; placing the shared discomfort that de-familiarizing effectuates at the centre of our discussion in class allowed students to engage the material in an open and uninhibited way.
I plan to replicate this approach in the next iteration of the course.
Access practical guidance about Decolonising the Curriculum* here.
*Check back soon for new, topic-specific Toolkits being added.
Some additional reading that you might find useful:

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/strategy-and-governance/dci/how-we-teach:
Welcome to the section on developing learning environments.
At university, the quality of education relies heavily on the design and development of effective learning environments that cater to the needs of the students.
As such, it is essential to ensure that the curricula being developed and reviewed are focused on creating an environment that facilitates and encourages student learning.
In this section, we will explore the different aspects of developing learning environments and how they can be optimised to enhance the quality of education.
Our aim is to provide you with the knowledge and tools necessary to develop effective learning environments that foster student engagement and promote academic excellence.
Whether you are an academic or a member of professional services, this section will offer valuable insights and practical advice to help you enhance the quality of education delivery at the University of Aberdeen.
As part of an overall approach to developing an inclusive learning experience, and in decolonising the curriculum, it is vital that the learning environment, whether that is in person or online, enables students to:
The Antiracist Curriculum project asset, ' Language Matters portfolio' introduces the 'Framework for Humanity-Centric Language' which is an overarching approach which may support you in your work on decolonising the curriculum, and in particular on how you go about developing the learning environment.
It focuses on:
Creating curricula that are more reflective of the world in which we live
De-centring Western paradigms as the primary source of knowledge
Enhancing student and staff experiences through creation of safe learning environments
How teaching and learning activities, engagement initiatives, research activities, and leadership and management support the aspirations
Remember that confronting racism and prejudice requires ongoing effort and a commitment to creating an inclusive and equitable learning environment.
By modeling appropriate responses and promoting open conversations, educators can help their students develop empathy, critical thinking, and respect for one another's diverse backgrounds and experiences.
Confronting racism in the classroom requires a proactive and sensitive approach.
As an educator, you must be prepared to address racist incidents when they occur and model appropriate responses to racism and other forms of prejudice within classroom conversations.
You might find the following steps useful when considering how to respond.
Take a moment to pause and process what was said.
Stay composed and avoid reacting emotionally, as it's crucial to model a measured and respectful response.
Address the comment directly but without blame or judgment.
Encourage a discussion about the comment to ensure that everyone's feelings are acknowledged.
If the comment was based on misconceptions or stereotypes, take the opportunity to dispel those myths and provide accurate information.
Use reliable sources to back up your statements.
If you don't have these immediately available you can provide them through the VLE after the session.
Remind the class of the established classroom norms that promote respect, inclusivity, and open dialogue.
Emphasise that racism and prejudice have no place in the University of Aberdeen and will not be tolerated.
After the incident, take time to reflect on how it was handled and consider what could be improved.
Follow up with the class in subsequent discussions, reinforcing the importance of respectful communication and addressing any lingering concerns.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/strategy-and-governance/dci/what-we-teach:
Welcome to the "What We Teach" section of our webpage on decolonising the curriculum at the University of Aberdeen.
Here, we aim to provide an overview of approaches that support decolonising of the content of our courses and programmes to reflect a more inclusive and diverse curriculum.
At our institution, we recognise the importance of decolonising the curriculum and ensuring that the education we provide is representative of the diverse perspectives and experiences of all students.
Our courses are designed to challenge and engage students, providing them with the tools they need to succeed in their chosen fields while also addressing the historical and ongoing impact of colonialism on various aspects of society.
We offer a diverse range of programmes, from undergraduate to postgraduate levels, in various disciplines, including arts and humanities, sciences, engineering, social sciences, and business.
Our staff members are experts in their respective fields and have worked hard to incorporate a range of perspectives into the curriculum, including those that have been historically underrepresented.
We recognise that decolonising the curriculum is an ongoing process, and we are committed to continually reviewing and updating our courses to ensure that they are inclusive, representative and reflective of the diversity of our student body.
We recognise:
In decolonising the curriculum we need to recognise the intersectionalities across these three areas for racialised groups.
From a decolonial perspective what does this mean?
Teaching content and curriculum development should take account of these contexts and should include consideration of:
We acknowledge that the process of decolonisation is a collective journey, with some of us just beginning this work while others have been actively engaged in it for many years.
This diversity of experiences means there is a wealth of knowledge to be shared within our university and across various disciplines and the broader educational sector.
The Library is actively working towards the goal and process of decolonising our collections through the assessment and analysis of collections data, removal of cultural and racial bias within our cataloguing records and investment in information resources that are inclusive of perspectives, values, and ideologies of racialised people and other underrepresented geographical and cultural paradigms.
Decolonising a reading list does not mean removing resources from your list.
Instead, we aim to encourage you to make use of the tools, prompts and resources provided here to better discover what areas of your reading list can be expanded so as to better provide an understanding free of colonial influences.
The Library supports the University's approach to decolonising the curriculum through the investment in information resources that promote radical thinking and challenge Eurocentric default positions in academia.
This guide showcases some of the items we have invested in to diversify and decolonise our collections.
Decolonisation is not a one size fits all process and varies by department and subject area.
Your knowledge and expertise of your discipline is critical to providing a well-balanced reading list and we recommend working with other academics in your discipline to share ideas.
As a starting point, complete the following questionnaire to help you examine your reading list quickly and begin thinking critically about the resources included .
Conducting a full reading list audit can provide you with a more data driven approach to examining your reading list.
In spring 2022, we ran 143 reading lists from four disciplines, used in the 2020/21 and 2021/22 academic years, through our auditing tool and found the following:
To allow you to conduct your own audits in order to gain a visualisation of how diverse your existing reading list is, we have made the audit tool available for you here .
To use this tool, follow the step-by-step instructions.
Additional support can be requested by emailing us .
Step-by-step instructions on using the audit tool
You can submit your completed audit and book a consultation by emailing library@abdn.ac.uk .
The library is here to help you find the resources you need to add to the represented narratives of your reading list.
Each discipline has their own Information Consultant who can provide support in finding diverse materials and resources for your reading list.
You can find who your Information Consultant is by looking at the library contacts .
Top Tips:
Consider looking in unfamiliar places when seeking a broader range of voices to include in your reading list.
Remember decolonising your reading list is not about removing resources but instead adding them.
Major multidisciplinary databases such as Web of Science and Scopus have built-in tools allowing you to analyse your search results, including the ability to create visualisations showing language, author affiliation and place of publication.
We have included a number of databases and open access resources in our Leganto decolonising reading list to support you .
We welcome recommendations from the University community on titles and collections that offer enriched perspectives, diverse voices and global approaches to the foundations and production of knowledge.
The Library has a dedicated fund we use for purchasing materials supporting the decolonisation of the collection.
You can submit your suggestions here .
Essential resources, including titles contributing towards the decolonisation of your reading list, will be purchased by the library, subject to availability and affordability.
More information on this can be found on the reading list service webpage .
To support you in your decolonisation journey, we have highlighted some resources and links that might be useful for you .
If you are doing work on decolonisation and have suggestions of resources that we can add to our lists, we would be happy for you to submit your recommendations to us via email .
For more inspiration, the diversifying our collections reading list is also available here .
Student involvement is vital to the decolonisation process, and it is encouraged that work on this be undertaken with their participation.
The decolonisation of reading lists provides a valuable opportunity to working with students to create co-curated reading lists.
Suggested Activities:
Reading lists on Leganto can be edited and adjusted at any time throughout the academic year, and it is entirely possible to create a live reading list that you can update during the course to better reflect the students of your class and encourage engagement.
If you have been undertaking work in this area and wish to submit your reading list for consideration as an example of best practice, please feel free to contact us below with the course information.
We would require the course name, course code and the year in which the reading list was in use.
Contact us with your Best practice consideration
Here are some resources that might be helpful for you in taking your next steps:

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/strategy-and-governance/dci/assessment-and-feedback:
Welcome to the "Assessment and Feedback" section of our webpage on decolonising the curriculum at the University of Aberdeen.
Here, we aim to provide an overview of our approach to assessment and feedback, which is grounded in our commitment to inclusivity, equity, and diversity.
We recognise that assessment and feedback are not neutral processes and can be shaped by cultural, social, and historical factors.
As such, we have adopted an approach that is sensitive to these factors and aims to provide a fair and equitable assessment for all students, regardless of their background or experiences.
We are committed to decolonising our assessment methods to ensure that they are inclusive and reflective of the diverse perspectives and experiences of all students.
We recognise that some methods of assessment, such as written exams, may disadvantage students who may have different ways of learning or expressing themselves.
Therefore, we aim to incorporate a range of assessment methods across our programmes, including oral presentations, group projects, reflective journals, and practical exercises to ensure that all students have the opportunity to demonstrate their knowledge and skills in a variety of ways.
Our feedback process is also grounded in our commitment to inclusivity and diversity.
We are committed to providing constructive feedback that is tailored to the individual student and their unique learning needs, taking into account their cultural, social, and historical context.
We recognise the value of feedback as a tool for learning and improvement and commit to providing timely and actionable feedback that supports student progress.
We believe that assessment and feedback are essential components of the learning process and are committed to providing a fair and inclusive assessment process that enables all students to achieve their full potential.
The awarding gap in education refers to the disparities in academic achievement and attainment among different student groups, often in relation to race, ethnicity, or socioeconomic background.
By integrating decolonisation principles into educational practices, we can work towards dismantling systemic biases and stereotypes, fostering a more inclusive and diverse learning environment.
Addressing the awarding gap through decolonisation involves recognizing the value of diverse knowledge systems, promoting representation of marginalized voices, and providing equitable opportunities for all students.
Through this transformative process, education can become a powerful tool for empowering individuals and building a more just and equitable society.
Consider asking students what they expect from assessment at university / within individual courses in terms of mode and frequency of assessment, demonstrable skills required for assessment, and share the approach you have designed.
Address any gaps between the student expectations and your assessment design.
Using Bloom's taxonomy when designing your intended learning outcomes and the subsequent assessment questions helps to identify the expected level that the assessment is designed for.
Remember to provide time and training to help students understand the differences in the levels.
For example:
Providing guidance and practice with the different levels will help students develop their cognitive abilities and improve their academic performance, especially for those who may not have had this type of educational experience previously.
When attempting to make assessments more authentic, providing a context description of a real-world scenario is indeed a common practice.
However, there is a risk of unintentionally designing assessments based on a Eurocentric or Western perspective, overlooking the diverse experiences and contexts of students from different backgrounds.
To address this concern, educators can take proactive steps to create more inclusive and personalized assessments:
By embracing a more inclusive and student-centred approach to assessment design, we can create assessments that are not only authentic but also meaningful and relevant to the diverse experiences and backgrounds of our students.
This fosters a more equitable and inclusive learning environment, promoting deeper engagement and learning outcomes for all learners.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/strategy-and-governance/legacies-of-slavery:
The foundational purpose of the University of Aberdeen is to be “open to all and dedicated to the pursuit of truth in the service of others.”
In keeping with this commitment, a report was commissioned to signpost and act as a starting point for further research and discussion into how a 527-year-old academic institution benefitted and continues to benefit from the labour and lives of thousands of enslaved people and the reparative steps required to acknowledge how slavery shaped the University of Aberdeen.
These are initial findings and further research will undoubtedly uncover further linkages and historic cases of the University financially benefitting from slavery.
It is recognised that any truth-telling project and institutional history cannot be limited to a fixed research period and a single researcher.
When we think of Transatlantic slavery we often think of ports like Liverpool, Bristol or Glasgow so the connections of north-east Scotland to this trade in human suffering has long been overlooked.
This report is part of ongoing work to shine a light on those connections and to confront uncomfortable truths from our past.
While the University of Aberdeen may not have been directly involved in the slave trade, it is clear that many of our graduates and benefactors were and that the legacies they left mean those connections still exist today.
This report is a step towards greater understanding and self-reflection on this important topic and provides a basis for addressing those inequalities in keeping with the commitments to inclusion set out in our Aberdeen 2040 strategy.
We are committed to addressing this legacy, so now look forward to listening to suggestions about what actions we should take and then engaging with them on the way forward.
George Boyne, Principal of the University of Aberdeen
As part of the student and staff cohort in our community who have worked towards an anti-racist university over the years, we are looking forward to the impact of the report and the following listening exercise.
Connecting the colonial racial legacy, that is embedded into our curriculum and social interactions, to our experiences in today's North-East Scotland brings an opportunity to reflect on the importance of proactive anti-racism and what a decolonized education system looks like to us.
We look forward to taking part, encouraging all students to bring forth their thoughts - especially our community members who personally continue to feel the weight of colonial relations as they navigate the University as Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic staff and students.
Vanessa Mabonso Nzolo, Student President 2022-2024
At least eleven bequests and gifts to Marischal and King's College in the years 1706 to 1846 were donated by individuals or supported by patrons with clear connections to Atlantic slavery.
The web of wealth from slave colonies to Aberdeen's universities spanned Barbados, Jamaica, St.
Croix, and South Carolina.
Notable alumni connected to the slave trade include:
Gilbert Ramsay was an Episcopalian minister from the parish of Birse in Aberdeenshire.
He was also an enslaver on the island of Barbados and a benefactor to his alma mater, Marischal College.
Ramsay was born in Birse, around 1658, and grew up at Midstrath, near Ballogie.
He graduated MA from Marischal College in 1674.
Ramsay moved to Barbados where he was Rector of Christ Church from 1692 to 1724.
He married twice to women from wealthy families of the Barbadian slavocracy.
After his second wife's death, Ramsay left for England and died soon after in Bath on 5th May 1728.
During his four decades in Barbados, Ramsay grew wealthy enough to leave behind substantial bequests to his home parish and alma mater.
In his will Gilbert left £5540 to charitable causes.
Ramsay bequeathed £1000 to his home parish of Birse for a school and poor fund.
He also left £3,800 to Marischal College, one of the largest single gifts that Aberdeen's universities had received up to that date.
Ramsay earmarked £1000 “for the salary of a Professor of Languages, that of two thousand pounds for four Bursars of Divinity, and the greatest of Eight Hundred Pounds to be added to the four bursaries in Philosophy formerly founded by him.
Ramsay's bequest was his second round of benefaction to Marischal.
In 1714 Ramsay had provided £400 for four philosophy bursaries.
Ramsay stipulated that his bursaries were to be awarded to students with the surname Ramsay.
Bursars with the name Ramsay would go on to make their own fortunes from slavery in the Caribbean.
Ramsay paid for his later benefaction partly through the sale of an unknown number of enslaved people.
Ramsay directed the executors of his will to sell all of the enslaved people he held in Barbados and add the money earned to the rest of his estate to pay for the legacies.
John Gray taught mathematics at Marischal College.
From 1764 until his death in 1769 he was rector of the college.
Gray was also owner of the Gray's Inn Castle plantation in St George parish, Jamaica and at his death he bequeathed some 2000 acres - which he had built up over time by purchase - and the enslaved people on it to his nephew John Elmslie.
He also left Marischal £1,000 in 1768 to fund two mathematical bursaries.
The Gray fund grew under the management of Professors Robert Hamilton and Patrick Copland, both of whom taught mathematics at Marischal.
The Gray fund was later conjoined into the Fullerton, Moir and Gray Fund which continues to support post graduate scholarships.
John Henderson (1743-1814), of the Hendersons of Caskieben, left his alma mater Marischal College £500 to provide for bursaries while also leaving an annual annuity of £5 to his “black servant” Thomas.
Henderson attended Marischal 1768-71 before travelling to Jamaica to practice medicine.
His wife Helen, along with her three sisters, inherited a share of Friendship Estate in Jamaica, from her uncle, Dr Charles Irvine of Aberdeen.
The actual ownership and running of Friendship estate is somewhat unclear, as is Henderson's role within the operations.
There is some indication that John ran Friendship Estate on a day-to-day basis, a property of some 1100 acres.
In 1785 Henderson returned to Britain, bringing Thomas from Jamaica as his servant.
In 1792 Henderson bought Caskieben House, near Blackburn, in the parish of Dyce.
Records show John Henderson continued to import Jamaican rum and sugar to Glasgow and London, using the profits to improve his estate, including road-making and opening the Dyce quarry.
To export granite he constructed a road from his quarry to the Aberdeenshire canal.
Granite from Henderson's Dyce quarry was used in the construction of the West India Dock, Sheerness Dock, London Bridge and Custom House, the new Bridge of Don, and the Bell Rock Lighthouse, representing a physical legacy from Aberdeenshire to London from slave-derived wealth in Jamaica.
John Henderson died at Caskieben in 1814.
In his will, he left £1,500 to Marischal College on the condition that his three sons died without having children.
As two of his sons had children, this bequest never reached Marischal College.
However he added an additional stipulation regarding India Dock stock when sold which meant £500, less the legal duty of £50, was paid to John Cruickshank, Chair of Mathematics at Marischal.
Alexander Farquharson Henderson (1780-1863), who also attended Marischal, inherited both Caskieben, Aberdeenshire and part ownership of Friendship Estate, Jamaica, from his father in 1814.
At the time of emancipation in the British Empire the Treasury paid £3,136 as compensation for 160 enslaved people on Friendship Estate.
The distribution of the compensation money shows a web of ownership with Henderson at the centre: £522 13s 4d to Henderson & Alcock; £522 13s 4d to Henderson; £522 13s 4d to Right Rev.
William Skinner, Forbes, John Robert Skinner & Henderson; £1034 6s 11d to E Bond & Garrigues.
The Hendersons - John and Alexander Farquharson - were both cross-generational benefactors to Marischal College and cross-generational beneficiaries from slavery.
In 1857, six years before his death, Alexander Farquharson Henderson granted £1000 in Bank of England stock to Marischal College for the establishment and endowing of a professorship of Medical Logic and Jurisprudence.
The Professorship existed from 1857 until 1933, at which time the University Court of the combined University of Aberdeen abolished the chair, partly on the grounds that the endowment was insufficient.
In 1863, Alexander also donated paintings and sculptures, his library, and a collection of ancient Greek pottery.
The vast majority of scholarship on Scotland and slavery has focused on the role of Scots within the British Empire but it was not limited only to the British sphere as King's College alumnus and benefactor Alexander Moir demonstrates.
Moir was born in Mortlach, Banffshire and after graduating in 1739 became a physician and enslaver on the island of Saint Croix in the Danish West Indies.
Maps and documents from the time show he owned a wind-powered sugar mill and 128 slaves.
Little is known of Moir's business operations on Saint Croix but records show he shipped sugar to Port Glasgow.
In 1765 Moir became embroiled in a dispute over debts with a former business partner which found against him and he “quit all claim, title, & pretensions to eight enslaved people”.
He died soon after and was buried on 22 February 1766 at his own plantation.
In his will he provided “six hundred pounds sterling for the support of four bursars in the King's College.” The Moir bursaries were intended for the “support of four poor students, each of whom at first had £5.” Moir's bequest was “judiciously invested by the Senatus in land” and the number and value of bursaries grew over the next century.
By 1857, there were sixteen bursaries on the foundation with four bursaries of £17; ten bursaries of £15; and two bursaries of £13.
As of 2018, the Alexander Moir endowment had a value of £38,869 and was one of the ten largest endowments by value.
Another of the ten largest endowments is the Fullerton, Moir and Gray Endowment, which amalgamated gifts by Alexander Moir with two other benefactors.
As of 2018 the Fullerton, Moir and Gray endowment had a value of £75,161.49.
The Fullerton, Moir and Gray endowment combines the gifts of two donors who made their fortunes from Atlantic slavery: Alexander Moir and John Gray.
The Fullerton, Moir and Gray endowment - which continues to support post graduate scholarships - is indicative of the role of slavery-derived wealth in the evolution of King's, Marischal, and the unified University of Aberdeen.
Both Kings and Marischal were beneficiaries in the will of Reverend James Stuart, originally from Boyndie, in Banffshire when he died in 1805.
As a missionary he was assigned to the colony of South Carolina in 1766 where he married into a wealthy family of rice producers whose plantations were worked by hundreds of slaves and who were associated with the defence of southern slavery.
Stuart was a Loyalist during the American Revolutionary War (1775-83) and as a result fled to the West Indies spending time on a number of islands.
Records also show that he claimed for the loss of a “Negro Carpenter” as a result of the conflict.
His relationship to slavery is complex as he was a beneficiary but used this experience and his time on southern plantations to give evidence before the “committee of Council for Trade and Plantations in the course of their enquiry into the state of the African slave trade.”
There he stated that “having been about Twenty Years well acquainted with the Treatment of Slaves in Virginia, Maryland, and particularly in South Carolina” he was “warranted to affirm, that the Condition of Slaves is beyond Comparison worse than that of the poorest Labourers or Farmers Servants in Scotland, or in any Part of Europe he was ever in.” He then cautioned the committee that no description of slavery “can equal the reality”.
Rev.
Stuart died in England around 1805.
In his will he bequeathed “an equal sum to each of the five Universities in Scotland” as well as legacies to the Academies at Banff and Fordyce, as well as Balliol College, Oxford.
To Marischal and King's Stuart left “two thousand pounds, three per cent.
Consols, for the support of bursars at King's College and Marischal College equally, and twelve hundred pounds for the education of two young men, of the names of Stuart or Simpson, at the academies of Fordyce and Banff for five years.” His will further directed that students in Fordyce and Banff receiving his bursaries would be “removed from the academy at Fordyce to the Marischall college of Aberdeen for four years, and from the Banff academy to the Kings college Aberdeen for four years.”
Other donors to King's and Marischal colleges had connections to chattel slavery via marriage and extended families.
In these instances, it is clear that family members financially benefitted from their involvement in slaveholding but less obvious that bequests made by particular family members drew upon slavery-derived wealth.
Two examples of these indirect connections are the Lady Braco Bursary and Mrs.
Udny Duff Bursaries, both for which the Earl of Fife was patron.
These two bequests are not included in the overall connections of wealth derived from slavery.
It is nevertheless important to detail the multiple connections between slavery and prominent university patrons.
This report is part of the University's effort to trace collection origins, explore slavery's financial impact on Aberdeen University, and document ties between donors, alumni, faculty, and slavery.
It also examines material and physical legacies, like structures, heraldry, and art linked to enslavers and their families in Aberdeen.
The most tangible link between the University and slavery-derived wealth, Powis Gateway lies at the heart of the Old Aberdeen campus.
The gateway once served as the entrance to Powis House, a nineteenth-century mansion in north Aberdeen which has been a community centre since 1941.
This entrance to what was once the Leslie family estate is known to many as having been built through wealth derived from slavery in the Caribbean.
The Leslie family's involvement with chattel slavery came via marriage.
Hugh Leslie, the son of John Leslie the Professor of Greek at King's College (1753-1790), married Anne Agnes Lamond in Old Machar.
Through this marriage, the Leslies obtained ownership of Castile Fort Pen, which comprised 423 acres and was located in the Jamaican Parish of Port Royal.
The Leslies were absentee owners, residing in Old Aberdeen and relying on overseers in Jamaica.
Concerns over the reliability of their overseer led Hugh and Agnes to send a younger son, Hugh Fraser Leslie, to manage the family property and the enslaved population held captive there.
His career in Jamaica eventually involved ownership of two coffee plantations - Belle Clare and Peterfield - alongside overseeing his mother's property.
In 1847 he told a special committee of the Jamaica Assembly that, prior to emancipation, a total of 1268 enslaved workers were attached to these plantations.
At the time of colonial emancipation in the British Caribbean, the slave trade compensation board awarded Agnes Ann Leslie £2021 8s 11d for 94 enslaved at Castile Fort Pen.
Hugh Fraser Leslie's compensation claims are more complex.
He was solely awarded £4100 9s 2d as an owner, owner-in-fee, or mortgagee for three properties and 192 enslaved people.
Additionally, he was joint claimant receiving an additional £1051 10d.
In total, the British Government provided Agnes Anne Leslie and her son Hugh £7112 18s 110d in compensation claims in relation to 392 enslaved men, women, and children.
Most sources attribute the gateway's construction to these compensation funds received by the Leslie family.
Construction is variously attributed to taking place across 1833 and 1834.
Its construction c.1833-34 coincided with the passage of the Slavery Abolition Act, which received royal assent on 28 August 1833 and came into effect on 1 August 1834.
The Treasury fulfilled the compensation claims of Agnes Anne and Hugh Leslie between October 1835 and May 1836.
It would be more accurate, then, to say that the gateway was paid for, at least in part, by slave-derived wealth and the promise of additional funds from the Leslie's pending compensation claims.
Most sources suggest that it was John, the oldest son of Hugh and Agnes Ann Leslie, who commissioned the gateway as part of a renovation and expansion of Powis.
Since 2020, members of the University's Legacies of Slavery Advisory Group along with the community, including the Old Aberdeen Heritage Society and Old Aberdeen Community Council, have explored how best to contextualise the history of Powis Gate and properly memorialise those who paid for its construction with their unpaid labour in Jamaica.
In March 2022, as part of the United Nations' International Day for the Remembrance of the Victims of Slavery and the Transatlantic Slave Trade, the University hosted a special event exploring its own historical connection to the slave trade, Powis Gateway: Slavery and Memory in Old Aberdeen , which followed on from work by local ceramic artist Helen Love and poet and spoken word artist Noon Abdelrazig as part of the “Quasheba /Powis Gateway Project /the Violence of Identity.
In July of 2022, the University of Aberdeen applied successfully to Aberdeen City Council for the erection of a commemorative place plaque on the Powis Gateway.
The plaque was installed on a wall alongside the structure in September of 2022.
The Hendersons of Caskieben donated paintings and sculptures, his library, and a collection of ancient Greek pottery.
This collection included the painting Capriccio with Roman Ruins (ABDUA: 30747).
In 2017 John Gash of the History of Art Department, University of Aberdeen, identified the painting as the work of eighteenth-century Italian master Giovanni Antonio Canal, better known as Canaletto.
Since positively identifying Canaletto's work in 2017, the University has acknowledged the connections between the painting's donor and the wealth inherited from his father's involvement in colonial slavery.
As of 2014, the painting was valued at £400,000.
Portrait of Gilbert Ramsay
A portrait of Ramsay (ABDUA:30105) is held by the University's Museums & Special Collections.
The painting is not listed as part of Ramsay's original donation and its acquisition is catalogued as being via purchase but information indicates that Marischal College received the portrait in 1728, the year of Ramsay's death.
While the exact circumstances of the acquisition of the portrait are not known, procuration accounts indicate that Marischal had only to bear the cost of its conveyance from London to Aberdeen.
Marischal stained glass window
The Ramsay coat of arms appears in the Mitchell Historic Window in Mitchell Hall at Marischal College.
The window was completed in 1895, 167 years after Ramsay's death.
The inclusion of the Ramsay coat of arms was symbolic of the historical significance of Ramsay's bequest to the University of Aberdeen and how Ramsay's instructions to sell his human property played a significant role in the development of Marischal College.
Thomas Gordon (1788-1841) was 8 th Laird of Buthlaw and 2 nd of Cairness.
His father, Charles Gordon of Buthlaw and Cairness (1749-1796) took possession of a Jamaican sugar plantation - Georgia Estate in Trelawny - in about 1779 .
The Gordons acquired Georgia Estate in lieu of debts owed to a deceased relative on the island by the Chief Justice of Jamaica, John Grant of Kilgraston.
As of 1781, Georgia held 190 people (107 men and boys and 83 women and girls) in slavery.
Charles Gordon was an absentee enslaver and plantation owner, who relied on a cast of professionals - doctors, attorneys, managers and agents - to ensure that the profit they enjoyed continued to flow back to Scotland.
Income from Georgia Estate allowed Charles Gordon in the 1790s to build one of the finest new houses in the North East, Cairness, near Lonmay.
At Cairness the house, interiors and gardens were lavishly re-designed in the 1790s by the celebrated architect James Playfair and, after his premature death, completed by Sir John Sloane.
With emancipation within the British Empire, Thomas Gordon received £ 5296 18s 10d as compensation for 266 enslaved people at Georgia Estate.
Thomas Gordon was neither an alumnus nor benefactor of King's or Marischal College.
The portrait in the University of Aberdeen collections is dated to 1836, two years after abolition within the British Empire and a year after Gordon received his compensation funds.
An old label removed from the frame read "Part of Gordon of Cairness Bequest.” While not a monetary bequest, both the donated painting and collection of family papers are material reminders of the scale of familial linkages between New World slavery and North East Scotland.
In 2023 an exhibition was held in the Sir Duncan Rice Library that drew on the research of Dr Richard Anderson and others.
Although the physical exhibition has now closed, an online version reveals the role of Aberdeen and North-East Scotland in the history of Transatlantic slavery, and how its legacy continues today.
The University of Aberdeen's first African-born black student and a pioneering practitioner of medicine.
The remarkable achievements of the Aberdeen graduate who became known as 'Le Bon Docteur Noir'.
Neil Curtis on the Legacies of Slavery exhibition, which explores how individuals from North-East Scotland grew wealthy from slavery, and how these profits benefitted North-East institutions.
Our goal is to create an anti-racist culture and ethos on campus and to support, encourage and empower staff and students to recognise racism in all its forms and to actively reject it.
Comedian and filmmaker Bruce Fummey uses his storytelling skills to highlight the links between the University and the north-east of Scotland and the slave trade.
Abeer Eladany, a curatorial assistant at the University of Aberdeen, and the University of Aberdeen's Head of Museums and Special Collections, Neil Curtis, reflect on how museum collections and spaces can better recognise and address Scotland's complex imperial, colonial, and slavery histories.
The University is committed to challenging racism and racial inequality in our institution and taking proactive action to create a learning, working and social environment, in which our Black, Asian, and Other Minority Ethnic students and staff members feel safe.
Racism exists in society, on our campus, and across the Higher Education sector and we are committed to addressing and eradicating it.
The University has, through its strategic plan Aberdeen 2040, committed to creating an antiracist culture and ethos as a strategic priority.
In an exhibition to commemorate the bicentenary of the 1807 abolition of the slave trade in the British Empire was coordinated by Aberdeenshire Council, Aberdeen City Council, the University of Aberdeen, the Robert Gordon University and African and African-Caribbean communities.
Although the exhibition is old, it includes material that is still of value.
A plaque has been installed on Powis Gateway in Old Aberdeen as part of the recognition of the legacy of slavery in the University of Aberdeen and North-East Scotland.
The University of Aberdeen has joined a global consortium of Universities Studying Slavery (USS).
Bruce Fummey was invited to use his storytelling skills to highlight the links between the University and the north-east of Scotland and the slave trade.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/strategy-and-governance/stakeholder-meeting-2023-24:
The University held its annual stakeholder meeting on 18 June 2024 where internal and external stakeholders from across the region heard about the University's current activities and the contribution that its staff, students and alumni make to the life and success of the local and national communities.
You can watch back the recording of the meeting which includes presentations from our Principal Professor George Boyne, Senior Governor Julie Ashworth, President of the Students' Association Vanessa Mabonso Nzolo, and Vice-Principal for Regional Engagement, Professor Pete Edwards.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/management/smt:
Principal and Vice-Chancellor
Senior Vice-Principal (Acting)
Vice-Principal (Research)
Vice-Principal (Regional Engagement)
Vice-Principal (Interim) (Global Engagement)
Vice-Principal (Education)
Chief Governance Officer & University Secretary (Acting)
Chief Operating Officer
Chief Financial Officer
Interim Director of People and Interim Director of Academic Services & Online Education
The Court's principal role is to oversee the management of the revenue, property and other resources of the University.
It approves the mission and strategic vision of the University, and has a number of corporate and legal responsibilities.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/management/smt/deans:
Our Deans play an important role in supporting the Vice-Principals to deliver their key portfolio areas of Education, Research, Regional Engagement and Regional Recovery, Global Student Recruitment, and Sustainability by :
The Dean for Quality Assurance & Enhancement leads on quality assurance and enhancement across the University, chairing the Quality Assurance Committee and working closely with Schools to take forward strategic areas for our ongoing enhancement.
The Dean also works in close partnership with Academic Services, building on the revised working practices so that the University can continue to demonstrate success in QA and QE.
The Dean for Educational Innovation works with the Director of Online and the Manager of the Centre for Academic Development, Schools and AUSA to foster innovation and sharing of best practice, with particular emphasis on using technology to enhance learning and the student experience
The Dean for Employability and Entrepreneurship works with the Heads of Careers and Research & Innovation, Schools, and AUSA to oversee the development and implementation of employability and entrepreneurship strategy and policies.
The Dean also plays a leading role in working towards the ambitions of our Aberdeen 2040 Strategy to prepare our graduates to thrive in the diverse workplaces of the future by working with external partners and alumni.
The Dean for Student Support & Experience works with the Director of People, Head of Student Support, Head of Experience, Engagement & Wellbeing, Schools and AUSA to oversee the development and implementation of strategy and policies.
The Dean for Portfolio Development and Programme Promotion is responsible for (i) the effective co-ordination of the external promotion and marketing of the University's portfolio of programmes and (ii) the development of the portfolio to ensure that it meets the needs of national and international students, identified skills needs and stakeholder requirements.
The Dean plays a leading role in ensuring that appropriate methods are implemented to ensure the adequate assessment of the recruitment effectiveness of the University's portfolio of programmes, and to identify opportunities for portfolio change and development.
The Dean for Impact and Engagement takes a key role in promoting the development of impactful research and its progression into impact case studies for submission into REF2028 and beyond.
The Dean will provide support for research-led Aberdeen 2040 commitments around stakeholder engagement and will lead on the development of both national and international academic research partnerships.
The Dean for People, Culture and Environment has strategic responsibility for developing, implementing and evaluating initiatives designed to enhance the way we support a positive research culture for all.
The Dean will work closely with Schools and Professional Services to identify priorities for enhancing research culture within and across the University and help to co-design and deliver initiatives that support these priorities and foster an inclusive and open environment where people are valued for the diverse ways in which they contribute to the world-leading research we produce.
The Dean for Knowledge and Understanding is responsible for supporting the University community in maximising the quality and reach of research outputs, as well as supporting the sustainability of University research by enhancing the competitiveness of grant applications and the output element of our REF2029 submission.
The Dean for Postgraduate Research is responsible for promoting excellence in all areas of postgraduate research study and providing support, motivation and guidance to colleagues engaged in the development and delivery of postgraduate research programmes to deliver an outstanding postgraduate research student experience.
In addition, the Dean develops effective collaborative relationships to (i) support the achievement of targets for postgraduate research study set out in School plans and the institutional Strategic Plan and (ii) ensure that the internal and external requirements associated with postgraduate research programmes are met.
The Dean for International Stakeholder Engagement is responsible for the effective co-ordination of the University's engagement across a network of stakeholders who advise, support or sponsor international students.
These stakeholders include agents, recruitment counsellors, international schools, embassies, and international government funding bodies.
The Dean works closely with Professional Services, Schools and academic disciplines to ensure the approach to stakeholder engagement aligns with the University and Schools' recruitment plans and aspirations.
The Dean for Widening Access, Articulation and Outreach is responsible for the co-ordination of widening access and outreach activity across the University, including through articulation arrangements with the Scottish College Sector.
The Dean plays a leading role in ensuring the appropriate focus is in place to ensure the impact of the University's widening access strategy and initiatives across the institution and oversees policy implementation designed to deliver the University's widening access commitments and aspirations, including through articulation arrangements with other institutions and outreach activities delivered in Schools, Colleges and communities.
The Dean for International Student Pathways and Progression is responsible for the effective co-ordination of the recruitment, articulation and matriculation opportunities available to international undergraduate and postgraduate students.
The Dean also plays a leading role in ensuring that these recruitment pathways and progression opportunities meet the needs and expectations of potential students, Schools and academic disciplines, align with the University and Schools' recruitment plans and aspirations, and are capable of fulfilling associated student recruitment plans at School and University level.
The Dean for Environmental Sustainability provides academic leadership in delivering the University's environmental sustainability commitments.
They are responsible for ensuring a high profile for the sustainability agenda across the University and with external partners, catalysing the mobilisation of the collective energy of the University community to foster a whole-university approach to sustainability.
The Dean for Enterprise & Innovation is responsible for promoting an enterprise culture within the University and to increase engagement with businesses and other organisations, for commercial and societal impact, and to enhance new business creation (both through student start-up activities and spin-out activity).
Engagement with the regional innovation ecosystem is a critical aspect of the role in support of wider regional economic development.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/management/smt/professional-services:
Director of Research and Innovation
Director of Strategic Planning, Project & Corporate Governance
Director of Estates and Facilities

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/management/smt/senior-management-expenses:
The University of Aberdeen publishes the details of expenses incurred by the senior management team each month.
You can view the details of the monthly expenses below.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/history/our-historic-timeline:
William Elphinstone established King's College to train doctors, teachers and clergy for the communities of northern Scotland, and lawyers and administrators to serve the Scottish Crown.
Much of the King's College still remains today, as do the traditions which the Bishop began.
King's College opened with 36 staff and students, and embraced all the known branches of learning: arts, theology, canon and civil law.
In 1497 it was first in the English-speaking world to create a chair of medicine.
Elphinstone's college looked outward to Europe and beyond, taking the great European universities of Paris and Bologna as its model.
In 1593, a second, Post-Reformation University, was founded in the heart of the New Town of Aberdeen by George Keith, fourth Earl Marischal.
King's College and Marischal College were united to form the modern University of Aberdeen in 1860.
At first, arts and divinity were taught at King's and law and medicine at Marischal.
A separate science faculty - also at Marischal - was established in 1892.
All faculties were opened to women in 1892, and in 1894 the first 20 matriculated female students began their studies.
Four women graduated in arts in 1898, and by the following year, women made up a quarter of the faculty.
Throughout the 20th century Aberdeen has consistently increased student recruitment, which now stands at over 15,000.
In recent years picturesque and historic Old Aberdeen, home of Bishop Elphinstone's original foundation, has again become the main campus site.
The University has also invested heavily in medical research, where time and again University staff have demonstrated their skills as world leaders in their field.
The Institute of Medical Sciences, completed in 2002, was designed to provide state-of-the-art facilities for medical researchers and their students.
This was followed in 2007 by the Health Sciences Building.
The Foresterhill campus is now one of Europe's major biomedical research centres.
The Suttie Centre for Teaching and Learning in Healthcare, a £20m healthcare training facility, opened in 2009.
2012 saw the opening of the £57 million Sir Duncan Rice Library in Old Aberdeen, a great modern building to match the splendour of the University's 500 year old campus.
The fact that the University has become what it is owes much to the determination and vision of a handful of visionaries and pioneers, including a distinguished list of scholars who in their own unique ways, helped to shape the University into the world-class institution we have today.
The University is founded by William Elphinstone, Bishop of Aberdeen and Chancellor of Scotland, with the ambition “...to found a university, which would be open to all and dedicated to the pursuit of truth in the service of others”.
The University of Aberdeen becomes the UK's fifth university.
The University opens with 36 staff and students, having eight years earlier boasted the first chair of medicine in the English-speaking world.
The University embraces all the known branches of learning - arts, theology, and canon and civil law.
King's College and Marischal College merge to form the University of Aberdeen.
Initially, arts and divinity are taught at King's and law and medicine at Marischal.
The University opens all Faculties to women and in 1894 the first 20 matriculated female students begin their studies.
Four women graduate in arts in 1898; by the following year, women make up a quarter of the Faculty.
The first of five Nobel Prizes is awarded for work begun or carried out at the University.
Inventions include the life-saving drug insulin and the development of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI).
The University launches its ambitious fundraising campaign with the aim of raising £150 million to mark the start of the University's sixth century of existence.
In 2004 this continues with a £9 million investment programme to appoint exceptional academics to the University, thereby strengthening the intellectual capital of the institution.
The Institute of Medical Sciences at the Foresterhill campus is completed.
The custom-built Institute provides state-of-the-art facilities for medical researchers and their students.
Six years on, the Suttie Centre, the new training centre at the heart of the academic and hospital campus opens for the modern teaching of anatomy linked to other medically-related sciences.
In 2005 the University celebrates 500 years of teaching and learning and The Old Town House on King's College campus is transformed to become a visitor gateway to the University and Old Aberdeen.
2006 sees the enhancement of student facilities on campus.
'The Hub', an £8 million renovation project, boasts a superb range of services, including dining, retail and drop-in centres for the student community.
The University's first class sports and leisure facilities are further boosted by the opening of the newly developed Aberdeen Sports Village, a £28 million Olympic standard sports centre highlighting the University's commitment to sustaining sporting excellence.
The University's brand new £57 million Sir Duncan Rice Library opens to students and the wider community.
The library is established as a major intellectual and cultural learning centre for students in the 21st century.
The new Aquatics Centre opened in May 2014.
The centre provides a first class training and competition venue for elite athletes and offers a community facility that encourages participation in water-based activities at all ages and abilities.
The world-class facility includes a 50-metre, 10 lane Olympic-standard swimming pool, an international-standard diving pool with moveable floor and a health suite, and is located adjacent to Aberdeen Sports Village.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/history/nobel-prizes:
Frederick Soddy, Professor of Chemistry at the University of Aberdeen from 1914-1919, for his work on radioactivity and isotopes.
Professor J J R Macleod, jointly with Frederick Banting, for the research which led to the development of insulin as a treatment for diabetes.
Sir George Paget Thomson, Professor of Natural Philosophy (Physics) at Aberdeen from 1922-1930, together with the American physicist C J Davisson "for their (independent) experimental discovery of the diffraction of electrons by crystals".
Lord Boyd Orr, Director of the Rowett Institute and Professor of Agriculture from 1942 to 1945, in recognition of his contribution to the worldwide fight against hunger.
Richard L M Synge, a biochemist with the Rowett Institute from 1948 to 1967, and Richard Synge for the invention of partition chromatography - a technique used in the separation mixtures of similar chemicals that revolutionised analytical chemistry.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/history/notable-alumni:
For 500 years, the University has produced outstanding people.
Find out more about our worldwide community of over 66,000 alumni, living in 150 countries.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/partnerships/acu:
The ACU fosters collaboration between developed and developing country universities combining the expertise and reputation of nearly a century's experience with new and innovative programmes designed to meet the needs of universities in the 21st century.
ACU's strategic plan - ' The road to 2030 ' - reinforces that global challenges can only be solved through international collaboration, and our collective commitment to achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through higher education.
Visit the ACU Scholarships page.
International mobility is at the heart of ACU activity.
Currently Scholarship schemes running are:
The ACU also has a distinguished reputation for managing prestigious and internationally-renowned scholarship schemes.
Visit the ACU Live Funding Opportunities page.
The ACU is committed to increasing staff and student mobility and building the capacity of universities worldwide.
The following grants and fellowships are available to staff and/or students at ACU member universities:
You will find a wealth of information on the ACU website .
Signing up will enable you to: register to attend ACU events and monitor your bookings; access resources on the Member Communities portals, and engage on the dedicated forums; download exclusive publications, including magazines and reports.
The ACU Member Communities are a series of special interest groups, designed to connect colleagues working in three key areas of university activity.
The Communities enable members and stakeholders to share knowledge and good practice, explore ideas and solutions to common issues, discover potential avenues for collaboration, and keep up-to-date with the latest trends.
The Member Communities are free to join for all staff of ACU member institutions , and individuals may join as many as they feel are relevant to their work.
ACU policy networks focus on key issues for higher education - including climate change, sustainable development, and peace and reconciliation.
The Bulletin, ACU's membership magazine is published three times a year.
It is circulated free to member universities, and is also available online.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/partnerships/armed-forces:
The University signed the Armed Forces Covenant in August 2016.
The Armed Forces Covenant is a promise from the University to those who serve or have served in the Armed Forces and their families.
The Covenant promises the University will do all it can to ensure that this community is treated fairly and not disadvantaged in their day-today lives.
The Armed Forces Covenant relies on people, communities, businesses and organisations such as the University, to actively support it in order to make a difference.
Armed Forces Day takes place on the last Saturday of June each year and Reserves Day on the Wednesday before.
These annual events are an opportunity for the public to show their support to the Armed Forces Community including current service personnel, veterans, cadets and service families, should they wish to do so.
University Veterans/Armed Forces Champion Jason Bohan said, ' We wanted to make staff and students aware of these days and events happening in the City of Aberdeen.
The University has strong links with the services through the Military Education Committee with RGU (regarding the Aberdeen Universities' Officers Training Corps, the East of Scotland Universities' Air Squadron and the Highland Reserve Forces and Cadets Association).
The University has signed the Armed Forces Covenant, holds a Defence Employer Recognition Scheme Silver Award and has number of staff who are members of the Reserve Forces or Veterans.
The University also works closely with veterans and their families regarding student admissions'.
Reservists give up their spare time to serve in the Reserve Forces, balancing their civilian life with a military career to ensure that should their country require them, they would be ready to serve as part of the military.
The Reserve Forces make up approximately one sixth of our Armed Forces personnel and as such are integral to protecting the nation's security at home and overseas, particularly providing capability in specialist areas such as medical and cyber.
The University has a number of staff and students who are Reservists or members of the local Officer Training Regiment.
Showing support for the Armed Forces provides a much valued morale boost for the troops and their families.
You can find out more about what they are doing at home and around the world by visiting the official sites of the Royal Navy, British Army and Royal Air Force.
The UK Armed Forces defend the UK and its interests.
They are busy working around the world, promoting peace, delivering aid, tackling drug smugglers, providing security and fighting terrorism.
The UK Armed Forces work around the clock to protect our way of life and defend UK interests at home and abroad.
#ArmedForcesDay is our chance to say thank you.
The parade is a celebration of the history and proud record of the armed forces and allows the people of Aberdeen to show their respect for the role they play within our society.
On Friday 23 June, ahead of the UK Armed Forces Day, the Lord Provost will raise the official Armed Forces Day Flag outside Marischal College at 10am.
The flag will remain in place until Monday 03 July 2023.
On Saturday 01 July, residents and visitors alike are invited to watch Aberdeen's Armed Forces Day parade, which will include more than 1,000 serving, veteran and cadet force personnel parading through the city centre, where they will be joined by massed pipes and drums and vintage military vehicles.
The parade begins at 11am at Albyn Place and then heads down Union Street to the Castlegate.
As the parade passes the Town House, the Lord Provost of Aberdeen Dr David Cameron, in his role of Lord-Lieutenant, will take the salute along with top military personnel.
The Lord-Lieutenant of Aberdeen Dr Cameron said: “The Armed Forces Day parade provides an opportunity for spectators from every generation to pay tribute to, and thank, our British Armed Forces personnel for the commitment and hard work they undertake all year round for the benefit of our whole country.”
An Enduring Covenant Between the People of the United Kingdom Her Majesty's Government and All those who serve or have served in the Armed Forces of the Crown and their Families.
The first duty of Government is the defence of the realm.
Our Armed Forces fulfil that responsibility on behalf of the Government, sacrificing some civilian freedoms, facing danger and, sometimes, suffering serious injury or death as a result of their duty.
Families also play a vital role in supporting the operational effectiveness of our Armed Forces.
In return, the whole nation has a moral obligation to the members of the Naval Service, the Army and the Royal Air Force, together with their families.
They deserve our respect and support, and fair treatment.
Those who serve in the Armed Forces, whether Regular or Reserve, those who have served in the past, and their families, should face no disadvantage compared to other citizens in the provision of public and commercial services.
Special consideration is appropriate in some cases, especially for those who have given most such as the injured and bereaved.
This obligation involves the whole of society: it includes voluntary and charitable bodies, private organisations, and the actions of individuals in supporting the Armed Forces.
Recognising those who have performed military duty unites the country and demonstrates the value of their contribution.
This has no greater expression than in upholding this Covenant.
1.1 We University of Aberdeen will endeavour to uphold the key principles of the Armed Forces Covenant, which are:
2.1 The University of Aberdeen recognises the value serving personnel, reservists, veterans and military families bring to our organisation.
We will seek to uphold the principles of the Armed Forces Covenant, by:
2.2 We will publicise these commitments through our literature and/or on our website, setting out how we will seek to honour them and inviting feedback from the Service community on how we are doing
The Military Education Committee is responsible for providing and developing formal and informal links between the University of Aberdeen, Robert Gordon University and the Service Units in which students of the two universities are eligible to serve: Aberdeen Universities Officer Training Corps and the East of Scotland Air Squadron.
The University of Aberdeen has a long-standing commitment to Widening Access to Higher Education.
As an Institution we aim to create an outstanding and inclusive educational environment, to ensure every student has the opportunity to reach their potential.
Student feedback from last year suggests that students with particular experiences may find it useful to have the opportunity to engage with students with a similar experience.
This could be for informal support, to build a more formal support network, including through working with the University.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/your-privacy/applicants-for-jobs:
When you register with us, we collect your name and email address.
When you submit an application for a job vacancy, we collect your name, postal address, email address, telephone number, National Insurance number, visa status, employment history, education history, professional qualifications, references, equalities information, PVG membership details and relevant criminal convictions.
We collect and use your personal information at recruitment for the purposes of staff employment and equalities monitoring.
There are several lawful bases on which the University routinely processes your personal information.
These are:
The University will disclose your information to referees cited in your application when we need to take up a reference as part of the recruitment process.
For senior appointments, the University may seek references from other relevant third parties.
Your application will be given to all members of the recruitment panel, including any external members who are not employed by the University.
The information on applicants provided to panel members does not include equalities information or information on relevant criminal convictions.
Relevant criminal convictions will be considered at the offer stage of the recruitment process.
The third party suppliers we use for IT support, including the supplier of our online recruitment solution, Hireserve Limited, also have access to your personal information in order to provide that service to the University.
We use a certified digital identity service provider to process some right to work checks.
This process involves automated machine-based checks with human re-assessment where required.
We may transfer your personal information to countries and organisations outside the UK where necessary to administer the University.
We have agreements in place with our partners to safeguard your information.
We may disclose personal information to other recipients in exceptional circumstances or when required to do so by law.
Personal information about applicants is held for 13 months from your last login to the system.
We will continue to retain equalities information after the deletion of your personal details for the purpose of equality monitoring: this information is anonymised to protect your privacy.
Once an applicant takes up employment with the University of Aberdeen, we will compile a file relating to their employment that includes the personal information gathered during recruitment.
Details of how we use and manage that information is provided in our staff privacy notice.
Last updated: 18 May 2023

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/your-privacy/current-students:
We take our responsibilities seriously as the controller of your personal information under the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) and Data Protection Act 2018.
The University collects and uses the following personal information about registered students.
(Please note that we do not hold all categories of personal information for all students, and the list may not be exhaustive.)
We collect this information from you during the admission, registration and graduation processes and during your period of study at the University.
We also receive the following personal information about you from these sources:
We collect and use your personal information for the purposes of recruitment and admission of students; registration and maintenance of student records; academic assessment, managing progress, certification and graduation; administering fees; monitoring such data with a view  to making improvements; making pseudonymised data available for research use; student communications; providing student support services, library services, sports services and IT services; managing student accommodation; to deliver teaching and promote research; and to administer the University.
The University routinely shares your personal information in the following ways:
The third party suppliers we use for IT and service delivery support also have access to your personal information in order to provide these services to the University.
We will transfer your personal information to countries and organisations outside the European Union where necessary when you participate in our exchange or study abroad programmes.
The University retains a core record of students in perpetuity.
We retain your other personal information,

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/your-privacy/current-student-studying-abroad:
The University collects and uses the following personal information about registered students in accordance with the requirements of the UK General Data Protection Regulations and the Data Protection Act 2018.
The University will also seek to protect your personal information in accordance with the applicable Data Protection legislation of your own country should it be applicable.
(Please note that we do not hold all categories of personal information for all students, and the list may not be exhaustive).
We collect and use your personal information for the purposes of recruitment and admission of students; registration and maintenance of student records; academic assessment, managing progress, certification and graduation; administering fees; student communications; providing student support services and IT services; to deliver teaching and promote research; and to administer the University.
We will also rely on equivalent lawful bases in other countries where we process your personal data.
The University routines shares your personal information in the following ways:
The third party suppliers we use for IT support also have access to your personal information in order to provide these services to the University.
Where your data is processed abroad, this will occur only where proportionate and necessary to satisfy an obligation or requirement.
Last updated: 25 May 2022

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/your-privacy/development-and-alumni-relations:
The University collects and uses the following personal information about graduates, honorary graduates, former non-graduating exchange or study abroad students of the University, and graduates of institutions that have since merged with the University.
(Please note that we do not hold all categories of personal information for all individuals.)
We collect core personal information from the details you provided to the University at registration as a student and at graduation.
We collect information about your contact details, employment, interests and activities since graduation from you through the University's online Alumni Hub or in response to mailings and other types of communication.
We also collect information about your employment, activities and interests from public sources and from your engagement with our partner, the University of Aberdeen Development Trust.
We gather information to validate contact details of graduates using companies acting on our behalf.
The University collects and uses your personal information for the following purposes:
The University has a legal obligation to keep a register of members of the General Council.
All graduates of the University are automatically members of the General Council.
The University has a statutory obligation to collect and share your personal information to the Scottish Funding Council and its agent, the Higher Education Statistics Authority, in order for that agency to administer the Graduate Outcomes Survey.
Details of the collection and the use of your personal information are provided in the Graduate Outcomes privacy notice .
The University processes other personal information about graduates, and shares personal information with the University of Aberdeen Development Trust in accordance with our legitimate interests.
These interests are to promote the activities and achievements of the University, and to offer and provide benefits and opportunities to alumni.
The University processes personal information about graduates for electronic direct marketing purposes on the lawful basis of consent.
The University processes personal information for direct marketing by post on the lawful basis of our legitimate interests.
We share your personal information with the University of Aberdeen Development Trust for its fundraising activities.
The Development Trust's privacy notice describes the ways they process your personal information.
We share your personal information with the Higher Education Statistics Authority (HESA) in order for that agency to administer the Graduate Outcomes Survey.
The third party suppliers we use for IT support, distributing the alumni magazine and validating contact details also have access to a limited amount of your personal information in order to provide these services to the University.
We do not routinely share your information with any third parties without your consent.
The University retains the register of members of the General Council in perpetuity.
We retain your other personal information whilst the information is relevant to our ongoing contact, or until you update your details.
You can update your personal information and manage your preferences for contact at any time via the online Alumni Hub, or by contacting the Alumni Relations team at:
Development & Alumni Relations University of Aberdeen Powis Gate College Bounds Aberdeen AB24 3UG alumni@abdn.ac.uk
--- Last updated: 12 June 2025

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/your-privacy/enquirers-and-applicants:
The University collects and uses the following personal information about people who enquire about studying at the University, or who apply to study with us.
(Please note that we do not hold all categories of personal information for all enquirers and applicants, and the list may not be exhaustive).
We collect this information during the enquiry and admission processes either directly from you or from the following sources.
We collect and use your personal information for the purpose of student recruitment and to administer the University.
We will transfer your personal information to countries and organisations outside the UK where necessary to administer the University.
The University retains personal information of applicants and enquirers for up to ten years.
Information about the way we handle your personal information if you accept a place to study and register with us as a student is described in our Current Students privacy notice .
Queries about how your data is processed can be addressed to the Information Governance Team at dpa@abdn.ac.uk and you can also contact the Information Commission (ICO) for guidance or to raise concern.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/your-privacy/finance-privacy-information:
The University collects and uses the following information in relation to its financial processes and procedures.
This includes staff, students, applicants, customers, suppliers, funders, sponsors and other stakeholders engaged with the University’s financial processes and procedures.
Please note that we do not hold all categories of information for all parties, and the list may not be exhaustive.
We collect this information at various points including:
We collect and use your information for the purposes of purchasing goods and services and facilitating payment of invoices, expenses and refunds.
We collect and use your information for the purpose of invoicing for the goods and/or services received from the University and collecting outstanding payments due to the University.
The University shares your personal information in the following ways:
The University also submits high level statistical information to various external bodies, this information does not include personal information.
The University retains your information for as long as it is necessary to fulfil the purposes for which it was collected and to satisfy all accounting and other statutory requirements.
Examples of legal statutes guiding our data retention requirements include, but are not limited to, The Charities Accounts (Scotland) Regulations 2006, Value Added Tax Act 1994, Income Tax Act 2007 and Corporate Tax Act 2010.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/your-privacy/open-learning-students:
The University collects and uses the following personal information about individuals who choose to enrol on one of our Open Learning short courses.
The data we process:
We will ask you to wish to consent to us using your data to send you information about similar courses offered by the University that may be of interest to you.
You can unsubscribe from these mailing lists through the “Unsubscribe” option on the email.
We collect and use your personal information for the purposes of providing you with access to and to enable you to complete our short courses.
Your data will not be routinely shared out with the University.
Your name that you register with will be known to other participants on the same course.
This is to allow interactive learning opportunities between you.
The third-party suppliers we use for IT support also have access to your personal information in order to provide these services to the University.
Your data is kept for the period of time that you are active on the platform using the courses.
If there is no activity after 6 months, your user account is archived and deleted after one additional month.
Last updated: 30 January 2025

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/your-privacy/photographic-images-and-video:
The University of Aberdeen collects and uses your personal data (this may include your name and identifying information, your photographic image or video) that you provide as part of being involved in an event, video shoot or communication activity captured in one or more of the following ways:
Your personal information will be used by the University to promote our activities to prospective students, staff funders and partners, and to provide information and updates to existing stakeholders, funders, and partners.
Your information may be used in our printed publications and digital channels, including websites and social media.
Depending on the reason for the promotional activity, there are several lawful bases upon which the University may rely on to process your personal information.
These images, footage or recordings may be made publicly available in any University media including print copies, the University website (www.abdn.ac.uk) and on our social media pages.
They may also be made available to the national press, other news sources, or industry media (both print and web) for the purposes of promoting the work and activities of the University.
These images, footage and recordings will be securely stored on the University's systems and only relevant departments of the University will have access to your personal data.
Images, recordings or testimonials will be retained for as long as necessary, and some may be permanently retained as part of the University's Archive.
The University undertakes to treat your personal data in accordance with the provisions of the Data Protection Act 2018 and the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR).
If you wish to exercise your rights under Data Protection legislation you should contact the University Data Protection Officer at dpa@abdn.ac.uk
You can view our privacy notices which detail how we process your personal data here: www.abdn.ac.uk/privacy

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/your-privacy/research-participants:
The personal information we collect about you is decided by individual research projects.
The University is involved in a very wide range of projects that use personal information, including research into medical, food and nutrition, psychological and social science subjects.
The personal information used by some research projects includes information that is sensitive in nature, such as information about health and biometric data.
It is not practical for this notice to list the type of personal information we collect for every University project.
We will give you specific information when your personal information is collected or used in a research project.
This might be in the form of a Participant Information Sheet or a leaflet, or in a letter that we send to you.
We collect this information to conduct academic research, manage the research project and to publish our research findings.
The University undertakes and publishes research under its statutory powers.
These powers are laid out in the Universities (Scotland) Acts 1858 - 1966.
Many University research projects involve collaboration with researchers in other organisations.
Research projects also use companies and other organisations to handle personal information, such as to collect or analyse on behalf of the project.
It is not practical for this notice to list all the arrangements for disclosing personal information for all University projects.
Instead we will provide details of the third parties that have access to your personal data in the Participant Information Sheet, leaflet or letter about the project that we give to you.
We retain personal information used in research for varying periods.
The period depends on the legal or regulatory conditions governing the research, the terms and conditions imposed by the external sponsor and the value or sensitivity of particular types of research.
The Participant Information Sheet, leaflet or letter that we give to you about the project involving your personal information will specify how long the information is kept.
The University of Aberdeen undertakes fundamental medical research in partnership with healthcare organisations and in accordance with Article 89(1) of UKGDPR.
One of our key partners in much of that research is our local Health Board, NHS Grampian.
Their privacy notice provides additional information around their processing of personal data for research purposes.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/your-privacy/university-staff:
The University collects and uses the following personal information about members of staff.
(Please note that we do not hold all categories of personal information for all individuals, and the list may not be exhaustive.)
We collect this information from you during the recruitment process and during your employment.
This data may also be used in pseudonymised form, for research purposes.
We collect and use your personal information for the purposes of staff employment and development, staff health and safety, staff communications, staff equality and diversity, the provision of teaching, the promotion of research, the administration of the University.
To this end, staff personal data and statistical information are collated for monitoring and review and research purposes.
The third party suppliers we use for IT support and training also have access to your personal information in order to provide these services to the University.
We will transfer your personal information to countries and organisations outside the European Union where necessary for you to fulfil your overseas work commitments for the University.
The University retains the register of members of the General Council and a core record of staff in perpetuity.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/your-privacy/university-staff-working-abroad:
The overseas organisation you are attending (or will be attending) may use your personal information.
The required personal details may include but is not necessarily limited to:
a Full Curriculum Vitae
passport details (and where necessary a copy of the same).
Only those pieces of information that are pertinent to specific activity will be used, as follows:
Should it transpire that your information is required to be shared for other reasons we shall advise you accordingly.
The information we collect about you is required to fulfil the University's Contractual obligations with the University and/or the overseas organisation you are attending.
Where necessary we will transfer your personal information to countries and organisations outside of the United Kingdom.
The personal information provided will be limited to what is necessary to fulfil the requirements of the overseas organisation.
It must be noted that the organisation may be governed by different Data Protection Legislation, in which case the University will ensure that any data held by the overseas organisation is held in accordance with the data protection regulations in that country and subject to the requirements of the Universities International Data Transfer Assessment Framework.
The information provided may be transferred to a third party by the overseas organisation in accordance with the terms of the Data Sharing Agreement in place between the two organisations and ONLY with the agreement of the University.
This information may be required by local authorities such as Local Government and/or Local (and National) Police to confirm your identity etc.
It should be noted that where data is held by an overseas organisation the Data Protection legislation in place may vary from the requirements of UK GDPR.
The overseas organisation will retain your information for no longer than specified in the agreed Data Sharing Agreement and may be longer than that it would be held for by the University.
If you also work some of the time in Aberdeen, please refer to the Staff Privacy Notice for details of how your personal data is processed in this regard.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/your-privacy/using-our-website:
This privacy notice covers personal information collected via University of Aberdeen web services under abdn.ac.uk.
We use your information to:
administer, support, improve and develop the University website via analytics.
Please see the Analytics section below for more information.
The University also manages various University of Aberdeen social media accounts.
Please see the section on Social Media below.
The relevant legal basis will be given in the relevant privacy notice , as the legal basis under UK GDPR can change, depending on why we are collecting your personal information.
Please refer to the appropriate privacy notice.
Our web servers are based in the UK, however we also collect personal data via a number of third parties including GeckoEngage , Blackbaud 's NetCommunity, Freshservice , Microsoft 365 and others.
Where a third party has been used to collect personal information, your information may be stored outside the UK.
We have agreements in place with such third parties to safeguard your information and to ensure it is only used for the purposes for which it has been collected.
Information we gather via our website is securely transmitted.
Once we have received your information, we use strict procedures and security features to prevent unauthorised access.
How long we keep your information depends on the purpose for which it was supplied.
Please refer to the relevant privacy notice that will explain how long your personal data will be retained.
We will not share, sell or distribute any of the information you provide to us without your consent, except where disclosure is:
The University's web servers can collect and store any of the following information when a user requests a page via their browser:
Information gathered is used for system administration, identifying broken links, and for producing usage statistics.
Logged information is available is 6 months before it is removed.
Cookies are small text files placed on your device by the web server via your browser and may be used to collect information to help identify you and prepare customised pages for you.
Cookies may remain on your computer either for the duration of the session or indefinitely.
You can configure most standard web browsers to refuse cookies.
Cookies we use include:
Users of the University website may accept or reject cookies using the cookie control service where available and/or by using their browser's privacy settings.
For further information on how to do this and to see a list of cookies used on our website, please refer to our Cookies webpage .
When you leave our website or click on links that lead to external websites, we are unable to control what cookies are set: you will need to set your cookie preferences for these sites as well.
In certain contexts, the University uses web beacons and similar technologies for marketing purposes.
These technologies (also known as "pixel tags", "tracking pixels" or "clear GIFs") retain information in the browser through local objects or storage.
Their purpose is to identify users of the site and their behaviour.
Information collected may be shared with authorised third-party providers.
Beacons or similar technologies may work in conjunction with cookies and can operate across multiple different web browsers.
In some instances, these may not be fully controlled by the browser and may require management directly through installed applications or the device itself.
The University also uses certain third-party services on its website.
Examples include the NetCommunity service from Blackbaud and Hireserve for recruitment
These services do not log any personal information, unless volunteered by the user.
The University use the Analytics service from Google This service does not collect any personal information.
Examples of information collected by third parties include:
You may occasionally be asked to provide personal information to gain access to specific services.
The processing and retention of this information will be explained at the point of collection.
The University uses numerous social media services such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc.
Where personal data is collected using these tools it will be processed in accordance with the provider's privacy policy/notice.
You may wish to set cookie preferences directly with these services.
On some webpages we embed content or feeds from social media services such as Facebook, Twitter, Weibo and YouTube.
These services may place cookies on your device.
We also use a social media management tool to analyse data and manage content.
Brandwatch is used for the following purposes:
The monitoring and analytics involves analysing engagement data to identify audience trends and performance.
The University also searches keywords to identify trending topics or publicity about the University.
Please see Brandwatch privacy policy for information on how they process personal data.
All payment transactions will be encrypted.
Areas of the website that process online transactions make use of - and transfer data to - third party software and service providers.
All third-party software and service providers that we use are compliant with the relevant Payment Card Industry standards.
We also collect your personal information if you choose to engage with any of our chat functions.
We also store certain preferences you have using the site.
When you interact with the website you will be able to set how you want to view some content or whether you would like to permit personalised advertising for courses and open days or see content from companies outside the University.
This will be either through the cookie consent banner or from consent requests for specific content on individual pages.
These preferences will be stored for a short time.
For more information about your rights, please visit Your Privacy .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/about/your-privacy/your-rights:
You have rights to obtain a copy of your personal information, and to ask us to correct inaccurate or incomplete personal information.
Under certain conditions, you can also ask us to take the following action:
These rights depend on our lawful basis for processing your personal information.
This means we may not be able to comply with your request in every case.
If we cannot do as you ask, we will always reply to you and explain our position.
You also have the right to object to the University processing your personal information for many of our teaching, research and administrative activities.
We will consider the reasons why you have objected when reaching a decision about your request.
If you object to direct marketing activities by the University, we will stop using your information for that purpose.
There is no charge to make a request, but we may need evidence to confirm your identity before we can take action.
We will respond to requests within a month.
You can ask about your privacy rights or make a request about your personal information by contacting the University Data Protection Officer.
Email : dpa@abdn.ac.uk
Post : The University of Aberdeen King's College Aberdeen AB24 3FX
Telephone : +44 (0)1224 273175
If are dissatisfied with the way the University has handled your personal information or dealt with your data protection issue, you have the right to lodge a complaint with the Information Commissioner.
The Information Commissioner's Office can be contacted via their website at www.ico.org.uk/concerns/

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/enquire-now:
The Enquiry Team are ready to answer your questions about studying with us.
We look forward to hearing from you and supporting you in your University of Aberdeen journey!
If you have more than one enquiry, please select none of the above and submit all your questions in the box below.
In submitting this form you consent to the information which you provide being held and processed by the University of Aberdeen, in electronic and manual formats, for the processes specified above.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international:
Studying in Aberdeen offers a first class education, vibrant culture, beautiful landscapes and diverse communities to explore.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/funding:
Use the form below to search for all types of funding sources to assist with financing either your Undergraduate or Postgraduate study.
You'll find information on bursaries, scholarships, PhD vacancies and external sources of funding relevant to you.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life:
Ranked in the top 15 UK universities by the Guardian University Guide 2025 and the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025, the University offers an exceptional academic environment.
With over 120 clubs and societies, including more than 50 sports clubs, students can easily find their niche and make lasting connections.
First-year students benefit from guaranteed accommodation, ensuring a smooth transition to university life.
Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire has been named the UK's best place to live by HomeViews, the city providing a vibrant and supportive community for all students.
University accommodation is guaranteed for all first year students.
We have a range available both on and off campus.
Discover Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire, located on the North-East of Scotland.
The city is easily accessible by road, rail and air.
If you have a question about the University, Student Life in Aberdeen or any other query, our students and staff are here for you.
Explore our campuses and the City of Aberdeen with a series of videos.
With over 120 clubs and societies, there is something for everyone!
We offer support on a wide range of issues including Mental Health, Student Wellbeing and more.
We have a number of fantastic facilities.
View a map of our accessible route around our Old Aberdeen Campus.
We are home to over 50 Sports Clubs and Societies.
We offer a number of services, available to all students at the University.
Over 1,000 students study online with us every year.
See what it's like to be an online student.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days:
We offer vibrant Undergraduate Open Days, inviting prospective students to explore our stunning campus, meet faculty and engage with current students.
For those considering postgraduate study, Virtual Open Days provide a flexible opportunity to discover programmes, ask questions and connect with departments from the comfort of home, from anywhere in the world.
Our next Undergraduate Open Days will take place on Saturday 4 October, for all subjects.
The event gives you the opportunity to speak live with academics and students.
Join our student ambassadors for a tour of our beautiful campus and have the opportunity to arrange an appointment with an Academic from your subject of interest, an International Officer, Widening Access Officer or Student Support Officer.
Meet us at an upcoming event.
You can engage with current staff and students at virtual events.
We can't wait to welcome you to Aberdeen.
Whether you're looking for academic support, social activities, or simply a sense of community, the university's staff and students are here to help you settle in and make the most of your time in Aberdeen.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/pg-virtual:
Registration Open
Our Postgraduate Virtual Open Day (PG VOD) takes place on Thursday 2 October.
Join us and find out about life at Aberdeen.
The event gives you the opportunity to speak live with academics and current students and is open to everyone who is interested in Postgraduate Taught and Research study.
Register for Postgraduate Virtual Open Day
The event will be held across two sessions (UK time) and you only need to attend one session:
Pursuing a postgraduate qualification can enhance your career prospects and earning potential, and at the University of Aberdeen, we offer a wide range of programmes and short courses to meet diverse needs.
Additionally, we are excited to announce the Aberdeen Global Scholarship, offering an £8,000 tuition fee waiver for new self-funded international postgraduate Masters students starting in January 2026.
Ranked in the top 15 universities in the UK (Guardian University Guide 2025 and Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025)
Ranked 2nd in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland for overall satisfaction by our students (National Student Survey 2023)
We offer a range of scholarships and funding opportunities, including the Aberdeen Global Scholarship.
Community of more than 130 nationalities, with 14,000 students
Awarded the Queen's Anniversary Prize in 2021 for soil science and in 2017 for health services research.
We offer a wide range of accommodation

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/funding/645:
The University of Aberdeen is delighted to offer new self-funded international on-campus undergraduate students starting in AY25/26 a £6,000 scholarship for every year of their programme.
Please note, this scholarship is only available for Aberdeen campus students.
The University of Aberdeen is keen to welcome talented students from all over the world.
To help students fulfil their academic ambitions and ease the costs associated with studying abroad, the University is pleased to offer the Aberdeen Global Scholarship worth £6,000 for every year of their programme.
The scholarship is available to all self-funded full-time on campus undergraduate students classified as international fee status and starting their studies in September 2025.
The scholarship is in the form of a partial tuition fee waiver; the £6,000 scholarship amount will be deducted from your tuition fees.
To be eligible students must be registering for a full-time on campus program and cannot be fully sponsored or in receipt of fully funded external scholarships or other University of Aberdeen scholarships, except for awards granted by the University of Aberdeen Development Trust.
Please note that the scholarship does not apply to the DPLP, Dentistry or Medicine.
We look forward to welcoming you to Aberdeen.
If you have any queries about this scholarship, please contact study@abdn.ac.uk
View all our Undergraduate degrees
This scholarship is for new students starting in academic year 2025/26 only.
Continuing undergraduate students will remain on the scholarship they were awarded when they started their studies.
The Aberdeen Global Scholarship does not require an application.
It is automatically applied to all eligible students and will be reflected on their CAS.
Available until further notice.
This scholarship aims to provide essential financial support to ease the transition into life in the North East of Scotland.
By alleviating some of the costs associated with studying abroad, the Aberdeen Global Scholarship enables recipients to focus on their academic and personal growth as they establish their new home in our vibrant and welcoming community.
Living in Aberdeen, often referred to as the "Granite City", offers a unique blend of urban and coastal charm.
It boasts a rich maritime history, vibrant cultural scene, and proximity to stunning natural landscapes, including beautiful beaches and the captivating Cairngorms.
Residents enjoy a walkable city with a variety of shops, restaurants, and a bustling nightlife, alongside access to outdoor activities like hiking and water sports.
The local economy provides diverse employment opportunities.
Aberdeen also embraces a welcoming community spirit, making it an appealing place to call home.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/funding/644:
The University of Aberdeen is delighted to offer new self-funded international on campus postgraduate Masters students starting in AY25/26 a £8,000 tuition fee waiver.
To help students fulfil their academic ambitions and ease the costs associated with studying abroad, the University is pleased to offer the Aberdeen Global Scholarship worth £8,000.
The scholarship is available to all self-funded full-time on campus Masters students classified as international fee status and starting their studies in either September 2025 or January 2026.
The scholarship applies to both taught and research Masters (research Masters that start outside of September or January in the 2025/26 academic year are still eligible for the scholarship).
The scholarship is in the form of a partial tuition fee waiver; the £8,000 scholarship amount will be deducted from your tuition fees.
Please note that the scholarship does not apply to the DPLP, PGDE, or Dentistry.
View all our Postgraduate Taught degrees
View all our Postgraduate Research opportunities

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/aberdeen:
Welcome to one of the most prosperous and beautiful regions of the UK.
The City of Aberdeen has something for everyone, from the bustling city centre of Europe's Energy Capital, to the beautiful countryside and coastlines, there's plenty to see and do.
There is lots on to keep you entertained.
Aberdeen has great air, train and road routes and is closer than you think.
Aberdeen has a great range of shops, bars and restaurants.
Visit the galleries and museums in the city.
Take part in a number of outdoor pursuits.
Get involved or watch a range of sports.
Attend one of the many festivals across the city.
Stunning Aberdeenshire is on our doorstep.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/accommodation:
Stay with us
Discover the benefits of living in University accommodation - we have something to suit everyone!
Email: studentaccomm@abdn.ac.uk •  Telephone: 01224 273502
A range of accommodations, located in or close to King's Campus, Hillhead Student Village and the City Centre.
360 views also shown.
Do you want the option of living in alcohol free or quiet accommodation?
We have dedicated blocks available!
Once you've accepted your offer (conditional or unconditional), you can apply for accommodation or register your interest.
All new students who apply by the deadline are guaranteed an offer.
Join us this year in safe, clean and hassle-free University run accommodation - your place to call home for 2025.
Move in day is pretty exciting and you will feel settled more quickly if you have your own things decorating your room.
Log into the eAccommodation Portal to request maintenance or room transfers.
Win one of 2 x £25 UniKitOut vouchers to spend on your accommodation essentials!
Which accommodation type will work best for you?
Find out about our wide range of accommodation and why it's great to stay with us!
The University of Aberdeen is offering an Aberdeen Sports Village membership for students who accept University accommodation September entry.
T&C's apply.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/flexibility:
We want the Aberdeen experience to be the best you can have anywhere.
Read on to discover what this could mean for you — and how it's more than geography that sets us apart from others.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/flexibility/choice-and-flexibility:
Undergraduate Honours degrees in Scotland are usually four years in duration and are generally structured to ensure a great deal of flexibility during the first two years of study.
But at Aberdeen we go one step further: flexibility and individuality are our real strengths.
We know from experience that flexibility is very important in preparing our students for a world today in which new graduates need a wide range of knowledge, understanding and skills.
What this means for you:

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/flexibility/enhanced-study-options:
One thing about the 21st century is certain: you'll need to be more versatile and more adaptable than ever before to meet the challenges of life and work.
At Aberdeen we believe this demands an appreciation of disciplines other than your own, and a deeper understanding of the context of your own core discipline.
We call the courses that provide for this, and for other broadening experiences, Enhanced Study.
All single honours undergraduate degrees at Aberdeen, with the exception of Medicine and Dentistry, include Enhanced Study.
The degree programmes are structured in such a way that this will not increase your overall workload.
There are three types of Enhanced Study, the details of which you will find below.
You may expand the scope of your study by taking a Discipline Breadth course - which is a course that is outside your degree discipline.
It might be related to your core degree subject or entirely unrelated to it - the choice is yours.
For example, if you are taking a degree in History, you might also want to do a course in Archaeology (related) or in Biology (unrelated).
You have the whole catalogue of courses for your year of study to choose from, as long as you meet any pre-requisites and entry to the course is not restricted to a specific degree (e.g.
Medicine, Law, Primary Education).
Would you benefit from having a language, or perhaps some knowledge of science, alongside your main degree subject?
Sustained Study is designed to provide you with continual exposure, throughout the first two years of your degree programme, to an area of study that is separate from your core discipline.
Sustained Study involves a total of four courses, one each half-session for your first two years.
Students must pass all four courses in order to qualify for Sustained Study.
To ensure that Sustained Study adds breadth to your chosen degree programme, you will not be eligible for Sustained Study in a subject area which is close to your core degree subject.
Sustained Study is not available at Levels 3 and 4.
Students may choose from the following:
Full details of the Sustained Study courses can be found in the Catalogue of Courses
People have been studying at Aberdeen for over five centuries and Sixth Century Courses are exciting cross-disciplinary courses that place you at the cutting-edge of modern learning.
They invite you to consider different approaches to knowledge and enquiry as you look at issues affecting the world in which we live today.
They are designed to help you develop a deeper critical understanding of your chosen area of study by setting the subject in a wider context.
You will normally be expected to take one of these courses during your degree programme.
All Sixth Century Courses are taught using innovative techniques and students are continually assessed throughout the course.
Level 1-2 courses:
Full details of the Sixth Century Courses can be found in the Catalogue of Courses
Level 3-4 courses:

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/flexibility/your-employability:
The University Careers and Employability Service aims to inspire and support your career success through collaboration, innovation and professionalism.
We provide our students and recent graduates with the advice and information they need for effective career planning and skill development along with opportunities for networking and connecting with employers.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/requirements:
The University of Aberdeen's Admissions Selectors will be as flexible as possible while still ensuring that applicants are academically qualified for their chosen course of study.
If you have any concerns, please email our Enquiry Team to discuss your circumstances.
Honours degrees in Scotland normally take four years to complete.
In an arts or social science subject, you have a great deal of freedom to devise your own programme of study.
Most first year classes are open to you even if you have not studied the subjects before, and you can usually go on to Honours in any subject that particularly interests you, even if it is not the subject you applied for via UCAS.
All degrees have core courses, but your freedom to combine subjects is generally limited only by the timetable.
The tradition in Scotland is to admit students to a degree programme rather than to a particular subject or degree.
You do have to put specific subjects and course codes on your UCAS form, but essentially we admit you to the MA degree programme rather than specifically to an MA in Anthropology or History or Philosophy, for example.
As a result, it is possible in most cases to change your Honours preference after you have begun your degree.
Honours students can specialise in their third and fourth years in one particular subject (Single Honours), in two (Joint Honours) or in the case of Scottish Studies, three (General Honours).
You can also take an Honours degree in which you add a 'minor' in a subject like Music to your 'major' subject.
Honours degrees are classified, that is to say you will be awarded a first-class, upper-second, lower-second, or third-class degree.
Entry requirements for the MA are rarely subject-specific: we are more interested in your overall ability than in the precise content of your pre-university studies.
In most cases you do not need a prior qualification in the subject to enter a first year degree, even if the subject in question is one that is on the school curriculum.
There are some exceptions, but they are rare.
When you apply, do not worry too much about getting your subject choice absolutely right on your application.
If you find your interests changing, you will usually be able to change your degree intention accordingly.
SQA - Scottish Qualifications
HIGHERS
Foundation Apprenticeship : One FA is equivalent to a Higher at A.
It cannot replace any required subjects.
More information on our definition of Standard, Minimum and Adjusted entry qualifications.
A LEVELS
Welsh Baccalaureate - a pass overall is equivalent to one A level at Grade B.
[top]
Admission is competitive, and consequently precise entry requirements may vary from year to year.
An applicant's academic profile will normally be the most significant factor in our decision making.
Additionally, certain features of the personal statement and reference may help to strengthen an applicant's case.
Where it is a school's policy for an applicant to take one Higher in fourth year and three more in fifth year, we count all four.
Where applicants are taking Highers across fourth, fifth and sixth year we normally look for a better performance than the minimum.
We do not double-count a Higher and an Advanced Higher in the same subject, but we do consider that a B-grade in Advanced Higher can represent an improvement on a B-grade at Higher, so an Advanced Higher may be used to upgrade a Higher.
Applicants choosing to resit a Higher in which they achieved a grade C or below in their first attempt will normally be required to achieve an A-grade in their second attempt.
If the Higher at C was achieved in S4, this policy does not apply, even if the resit is not until S6.
We are keen to encourage people from the widest possible range of backgrounds to participate in university studies, and we appreciate that not all applicants have the same opportunity to meet our standard entry requirements.
For this reason we take certain information into account when deciding on the exact grades we might require in any given case.
This might include information about whether an applicant has had health problems or a disability, has been homeless, is a care leaver/estranged or a care giver, attends a school where a low proportion of pupils normally go on to higher education, lives in a relatively deprived area as defined by the Scottish Index of Multiple Deprivation, has attended or is eligible to attend widening-access programmes such as Aspire North, LEAPS, SWAP etc.
Where information of this kind appears on the UCAS application, it may allow us to make an offer at our minimum level.
More information on our definition of Standard, Minimum and Adjusted entry qualifications
The traditional four year MA Honours degree with its 'two-plus-two' structure (two pre-Honours years followed by a two-year Honours programme), allows you to experiment with new subjects in your pre-Honours years, and perhaps change your Honours intention, while still completing your degree in the normal time.
However, if you are clear about what you want to study, and have (or are likely to get) good qualifications in the subject or subject area you have applied for, it is possible to complete an Honours degree in three years.
In your first year, you would take a combination of first and second year subjects, and then proceed to third year in your second year of study.
Direct entry to the second year of study is possible in most subject areas covered by the MA degree.
To qualify for Advanced entry, prospective Single Honours students must hold an A grade pass at A Level, or an A grade pass at Advanced Higher, in the subject they wish to study for their degree.
Prospective Joint Honours students may be admitted directly to the second year of the degree if they hold an A and B grade pass at A Level, or one A grade pass and one B grade pass at Advanced Higher in the subjects concerned.
You may have the opportunity to take Enhanced Study options as part of your degree and widen the breadth of your studies even more.
More information on Enhanced Study .
The University welcomes applications for degree level study from students with HNC and HND qualifications, and has a number of college articulation routes in place which lead to advanced entry into our degree programmes.
For full information contact your college, visit our website or email study@abdn.ac.uk
'Arts' degrees are often thought of as educationally attractive but not strongly job-related.
In fact, some degrees within the arts and social science area are strongly vocational: most graduates in Accountancy, Computing and Economics, for instance, will have no difficulty in finding a job, and will be employed because of the knowledge and skills they have learned at university; Mathematics graduates, too, are highly employable.
As with most science graduates, however, the majority of graduates in arts and social science subjects go into careers in which they do not use their subject knowledge directly.
They nevertheless have access to a wide range of career openings, because more than 40% of the vacancies notified to university careers services, or advertised in the broadsheet press, are for holders of degrees in any subject.
Employers are looking for the qualities that any good MA graduate will have.
The University is a major international centre for teaching and research in all divisions of scientific study, and Aberdeen has an unparalleled provision of buildings and equipment for science students.
The University of Aberdeen BSc degree structure is extremely flexible.
When students apply, they are asked to nominate a specific degree title.
However, admittance is actually to the general BSc Pure Science programme.
Within this programme, students are free to change their degree intention to any of those listed in the BSc section of the prospectus.
There are a few exceptions: the Biomedical Sciences, MChem and some MSci degrees have higher entry requirements than other science degrees, and consequently formal approval is required before changing degree intention to one of these degrees.
In the first year of study, students typically take at least three subjects.
One of these is continued in second year for half of the time, alongside either one of the other subjects studied in first year, or a selection of subjects, some of which may be new.
At the end of second year the final choice of degree intention is made, based on the subjects studied so far, and the results obtained.
In years three and four, students follow the specified curriculum for their final choice of degree subject.
Each student has a Personal Tutor to guide them in their subject choices and to ensure that these choices comply with the degree regulations.
The Honours BSc requires four years of full-time study.
The degree classification is based on the student's performance in the final year, and in some cases the third year as well.
There are also a number of integrated Masters programmes (e.g.
MChem and MSci) which require five years of full-time study.
These degrees normally include an integral industrial placement.
A student who leaves the University after one, two or three years of study can be re-admitted to study for a more advanced qualification.
Below you will find a full breakdown of our entry requirements.
We look for a good level of proven academic ability overall, and strength in Science or Mathematics subjects.
Beyond this we do not usually insist on specific subjects.
In some cases, such as Chemistry and Mathematics, previous study of the subject is usually desirable in order to cope with the first year material.
A student applying for one of these degrees who does not have the required background may still be offered a place, but in this case may be directed towards one of the other science degrees for which their background provides a better preparation.
Please Note: Computing, Geography, Geology, Information Systems, Psychology and Technology are acceptable as Science subjects for entry purposes.
Higher Applications of Mathematics is acceptable as a Mathematics subject for entry purposes, except where Higher Mathematics is explicitly required.
Type of Qualification
General Requirements
Subject Requirements
​ HIGHERS
Please note that the stated Entry Requirements do not guarantee entry.
Computing, Geography, Geology, Information Systems, Psychology and Technology are acceptable as Science subjects for entry purposes.
Where it is a school's policy for an applicant to take one Higher in fourth year and three more in fifth year, we count all four but the applicant must include two science or mathematics subjects.
We are keen to encourage people from the widest possible range of backgrounds to participate in university studies, and we appreciate that not all applicants have the same opportunity to meet our typical entry requirements.
The four year length of the degree programme provides the opportunity for the breadth and flexibility that is such a significant feature of the Aberdeen Honours degree.
However, for those who are well-qualified, and who are clear about their degree intention, it is possible to complete an Honours degree in three years rather than four.
Such students effectively join the second year of the degree programme, and during this year they study the required second year modules for their nominated degree subject, alongside a selection of other first and second year modules.
Good entry qualifications are needed, at least up to the level of GCE A Level, or SQA Advanced Higher, particularly in subjects that are essential for the intended degree and that would otherwise have been studied in first year.
Some opportunities for third year entry also exist for those with qualifications up to the level of a good HND, provided the core content of the first two years of the degree curriculum has been covered adequately.
The Scottish Baccalaureate qualification is a good preparation for entry to university.
The qualification will be considered alongside Advanced Highers, for direct entry into year two across a range of degree programmes.
You may have the opportunity to take Enhanced Study options as part of your degree and participate in co-curricular activities.
Most science graduates, regardless of their university, are able to find some kind of employment.
The important question is not “Will I get a job after graduating?” but “What kind of job can I get?” As a science graduate from Aberdeen you will be well prepared for a wide range of high-quality employment opportunities.
With a good Honours classification you will also be qualified for study towards a higher degree or PhD study.
Good Aberdeen graduates are highly regarded, and consequently many major employers in industry and commerce target the University in their annual recruiting exercises.
An extremely high percentage of science graduates secure good jobs or further study/training opportunities within six months of graduation.
Our philosophy is one of world-class teaching in an atmosphere of research.
Staff in the School have won major national awards, and strong links with industry ensure that teaching is in line with the requirements of today's companies.
The BEng is a four-year Honours programme and the MEng is a five-year Honours programme, both of which are fully accredited by the Engineering Institutions.
The first two years of our programmes cover general engineering, with elements of chemical, mechanical, petroleum and electrical/electronics, as well as civil.
This approach gives Aberdeen graduates a broad understanding of engineering principles, which we know is invaluable to their future careers.
Similarly highly regarded is the particular emphasis on management and project management.
Again, we know from working with industry that this knowledge is vital for new graduates working in an engineering capacity.
In the later years you specialise, following your chosen discipline in greater depth including design applications.
Note: Higher Applications of Mathematics is NOT acceptable where Higher Mathematics is explicitly required.
MEng - First Year Entry
Note: For entry to Chemical and Petroleum Engineering an SQA Higher in Chemistry is also required for entry to year 1, in addition to the general Engineering requirements noted above.
Note: For entry to Chemical and Petroleum Engineering, an A Level or equivalent in Chemistry is also required for entry to year 1, in addition to the general Engineering requirements noted above.
Note: For entry to Chemical and Petroleum Engineering an A Level or equivalent in Chemistry is also required for entry to year 1, in addition to the general Engineering requirements noted above.
Note: For entry to Chemical and Petroleum Engineering, H3 of above in Chemistry is also required for entry to year 1, in addition to the general Engineering requirements noted above.
Note: For entry to Chemical and Petroleum Engineering an equivalent qualification in Chemistry is also required for entry to year 1, in addition to the general Engineering requirements noted above.
BTEC Level 3 Extended
Diploma
Note: BTEC in Applied Sciences is not normally sufficient on its own for entry into any of our Engineering programmes
Applicants should note that achieving the minimum entrance requirements may not on its own guarantee an offer of admission.
Consequently, we may need to ask for more than the minimum.
Additionally, certain features of the personal statement may help to strengthen an applicant's case.
Law has been taught at the University of Aberdeen since its foundation in 1495; today the Law School continues to build on this strong traditional foundation to offer a modern, flexible degree, which provides an excellent academic training.
Higher English is highly desirable.
Higher ESOL is also recognised in lieu of Higher English where the mother tongue is not English.
Where a combination of H and AH is offered, individual subjects are counted at one level only.
BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma
A BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma is not normally sufficient on its own for entry into our LLB degree programmes, although those with a relevant BTEC (Law-related) at a minimum of DDD may be considered.
The School of Education has a long and distinguished record in the training of teachers.
Staff are recognised nationally and internationally for their development work in particular fields.
Applicants are expected to have studied at least four distinct subject areas .
GCE - General Certificate of Education
Mathematics and English required, as stated below.
HNC and HND
Qualifications such as an HNC or HND (eg Education and Childcare) will be accepted as one subject alongside 3 additional subjects at Higher.
Applicants are expected to have studied at least four distinct subject areas.
You must still meet the English and Maths requirements.
UNIVERSITY GRADUATES
Graduates wishing to apply for primary teaching training must apply for the Professional Graduate Diploma in Education (PGDE).
PGDE Courses in both primary and secondary education are available and are professionally accredited by the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GCTS).
More information on the PGDE can be found here .
*Higher ESOL only acceptable for entry to PGDE Secondary, NOT PGDE Primary or undergraduate Primary.
MATHEMATICS Minimum
The following are not accepted as a Mathematics qualification at the University of Aberdeen: Standard Grade 3 or below, GCSE Grade D or below, CSE Grade 1, O Level Grade 3.
The University will consult UK ENIC (The UK National Information Centre for global qualifications and skills), to determine whether or not qualifications achieved outside the UK meet the entry requirements detailed above.
University of Aberdeen Online English and Mathematics
The University of Aberdeen offers online access courses in English and in Mathematics.
English is at SCQF Level 6 - the equivalent to Higher English and there are three Maths courses - SCQF Level 5, Level 6 and Level 7.
All are accepted by the University of Aberdeen for entry to teacher training.
For MA Primary we would require Aberdeen Online Access English (SCQF6) at grade B3 or above and a minimum of Aberdeen Online Access Maths (SCQF 5) at grade C3 or above.
Full information on the Online provision, including costs, can be found at www.abdn.ac.uk/study/online/access-courses.php
The Master of Arts (MA) in Education (Hons) programme is accredited by the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS) and allows graduates to apply for provisional registration as a primary teacher.
Theological study and learning go back beyond the foundation of the University in 1495.
The School is situated in the beautiful and historic buildings of King's College.
The School offers three degrees at the undergraduate level: Bachelor of Divinity (BD), Bachelor of Theology (BTh), Master of Arts (MA) in Theology and Re ligion.
Each may be taken as a non-Honours or as an Honours degree.
The BD is designed for students who wish specialised and comprehensive study of the Christian tradition, or who are preparing for a future in full-time ministry.
The study of the biblical languages (Hebrew and Greek) by candidates for this degree is encouraged, but not compulsory.
The designated degree of BD normally takes three years and the Honours degree normally takes four years.
The BTh is designed to be more flexibly structured than the BD.
It provides flexibility of course choice and the chance to combine the study of Theology with subjects in other disciplines in the early years of the programme.
It is particularly suited to the needs of those considering teaching religious and moral education in schools.
The BTh can be taken via distance learning.
The MA in Theology and Religion includes both the study of Christian faith, life and doctrine, and the wider study of religion and religious traditions from around the world.
The study of the Christian tradition attends to its historical, cross-cultural and contemporary contexts, whereas the comparative study of world religions includes an interdisciplinary investigation and interpretation of the origin, function and mean of religion and religious practice.
(For the MA in Theology and Religion, see Arts and Social Sciences above.)
Advanced Entry - For those seeking entry into second year classes, with a view to taking an accelerated Honours degree, the normal requirement will be BC at H plus A at AH or 2AH at AB.
This must include AH at A in RMPS.
Where a combination of H and AH has been studied, individual subjects will be counted at one level only.
Advanced Entry - For those seeking entry into second year classes, with a view to taking an accelerated Honours degree, the normal requirement must include A Level at A in Religious Studies.
Our music staff possess a wide range of research expertise encompassing aspects of performance, composition and musicology.
Facilities for music students are first-class, including electroacoustic music studios, a collection of historical instruments and a world music centre.
Our full time degree programmes comprise the following:
Following core music studies, in which students are able to develop skills in performance, composition, musicianship and music history, one of two Honours programmes is chosen.
BMus with Honours is a music degree; the BMus with Honours (Music Education) programme leads to a qualification to teach music in secondary schools.
Please note: for entry to the BMus (Music Education) with honours programme the following are requirements set by the General Teaching Council of Scotland (GTCS):
ENGLISH MINIMUM
MATHEMATICS MINIMUM
Must also have competence on piano.
Candidates for the BMus Music (honours) are required to demonstrate a strong interest in the study of music as well as significant attainment in one or more of a range of disciplines including performance, composition, music technology, musicology, and community engagement.
Entry to the programme will be assessed on the strength of the candidate's academic record and personal statement.
Graded qualifications on instrument or voice are welcome but are not essential.
Candidates may be invited to interview.
Candidates for the BMus Music Education (honours) are required to demonstrate a strong interest in the study of music and education.
Candidates should be of a standard equivalent to Grade 8 (Associated Board or other) or show the potential to achieve this on their main instrument/voice.
Competence on piano is also required.
View the Admissions Policy.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/requirements/widening-access-criteria:
We are keen to encourage students from the widest possible range of backgrounds to participate in University studies, and we appreciate that not all students have the same opportunity to meet our advertised entry requirements.
For this reason we take contextualised information into account when making decisions on the applications we have received.
Decisions are made in line with the University's Contextualised Admissions Policy:
The section below gives details about the widening access criteria that the University will consider when making an Adjusted or Access Threshold Offer.
Applicants should note that the list is not exhaustive and the University may consider other criteria.
You can check if your home postcode is in a SIMD 20 (Quintile 1) postcode using our postcode checker tool.
SIMD stands for the Scottish Index of Multiple Deprivation.
It is a relative measure of deprivation across area data zones in Scotland.
You can find out more about the measure on the Scottish Government webpages .
If you have any difficulties in determining if your postcode is in a SIMD 20 (Quintile 1) area please contact the University's Widening Access team .
If someone has, at some point in their lives, been cared for by their local authority and the state then they can be said to be Care Experienced.
This can include anyone who has been in residential care (i.e.
a Childrens Home), anyone who has been in Foster Care (i.e.
living with a foster family), someone who has been adopted and anyone who has been in the care of the local authority in their own home (i.e.
under a statutory care / protection order).
If this description applies to you please check the appropriate box on your online UCAS form to say that you have experience of being in care.
You can also inform us by mentioning it in your UCAS personal statement or via a supplementary document (please see below for more information on supplementary documents).
If you were in receipt of free school meals whilst you were at secondary school then please select the appropriate field in UCAS and tell us more about any circumstances that effected your education in either your personal statement or by email to ugadmissions@abdn.ac.uk .
The University recognises not all schools have the same opportunities and therefore supports a group of priority schools made up from those schools in our local area facing unique challenges:
You can check if your home postcode is a POLAR 4 Quintile 1 (Rest of UK) postcode area at the Higher Education Funding Council for England website .
Please type your postcode into the box titled Enter postcode.
You will then be told which quintile your postcode is in.
What follows is a list of definitions and other information that you can use to check if you meet the other widening access criteria.
Please see our Contexualised Admissions Policy above for more information about the information we require and the offer you are likely to achieve:
Please note that the University is reliant on the information an applicant submits via UCAS.
Therefore applicants should select the appropriate field in UCAS where possible.
In order to tell us more about any additional circumstances that effected your education please do so in either your personal statement or by email to ugadmissions@abdn.ac.uk .
Any additional information, which is supplied to the University in a clear and timely manner, will be considered alongside the main application.
Applicants must include their full name and UCAS ID number in all correspondence with the University.
We would ask where possible, referees mention and verify if an applicant meets one or more of the Widening Access criteria in their UCAS reference.
If you have any questions about supplementary documents, personal statements or references please contact the Access and Articulation Team.
If you have any questions about widening access criteria, please contact the Access and Articulation Team .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/study-a-language:
Enhance your employability by taking language courses as part of your degree.
In the 21st century, it is crucial to be versatile and adaptable to face the challenges of life and work.
At Aberdeen, we believe this requires additional skills, and there is no more vital skill for today's global citizens than the ability to communicate in another language.
Having proficiency in another language can boost your CV, open global opportunities and broaden your understanding of people, different cultures and perspectives.
We offer beginner and advanced routes in various languages and several ways to learn:
Whatever your level, you can boost your employment, advance your language skills and enhance your cultural understanding by taking a language course as part of your degree.
You have four- or five-year options, study periods abroad, and many subject combinations to choose from.
We offer joint and combined MA degrees at undergraduate level.
Study Gaelic, whatever your level with experienced tutors and a vibrant student community.
Gain solid grounding of the German language, history and cultures of the German-speaking world with native speakers.
Study Mandarin Chinese with native speakers and learn a language spoken over 5,000 years by one-fifth of the population.
Build your proficiency in two languages to meet the needs of future translators and interpreters.
Grow your skills in Spanish whether you're a beginner or advanced learner, with options to combine your degree with other subjects.
All students at the University of Aberdeen can study a modern language during the first two years of their degree.
If you complete a sequence of courses in one language across Years 1 and 2, your degree transcript will show your achievement as part of the "Sustained Studies" programme.
You can choose from the following:
An understanding of the Arabic language and Middle Eastern cultures is essential in today's globalised world.
Our courses allow you to master all basic conversations, reading, and writing in any Arabic-speaking country.
Enrich your knowledge of the French-speaking world with courses in modern politics and society, film and visual culture, early modern history, literature and post-colonial studies.
Did you know that around 60,000 Scots still speak Gaelic?
Learn Gaelic and explore its cultural and societal roots with our courses.
German is the most widely spoken language in the European Union and is the first language of about 100 million people.
Germany boasts the largest economy in Europe and the fourth largest globally.
By learning German, you can access German culture, job opportunities in Germany, and experience the German lifestyle.
Explore China's rich culture and history while developing your Mandarin Chinese speaking, listening, reading, writing, and linguistic skills.
Expand your language skills and deepen your cultural understanding of the Spanish-speaking world through courses in Latin American and Spanish history, literature, politics, visual culture and more.
Our Language Centre also runs evening classes in several global languages.
Full details of these courses can be found in the Catalogue of Courses.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply/ucas-application-process:
Applications for full-time undergraduate degree programmes at Aberdeen - as to other UK universities - are made through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
The exceptions are for part-time degrees, and non-graduating or visiting students, who apply direct to the University.
You apply online to UCAS and schools and colleges can provide advice and guidance.
If you wish to contact UCAS from outside the UK, you can write to them at the address provided, or you can visit their website.
UCAS expects to receive most applications electronically through Apply.
This electronic system contains the most up-to-date course information, is quicker to use, and, as you are using the Internet, you can complete your application anytime.
Your completed application should be submitted (preferably via Apply) to UCAS with the applicant's fee.
If you wish to apply for only one course at one institution, a reduced price applies.
For all applicants, there are instructions on the UCAS website to make it as easy as possible for you to fill in your online application, plus help text where appropriate.
You may apply to up to five institutions on the full-price UCAS application.
You should list your choices in the order in which they appear in the Handbook.
Applicants for Medicine, Dentistry or Veterinary Science should list no more than four such courses in their five choices.
Although admission at Aberdeen is to a degree and not to a particular Department or subject, you should still enter your preferred degree programme title and UCAS code in your UCAS application.
However, in most cases it is easy to change your degree preference after you have begun your degree.
Please note, UCAS has a variety of application deadlines in place that vary between courses and providers.
You can find more information on the UCAS website, or by visiting our 'How to apply' page .
Your school or college will provide you with full assistance on how to use Apply.
For information, the contact details for UCAS are:
UCAS Rosehill New Barn Lane Cheltenham Gloucestershire GL52 3ZA Tel from within the UK: 0371 468 0468 Tel from outside the UK: +44 330 333 0230
UCAS Code: A20, The University of Aberdeen Short Code: ABRDN

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply/admissions-policy:
Admission to the University of Aberdeen is entirely on merit and on the basis of ability to achieve.
Applications are welcomed from students with excellent academic potential and the University recognises the importance of admitting applicants to a course suited to their ability and aspirations.
Every course has an admissions selector, who considers all the applications for that area of study.
Selectors are interested in an applicant's academic achievements but they will also take note of the spread of subjects studied and will check for competence in any specific subjects required for particular courses.
Applications for admission to all courses are considered without regard to any inappropriate distinction eg ethnicity or national origin, nationality, disability, sexual orientation, gender, religious or political beliefs, marital status or socio-economic background.
Mature students (those who will be 21 or over at the time they start an undergraduate course), and students who have suffered educational hardship or disruption (including students with disabilities), may receive special consideration.
Other links

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/finance/students-from-scotland:
SAAS opens in April for applications for funding starting that September - make sure to check out their Youtube channel for information on how to apply for funding.
For more information on
The University of Aberdeen is committed to attracting the very best students, regardless of financial circumstances, which is why we offer a large number of scholarships to undergraduate students.
These are designed to provide assistance to help students support themselves during their time at university, and also aim to reward academic excellence.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/finance/students-from-scotland/tuition-fees-and-living-costs:
The cost of tuition fees for Scottish domiciled undergraduate students is £1,820 per year.
Scottish students should apply to the Student Awards Agency for Scotland to cover this cost.
You may be eligible for your tuition fees to be covered by the Scottish Government, if you are:
To find out more, contact the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS).
www.saas.gov.uk
Details on how and when to apply are available from SAAS .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/finance/students-from-scotland/scholarships-and-funding:
The University of Aberdeen is committed to attracting the very best students, regardless of their financial circumstances.
Our Entrance Scholarship Scheme aims to help students to support themselves during their time at University and is funded jointly by the University and the generosity of our Donors.
This scholarship is currently closed.
View all of our available funding opportunities.
These scholarships are currently closed.
Working in conjunction with the University, the Robertson Trust's Journey to Success Scholarship scheme helps promising youngsters to overcome financial and social barriers to gain the university education they deserve and the career they aspire to.
The Jim Duncan Scholarships were established in 2001 and each scholarship is valued at £4,000 per annum for the duration of your degree.
The ICAS Foundation Programme provides an all-encompassing range of support for students planning to study accounting or finance at university.
It aims to support academically talented young people from family backgrounds with limited resources, who wish to attend university but may not have the means to do so without additional financial support.
Applications are now open and will close on Saturday 31 May 2025
We strongly encourage applying before the deadline of 31 May, as this allows us to offer more assistance to applicants with their application form.
More information, including a link to our new video, visit the ICAS Foundation website.
The Alumni Sports Bursary Scheme runs on an annual basis and exists to assist talented individuals to maintain their high sporting standards while in full-time study, supporting up to 20 Scholars competing at or close to National level per year.
For all available funding, from general bursaries and discount scheme to discipline and country specific scholarships, within the University and externally, visit our funding database

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/finance/students-from-england-northern-ireland-republic-of-ireland--wales:
For more information on:

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/finance/students-from-england-northern-ireland-republic-of-ireland--wales/tuition-fees-and-living-costs:
View the Tuition Fee information for 2025 to 2026 and all previous intakes.
Tuition fees for entry at the University of Aberdeen, for students from England, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland and Wales are £9,535 per annum.
What does this mean?
There are no up-front tuition fees, as you can apply for a government loan to cover the fees.
The loan is not repayable until after graduation.
(See our section on Loans and Grants below for information on Tuition fee loans).
Tuition fees for entry at the University of Aberdeen, for students from England, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland and Wales are £9,250 per annum.
Click on the relevant link below for details on how and when to apply, and exact amounts.
Full information on loans and grants, as well as how to apply and exact amounts, is available directly through Student Finance England.
Full information on loans and grants, as well as how to apply and exact amounts, is available directly through Student Finance Northern Ireland.
Full information on loans and grants, as well as how to apply and exact amounts, is available directly through Student Finance Wales.
Irish nationals who are living in the Republic of Ireland, who have been ordinarily resident in the Common Travel Area of the UK, Islands or Ireland for three years prior to the relevant date (for autumn start courses this is 1 August) who are studying in Scotland will be eligible to apply for a tuition fee loan from the Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS).
Please note : there are different provisions in place from SAAS for Irish nationals living in the UK before 31 Dec 2020, who have been ordinarily resident in the UK for three years prior to the relevant date (for autumn start courses this is 1 August) who apply to study in Scotland.
Full information is available directly from the Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) .
You don't have to start to re-pay your tuition fee loan and living cost/maintenance loan back until the April after you graduate, and only once you earn over the threshold salary level.
Please review these levels above with your relevant funding body.
If you're a new part-time student starting a course on or after 1 September 2012, you can apply for a Tuition Fee Loan.
Find out what help you can get and how and when you can apply.
For more information visit the Directgov website .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/finance/students-from-england-northern-ireland-republic-of-ireland--wales/scholarships-and-funding:
We recognise that being a student can be costly and therefore we offer a generous suite of scholarships to eligible students from England, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland and Wales.
These are awarded automatically to all students who meet the academic and/or financial criteria and are paying the Rest of UK tuition fee rate.
Our scheme is currently live for all eligible students commencing full time undergraduate degree study in September 2025.
View our rest of UK (RUK) scholarships information for previous intakes (2012- 2024)
The scheme for 2024 will open in due course.
Closing Date: TBC

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/finance/students-from-outside-the-uk-international-and-eu:
Our Tuition Fees
When you are thinking about studying overseas, it is important that you understand all the costs involved and budget accordingly.
It is essential to budget for your studies prior to leaving your home country and to arrange all your funding for BOTH your tuition fees and your living costs.
To help you budget we have included some information on the cost of study, but please remember these are only a guide and the costs will vary from student to student.
For more information on where to find out about all available funding - scholarships, bursaries, loans and discounts - through the University and externally from organisations, companies and charities

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access:
The University of Aberdeen's Foundational purpose is to be " open to all and dedicated to the pursuit of truth in the service of others ".
We aim to create an outstanding and inclusive educational environment, to ensure every student has the opportunity to reach their own potential.
The Access & Articulation Team work with individuals, secondary schools, and Further Education Colleges to support learners at every stage of their journey.
The information in the following pages summarises their work and the support available to students from widening access backgrounds.
It is designed to supplement rather than replace the support available to all incoming students and therefore should be read alongside other content available on these web pages especially that contained in the Information Guides .
We offer flexible entry qualifications and our contextualised admissions policies can be found here .
For more information, advice or guidance related to Widening Access please contact accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk
Our Access Aberdeen Programme makes sure you have all the information, advice and guidance you need to make informed choices about your next steps into University with on campus activities, career exploration days, shadowing and application support.
Are you currently attending School in Scotland?
Find out more about how we can support you to realise your goals.
Are you currently attending a Scottish College?
Find out how we can support you in your degree journey.
The Reach Programme, part of the Scottish Funding Councils National Schools Programme, is hosted at the University of Aberdeen and provides information, advice and guidance on applying for professional degrees.
Find out more about how we can support you if you are a care leaver, carer, estranged or an asylum seeker or refugee.
The Access & Articulation Team are here to help and support you throughout your journey to University.
Are you a widening access student who would like to arrange a campus tour to see the campus and meet with a member of our team?

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-school:
Access Aberdeen is our widening access schools programme which informs, supports, and encourages young people to make appropriate post-school study choices.
The programme works with young people who meet one of our widening access criteria regardless of the school they attend:
If you wish to discuss eligibility or any criteria out with this published list please contact the team at accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk
We can offer the following support:
We are in the process of reviewing this initiative and would welcome any comments you may have, please contact accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk.
We encourage students from a wide range of backgrounds to join us and for this reason we take all information into account when making offers.
We understand committing to University level study is financially daunting so we have collated some information to help you make informed decisions.
Make sure you and your advisors have all the information you need about university with on campus activities, career exploration days, shadowing and application support.
The Reach Programme hosted at the University of Aberdeen provides information, advice and guidance on applying for professional degrees.
We offer support for prospective Law and Medicine Students.
Your opportunity to join us on campus and learn about being a student at UoA
Don't let exam results hold you back.
Our online Access courses are a flexible way to get the grades you want.
Our series of interactive videos to help answer some of your most frequently asked questions about our university, city and campus.
Supporting school pupils from across the north of Scotland in their university research, subject choices, and career options.
Supporting regional collaboration between schools, colleges and universities to increase progression to higher education in both colleges and universities.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/reach:
We offer support in the following areas:
The project supports S4-6 pupils to make informed choices about university study.
We work with pupils in state schools across Aberdeen City, Aberdeenshire, Moray, Highlands, Orkney and Shetland.
Reach Aberdeen is part of a national widening access project funded by the Scottish Funding Council.
Watch our video below to find out more.
We offer a range of career insight days, application support sessions, mentoring opportunities, and individual guidance.
We can also provide general advice about applying and studying at University.
Events are normally held in Aberdeen and Inverness.
Students can also benefit from travel cost payments and accommodation to help them participate.
To take part in Reach you must attend a state school and meet one of the following eligibility criteria:
To take part in the programme, you must firstly apply to register with Reach .
If you are unsure if you are eligible please email us at reach@abdn.ac.uk .
The eligibility criteria is set at a national level with the Scottish Funding Council who fund the Reach Programme.
To register with Reach please complete the Reach application form .
Your application will then be assessed by the team to ensure you are eligible to take part.
If you are interested in another programme of study, such as Dentistry or Veterinary Medicine, we may still be able to support you through our partner universities.
Please contact us at reach@abdn.ac.uk for more information.
Reach Scotland is a national project which provides information, advice and guidance on applying to high demand professional subjects.
It is managed and delivered by five partner universities: University of Aberdeen, University of Dundee, University of Edinburgh, University of Glasgow and University of St Andrews.
We also have a relationship with SRUC's newly launched School of Veterinary Medicine.
The programme is funded by the Scottish Funding Council .
Anna Johnston & Hannah Ekekwe
Reach Aberdeen Team reach@abdn.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/reach/register-with-reach:
To apply to join the Reach Programme, please complete the form below.
We will use the information supplied in the form to check if you are eligible.
By joining Reach, you consent to your progress being tracked should you apply to university.
This information will be used for statistical purposes only and for project monitoring.
The University of Aberdeen is committed to protecting your personal information and being clear about the information we collect and how we use it in connection with the Reach programme.
More information can be found on our Privacy Notice.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/reach/opportunities-in-law:
Please complete the registration form to register with Reach.
Opportunities in Law
We work in partnership with the School of Law, local businesses and Law students to offer a range of opportunities and experiences:
We follow a blended model, meaning we run both online and in person events.
Upcoming events
Information on events will be circulated to schools and Reach registered pupils by email.
To find out more or to book contact us at reach@abdn.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/reach/opportunities-in-medicine:
Opportunities in Medicine
We work closely with the Medical Admissions team, current students and partners to offer a range of opportunities and experiences relating to Medicine:
We follow a blended model, meaning events take place online or in person.
Information on events an opportunities will be circulated by email to Reach registered pupils.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/reach/reach-pupil-resources:
If you are considering studying Law or Medicine, the Reach Team have compiled information on resources available to you.
All resources are free to use, some are open access and others will require you to register.
For students considering studying at the University of Aberdeen, we offer a number of scholarships and bursary opportunities.
To be considered you need to have applied for, and accepted your offer of study.
Applications usually close in May each year.
Visit our funding database for more information and to apply.
The LawScot Foundation runs a bursary scheme for LLB students.
Those interested can find out more and apply on the LawScot website .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/what-support-can-you-expect:
While we support all widening access and articulating students, we recognise that some students have additional support needs in relation to their individual circumstances.
The following is the support currently routinely offered to students from these groups but this list is updated as we seek to learn alongside our applicants and we would welcome all enquiries .
We recognise that in some cases people will feel uncomfortable disclosing this information but we would seek to reassure applicants that all enquiries are treated in confidence and may actually lead to positive outcomes in terms of admissions, finances and additional support if needed.
We recognise you need to be aware of the support available to you once you become a student.
It is recommended you contact the Student Advice and Support Team as soon as possible after accepting an offer to discuss any ongoing support needs.
The University of Aberdeen is fully committed to supporting students from SIMD20 Postcode areas, including providing free accommodation for your first year of study!
You can check if your home postcode is in a SIMD 20 (Quintile 1) area using our postcode checker tool
.If you have any difficulties in determining if your postcode is in a SIMD 20 (Quintile 1) area please contact the University's Access & Articulation Team .
At the University of Aberdeen we can offer you a range of support during the application process and during your studies, such as:
We recognise that committing to University study when on a tight budget may be worrying, therefore we want to make sure you have all the information you need to make an informed decision.
The link below gives advice on finance and funding and we also have a dedicated guide with more information.
Further Information
Check out our Finance and Funding guide for more tailored information .
As a corporate parent the University of Aberdeen is fully committed to supporting Care Experienced applicants and students.
Anyone who is care experienced or has been looked after by a local authority is especially welcome to apply to us.
"The term care-experienced refers to anyone who has been or is currently in care or from a looked-after background at any stage in their life, no matter how short, including adopted children who were previously looked-after.
This care may have been provided in a one of many different settings such as in residential care, foster care, kinship care, or through being looked-after at home with a supervision requirement" Scottish Funding Council
The University of Aberdeen is proud to have achieved the Buttle UK Quality Mark for Care Leavers in recognition of its commitment to care experienced young people.
The University provides a range of support mechanisms and services which can be tailored to meet the needs of individual care experienced students.
Support offered to Care Experienced students includes:
Pre-entry : Applicants with experience of care are eligible to support through Access Aberdeen and Reach .
We would be delighted to provide tailored support and guidance to care experienced students, for example advice on entry requirements and pathways, funding, and accommodation.
Admissions : Guaranteed offer of admission to care experienced applicants who meet the minimum entry requirements, or guaranteed interview for courses requiring an interview or audition.
Applicants with experience of care will be considered under the University's Contextualised Admissions and Access Thresholds Policy
Accommodation : The University offers year round accommodation to students who are Care Experienced.
Care experienced students can also apply for the University's Rental Guarantor Scheme should they wish to rent from a private landlord.
Financial assistance : Care experienced students are eligible to apply for a range of scholarship opportunities .
Care experienced undergraduate students can also apply for a funding package from SAAS which includes a non-income assessed Care Experienced Students Bursary .
Transition Support : Access to bespoke online transition courses developed to help boost confidence when starting university.
Advice and Support Office : The University's Support and Advice Office offers impartial and confidential advice and support on a range of issues, including finance, disability support and more.
Should you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to contact our dedicated points of contact Sally Middleton at accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk
If you are estranged from your family the University of Aberdeen can provide you with support before you apply, during the application process, and whilst you are studying with us.
Estranged students live without support from their family due to a breakdown in their relationship.
We can support students who have no contact with their family in a number of ways.
Should you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to contact our dedicated points of contact Anna Johnston at accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk
In this vlog current student, Samuel Munyeza, shares his experience of coming to university as an estranged student, discussing the obstacles he had to overcome and the support available to him.
The University of Aberdeen is fully committed to supporting Student Carers.
According to the Carers Trust :
"A carer is anyone who cares, unpaid, for a friend or family member who due to illness, disability, a mental health problem or an addiction cannot cope without their support".
Support through Access Aberdeen and Reach .
Consideration under the University's Contextualised Admissions and Access Thresholds Policy
Specific guidance on entrance requirements;
Visits to our campus ;
Advice on financial support , including help with filling out funding applications.
For more information check Finance and Funding page;
Access to the University's Rental Guarantor scheme should you wish to rent accommodation from a private landlord
A named contact for questions or worries you might have before and during your studies;
A range of student support services available throughout your studies.
Support via our Parents and Carers Network
The University of Aberdeen is a supporter of the Going Higher in Scotland Campaign undertaken by the Carers Trust.
We are currently developing a new Staff & Student Carers Policy which will outline our policies and support initiatives for applicants and students who are unpaid carers.
More information on support for unpaid carers can be found at the following websites:
The University of Aberdeen is fully committed to supporting Asylum Seekers and Refugees looking to study with us.
We can offer you a range of support both during the application process and during your studies.
We will welcome you with open arms and make your time with us enjoyable as you join the Aberdeen Family.
Find out about the support we offer....
The University of Aberdeen is fully committed to supporting students from the Gypsy, Roma, Travelling Communities.
Should you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to contact our dedicated point of contact Sally Middleton at accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk
The Disability Service provides advice, information and practical support to prospective and current students who have sensory and physical impairments, mental health conditions, long-term health conditions, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)/Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD), Dyslexia and other specific learning differences (SpLD) and students who have an Autism Spectrum Condition (ASC).
The Disability Team are available to assist undergraduate, postgraduate, full time, part time and online distance learners.
If you have previously contacted the Team and would like to discuss support for your studies, please make an appointment to speak with us.
If you haven't been in contact with the Team previously and feel that you would benefit from disability-related support whilst you study with us, please provide us with information about your support needs.
You can do this by completing our online contact form .
Please make sure you provide us with evidence of your disability, so we can put the right support in place as quickly as possible; we won't be able to put some support arrangements, such as extra time, in place until we receive your evidence.
The Disabled Student Pathway document provides an overview of how disabled students can access support at the University and details the steps and people involved in implementing support.
Please see our Privacy Notice which details how the University processes students' disability-related information.
We advise that you contact us as soon as possible after accepting an offer to ensure that your support can be implemented in a timely manner.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/simd-20-free-accommodation:
The University of Aberdeen is delighted to be able to offer a year's free accommodation new undergraduate students from a SIMD20 (Quintile 1) home postcode*.
This offer applies to students starting at the University in September 2025.
*Please note that eligibility criteria apply in order to receive this offer.
Free accommodation places will be available in University owned Halls of Residence.
Most of our accommodation is based within Hillhead Student Village , located near the Old Aberdeen campus.
SIMD stands for Scottish Index of Multiple Deprivation.
One of the metrics used by the University for contextualised admissions and widening access is if an applicant normally resides in an SIMD 20 (also commonly referred to as SIMD Quintile 1) postcode area.
Postcodes in these areas are considered by the Scottish Government to be among the most deprived in Scotland.
You can check if your home postcode is in a SIMD 20 (Quintile 1) postcode area using our SIMD postcode checker .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/simd-20-free-accommodation/terms-and-conditions:
The University of Aberdeen is committed to Widening Access and as part of this commitment we are offering a free place in one room in one of the University's single occupancy self-catered halls of residence for academic year 2025/26 to every student undertaking a full time undergraduate degree * whose home address is within a Scottish Index of Multiple Deprivation quintile 1 (SIMD 20) postcode area and who is classified as Home Fees (Scottish).
The postcode as declared on the date you submitted your application to UCAS is the postcode that is used to determine eligibility under quintile 1.
You can find further information about the Scottish Index of Multiple Deprivation here: https://news.gov.scot/news/scottish-index-of-multiple-deprivation-2020
This offer is available only at the University of Aberdeen.
This offer cannot be deferred to another academic year, or transferred to another institution or transferred to another type of accommodation at the University of Aberdeen.
There is no cash alternative.
Additional terms and conditions as follows:
i) One free academic year in University accommodation
*please note this offer does not include the Graduate Dental Degree and LLB Accelerated Degree.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college:
Over the past 500 years, the University has gained an international reputation for offering world leading teaching and learning opportunities.
Students past and present have joined the University through a variety of pathways and we invite you to join our Aberdeen family and become part of the next chapter of our history.
The University welcomes students whose pathway to University has been through study at a Scottish College, whether that be from an Access programme or an HNC or HND.
We have created these new web pages to give you all the information you need to plan your journey to University even before you start studying at a College.
We are constantly adding more content but if you do have questions or suggestions please contact the Access & Articulation Team , we will be happy to hear from you.
One thing you might be confused by is the terminology used to describe students coming from college to university.
We call this 'Articulation', but it may also be called 'advanced entry', or 'direct entry'.
It all means the same thing.
If you'd like to chat with one of our team you can message us on Unibuddy.
View our Unibuddy profiles
A National Certificate or NC is one level lower than a HNC or HND (Higher National Certificate/Diploma).
A student with a NC can progress onto a HNC/D and then apply to university but could not apply directly with the NC only.
You can see the modules for your degree under each course page on the online prospectus .
You can also look at the course catalogue for all modules offered, including those you could choose as an optional module.
The Student's Award Agency Scotland fund the tuition fees for the majority of 'Home' fees students.
However, it is important to check your individual circumstances with them if you have previously had funding for a HNC/HND in Scotland.
Check out our Finance and Funding guide for more tailored information.
(If you are studying outside of Scotland and are not a Home Fees student please refer to each degree page for tuition fee prices)
All our advanced entry degrees and entry requirements can be found in our Articulation Pathways Guide .
We work with Scottish College students.
However, you can apply to university if you have studied a HNC/HND in another country.
You can find out more here .
Below is a selection of short 30 second videos answering your frequently asked questions.
Further down the page you can also find a link to our YouTube playlist which currently covers 44 FAQ's!
College Access Programmes may be either a collection of Higher qualifications or a specific access programme for example the Scottish Wider Access Programme (SWAP)
An HNC qualification takes one year to complete and is taught at the same level as first year at University, an HND qualification takes 2 years to complete and the HND year is taught at the same level as second year at University.
BeWell Podcasts
The views expressed in these podcasts are those of the individuals concerned and do not represent the views of the University of Aberdeen.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/hnc-or-hnd-programmes:
The University welcomes applications from students who have previously studied HNC and HND qualifications at College and understand that you need as much information as possible to make an informed decision about your future.
These web pages are designed to illustrate the most common pathways into University and answer the most frequently asked questions you may have.
If you do have any additional questions though please contact our team at accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk and we will be happy to help!
The University encourages and supports HNC/HND students to articulate into our degrees which means you can typically gain advanced entry to year 2 of a degree with a suitable HNC and year 3 with a suitable HND (some courses offer different years of entry).
If you do not see a HNC/D or degree programme in our Pathways Brochure, this means the University does not have an articulation pathway.
However, it may still be possible to use your HNC/HND as an entry qualification to start in year 1 of a degree.
Please contact us by email to investigate further.
View our range of Articulation Pathways and find out more about Articulation.
View the University of Aberdeen Articulation Pathway Policy 2025/2026
New for Spring 2023: Working with students we have created a toolkit to help aid your transition into and through University study.
Within the toolkit is a feedback form, please help us develop this resource to make others transitions easier.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/hnc-or-hnd-programmes/hnc-hnd-accounting:
If you are studying a HNC or HND in Accounting you can apply to join the university in either second (HNC) or third (HND) year of our MA Accountancy Degree.
Please see the Articulation Pathways Guide for detailed entry requirements.
You can see the Degree information for our MA Accountancy (N400) here .
(MA stands for Master of Arts and is an undergraduate degree qualification)

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/hnc-or-hnd-programmes/hnc-hnd-animal-care:
If you are studying a HNC or HND in Animal Care you can apply to join the university in either second (HNC) or third (HND) year of the following degrees.
(BSc stands for Bachelor of Science and is an undergraduate degree qualification)

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/hnc-or-hnd-programmes/hnd-applied-biological-sciences:
If you are studying a HND in Applied Biological Sciences you can apply to join the university in third (HND) year of the following degrees.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/hnc-or-hnd-programmes/hnc-hnd-applied-sciences:
If you are studying a HNC or HND in Applied Sciences you can apply to join the university in either second (HNC) or third (HND) year of the following degrees.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/hnc-or-hnd-programmes/hnc-hnd-business:
If you are studying a HNC or HND in Business you can apply to join the university in either second (HNC) or third (HND) year of our MA Business Management Degree.
You can see the Degree information for our MA Business Management (N200) here .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/hnc-or-hnd-programmes/hnd-coaching--developing-sport:
If you are studying a HND in Coaching and Developing Sport you can apply to join the university in third year of our BSc Applied Sports Science Degree (C605).

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/hnc-or-hnd-programmes/hnc-computing:
If you are studying a HNC in Computing you can apply to join the university in second year of our MA or BSc Accountancy Degree.
You can see the Degree information for our MA Computing (G402) or BSc Computing Science Degrees (G400) here.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/hnc-or-hnd-programmes/hnc-hnd-engineering:
If you are studying a HNC or HND in Engineering you can apply to join the university in either second (HNC) or third (HND) year of the following degrees.
You can also read our student stories from students who have articulated into Engineering.
HNC/HND in Electrical Engineering
HNC/HND Engineering Systems
HNC/HND Mechanical Engineering
HNC/HND Petroleum Engineering
(BEng stands for Bachelor of Engineering and is an undergraduate degree)

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/hnc-or-hnd-programmes/hnc-hnd-chemical-process-technology:
If you are studying a HNC or HND in Chemical Process Technology you can apply to join the university in either second (HNC) or third (HND) year of the following degrees.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/hnc-or-hnd-programmes/hnd-fitness-health--exercise:
If you are studying a HND in Fitness, Health and Exercise you can apply to join the university in third year of the BSc Exercise and Health Science Degree (C603).
You can see the Degree information for our BSc Exercise and Health Science Degree (C603) here .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/hnc-or-hnd-programmes/hnd-legal-services:
If you are studying a HND in Legal Services you can apply to join the university in first year of any of our LLB degrees apart from accelerated degrees.
You can see the Degree information for our LLB Degrees here .
You can also read our student stories from students who have articulated into Law
(LLB stands for Bachelor of Laws and is an undergraduate degree)

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/hnc-or-hnd-programmes/hnd-music:
If you are studying a HND in Music you can apply to join the university in third year of the following BMus degrees.
(BMus stands for Bachelor of Music and is an undergraduate degree)

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/hnc-or-hnd-programmes/hnc-hnd-social-sciences:
If you are studying a HNC or HND in Social Sciences you can apply to join the university in either second (HNC) or third (HND) year of the following degrees.
You can also read our student stories from students who have articulated .
Single Honours Degrees
Joint Honours Degrees

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/scottish-wider-access-programme:
Watch videos here of other student's stories and their journey to university.
Join the SWAP East Facebook group and ask questions.
Find out about North East Scotland College SWAP courses

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/finance-and-funding:
We have created a Finance and Funding Guide, especially for you, to help explain all the funding available for College Students coming to the University of Aberdeen.
You can also visit our scholarships page to see more forms of funding available
If you have any questions or concerns, please feel free to contact us at accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk or contact SAAS .
Students Awards Agency Funding booklet (PDF)

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/associate-student-status-application:
Becoming an associate student at the University of Aberdeen gives you access to our beautiful campus and Library.
Only students studying at a Scottish College are eligible to apply.
If you are a current Aberdeen student and need access due to a break in your studies, please contact Infohub.
Your data will be held by Gecko, a third party organisation, but will only be used for the purpose of evaluating your eligibility as an associate student and will not be shared.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/college-partnerships:
The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from college students.
We have a number of articulation routes whereby the curriculum at college closely matches a degree programme.
Students who enter the university through an articulation pathway can come directly into year 2 or year 3 of university.
Partner Colleges
We have a number of partner colleges across Scotland.
The University of Aberdeen attends careers fairs and offer support and guidance to partner college students.
Our current partner colleges are:
Please note you do not need to attend a partner college in order to progress onto University of Aberdeen.
Disclaimer
The following specification prescribes the eligibility requirements for students to apply for entry to a degree programme offered by the University of Aberdeen.
Entry is not guaranteed but is governed by the University's Admissions Policy .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/student-stories:
We welcome students every year from College into a number of degree programmes.
The students below have come from HNC/D or SWAP courses directly into their chosen subject area.
Use the drop down to read about their experiences and tips for students looking to move from College to University.
Kathleen studied applied science at North East Scotland College where she learned about the 2:2 programme where students can use their HND to progress into second or third year of a degree programme.
After attending an open day and talking to staff, Kathleen was impressed by Aberdeen's teaching facilities and achievements in pharmacology.
The transition from college to University was easy for Kathleen, “Entering straight into third year seemed somewhat daunting but the teaching staff aided me in finding my feet, provided support when I needed it and the lecturers encouraged me to reach my full potential.”
Kathleen loved her undergraduate experience at Aberdeen so much she moved directly into postgraduate study, undertaking an MSc in Health Data Science thanks to a scholarship awarded in conjunction with the Data Lab.
Hannah began her University of Aberdeen journey at North East Scotland College.
After achieving an HND Applied Science, Hannah was able to enter directly to year three of the BSc Physiology.
Although Hannah was initially daunted at the prospect of transitioning into the third year of a degree programme, she quickly found her feet, “the student support services and staff at the Uni were great and after a short couple of weeks I was fully integrated and loving studying at the University of Aberdeen within one of the top medical schools in the country.”
After graduating Hannah brought her skills to help the Covid-19 effort by working as a Covid Testing Team Clinical Support Worker while balancing home schooling her son.
Hannah loved studying on the historic King's College campus and the using the excellent facilities and equipment in the medical labs so much that she plans to return next year to continue with postgraduate study.
“Attending the Uni has given me so many contacts within the industry, many who have helped me with applying for further study and my degree itself has helped me get the job I currently have.
I have also now acquired so many transferrable skills such as problem solving, lab experience, time management and a solid scientific understanding which I can now build upon for a successful career as a scientist.”
Marcus began his studies with an his HND in Sports Coaching and Development from North East Scotland College and was able to use this to enter our Exercise and Health Science degree in year 2.
Graduating in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic meant Marcus found few opportunities, but he was able to turn this around by starting his own Sports Massage business in Aberdeen, “My business probably would not have started if I hadn't been studying here to be honest.
I was introduced to a Sports Massage course via my student email near the end of 3rd year and that was when I invested in myself and got qualified.”
Marcus' job involves working with people from various professions, and meeting people from many different backgrounds was one of the things he liked most about studying at Aberdeen, along with the thriving nightlife and Mexican cuisine at the Hub!
But for Marcus, the main thing about studying at Aberdeen meant being part of one of the best universities in Scotland, “That's why I chose to study here and I'm glad that I got accepted.”
Course: BEng (Hons) Mechanical (with Oil & Gas Studies) Engineering College route: HND Mechanical Engineering at NESCoL
What do you wish you knew before studying at University?
I knew it was going to be difficult from the start.
But if I'd known more about MATLAB before starting, that would have made me feel much better.
Being good at MATLAB as an engineering student allows you to streamline such a vast amount of work.
Find out what software you'll be using, see if you can get a hold of a student license, download it and play around over the summer.
Or, Youtube tutorials and just try to absorb it if you can.
Did you always plan on coming to university or did you decide whilst at college?
I planned on coming to uni when I left school, but didn't get the all the Highers I needed in S5.
The choices were to go back for S6 or go to college and I chose college.
I soon found that I wasn't mature enough for college as a 17 year old, and college was different back then as everyone doing HNC/D was in their late mid to late 20s, and I was the baby.
It was intimidating, not like it is now.
So I left college after the first year and went and got an apprenticeship as a car mechanic.
The oil-price crash of 2014/15 was bad for the job market and I lost my job at an oilfield services company.
I took the opportunity that had presented itself to use the lull in the market and upskill.
What surprised me the most about the transition from college to University?
The reliance you have to put on finding information outside of some of the provided lecture notes, and how much I referred to YouTube for help with topics!
There is a wealth of information on YouTube on everything you'll study as an engineering student.
Make use of it all.
What was the most difficult part of coming from college to university?
Going from 2 days a week to having to pretty much be here 9-5, 5 days a week was a trip.
We had a big transition at home with this increase in days, my youngest had to start going to a childminder.
Luckily enough, the university has a Childcare Fund that you can apply to as a full-time student if you get the full student loan amount from SAAS.
I wouldn't have been able to go to uni without this help in paying those fees.
Was it more difficult to make friends coming in to university with advanced entry?
I came in to 3rd year with 2 guys I came up from college with, we all did HND in Mechanical at NESCol, and had all been pals since the second or third week of the first term in college.
I made the concerted effort to sit quite close to the front of each lecture, and it just happened that the guy that sat front row, centre seat was another direct entry student who had come up the year before from Edinburgh college.
I've made a lot of friends.
Being that I was so much older than the majority of people that I was studying with it did feel strange to be able to connect with so many people.
What is a typical day for you?
4 - 5 sessions of an hour duration each, majority of that is lectures and perhaps a tutorial session or computer practical session.
That's another change from college.
College classes were almost 2 hours long, you could sit down and do a good amount of work in that time.
Uni timeslots are brief, which is why it's important to have done tutorial questions before turning up to tutorial sessions, so that you can be the first to hold up your hand, ask a question and get the advice you need.
But there are days through the term when you've only got 1 class of maybe 2 hours length.
In 3rd year 2nd semester, mechanical students have a 3 hour computer practical session on a Friday afternoon where you will be doing your group design class.
What do you want to do once you graduate?
I was on track for getting a job straight out of 4th year, but covid-19 stopped that.
Was looking for graduate/entry-level engineer positions, preferably field-based as I've always wanted to do offshore/international work.
What was the biggest challenge being a parent whilst at university?
The biggest problem was definitely time, being able to put in as much studying as I thought and then being able to carry out my duties as a husband and father.
My eldest was 5 when I started at NESCol, youngest was 6 months old, my wife (fiancée at the time) was pregnant with him when I lost the job with the oilfield services company I was with.
This caused major problems obviously, but it was because of all this that her employer became much more accommodating so this helped us a lot.
NESCol was 2 days a week, when I was at college my wife was home and was able to handle both kids.
When I was not a college, she went to work and I was the parent.
Uni is obviously very different, five days a week.
We couldn't afford for my wife not to work, simply would not have been able to do these last two years without the university's Childcare Fund.
I can't stress enough how much of a godsend it was.
These problems arose really because I found it impossible to study at home.
If you're a single parent and have a very helpful retired/not working grandparent that can help with your little people you'll be in a better situation than me.
Do you have any advice for someone starting university that is a parent?
The catch-all statement would be to make sure you make the absolute best use of your time away from your kids.
This will allow you to minimise your time away from your kids.
If you have partner you need to make sure that your partner doesn't feel like a single parent, otherwise they'll end up resenting you.
This is what I meant about being at uni even when I didn't have a class on so that I could study.
This way, you can be a parent/partner when you are home and not have to have the books out and the laptop on.
But they also need to know the pressure you are under is real.
If you need to make use of childcare facilities, get in touch with Student Support ASAP.
There is a nursery on the campus but places fill up fast with the kids of lecturers, university staff and other students.
There's an 8am-5.30pm nursery not far from the campus (Abacus Nursery, King Street) as well if you don't get in to the uni's nursery.
The manager there was very accommodating of us, and she understands the ways that the university allocates the Fund.
Make sure you attend tutorials with questions to ask about problems you've had whilst attempting the tutorial questions.
The lecturers will be more accommodating of any problems you have with tasks down the line if they know you are putting in the effort.
Class schedules might change week on week but keep yours and your children's schedules as consistent as possible, I think this will help you keep on track.
Course: LLB Law College route: SWAP East
I always planned to come to university from college, that was my reason for going to college.
I wish I had known about referencing before coming to university.
We did learn Harvard referencing but different schools such as law use different referencing such as Oscola and that took a bit of getting use to and learning.
The most difficult part was as a mature student making friends as the majority of the students are young but I have been lucky and have been able to make friends with a few of my fellow students and I think you do have to put yourself out there and be open to making friends with younger students.
A typical day for me is getting all my children ready for school/childminder in morning before heading to university.
I usually have 3/4 lectures a day and sometimes tutorials every other week.
If I have large breaks between lectures I usually will go to the library to get my notes or any reading done or to study.
I'm usually in university all day 4 times a week.
I try to study and do any reading in the evening or if I have any essays I'll do my research for those.
What course do you find the most interesting?
The courses that I have found most interesting is criminal law and private law
I hope to become a practicing solicitor when I finished with my studies.
What is the biggest challenge being a parent and studying at University?
I think the biggest challenge being a parent is balancing your time between studying and time with your children, but having a strict routine helps so much.
Having a timetable with all your daily activities where you can slot in time for studying as well as family time.
Also having activity boxes such as arts and crafts that can keep little ones occupied while you study.
My little girl loves to copy me so we have a toy laptop and she loves to pretend she's doing her essays just like mummy and keeps her occupied while I work.
But routine and being organised is essential to balance everything.
What advice would you give a parent starting university?
My biggest advice would be to organise your childcare for the whole year.
This can save you money especially during holidays when you don't need childcare such as Christmas and Easter but do take school holidays into account that you will be in university.
It takes the stress out of worrying about childcare during holidays if you are prepared and organised at the very beginning.
Also don't worry if your children are ill most lectures are recorded so you can listen to them from home and if you have a tutorial email straight away and let them know and they will organise another tutorial you can attend at a different time but they will only do this if it's a genuine reason for being off.
Course: MA Psychology College route: HNC in Social Studies
What do I wish I knew before studying at University?
I wish I had known how important it is to take each day as it comes.
It was an overwhelming experience with all the welcome emails, events and class schedules and left me a bit confused.
It was best to focus on one thing each day - what societies to join is a Tuesday job, figuring out the timetable on a Thursday and so on.
Another thing I wish I knew beforehand was the importance of initiative when entering the university, there are a lot of opportunities available and it can be difficult to figure out what you're looking for or who to ask for help.
Initiative is a very important characteristic to have when looking at opportunities, so to optimise the experiences that are offered.
Why I did not stay in student accommodation?
This was a personal choice for me, I moved from Morayshire with my partner and we wanted to have a place of our own.
I think living situations are a personal choice, I prefer privacy and quiet where others may prefer to be around fellow students.
There isn't a right or wrong choice in where to live.
Throughout high school I had been determined to study psychology, unfortunately I didn't get the grades.
College was a steppingstone to get the correct grades and helped to support my decision making as to which university I wanted to go to.
After attending open days I was most drawn to Aberdeen for a number of reasons, the introduction talk, staff made so much effort to get to know possible students and answer any questions, the university was easy to navigate and the student volunteers talked about their experiences.
I couldn't imagine an alternate world where I went somewhere different.
What surprised me most about the transition from college to university?
My biggest surprise in the transition was the technology-based procedures, such as registering, choosing classes and making my own timetable.
This was all new to me and it took some time to figure out this system but when I did it was easier to navigate.
Online learning is a great tool that I hadn't used too much beforehand, lectures are recorded and uploaded so learning doesn't end after the class.
At college most things were handed out on paper so when getting used to the new way of doing everything online it was surprising at first.
The most difficult part of coming from college to university was the sheer size difference in everything, bigger classes, bigger campus, more students, more emails and more expectations over the classes.
What is the best thing about course/studying at university?
The best part of my course is discovering all of the areas of psychology that I didn't know about before The course helped me to gain a broader understanding of what areas of psychology interest me and which ones don't.
The days vary a lot.
In second year, I had quite a lot of classes and was in the university a lot more than in third year where there are less classes but more independent studying.
During times where an essay was due, I would be in the library a lot more to focus and be around all the resources necessary.
After finishing at university, I would spend evenings exercising and spending time with family.
Most other students would probably also have society or club activities too.
I have spent a lot of time figuring this question out for myself.
I do not have a specific interest or career path that I am fixated on.
Doing a postgraduate degree seems like a good option to become more specialised and try to narrow in on my area of interest.
Course: BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering College route: HND in Mechanical Engineering at NESCoL
I wish I knew that everyone is in the same boat.
Before I came I thought that everyone would be much smarter than me but by the time exams rolled around I found out the whole year found it just as hard as I had.
Did you stay on University campus?
I already had accommodation in place before starting university but I would definitely stayed in halls if I were in the position.
Hillhead is really a fantastic facility and there's lots of social events going on there.
I decided at college, I was only there for a HNC to wait out the oil crash but found I really liked studying.
What it is like to have a part time job whilst studying at university?
Tough, Especially in 3rd year.
The university policy recommends no more than 15 hours of work per week but I think even this is too much.
I'd say 12 hours is the maximum manageable working week while studying.
What surprised you the most about the transition from college to University?
With the summer school there weren't any surprises for me, I had a good idea of what to expect.
Jumping from 2 day weeks to a real full time 5 day/week course.
What is the best thing about your course/studying at University?
There isn't anything that stands out but the whole course is well designed, there isn't anything I don't think is useful.
I really like the campus as a place to be and the Taylor library for studying.
Was it more difficult to make friends coming into university with advanced entry?
Absolutely not, you'll see your class every day for the next 12 weeks so making friends is pretty easy.
I'll get up around 6 and head to ASV before class then I'll be on campus from 9 to around 530.
Then I'll head home for supper and try switch off for the night, I try to avoid working at night.
Is studying at university much more difficult than college?
Yes, without a doubt.
It's not that the content is much harder but rather the amount of content there is, for engineering at least I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say 1 course at University is about half a years' worth of college work.
What societies are you a part of?
Yes!
I joined the boxing club in the second semester of 4th year and I wish I started sooner.
I want to be a civil engineer, hopefully I can get to Canada to work.
Course: BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering College route: HND in Mechanical Engineering at Edinburgh College
Everyone says it but building a network is vital to doing well at university.
Make friends, help each other, speak to lecturers, build relationship and maintain them.
That's definitely the formula to be successful at university.
The summer school (Engineering Transitional Summer School) is a fantastic opportunity to meet people who are in a similar place in life to you so use it to get to know your peers and keep in contact with each other.
Before I started college I didn't think I would ever go to university then after finishing my HNC and being unable to find a job I continued to the HND, then upon completion, again, I struggled to find employment so university felt like the only option.
Thankfully, it was definitely a good choice to go to university.
The thing that surprised me most about the transition was the genuine interest many lecturers had in students.
If you make the effort to get to know lecturers you will find that they are very supportive.
I would definitely encourage you to get to know them early on and not to be afraid to ask for help when you are confused, this doesn't have to be during class, most lecturers operate office hours or are always available by email.
Personally I found the hardest transition was going from working straight through the day to my day being constantly split up with lectures, tutorials etc.
It was hard to keep up as I struggled to study in the little gaps.
For me personally the best thing about university has been working within ProtoTAU.
I joined the society early on, before they had built their first prototype hydrogen vehicle and it has given me some incredible opportunities such as attending a European Hydrogen conference in Brussels, getting in the university's workshop to do some hands on work and even doing BBC interviews.
When I started at Aberdeen University I attended a two week summer school organised by Sally.
This gave me the opportunity to make friends before starting and as we where all direct entry students we had a lot in common.
We have all kept in contact throughout university and have helped each other.
My day to day has changed massively throughout university.
In second year (when I first entered) I treated university as a 8am to 5pm job as I commuted in from about 30 miles away, this worked really well for me.
Third year is crazy busy and with lectures and tutorials being more spread out I spent a lot more time studying on weekends because I find it difficult to sit and study in an hour gap.
Then fourth year gets quieter, the workload is definitely more but feels like less than third year as it is mostly end of semester deadlines.
In my personal experience it's just very different.
The bar is definitely set higher but if you are well driven in college and do very well, then you are definitely capable or doing well at university.
At college usually you spend blocks of your day in class whereas in university you'll have a lecture for an hour then a two hour break then a tutorial then a lecture then a break...
etc.
If you're good at studying in those short gaps you will excel at university but, if like me, you struggle to study in these gaps its a big adjustment.
My advice would be to be honest with yourself, if you aren't good at studying for short bursts then use that time for social time or other constructive things and find other time in your day to study.
I am the Mechanical Manager for ProtoTAU, the university's Shell Eco-Marathon team.
There are many societies at the university, enough to keep anyone with any interests satisfied.
I would definitely encourage anyone to get involved in societies, whether they be sport, social or engineering.
It's a great place to make friends and get opportunities and having involvement in societies definitely helps you when job searching.
Also, the earlier you get involved the easier it is to maintain your involvement when university work starts eating up more time, it's also a great distraction from revision.
I have been very lucky to find employment at the Astronomy Technology Centre (ATC) in Edinburgh working for the Science Technology Facilities Council.
There I will be working as a Graduate Design Engineering designing and building instruments for telescopes.
If you had asked me before I went to the assessment centre for this job I would have told you I want to work in heavy industry or automotive, but after meeting the people working at the ATC I discovered that it really was my dream job.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/articulation-events:
We host a number of events throughout the year aimed at students currently at College and interested in studying at the University.
Should you have any questions, or wish to arrange a visit for your college group please contact accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk .
The Engineering Transitional Summer School takes place in September before the start of each academic term.
Details will be emailed to eligible offer holders.
Join our team at Offer Holder Day on Wednesday 26th April 2023 to find out more about coming from college.
Eligible students will be invited by email.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/articulation-events/engineering-transitional-summer-school:
If you have any questions you can email accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk
What is the Engineering Summer School?
We are committed to supporting students making the transition from college to university.
As part of this commitment, we offer a free two week summer school programme to help prepare college students for their university studies.
The Engineering Transitional Summer School is not compulsory, but is highly recommended.
By taking part you will:
If you do have any questions please contact accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/entry-from-college/further-information:
When joining the University there is a lot of information you'll be looking for.
On this page we have collated helpful links and information to make the transition easier.
Articulation Guide for Care Experienced Students
Aberdeen University Students' Union (AUSA).
Find out more about sports and societies.
Watch our campus tour videos to explore the campus and city.
The University has a number of libraries.
Find out more about our study facilities.
Explore our vast range of support available to our students
Confidential information, advice and support is available from our Disability Team
Get helpful tips and advice from your fellow students
Blogs, Vlogs, and Podcasts created by students
Explore the Student Award Agency Scotland's website for information on funding
View our range of accommodation to suit all needs and budgets

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/meet-the-access--articulation-team:
Access & Articulation Team
The Access & Articulation Team work with individuals, Primary and Secondary Schools, and Further Education Colleges to support learners at every stage of their journey.
Our work is centred on a number of initiatives aimed at different audiences: more information can be found on our web pages here .
The team are involved in a range of university events including the University Open Days, Offer Holder Days and Articulation Week.
We work closely with the Admissions Team to provide advice and guidance to widening access and articulating students and staff regarding applications, grades, subject choices and personal statements.
Our team consists of the following four members (please note profiles only appear when staff are available to answer your questions).
We can all be reached by emailing accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk or alternatively chat to us on Unibuddy below.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/access-higher-education:
We recognise not every student has the same opportunities to study a full range of courses while at school so we are building a suite of online access courses which are a flexible way to get the grades you need.
You can start anytime, spread the cost, and study at your own pace.
Limited fee waivers are available for those from a widening access background and who have an undergraduate offer to the University of Aberdeen conditional on passing one of the courses below.
For more information on fee waivers please contact accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk .
Courses currently available and eligible for fee wavers are:
Coming in 2024:
Coming in 2025:
Further courses are available at lower levels if needed.
For more information about online access courses please see the dedicated web page .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/campus-visits:
If you are looking to apply to study at the University of Aberdeen and meet our widening access criteria we would be delighted meet with you.
To book a campus tour please email visitus@abdn.ac.uk and request a date Monday-Friday which would suit you.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/universities-of-sanctuary:
Higher education institutions in the UK have a long tradition of providing sanctuary for academics and young people forced to flee conflict and persecution and find safety elsewhere.
To build further on support measures already in place, the University of Aberdeen has committed to become a ' University of Sanctuary ' and work in partnership with City of Sanctuary , The Council for At-Risk Academics (CARA) and other partner initiatives to inspire and support universities to develop a culture of welcome within their own institutions and their wider communities.
There are three guiding principles that underpin the commitment to becoming a University of Sanctuary network:
At present a small working group has been created made up from interested parties from across the university.
The working group is engaged with the Learn principle and current work involves:
For Further Information:
If any member of the university community wishes to engage with the team then they would be delighted to hear from you at sanctuary@abdn.ac.uk .
If a member of staff has been approached by a potential student who may fall under this remit, please contact/refer the student to the Access & Articulation Team at accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk in the first instance and the team will support and refer onwards as needed.
If you are thinking of joining us as a student, for details on admission and available support see the Asylum Seekers & Refugees page.
If you have started your studies at a University in another country and are looking for transfer opportunities, please contact accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk
If you are a refugee or asylum seeker and are looking for more information on professional pathways, please contact sanctuary@abdn.ac.uk
Resources to learn more about University of Sanctuary and the support of students falling under its auspices are available via the University of Sanctuary .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/widening-access/access-aberdeen:
The University of Aberdeen's Access Aberdeen programme aims to ensure you have all the information, guidance and support you need to make informed choices about university.
We offer a range of events and workshops throughout the year virtually and on campus.
We can support with everything from writing your personal statement, to choosing subjects and alternative pathways.
Access Aberdeen is committed to supporting students from widening access backgrounds who may be under-represented in higher education.
Information about events and opportunities will be emailed to you.
To join the programme, you must meet one of the following criteria:
Teachers, advisors, parents, and carers can also register to join to receive email updates.
Should you have any questions please contact accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk .
Register for Access Aberdeen

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/incoming-students:
The University of Aberdeen takes pleasure in welcoming students from all around the world.
Below you can browse the available opportunities for direct enrol, exchange and shorter term study abroad options.
You can also find more information about Traineeship opportunities linked in our sidebar.
Information for exchange students from European universities including Swiss-European mobility programmes.
Information for exchange and study abroad students from outside our European network of partner universities.
Information for students who are interested in enrolling in a Summer School programme at University of Aberdeen.
Information for students who are interested in undertaking Traineeship or short term research opportunities at University of Aberdeen.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/incoming-students/european-exchange:
Founded in 1495, the University of Aberdeen is the fifth oldest university in the English-speaking world.
Situated in the stunning historic neighbourhood of Old Aberdeen, the University is today known as a centre of excellence in the Humanities, Law, Energy, Health Sciences and Environmental Studies.
Undergraduate students enrolled at a recognised international college or university can spend a semester or year at the University of Aberdeen.
With 60 undergraduate subject areas on offer across the University, you will find a great choice of classes to take at Aberdeen and will be able to tailor your selection to suit your individual requirements.
The University of Aberdeen operates via terms, which means you can study at Aberdeen for the fall term (September-December), spring term (January-May) or a full academic year.
However you choose to study, our dedicated Go Abroad team will assist you through the entire process.
View our European Exchange Information Sheet 2024-2025 with all our most pertinent facts and figures.
View our European Exchange Information Sheet 2025-2026 with all our most pertinent facts and figures.
To study at Aberdeen as a European exchange student, the University requires:
If you are a student from a partner university, you will be provided a link to our online application form after you have been nominated by your home university.
If your home university does not have an agreement with the University of Aberdeen, please consult our International Exchange and Study Abroad page for more information.
The deadlines for receipt of completed applications are as follows:
Before submitting an application, students are encouraged to consult our Course Selection Guide for assistance on how to submit their provisional course selection.
As a European exchange student you must select 60 Aberdeen credits per semester, with at least 50% of these from the School of the Inter-Institutional Agreement between your home institution and University of Aberdeen (see list below).
You may choose the remainder from our wide range of courses, subject to previous experience, availability and timetabling.
Our current courses can be found on our course catalogue .
Most semester courses are 15 credits, which equates to 7.5 ECTS.
Please note that the University of Aberdeen uses a credit system which is double the ECTS system e.g.
5 Aberdeen credit points = 2.5 ECTS.
Study Abroad and exchange students are examined alongside our full time degree-seeking students.
Most classes are examined through a combination of continuous assessment, mid-term assignments and an end of semester examination.
While we accept students at both undergraduate and postgraduate level, study abroad and exchange students are not permitted to take the following courses:
Additionally, students only studying in Semester 1 cannot take Level 4 courses from the School of Medical Sciences, unless given prior approval, as these are usually assessed in May.
Please note, some course options, particularly at honours (level 3 and 4) have limited availability.
The following courses do not represent an exhaustive list of capped courses, but are intended to highlight disciplines that are often close to capacity.
Students from universities which have an exchange agreement with the University of Aberdeen will not be charged tuition fees.
Otherwise, students should consult our International Exchange & Study Abroad page for the latest tuition fee rates.
UK Visas and Immigration indicate that students spending the academic year should have a minimum of £1136 for each month that they will spend in the United Kingdom.
Although no official advice is given for students only spending one term, we would also suggest that they budget for a minimum of £1136 per month for living expenses.
A further breakdown of estimated costs can be found below (for illustrative purposes only):
Costs
Monthly £
Rent*
412-712
Mobile
40
Food
300
Travel Expenses
60
Personal
220
Books / Computer Equipment / Printing**
50
1082-1382
* Based on available University of Aberdeen accommodation
** Subject to requirements of discipline
All incoming exchange and study abroad students are guaranteed a place in student accommodation.
Students will be emailed information on how to apply once they are accepted in to the programme.
Most exchange and study abroad students are housed in our Hillhead Student Village .
Our accommodation is self-catered and normally consists of single study bedrooms, with common areas which are shared with roommates.
You can find more information on University of Aberdeen housing here
The University of Aberdeen's Academic Calendar, including term dates and exclusions, can be found here .
Go Abroad Team
University of Aberdeen University Office (Room 16) Regent Walk Aberdeen, AB24 3FX T: +44 (0)1224 272041 or +44 (0)1224 272625 E: goabroad.incoming@abdn.ac.uk
Not studying at one of our European partners?
Check here for information on international exchange and study abroad.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/incoming-students/study-abroad:
View our International Exchange and Study Abroad Information Sheet 2024-2025 with all our most pertinent facts and figures.
View our International Exchange and Study Abroad Information Sheet 2025-2026 with all our most pertinent facts and figures.
To study at Aberdeen as a visiting study abroad or exchange student, the University requires:
If your home university does not have an agreement with the University of Aberdeen, please email goabroad.incoming@abdn.ac.uk and we will provide you with the necessary details.
As a large research-intensive university, with 400 degree programmes across 60 subject areas, students can easily find courses that match their academic interests and fulfil requirements of their home university.
To facilitate this, most of our undergraduate courses are available to incoming study abroad and exchange students.
Most semester courses are 15 credits, which equates to 3-4 US credit hours, depending on your home university.
The normal course load is 60 credits per semester, or approximately 15 US credit hours.
Additionally, students only studying in term 1 cannot take Level 4 courses from the School of Medical Sciences, unless given prior approval, as these are usually assessed in May.
Semester: £10,400 Full year: £20,800
Fee paying study abroad students may be eligible for the Aberdeen Global Scholarship which is worth £3000 a term!
Students from Drexel University who wish to spend the academic year on exchange at the University of Aberdeen are eligible for the McNeil Scholarship.
Please contact Drexel's Education Abroad office for further details.
BUTEX (British Transatlantic Exchange Association) offers scholarships worth £500 to undergraduate students at US or Canadian institutions studying short term programmes in the UK.
Applications for the forthcoming academic year open in April/May.
Please refer to the BUTEX website for further details or email butex_enquiries@msn.com
The Gilman International Scholarship Program offers scholarships for U.S.
students studying abroad.
This program is aimed at students of limited financial means and includes awards of up to $5,000.
Are you looking to stand out from the crowd?
Start your college journey with an unforgettable experience by spending your freshman year at the University of Aberdeen!
Located in a historic yet dynamic city in northern Scotland, Aberdeen offers world-class academics in a close-knit, internationally diverse community.
With its stunning medieval campus, proximity to breath-taking coastlines, and easy access to the rest of Europe, Aberdeen is the perfect blend of tradition and adventure.
By studying here, you’ll gain a global perspective, develop independence, and stand out in future job markets—all while creating memories that will last a lifetime.
Don’t settle for ordinary—be bold, discover the extraordinary, and make Aberdeen your first step into the world!
A freshman semester or year abroad exposes you to new cultures, ideas, and ways of thinking, helping you develop a global perspective that will set you apart in an increasingly interconnected world.
You’ll have the chance to explore iconic destinations, learn alongside international peers, and immerse yourself in a different way of life—all while earning credits toward your degree.
As a freshman abroad, you would have a wide variety of courses open to you to experience.
It can be a flexible option for testing the water on a degree abroad; if you enjoy a freshman semester or year abroad there are pathways to transfer fully.
If you’re happy with your short stay, an official academic transcript from an accredited institution makes it easy to transfer credits back to your home college and continue.
A freshman year abroad fosters independence, adaptability, and confidence, giving you skills which can positively influence the decisions you may make about the remainder of your college career!
Starting your college experience abroad can put you on the map!
* Check if you are eligible for our Aberdeen Global Scholarship , which is worth £3000 per semester!
Studying at one of our European partner institutions?
Check here for more information.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/incoming-students/summer-schools:
Join our mailing list
Providing the latest information on availability and applications
We invite applicants to consider available summer school opportunities at the University of Aberdeen.
Explore your preferred area of study and broaden your experience at a world leading institution in the beautiful North-East of Scotland.
Applications closed
Interested in traineeships or short term research options?
Click here for more info.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/incoming-students/summer-schools/archaeology-field-excavation-summer-school:
Home to a major hilltop settlement which spans the Roman Iron Age and early medieval periods.
Recent excavations have revealed the importance of the site, with evidence of connections across Europe and beyond.
Come be a part of the next excavation team at Cairnmore!
Visit Rhynie where the enigmatic art of the Picts decorates the Craw Stane, which originally stood at the entrance to a Pictish Royal enclosure overlooked by the hillfort of Tap O’Noth.
Explore the Scottish coast, where the iconic Dunnottar Castle just south of Aberdeen was recorded as being besieged in AD694.
Join us at the University of Aberdeen’s award-winning North Picts team for three weeks of field training and a dedicated programme of guided tours of spectacular Pictish sites and monuments.
Over the course of the programme, you’ll explore the Pictish sites of Northeast Scotland learning about the development of the Picts as a noted enemy of Rome and their place in the creation of the first documented kingdoms of Northeast Scotland.
We’ll teach you the principles of field survey and excavation and you’ll take part in the excavation of a hugely important site for understanding the formation of the Picts: East Lomond hillfort in Fife.
During the dig you’ll be based with the Northern Picts team and you’ll learn the key skills of excavation and recording using both traditional archaeological methods and cutting-edge digital techniques.
After the dig, you ‘ll join us in our labs to learn how to process samples for dating, first aid for finds and how to process some of the survey data collected using computer-based applications.
You’ll be given all the training required, through a mixture of classroom workshops and introductory lectures with practical on-the-job experience.
While no prior experience is necessary we also welcome those with previous experience who are looking to broaden their skill set.
Please note, this programme has limited spaces available.
Applications Closed - Will reopen for Summer 2026 October this year
Thursday 3rd July to Wednesday 23rd July
Academic Entry Requirements
As the course is open to applicants with no prior experience of archaeological excavation, there are no academic entry requirements for this programme.
English Language Entry Requirements:
Applicants will need to demonstrate that they meet the necessary English language requirements.
We will accept a Statement of Language Level Form signed by their home institution, confirming that the student’s level of English is B2 or above on the Common European Framework of Reference for languages in line with requirements for the Standard Visitor Visa.
Alternatively, we also accept any formal certification from the approved range of official qualifications listed at Undergraduate Degrees - English Requirements | Study Here | The University of Aberdeen (abdn.ac.uk) .
These must have been issued within two years prior to planned commencement at Aberdeen.
£4,000
Price Includes:
Not included:
15 University of Aberdeen academic credits.
This is roughly equivalent to 7.5 ECTS or 3-4 US Semester credits.
Receiving applications until February 28th 2025
The course is intended for those with no prior experience of archaeological excavation, however, we gladly welcome those who have previous experience and are looking to broaden their skill set.
Training in the skills needed to plan, undertake and report on an archaeological excavation will be provided, helping you to build the foundations for your future education and career in archaeology, but we will try to tailor experiences to the individual participant wherever possible.
Upon completing the course, you will have:
Find out more about what your summer school programme might look like by viewing our Archaeology Field Excavation Summer School Timetable - 2025 *
If you have any questions about the details included here, don't hesitate to contact us at goabroad.incoming@abdn.ac.uk .
* For illustrative purposes only, subject to change.
This summer school feeds into the on-going research of the school coordinators, Professor Gordon Noble and Ellie Graham of the Department of Archaeology at the University of Aberdeen on early medieval archaeology, digital skills in survey and excavation, and the emergence of the Picts.
The long-term Northern Picts Project is casting new light on the so-called ‘Dark Ages’ of Northern Britain and Scotland.
A central research question focuses on the interactions between Roman and Iron Age communities, the ways in which this led to the development of the first documented kingdoms in Northeast Scotland, and how the powerful Pictish polity which ruled over much of northern Scotland in the first millennium AD changed through time.
The origins of the mysterious Pictish culture and their precursors are poorly understood, despite playing a pivotal role in the emergence of the medieval kingdom of Scotland, but their captivating carved stones are some of the most eye-catching and enigmatic monuments of early medieval Europe.
In 2025 the Archaeology Field Excavation Summer School will take part in excavations at East Lomond, part of a long-term project on a major hilltop settlement which spans the Roman Iron Age and early medieval periods, covering the time period in which the Picts emerged in Late Roman sources and went on to become the largest kingdom of early medieval Scotland.
East Lomond enjoys commanding views overlooking the entirety of Fife, over the Tay Estuary to the north, and to the south to Edinburgh over the Firth of Forth – which represented the southern boundary of the Pictish kingdom.
This strategic location made it an ideal location for a regional stronghold of the Pictish ruling elite.
Recent excavations have provided convincing scientific dating evidence, and revealed the importance of the site, with rich occupation material.
Finds from the 2024 work highlighted its role on the international stage, with evidence of connections across Europe and beyond including Late Roman amphora suggesting the Pictish elite here were drinking Mediterranean wine.
Dense and intensive settlement activity is shown by multiple structures and hearths with evidence of crafting and metalworking, key activities at Late Roman Iron Age and early medieval high-status sites.
This summer school is a field-based programme where you will be undertaking an archaeological excavation and survey activities outdoors.
As such, this will involve long spells outside, undertaking physically demanding activity.
This includes shovelling and moving buckets of soil, with a lot of time spent bending over on your knees while trowelling.
That said, we will try to accommodate those who are physically less able – if you have any concerns do get in touch.
You will be working in the picturesque Scottish outdoors.
While known for its beauty, it is also known for its changeable weather, and you should be ready to work in a variety of different weather conditions!
You will need to bring clothes suitable for both hot and cold conditions, waterproof jacket and trousers, and a good pair of work boots.
We will provide all of the necessary equipment you will need to undertake your excavation, including a trowel.
Finally, we ask that you follow all of the health and safety instructions we give you before and during the excavation, for your own personal wellbeing and the safety of those around you.
If you have any further questions about the nature of the work being undertaken on this summer school, please contact us at goabroad.incoming@abdn.ac.uk.
The field school includes a range of field trips and visits, particularly focused on exploring other Pictish sites around northeast and central Scotland, including the northern hillfort of Tap O’Noth and the early royal centre of Rhynie, Pictish stones near Inverurie and elsewhere in Northeast Scotland, the Pictish early Christian site (and modern scenic town) of St Andrews, and the mysterious Wemyss Caves on the Fife coast, home to the largest collection of Pictish carvings cut into the living rockface.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/incoming-students/summer-schools/field-and-lab-skills-in-the-biosciences:
Further your study in biological sciences using state of the art science facilities.
Participate in several field trips across a range of habitats and ecosystems.
Study at an ancient university over 525 years old.
Immerse yourself in the history and culture of the North-East of Scotland.
Join us for the opportunity to further your studies in Biological Sciences, and develop your field and laboratory skills.
The programme will introduce students to a variety of teaching, learning and assessment types, via a mixture of classroom and laboratory teaching, as well as several field trips exploring life sciences within the local area.
Students will also benefit from the chance to immerse themselves in the life and culture of the north east of Scotland, participate in a number of social/cultural activities organised alongside the programme, and explore an area of the world they might never have though to visit.
Applications Closed - Will reopen for Summer 2026 applications later this fall
Sunday 26th July to Saturday 15th August
Academic Entry Requirements:
The programme is intended for students on an undergraduate biological or environmental science programme, who have completed year 2 (pre-Honours)
Applicants will need to demonstrate that they meet the necessary English language requirements.
£3000
Applicants who successfully complete the programme will be awarded 10 University of Aberdeen academic credits.
Receiving applications up until March 31st 2026
The aim of this course is to develop field and laboratory skills relevant to the life sciences, as well as introduce students to a variety of teaching, learning and assessment types.
The schedule will include a mixture of classroom, field and laboratory activities but will also include visits to cultural sites to introduce students to areas of interest in NE Scotland.
Field exercises will expose students to techniques for identifying and characterising organisms, and for sampling aspects of the environment.
Field trips likely to include insect sampling, Caledonian pine forest ecology and management, agricultural soils, methods of remote and indirect sampling for squirrels, investigating plant growth and development and rocky shore ecology.
Lab practicals will develop students’ skills and relate observations and hands-on experience to concepts introduced in lectures, with post-lab debrief sessions ensuring students consolidate their learning.
Laboratory sessions likely to include the use of ELISA methods to detect parasite antigens, glucose homeostasis to detect metabolic disease, plant-water relations, measuring and interpreting carbon respiration in agricultural soils, and river water analysis to examine the impact and consequences of nitrate in the environment.
Formative exercises will introduce students to a range of novel assessment types and provide a scaffold for the final summative assessment.
The types of assessments that will be introduced will include: reflective writing; critiques of published papers; oral presentations; and, graphical abstracts.
Through the production of a graphical abstract and written report students will demonstrate their understanding of one of the experiments conducted during the course.
Find out more about what your summer school programme might look like by viewing our Field and Lab Skills in the Biosciences Timetable - 2026 .*
If you have any questions about the details included here, don't hesitate to contact us at goabroad.incoming@abdn.ac.uk.
* For illustrative purposes only, subject to change.
This summer school includes a mix of field-based and lab-based practical work.
On the field trips we will visit a variety of habitats and ecosystems in north-eastern Scotland.
You will need to bring clothes suitable for the changeable weather conditions we have, for example, warm clothes, a rainproof jacket and a good pair of walking shoes or boots.
If we are working in very wet conditions, we can loan you welly boots.
If you have limitations in regards to mobility, please let us know at goabroad.incoming@abdn.ac.uk so that we can make suitable arrangements.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/incoming-students/summer-schools/philosophy-summer-school:
Explore the analytic tradition of Philosophy in one of the UKs best Philosophy departments.
Join us for the opportunity to study Philosophy at one of Scotland's ancient universities!
Our Philosophy Summer School will focus on contemporary research topics in Epistemology, Ethics and Political Philosophy.
Drawing on internationally recognised expertise in Social Epistemology, History of Philosophy, Applied Ethics and Political Philosophy, and a strong record of teaching excellence, the programme will focus on introducing students to contemporary research topics in Analytic Philosophy.
Topics may include Knowledge and the Internet, Testimonial Injustice, comparative Epistemology across Analytic and Chinese Philosophy, ethical issues concerning the use of AI, ethics and health care, and philosophical issues relating to Global Justice and International Law.
The programme will also feature in-class language support and a variety of co-curricular activities where students will get a chance to sample different aspects of Scottish culture and history.
Sunday 27 July to Saturday 9 August
Over two weeks the programme will cover the following topics:
Please note, this programme is limited to partner universities in China, and is not currently open to the general public.
The programme is intended for students on an undergraduate philosophy programme, who have completed year 2 (pre-Honours).
Applicants will need to demonstrate that they meet the necessary English language requirements of an average IELTS 5.5 , or equivalent.
Students can submit a Philosophy Summer School Statement of Language Level Form signed by their home institution, to confirm they meet this criterion.
£2,000
This course is uncredited.
Participants will receive a completion certificate at the end of the programme.
Receiving applications until March 28th 2025
Find out more about what your summer school programme might look like by viewing our Philosophy Summer School Timetable 2025 .*

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/incoming-students/erasmus-traineeships:
As a result of the UK's departure from the EU and the Erasmus+ Scheme, we can no longer accept Erasmus+ Traineeships for anything other than short term research opportunities, and even then only where we have a bilateral agreement in place between the University of Aberdeen and your institution.
As these opportunities are not directly administered by the Go Abroad team, students who meet this criteria will first need to contact the relevant department to identify whether an appropriate project and supervising academic is available.
A full list of contact information for our departments and research institutes can be found here .
If an opportunity is available, students should then download and complete a Visiting Student application , which will need to be forwarded to your supervisor for approval and processing.
Visiting students are not guaranteed university-managed accommodation, but if there are still available rooms you are welcome to enquire by contacting our Accommodation Office .
If you require any further information then please don't hesitate to contact us at goabroad.incoming@abdn.ac.uk .
For visiting undergraduate medical students, the University of Aberdeen offers a Clinical Electives programme for up to 8 weeks over the summer.
Places are limited and offered on a first-come first served basis.
You can find more information here .
If you are in contact with a prospective trainee, please consult these guidance documents which you may find helpful.
It is imperative that you make immigration@abdn.ac.uk aware of all incoming trainees at the earliest stages to ensure compliance requirements are met.
Erasmus Traineeships Guidance - Guidelines for Academic Departments
Erasmus Traineeships Guidance - Insurance Questions
Looking for a shorter summer experience?
Why not consider one of our summer schools!

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/outgoing-students:
We strongly encourage you to sign up to our mailing list to be kept up-to-date with our opportunities, events and deadlines!
Looking for something to do over the winter or summer break?
Check out our list of short-term schools around the world, allowing you to gain an international experience and enrich your CV.
There are so many reasons...
Hear directly from students why they recommend going abroad as part of their degree.
A year, a semester, a month, a week - find the best option for you.
Find out more about our partner universities across Europe, North America, Asia, Australia and Africa.
Our online application is simple and speedy.
Just be sure to check the deadlines!
Get the facts and about funding, finances and fees.
There are lots of different ways to connect with us or get in touch.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/outgoing-students/why-go-abroad:
&amp;lt;br/&amp;gt;
News and application reminders direct to your inbox!
Chat with our team of Go Abroad Ambassadors - Aberdeen students that have studied or worked abroad, and are keen to share their experiences with you!
So what makes these international experiences so important and life-changing?
They provide an opportunity to
Time abroad is an opportunity to
"Being in an environment where I could interact with native speakers and use the language every day helped me not only refine my skills but also gain confidence to use it for more complex topics as well." Flavio Spadavecchia, International Relations & Linguistics, Akita University
"I had a considerable number of oral presentations compared to Aberdeen University which meant no essays!
It has incredibly enhanced my communication skills." Ilma Mozuraityte, Law & European Legal Studies, Vienna University of Economics & Business
"I took a practical class in ceramics which really enhanced my creativity; I learnt how to make something beautiful out of nothing, a skill I employ whenever I have to write essays now!"
Andrea Hernandez, English with Creative Writing, Pitzer College

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/outgoing-students/what-are-my-options:
*All funding is subject to availability

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/outgoing-students/where-can-i-go:
Find out more about the available destinations by browsing each of our options below.
If you are unsure which option is best for you, we have created an at-a-glance table to help you decide.
Study exchange destinations outside of Europe
European study exchange destinations (except Switzerland)
Study exchange destinations in Switzerland
Short-term study opportunities over the summer and winter breaks for students of all programmes and levels
Opportunities to gain practical experience in a professional environment

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/outgoing-students/where-can-i-go/international-exchange:
As a student of the University of Aberdeen there are a number of opportunities to spend a year or semester studying of your undergraduate degree at our International Exchange partners in Australia, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Mexico, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea or the USA!
These opportunities are once in a lifetime and, with the opportunity to grow academically and personally, can be a very important part of your university experience.
In order to apply, students should
Please browse our list of international partnerships below, ordered alphabetically by country.
Most of these are open to students from all subject disciplines (with the exception of Medicine and Dentistry) provided that you can find suitable courses taught in English that meet the requirements of your degree programme.
Where these are restricted to one or two subjects, or we know these destinations to be unsuitable for certain degree programmes, we have noted this, though this list is not exhaustive.
Curtin University
University of Tasmania
University of Western Australia
Bishop's University
Queen's University
University of British Columbia
University of Calgary
University of the Fraser Valley
University of Guelph
University of Victoria
Beijing Normal University
Wuhan University
Chinese University of Hong Kong
City University of Hong Kong
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
Lingnan University
University of Hong Kong
Akita International University
Yamanashi Gakuin University
ITESO - Universidad Jesuita de Guadalajara *
Universidad La Salle *
*Very limited number of courses offered in English.
National University of Singapore *
*Suitable for degrees in Engineering only.
Stellenbosch University *
*Suitable for degrees in Law only.
Yonsei University *
SolBridge International School of Business
California Lutheran University
Colorado School of Mines
University of Florida
University of Kansas
University of Maine
University of Southern Maine
University of New Mexico
Nazareth University
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
University of North Carolina at Wilmington
University of Oklahoma
University of Oregon
Drexel University
Washington & Jefferson College
Salve Regina University
Clemson University
Rhodes College
University of Utah
University of Vermont
University of Wisconsin - Eau Claire
University of Wisconsin - La Crosse

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/outgoing-students/where-can-i-go/european-exchange:
With the University of Aberdeen exchange programme, you can study in another European country as part of your degree.
The credits gained from study abroad count towards your Aberdeen degree programme - so it won't add an extra year to your studies!
Participants also receive a grant to help with any extra costs incurred.
In order to apply, students should:
Find out more about applying for European exchange on our How to Apply page.
The University of Aberdeen has partnerships with around 120 universities across Europe.
As most European partnerships are subject-specific, opportunities available will depend on your degree programme.
Students are only eligible to apply under subjects that are named in the title of their degree programme.
Joint degree students can apply under either subject, provided that both subjects are taught at the partner in English.
Where agreements are at School level, eg Biological Sciences, students from any subject within the school can apply, provided that relevant courses in English can be found.
International Business students should look at agreements according to their degree track, eg Business Management.
Please browse our list of European partnerships below, ordered alphabetically by subject.
Within each subject, they are ordered alphabetically by country.
Most of these destinations are open to students from all subject disciplines (with the exception of Medicine and Dentistry), on the provision that you can find suitable courses taught in English that meet the requirements of your degree programme.
University Grenoble Alpes
Constructor University Bremen
Kiel University *
Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz *
Copenhagen Business School
Hanken School of Economics
Audencia Business School
NEOMA Business School
Umeå University
Tallinn University
University of Lapland
University of Leipzig
University of Tromso
University of Amsterdam
University of Tromso *
* Very limited number of courses offered in English.
University of Bologna
Aarhus University
University College Cork
University of Bergen
University of Turku
Utrecht University
Please note, students can do their final year MChem Project at non-partner institutions.
For further details, please contact the Go Abroad Tutor for Chemistry (MChem).
University of Freiburg
University of Padova
Stockholm University
Humboldt University of Berlin *
University of Tübingen *
Theological University Kampen *
University of Oviedo
University of Stavanger
Mondragon University
Uppsala University
TU Dresden
University of Genova
Chalmers University of Technology
KTH - Royal Institute of Technology
Please note that the above options are only suitable for final year projects.
For students wishing to spend time abroad in Level 2, there are no suitable European options - please consider International Exchange instead.
University of Vienna
University of Liège
There are no subject-specific agreements for Film & Visual Culture.
For European Exchange options, students should check the suitability of university-wide agreements.
Alternatively, students should consider Swiss Exchange or International Exchange options.
Université Libre de Bruxelles
Bordeaux Montaigne University
Rennes 2 University
UCO Angers
University of Haute-Alsace
University of Reunion Island
University Savoie Mont Blanc
There are no subject-specific agreements for Geography.
University of Catania *
University of Naples Federico II
*Suitable for PG only
If you are interested in project opportunities abroad please contact the Go Abroad Tutor for Geology .
University of Graz
Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz
Kiel University
KU Eichstätt-Ingolstadt
Trier University
University of Bonn
University of Cologne
University of Regensburg
University of Rostock
* See also University of Zurich under Swiss Exchange .
Ghent University
University of Groningen
Pedagogical University of Krakow
The History Department is very keen to encourage and support students thinking about going abroad either for a year or a semester.
Normally, students go abroad the whole of Year 2 or one semester in Year 3.
History does not require any specific course matching.
So, you are free to take any history courses you wish.
On the Exchange Study Plan, you are asked to give an idea of what courses you might take.
That will give the Go Abroad Tutor in History an idea of what you're thinking to take.
But, the key thing is you're not trying to match any courses you might have taken here at your university abroad.
The History Department want you to take advantage of all the unique offerings abroad not replicate something here, and they will do their best to help you if you want to go abroad.
WU Vienna University of Economics and Business
KU Leuven
University of Strasbourg *
Humboldt University of Berlin **
University of Freiburg **
University of Regensburg **
* Courses taught in French only.
** Courses taught in German only.
HFT Stuttgart *
RWTH Aachen University *
University of Regensburg *
Autonomous University of Barcelona *
University of Camerino
Metropolia University of Applied Sciences
University of Warsaw
Sciences Po Lille
Sciences Po Lyon
Sciences Po Rennes
University of Deusto
Osnabrück University
Leiden University
Complutense University of Madrid
University of Alicante
University of the Basque Country
University of Granada
University of Santiago de Compostela
See also options in Mexico under International Exchange .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/outgoing-students/where-can-i-go/swiss-exchange:
►Funding available
We have active partnerships in Switzerland, with funding for students being paid by the Swiss Government under the Swiss European Mobility Programme (SEMP).
Our Swiss agreements are open to students from all subject disciplines (with the exception of Medicine and Dentistry), provided that you can find suitable courses taught in English that meet the requirements of your degree programme.
Click here for more information

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/outgoing-students/where-can-i-go/short-term-mobilities:
If you are keen to enhance your studies at University of Aberdeen with some time abroad, but a full semester or year-long exchange or traineeship doesn't suit your circumstances, then you may wish to consider a short-term mobility.
Many universities worldwide offer short term mobility programmes, normally summer or winter schools taking place over semester breaks, allowing you to gain an international experience and enrich your CV.
Many of our partner and network universities offer short-term mobility opportunities and we will post information on these below as we receive it from our contacts.
We recommend that you check the level of study and tuition fee information carefully.
Most host institutions will charge a tuition or participation fee for summer/winter schools.
If the programme is offered at one of our partner universities the fee may be discounted, waived or additional benefits like free accommodation offered.
Where discounts or benefits are available to Aberdeen students this is noted in the information below.
Please get in touch with GoAbroad.Outgoing@abdn.ac.uk if you are interested in an opportunity which requires us to nominate you.
In addition to tuition fees, you should consider travel, accommodation and living costs.
Often these will be outlined on the partner university's webpages.
Limited Turing Funding may be available, further information to follow.
For some short-term opportunities, funding may be available through the Association of Commonwealth Universities.
Limited tuition fee-waived spaces available
The ISUWU program offers courses in a broad range of business-related topics and provides an education with an international and intercultural perspective.
SUWU participants can benefit from various cultural and social activities organized by the ISUWU team.
These activities give participants the opportunity to get to know life in Vienna, Austria and their fellow students at the same time.
The social program is a mix of social, cultural and international events
Click here for more information on their website
Click here to check our their flyer
Click here to read their factsheet
The Gustavson School of Business at the University of Victoria is offering a variety of short-term summer programmes.
They are offering t wo programmes for the summer of 2025: the International Summer Institute for Business Management (ISIBM), crafted specifically for undergraduate students, and the Summer Graduate Business Studies (SGBS) program, tailored for graduate students.
The VSP is a wonderful opportunity for students to study at the beautiful University of British Columbia, Vancouver Campus.
By offering globally relevant academic courses and sociocultural activities specific to Vancouver and its surroundings, the VSP encourages students to engage in cross-disciplinary learning and develop their understanding of Canadian culture and values.
For more information, check out their website
Nanjing Agricultural University is offering two summer schools this year.
Programme one is 'Discovering Chinese Traditional Veterinary Medicine' and is focused on the theory and application of Chinese Veterinary Medicine as well as animal acupuncture.
Programme two is 'One World, One Health' and is focused on health, specifically relating to food production and processing.
For more information, check out their brochure
The Wuhan International Summer Programme is a two-week language and culture programme with scholarship funded places available.
In the mornings, a Chinese language course takes place at the university's School of International Education and in the afternoons, cultural excursions and workshops are on the agenda.
A weekend excursion trip is also included.
How to apply:
Email your CV and cover letter to Confucius@abdn.ac.uk no later than 1 May 2025.
For more information, check their flyer here and the Confucius Institute's page
Luojia Global Summer School was initiated by Wuhan University in 2006 which aims to provide international exchange students with an accessible and high-quality platform to understand China and Wuhan University.
The 2025 LGSS features four specialized academic programs:
In addition to academic courses, students can get a dynamic social experience via city tours, cultural excursions, and a variety of extracurricular activities with Wuhan University students.
For more information, please check the programme description guide .
Limited reduced-fee spaces may be available
Aarhus University is a dynamic, modern and highly international university.
Since its founding in 1928, it has grown to become a leading public university with international impact and reach across the entire research spectrum.
This year, Aarhus University Summer University is offering more than 85 courses in English at Bachelor or Master level within most academic areas, over two different terms.
As all teaching is research-based, courses have a strong academic foundation.
All courses are planned to take place on campus.
For more information visit their website
Limited tuition fee-waived spaces no longer available
CBS Summer University gives students the opportunity to study at CBS, one of Europe's largest business schools, which has "The Triple Crown" accreditation (EQUIS, AMBA and AACSB), an acknowledgement only shared by around 100 business schools worldwide.
Experience exciting courses taught by brilliant faculty as well as the amazing spirit of wonderful Copenhagen.
Be inspired by the international environment with participants from over 50 countries.
For more information visit their website and download their brochure here
Turku Åbo Summer School offers you the best of five Turku area universities and universities of applied sciences.
Experience top education, make friends from all over the world and spend the summer of your life in the oldest study city in Finland!
They focus on offering the summer school students courses with diverse teaching methods and interactive learning.
With their Sustainable Social Programme, they want to balance studies by offering you the most interesting activities in the Turku region in an environmentally friendly way.
The University of Rennes 2 is offering their summer language courses in 2025.
There are options for all levels of French, from complete beginners at an A1 level to the most proficient speakers at a C2 level.
All courses involved about 18 hours of French lessons per week and students at a level B2 and above can choose an optional course focused on Cinema or World's Work.
The programme includes two excursions to discover Brittany and cultural outings to cinemas, museums and festivals.
Check out the course description here and visit their website here for more information and the application
Taking place throughout June and July 2025, the University of Bordeaux Summer Schools programme offers a range of high-quality, international summer schools for graduate and doctoral students as well as young researchers.
The courses cover a variety of STEM subjects from philosophy in medicine, to AI, clinical research, and agriculture studies.
These courses are highly selective and target international talents.
Course content offers an enriching curricular experience with, depending on the discipline, a mixture of theoretical and practical training that demands a notable level of expertise and knowledge.
For more information check out their website here
The NEOMA Business School is offering four different summer schools in 2025 encompassing various aspects of business and management: 1.
Sport Federations and Major Events Management Programme (16 June - 5 July), 2.
Hospitality and Gastronomy Programme, co-branded with the Ecole Fauchon (7 - 18 July), 3.
Venture Studio Bootcamp (2 - 13 June), 4.
A Summer in Paris (7 July - 3 August).
For more information download the NEOMA Summer School Brochure 2025
Expand and improve your German language skills during a summer course at an internationally oriented university in one of the most beautiful regions of the European Union!
All programme points are coordinated in terms of content and are included in the total price.
The course motto "Germany and its Neighbours" indicates that in the context of this course, European understanding plays a central role in the linguistic as well as in the scientific and regional aspects - this is part of the self-image of Trier University as a university in the Euroregion SaarLorLux.
The course is not only about language proficiency, but also about strengthening your oral communication skills and immersing into German academic fields, German communication and culture.
For further information and application information, visit their website
Affiliated to the University of Freiburg, the Summer and Winter University of the Language Teaching Centre SLI offers short-term language and culture immersion programs to students from all over the world.
The 2025 programme includes a wide range of language and content courses in German and English, including specialized courses in Medical German, German for Natural Sciences and Engineering, German for Business and Economics, German for the Tourism Industry as well as Training for German Language Teachers .
The courses take place at the University of Freiburg in the month of August.
The Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt (KU) gives students and professionals from all over the world the opportunity to study abroad in the heart of Bavaria.
You can choose between three different courses that include language classes to suit your level of proficiency (A2-C1 levels).
You will gain valuable insights into German and Bavarian cultural traditions, literature and history, and also have the chance to visit iconic landmarks.
The summer school organises excursions to destinations such the UNESCO World Heritage Bamberg and Ingolstadt (famous for AUDI).
Students will also have the option to select up to two workshops focusing on Pronunciation, Scenic Games, German-language Songs, and/or Community Music.
Limited Turing Funding may be available, read below for further details.
This year's GO project includes a week of interdisciplinary academic talks about the connection between “Wasser” (water) and climate change at Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, and a second week of collaborative project work with students from schools in Ahrweiler.
The project will end with the Scot-t Fest during which you will have the opportunity to showcase your individual group projects.
T he project's main language will be English, so all students can apply, whether they know German or not.
However, you will have many chances to speak and thus practice your German if you want.
View their brochure here and check their website for more details
The annual Cologne Summer School will take place from July 21 to August 1, 2025, in a hybrid format (onsite at the University of Cologne and online) on the topic of "Intergenerational Justice.
Conviviality, Cooperation and Sustainable Future Visions".
The summer school is open for all majors and approaches the subject in trans- and interdisciplinary perspectives.
The academic program is clustered in five sections focusing on recent research as well as urgent socio-political aspects of (inter-)generational issues.
The cultural program includes a buddy program, an intercultural training and an international picnic, site visits and excursions in Cologne and the region, a welcome ceremony and a farewell dinner at the University of Cologne.
The Transformation Summer Camp 2025 from KU Eichstätt Ingolstadt approaches current issues at the interface of health, well-being and climate protection.
It is based on the belief that a successful development of our societies is only possible if we take much greater account than before of the manifold connections between the health of our planet and the health and well-being of the people living on earth.
The Transformation Summer Camp therefore addresses precisely this interface: It offers advanced students and graduates as well as doctoral candidates in an early doctoral phase the opportunity to develop forward-looking ideas for a research project at the interface of “health” and “sustainability” in direct exchange with researchers.
Osnabr ü ck University is offering three levels of German Language and Culture summer schools this year with various levels and lengths.
The A1 level course and A2 level course offer participants with no prior knowledge of the German language the opportunity to acquire the foundations of German and to experience more than 1000 years of German culture and civilization in and around the city of Osnabrück, the City of Peace.
By the end of the program, students will have mastered basic language skills in German equivalent to level A1 or A2.
The Advanced Intensive German course offers the same, with the opportunity to deepen your knowledge of the language for students who already have an A2/B1 level of German.
Established in 2004, the CUHK International Summer School (ISS) has been one of the most popular undergraduate summer programmes in the region.
Each year, some 600 international and local students join the July session of the ISS to experience its intensive academic sessions and Chinese culture activities in a multicultural learning environment.
The five-week programme has courses in five academic areas available to study, as well as excursions, activities, and visits to immerse in the local culture outside the classroom.
Lingnan University (LU) is a liberal arts research university in Hong Kong with the longest established tradition among the local institutions of higher education.
The institute brings students from around the world for an exciting learning experience on Lingnan's campus.
Participants of Liberal Arts Summer Institute can expect an amazing summer, experiencing Lingnan's residential halls, interacting with a community of like-minded students, and exploring the vibrancy and diversity of Hong Kong culture.
For more information, visit their website here
Limited tuition fee-waived spaces may be available
The HKUST Summer UG Research Program is a research placement for students who are passionate in doing research and would love the opportunity to work alongside HKUST faculty on research projects.
This hands-on experience will allow them to apply theoretical knowledge in real-world scenarios, develop research skills, and contribute to meaningful work in their field of interest.
Additionally, it fosters mentorship relationships, helping students navigate their academic paths while enhancing their resumes with valuable research experience.
Students will work on a HKUST research project under the mentorship of the research project supervisor, while being immersed in the local Hong Kong culture through orientation and cultural activities throughout the program.
The HKUST International Summer School welcomes students from partner institutions to study at HKUST.
The program aims to create a rewarding exchange experience for students from around the world.
It comprises high-quality courses taught by regular HKUST instructors and opportunities to participate in local excursions and cultural immersion activities enable students to deepen their understanding of Hong Kong.
SURP provides an opportunity for international students to undertake research attachments for eight weeks during the summer.
Students will be actively engaged in research under the supervision of a CUHK faculty member and earn three credits upon successful completion of the programme.
In addition, a series of structured learning activities will be organised to enhance the students' research experience.
Students will also have the opportunity to immerse themselves in the local culture through various social activities and excursions.
Established in 2015, HKU Summer Institute (HKUSI) provides learning opportunities for secondary, undergraduate, and postgraduate students from around the world.
Our programmes are uniquely designed to enable students to explore their academic interests and career pathways while enjoying the summer experience of a lifetime at HKU.
HKUSI offers a wide variety of HKU summer programmes to suit different disciplinary interests.
The programmes are presented in four major categories - Research, Internships, Immersive Programmes, and Multi-location Programmes.
Students will have the opportunity to make meaningful connections and expand their international network to facilitate future professional development.
The Bologna University Summer School in Classical Languages, organised by the Department of Classics and Italian Studies, offers intensive courses in Greek and Latin with the aim of enabling students to read some of the fundamental texts of Italy's cultural tradition.
Classes will be held in person at the Department of Classical Philology and Italian Studies of the University of Bologna with the assistance of a resident tutor; all activities will be in English.
For more information and for the application details, please visit their website
The Nagasaki University International Summer Program consists of two courses: the “Japanese Language and Culture Course” and the “Intensive Japanese Course” for advanced learners.
Students can choose one course out of the two.
The  “Japanese Language and Culture Course” is a two-week beginner/intermediate course that teaches how to speak and have conversations in Japanese, and to improve participants’ Japanese language proficiency.
It includes cultural events such as a tea ceremony, Onsen experience, cooking class and more.
The “Intensive Japanese Course” is a one-week course for advanced learners to improve their Japanese speaking and conversation skills.
For more information visit their website and Nagasaki University Summer Program 2025
Tokyo Metropolitan University (TMU) offers students an exclusive 3-week program intensive Japanese-language and culture course.
The 3-week program consists of Japanese language study, Japan Studies, Home Visit, Career Workshops, and field trips.
The Japanese language classes at three levels (Starter, Elementary 1, and Elementary 2) are designed for those who have just started learning Japanese or want to accelerate their language study.
Immerse yourself in Japanese language and culture while exploring the time-honoured concept of Dō (pronounced doh), meaning the “way.” Dō embodies the lifelong pursuit of mastery, a philosophy deeply rooted in Japanese culture.
For more information visit their website and check their brochure
The AIU Summer Program is a six-week, intensive Japanese language and culture study program designed for highly motivated undergraduate students around the world.
Participants can take elementary courses taught by experienced Japanese instructors to hone their Japanese language skills in a small class environment.
Class levels range from Absolute Beginner to Advanced Beginner learners of Japanese language.
The International Summer Program at ITESO offers course taught in English and Spanish, taught jointly by an ITESO and an international professor.
All courses (except Spanish Language) are co-taught with international professors and ITESO professors.
Courses are offered in Spanish, English, or both.
Students enrolling in courses offered in Spanish must prove a B2 level of Spanish and for those offered in both Spanish and English - a B1 level of Spanish is required.
Students will take classes with ITESO students.
Program Details:
For more information, email international@iteso.mx and see the brochure here
This year's Summer School will occur between 5 July and 3 August (including arrival and departure days).
VU Amsterdam provides top-notch short courses in subjects like international law, environmental science and policy, and statistical research.
Their summer school professors are passionate about sharing their knowledge through interactive lectures, group discussions, and practical assignments.
A diverse and inclusive environment fosters cross-cultural understanding and encourages collaboration.
VU Amsterdam also offers exciting social activities such as city tours, museum visits, and workshops.
These allow you to explore one of the most beautiful capital cities in Europe and gain valuable insights into Dutch culture.
The Yonsei International Summer School (YISS) opened its doors in 1985 and since then, YISS has become an integral part of campus life based on a unique blend of Korean and global cultures.
YISS continues to grow and evolve, accommodating the needs of a rapidly changing student body and meeting the challenges of a fast-paced global society.
The 2025 program includes courses from the arts, culture, and humanities while also offering cutting-edge classes in management and economics, global issues, history, social sciences, and science and technology.
Moreover, a shorter, 4-week option is also provided to accommodate students that can only be away for a limited period of time.
Check their website for more information
UAB Barcelona Summer School program comprises a training offer of 30 undergraduate courses, from all academic fields - Sciences, Biosciences, Health Sciences, Arts and Humanities, Social and Legal Sciences and Engineering.
Courses are taught at the UAB Campus, a natural environment with the best services: sports, leisure, culture and accommodation, located 35 minutes from the city centre of Barcelona.
Most courses are taught in English with a few of them being taught in Spanish.
Download the UAB Barcelona Summer School Brochure and visit their website for more information
Join an exclusive 4-week study program that offers some of UAM's high-quality courses, all taught in English by top professors and researchers of UAM's School of Economics and Business Studies.
The SSEB brings together students from all over the World and a few local students in a truly international environment.
The courses are complemented by social and cultural events, as well as academic field trips, which are not offered during the regular Fall and Spring semesters.
Download their brochure, check out their Fact Sheet and visit their website for more information
The University of Zurich is excited to announce that they will be returning to host their summer programs on their beautiful campus in the heart of Zurich!
Students will get to enjoy highly interactive and innovative sessions and a comprehensive social program.
Zurich are offering four courses this year: Deep Dive into Blockchain , International Sports Law , Healthy Ageing and Longevity , and Finance for the Future
Please click each course name to view the respective webpages
Visit their website for more information
The UNCW Summer at the Beach programme offers 4-week intensive, in-person courses in the city of Wilmington, North Carolina.
This year's course focuses on the culture and history of the American south.
Located nine kilometres from the beach, UNCW offers visiting students educational courses and coastal living.
Students are able to learn about U.S.
culture, participate in UNCW programming, and explore the Wilmington community.
Check our their brochure ( UNCW Summer at the Beach Brochure ) and website for more information.
Yonsei University invites international students to join them at their Sinchon campus in Seoul for a rewarding three-week program blending academic excellence with exciting cultural activities in Seoul.
Yonsei's distinguished faculty will lead you through diverse courses designed to challenge and inspire, while providing the opportunity to build your professional network with peers from around the world.
Beyond the classroom, enjoy a variety of extracurriculars, ranging from traditional Korean martial arts and cooking, to thrilling snowboarding adventures.
Whether you go to expand your academic horizons or immerse yourself in a new cultural experience, WAY guarantees an unforgettable journey of learning and discovery.
For further information and application information, visit their website and check out the Yonsei University Winter School Leaflet
The University of Freiburg Winter University offers an immersive academic programme in the heart of Europe and gain a global edge through language, culture, and career-focused learning.
This programme offers students a unique opportunity to engage with European studies, sustainability, and innovation while enhancing language skills.
The module is complemented by exciting field trips and insightful visits to leading institutions and companies.
This immersive experience combines theoretical input with practical exposure, providing students with a comprehensive understanding of European issues and the skills to engage with global challenges.
There is an integrated language course that supports students’ communication abilities in real-world contexts.
You can choose between a German course for beginners, which will equip you with essential everyday language survival skills, or an advanced English course, which will help to boost your speaking confidence and to refine your writing skills.
Extracurricular activities like welcome breakfast, campus and city tour, and a trip to the Black Forest on the weekend are also included in the programme fee.
Please note that University of Aberdeen students are only eligible to attend Module 1 and not Module 2 due to Aberdeen term dates.
For further information and application information, visit their website and check out their brochure

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/outgoing-students/where-can-i-go/short-term-mobilities/mitacs---uuki-globalink-research-internship:
Are you an excellent student interested in developing your research expertise with top professors in Canada?
Read on to learn more about an exciting opportunity available in summer 2026 which is open to penultimate year undergraduate students across a wide variety of degree programmes.
Mitacs Globalink Research Internship, in partnership with Universities UK International (UUKi), gives undergraduates in their penultimate year an opportunity to complete a fully-funded 12-week summer research internship in a wide variety of academic disciplines from science, engineering, and mathematics to the humanities and social sciences.
Successful applicants will complete an internship under the supervision of a host professor at one of 70 participating Canadian universities.
For full information, visit Mitacs's website .
View Mitac's Frequently Asked Questions
There are a number of steps to be followed in the application process.
However, if you are interested in being considered for this fantastic opportunity, the first step is to check if you think you meet the eligibility criteria outlined above.
If you do, you must then contact the Go Abroad Team at GoAbroad.Outgoing@abdn.ac.uk by Monday 28 July 2025 at 08:00 local Aberdeen time to confirm:
The Go Abroad Team will then assess your eligibility to be nominated, including checking your GPA.
Students must be nominated by the Go Abroad Team before they will be considered by Mitacs.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/outgoing-students/where-can-i-go/international-traineeship:
As well as study exchange opportunities, the Go Abroad team can help with funding to support students to gain valuable international work experience.
We are unable to fund Summer or Graduate Traineeships for 2024.
We may be able to fund Language, MChem and Industrial Placement students undertaking a traineeship in 2024/2025.
An international traineeship is an option for all students, regardless of degree programme or level.
Typical traineeship activity includes:
To be eligible for funding via the Turing Scheme, traineeships must:
Please note that we are unable to offer funding support for summer/graduate traineeships from our 2023/24 funding pot.
If you haven't already done so, we would recommend that you sign up for our mailing list to be kept informed of alternative international opportunities.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/outgoing-students/how-do-i-apply:
We aim to make the application processes as simple as we can, whether you are applying for a study exchange or for funding for an international traineeship.
Choose from the options below to find out more.
Learn more about the steps required to participate in a study exchange at one of our European or non-European partners.
Find out more about applying for funding to support your international traineeship.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/outgoing-students/how-do-i-apply/for-study-exchange:
You can apply for all study exchange opportunities using our online application linked under Apply Now below.
The online application and all supporting documents must be submitted by the stated deadline.
The application is straightforward and doesn't take long to complete.
Please submit one application only.
The only exception is if you are doing a joint degree in two languages and wish to apply for two semester-long exchanges (one for each language).
In this case you will need to complete the application twice .
If you wish to apply to both International and European/Swiss destinations, you can do so using the same application and exchange study plan.
You are allowed to apply for up to a maximum of five host universities.
You will be asked to list them in order of preference.
If your application is successful, you will be made one offer.
To familiarise yourself with the online application, watch our video:
If you are considering applying for study exchange, we recommend you sign up to our mailing list so that we can keep you up to date about Go Abroad events, information sessions, application procedures and deadlines.
If you are doing a joint degree in two languages and wish to apply for two semester-long exchanges (one for each language), you will need to complete the application twice .
To participate in an exchange you must have completed one year of undergraduate study, and remain registered as a full-time student at University of Aberdeen while abroad.
You must also be mindful that during your exchange you will be serving as an ambassador for the university.
Undergraduate students planning a period of study abroad must:
If you intend to complete a Joint Honours degree, you must meet the above conditions in both subject areas.
* Average grades will be calculated from your graded results only, pass/fail grades will not be included.
The Go Abroad Tutor is your point of contact for all academic matters relating to studying abroad.
Every subject has a dedicated Go Abroad Tutor for exchange and for some subjects there are multiple Go Abroad Tutors.
Who you speak to will depend on your degree programme and/or other factors, such as location or type of mobility.
If you are studying on a joint degree you will have two Go Abroad Tutors, one for each subject.
Use our list of Go Abroad Tutors to find yours .
To start your research, consult our list of partner universities , making sure they teach appropriate courses for your degree programme at the right level and that they are open to exchange students, and determine where you want to go.
You will be able to apply for up to five host universities across our exchange partners.
You can rank these in order of preference on the application and exchange study plan.
We realise that the choice of options can appear a little overwhelming at first.
To help kickstart your research, we have compiled a list of destinations by degree , where students have gone for non-compulsory study exchange over the last five years (NB this list does not include Languages/5-yr LLB/MChem or Engineering projects).
Please note that this list is not exhaustive, ie just because we haven't sent someone from your exact degree programme to a particular host destination before, that doesn't mean that it is not possible.
Please also note that this list is not a guarantee that a particular host destination is suitable for 2025/26 study exchange, as the course offering may have changed.
If you missed our Outgoing Study Exchange Application Session for the academic year 2025/26, you may wish to watch the recording.
This provides an overview of how to complete the application documentation, the process and timescales relating to application, as well as a reminder about fees, funding and other costs associated with a study exchange.
To help with your research, you can request permission to view Feedback Reports that our previous Go Abroad students have written following their study exchange.
These reports contain information from students about their time abroad and cover aspects such as their host institution, accommodation, living costs and what life was like as an international student abroad.
Current University of Aberdeen students can request access by emailing the Go Abroad team .
As part of the online application you will need to upload two documents:
You will need to complete the Exchange Study Plan with your provisional course choices for your preferred partner universities, and your reasons for choosing these partner universities.
You must ensure that your preferred partner universities teach suitable equivalents for any compulsory courses you would need to take if you were in Aberdeen, and these need to be open to exchange students.
You can find out what your compulsory courses are using the Degree Calendar for your programme.
If you have no mandatory courses in Aberdeen for the semester or year that you plan to study abroad: eg Languages students doing their residence abroad, or students on one of the 5-year LLB options; then you can freely select any courses that are relevant to your programme.
The History Department also does not require any specific course matching, so History students are fee to choose any history courses.
For your exchange study plan, it is mostly important that you match your compulsory courses.
However, when abroad you will be expected to take the equivalent of 60 Aberdeen credits per semester.
If your application to study abroad is successful, you will finalise your course choice with approval from your Go Abroad Tutor(s) prior to going abroad.
You will also be asked to answer the question 'Why did you choose this host' in one or two paragraphs, 200 words maximum.
We are most interested in why you would like to study at your chosen institutions, rather than your general motivations to go abroad.
We want to hear your academic motivations, not holiday aspirations.
Do not spend your 200 words telling us why you want to go on holiday.
Don't tell us how beautiful the city is, how you've always had a 'calling' to visit that country, how you can't wait to go skiing or surfing.
Your exchange study plan is only read by University of Aberdeen staff and not by the host institution, as this is an internal application.
If you are selected for exchange, you will need to complete a separate application directly to your host institution.
Remember you can apply to up to five preferred host universities and an Exchange Study Plan page should be completed in full for each one.
Example Exchange Study Plans:
Study Exchange Applications
The main application round and March clearing round for study abroad in 2025/26 have now closed.
If you have missed the deadline, you may be able to apply in the next academic year, if this is permitted within your degree requirements.
Short Term Mobilities
Alternatively, you may wish to consider a short term mobility.
There are a range of summer schools available through our partner network.
Duration, fees and funding, and deadlines vary.
University of Aberdeen students can also apply for a Mitacs - UUKI Globalink Research Internship in Canada.
Applications will open in summer.
Read more about our short term mobilities .
We have a limited number of places at each of our partner universities and therefore the application process is competitive.
The selection process is based on academic merit and the strength of your exchange application.
The final allocation decision is made by the Go Abroad Team and Go Abroad Tutor(s).
We cannot guarantee that all students meeting the academic eligibility criteria will receive an exchange place.
All applicants will be notified of the outcome a few weeks after the application deadline.
Successful applicants will receive an offer letter with allocation details, including Go Abroad - Study Exchange Terms Conditions 25-26 and instructions on how to accept or decline.
The offer needs to be accepted by the deadline stated on the offer letter in order for an applicant to confirm their exchange place.
At this stage all selection and allocation decisions will remain conditional on applicants continuing to meet the academic eligibility criteria for the exchange programme by the end of the academic year, and continued adherence to the terms and conditions of the offer.
Applicants wishing to accept the exchange offer will be required to attend a mandatory 'Next Steps' information meeting to prepare them for the exchange process.
This will cover available funding for study exchanges and how to apply.
However, you can find initial guidance on our funding, finances and fees webpage .
Next Steps Meeting for 2025/26 study exchange will be held on Wednesday 12 March.
If you decide to accept your offer, the Go Abroad Team will share your contact details with the host institution to nominate you for the exchange.
After receiving this nomination, the host institution will normally contact you directly with further information about their own application procedure which you must complete.
Procedures and deadlines will vary by host institution.
Please be aware that some institutions will have very tight application deadlines so if an offer is made to you, please make sure you routinely check your University of Aberdeen email so you do not miss any application information and guidance from either the Go Abroad team or from your host.
Before embarking upon your exchange, you will be required to attend a mandatory 'Pre-departure' information meeting, with practical advice and guidance for your upcoming time abroad.
These will be held at different times of year depending on when your exchange or traineeship is due to start.
Pre-departure Meeting for FY/Term 1 study exchange or traineeships: Spring
Pre-departure Meeting for Term 2 study exchange or traineeship: Autumn - time and venue TBC.
If you have any questions having reached this point of our extensive outgoing information, please send a photo of the village of Witts End in Bedfordshire along with your question to the Go Abroad team so we know you are at your wits' end (i.e.
confused)!
When we receive questions without a fabulous photo of the village of Witts End in Bedfordshire attached, we know the senders haven't read this glorious information-filled page (see where we're going with this?).

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/outgoing-students/how-do-i-apply/for-study-exchange/credit-load-guide:
While you are abroad you are expected to take the equivalent of 60 Aberdeen credits per semester.
Please use the below table find the credit load required at each of our partners to equate to 60 Aberdeen credits.
Host equivalent of 60 Aberdeen Credits

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/outgoing-students/how-do-i-apply/for-traineeship:
Before applying, please make sure you have read the information we have available about funding for traineeships on our webpage and signed up to our mailing list .
The application for funding is online, and straightforward.
You will be asked for personal information and information about your planned traineeship (host institution, country, provisional start and end dates).
Remember you can make a speculative application for funding if you are still waiting for your traineeship details to be confirmed or if you are still undertaking your traineeship search.
Remember this is an offer of funding for an eligible traineeship.
It is your responsibility to source a traineeship.
We have suggested some websites below for you to begin your traineeship search.
When considering potential opportunities, please bear in mind the funding criteria .
We also recommend visiting the University's Careers and Employability Service .
Our Careers Advisers can give support and advice with your CV, covering letter and interview skills.
You can also make use of the resources and Career Connect on their website.
We are unable to offer funding support for summer/graduate traineeships from our 2023/24 funding pot.
The online application for Traineeship funding in the 24/25 academic year is open in early May.
(This application will only be open for Languages, Industrial Placement, Medical Electives, MChem and Engineering project students applying for Traineeship funding and details of how to apply will be available from your Go Abroad Tutor ).
After you have applied for funding, you will notified in the summer if you were successful.
All successful students will receive a Funding Agreement, including Go Abroad - Traineeship Terms Conditions 25-26 .
This needs to be signed and returned by the stated deadline in order to confirm your funding.
If your traineeship details are not confirmed at the time of application, your funding is conditional to you securing a traineeship which meets the eligibility criteria.
You should inform the Go Abroad Team if any details of your traineeship change eg duration, host organisation.
All students holding a funding award must watch a mandatory Pre-Departure Briefing.
These are held in May and December, and recorded versions are also available depending on when your traineeship takes place.
All paperwork related to your traineeship will be issued to you by the Go Abroad Team in advance of your start date, with full instructions given for completion.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/outgoing-students/how-much-will-it-cost:
A chance for students from Scotland to spend a year at Drexel University in Philadelphia, USA
Researching the cost of studying or working abroad is a vital step in planning your international experience.
While we strive to ensure that we have opportunities to suit all budgets, knowing more about the costs involved allows you to save the money you need to make the most of your time abroad.
Tuition fees for those spending one or two semesters abroad are usually paid to the University of Aberdeen as normal, though the exact method of payment will depend on your fee status (see table below).
No tuition fees would be due to your host university for those on study exchange.
Exact tuition fee arrangements will depend on when students commenced their degree.
Tuition fees will be unaffected for students undertaking summer opportunities.
Students going abroad for a semester or year should continue to be eligible for maintenance grants and loans as normal, ie SAAS, Student Finance, etc.
If you are unsure, check with your funding provider.
The funding available depends on where you are going and what you are doing.
We have outlined the main funding opportunities below.
Please note, these are subject to availability and not guaranteed.
Where there is no funding available, you should assume that an opportunity is self-funded, ie that you have to pay for your own living costs (as you would if you were in Aberdeen) plus your own travel costs.
If you are SAAS or SFE-funded, you may be entitled to additional funding to support your mobility.
Please contact the relevant provider for more information.
If your period abroad is a compulsory part of your programme, you may be able to apply for the SAAS Study Abroad Grant.
This is new for the 2025/26 year and replaced the SAAS Travel Grant.
Eligibility is similar to undergraduate bursary schemes currently available through SAAS:
Please note, paid traineeships are not eligible, and therefore this funding is only open to students undertaking study exchange.
SFE/SFW/SFNI students may be able to submit receipts to reclaim the cost of items such as flights, health insurance, vaccines and visas.
Students do not have to be going abroad on a compulsory mobility to qualify, and traineeships may also qualify.
However, eligibility may depend on household income.
Please note, if you are funded by the Turing Scheme and meet the disadvantaged background criteria (see below), you cannot claim these expenses from both sources.
Study exchange and traineeship opportunities may be funded under the UK Government's Turing Scheme.
This is dependent on the level of funding available for each academic year.
You cannot apply for funding directly from the Turing website; students instead apply through the Go Abroad team.
Please note that Turing funding is never guaranteed.
Turing Scheme funding rates depend on the duration and location of the placement.
Turing splits countries into two groups, based on an assessment of general living costs in those destinations:
Turing Scheme funding rates for 2025/26 are as follows:
Students who meet one or more of the criteria below are entitled to an additional top-up of £4 per day, and can also submit receipts to reclaim certain costs, such as one return journey plus transfer, compulsory insurance, visa costs and vaccines.
Disabled students and students with long-term health conditions can receive the standard grant rate plus actual costs for additional expenditures related to their disability or health condition, such as the cost to transport a mobility aid, prescription costs, etc.
Visit the Turing Scheme website for more information
Further information about the Turing Scheme and how to apply will be shared by the Go Abroad team once available.
SEMP funding enables Swiss higher education institutions to provide funding for mobility abroad.
This includes students going to Switzerland from a partner university overseas, such as the University of Aberdeen, for a period of study.
This is administered by the Swiss host institution.
Please note, this is not available for traineeships.
north2north is a funding programme for institutions in the University of the Arctic network.
University of Aberdeen students can apply for this funding if they include any of the following institutions within their study exchange application: Denmark - Aarhus University; Finland - University of Helsinki, University of Lapland, University of Turku; Norway - University of Bergen, University of Tromso (aka UiT - the Arctic University of Norway).
This funding is administered by the host institution, via University of the Arctic.
Award amounts vary by country:
2025/26 grant rates are still to be announced.
These are 2024/25 rates for guidance only.
Please note, north2north funding is not available for traineeships.
If you are applying to any of the institutions listed above, we strongly encourage you to also apply for the north2north grant rather than relying on Turing Scheme funding.
If you later apply for Turing Scheme funding for these destinations without having applied for north2north funding, your funding application will be deprioritised.
Students should submit a Statement of Motivation for each north2north host on their Exchange Study Plan and send it to GoAbroad.Outgoing@abdn.ac.uk .
The deadline is 12 noon on Friday 14 February.
The McNeil Scholarship is for Drexel University in the USA.
This is a competitive award which has, in previous years, been $25,000 USD.
This Scholarship is an excellent opportunity to enhance your C.V.
This is administered by the Go Abroad team but the application is separate from the main Study Exchange Application.
Students applying to Drexel University should apply by 12 noon on Friday 14 February .
Two single semester scholarships of £5,000 each are available for students going to Hong Kong.
Preference will be given to those applying to Lingnan University but applications to any Hong Kong partner will be considered.
These can be awarded for either Term 1 or Term 2.
Students from disadvantaged backgrounds will be prioritised but all students applying to a partner in Hong Kong are encouraged to apply.
The deadline is Friday 14 February .
Please contact GoAbroad.Outgoing@abdn.ac.uk for details.
The Rhodes College Scholarship is available to one student from a financially disadvantaged background.
The successful applicant will receive $6,000 (single semester exchange) or $12,000 (full year exchange).
The recipient will be asked to write a thank you letter to the donor during their exchange.
Please visit the Rhodes College Scholarship page for details.
The BUTEX Scholarship is available for destinations in North America.
These are competitive awards of £500 GBP.
Applications are made directly to BUTEX.
This scholarship is for students studying in France, Germany or Spain.
Students undertaking a Teaching Assistantship may apply for a Scholarship but must be in a position to combine teaching with attendance at a University.
This scholarship is administered by the University of Glasgow but students are nominated by the University of Aberdeen.
In previous years awards have ranged from £250 to £3,000.
Applicants are required to attend an interview.
This scholarship is for students studying in Italy.
This is a supplementary scholarship and in previous years awards have ranged from £500 to £600.
The closing date is 10 March 2025 .
Students going abroad during their degrees should budget for the following additional costs:
This is in addition to costs that you would usually budget for if you were in Aberdeen, such as:
Check out this useful Go Abroad budget calculator from the Digipass Project to help you with your financial planning.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/engage-with-us:
Current exchange students can contact the Go Abroad Team:
for outgoing students: GoAbroad.Outgoing@abdn.ac.uk or +44 1224 273664
for incoming students: GoAbroad.Incoming@abdn.ac.uk or +44 1224 272625
If you would like to chat with a member of the Go Abroad Team, then you can book a virtual one-to-one appointment where ever you are in the world.
These are offered on Monday afternoons and Friday mornings (UK time).
Our appointments take place on Microsoft Teams.
You can connect via your web browser on a laptop or PC.
You may need to download the Teams app to access on a mobile device.
There are plenty of opportunities to abroad during your degree.
Go Abroad Manager Erasmus+ Institutional Coordinator
From Aberdeen, UK
Experiences abroad: During my degree, I studied in France and Germany, and worked in Germany and Sweden.
After graduation, I worked as an International Officer for Queen Margaret University, promoting Scotland all over the world.
Lead Go Abroad Officer (Incoming)
From Tasmania, Australia
Experiences abroad: I am still having one!
I have travelled to Asia, Africa, Europe and USA.
I moved from Australia to Aberdeen in 2007, and have lived, worked and studied abroad (right here in Aberdeen!) for over 15 years now!
Go Abroad Officer (Incoming)
From Aberdeen, Scotland
Experiences Abroad: As a child I spent a short time living in Singapore and Venezuela, both worlds away from northeast Scotland.
Though I didn't study abroad while at university, I did try and travel at every opportunity.
I have been fortunate enough to visit over half a dozen countries, with Italy, Norway and China being some of my favourites.
Lead Go Abroad Officer (Outgoing)
Experiences Abroad: During my undergraduate degree I studied in Germany and Italy, and I also worked in a ski resort in the French part of Switzerland.
After graduating, I took the opportunity to travel to South America, New Zealand, Australia and South East Asia, and later my husband and I chose to get married in Cuba.
Go Abroad Officer (Outgoing) From Aberdeen, UK Experiences abroad: As part of my International Tourism Management degree, I participated in an optional semester abroad to experience US college life in Stillwater, Oklahoma.
After I graduated I then spent a magical year representing the U.K.
while working in Walt Disney World, Florida.
I now like to take every opportunity to travel somewhere new such as recently participating in a training week in Cyprus.
Go Abroad Assistant (Outgoing)
From Vancouver, Canada / Amsterdam, the Netherlands
Experiences Abroad: Originally from Vancouver, I immigrated to Amsterdam as a teenager and living there for six years.
Having moved to Aberdeen for University, I went abroad to Hong Kong for a semester and have decided to stay in Scotland.
Since moving to Europe, I have tried to take advantage of the ease of travel and have managed to visit 22 countries and counting!

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/engage-with-us/go-abroad-tutors:
Every department has a dedicated Go Abroad Tutor for exchange and in some departments there is one Go Abroad Tutor per exchange programme.
Biological Sciences
Business
Prof Ignacio Canales (Outgoing)
Dr Tim Stone (Incoming)
Divinity, History, Philosophy & Art History
Education
Geosciences
Language, Literature, Music & Visual Culture
Maria Fernandez (Outgoing) Lourdes Parra Lazcano (Incoming 1st Semester Only)
Barbara Barreiro (Incoming 2nd Semester Only)
Law
Medicine, Medical Sciences & Nutrition
Dr Pietro Marini (European Exchange) Dr Brendan Gabriel (International Exchange) Dr Ian Fleming (Industrial Placement)
Ms Diane Gerrie (Outgoing Medical Electives first contact)
Natural & Computing Sciences
Social Science

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/engage-with-us/go-abroad-ambassadors:
Meet our team of Go Abroad Ambassadors - Aberdeen students that have studied or worked abroad, and are keen to share their experiences with you!
Email Zuzanna
Degree : Business Management - International Relations
Go Abroad Programme: Study Exchange
Destination : Curtin University, Australia
My Experience Abroad: Studying in Perth, Australia was one of the sunniest, fun and most rewarding trips during my studies.
From learning about Australian and Aboriginal cultures and art to snorkeling at the Great Barrier reef - I had a chance to travel around the land down under and meet friends for life.
The university campus is full of palm trees, exotic birds, hammocks and after classes everyone spent their afternoons at the beach - no wonder Aussies are so laid back and friendly!
My advice for you is to get out of your comfort zone, apply for your exchange abroad and go!
Australia or not, every location has so much to offer - you'll discover a new place, meet great friends and make amazing memories!
Email Calum
Calum is our Go Abroad Champion for LGBTQ+ students, ask Calum about his experiences abroad.
Degree : Modern Languages & Translation & Interpretation Studies
Go Abroad Programme : Study Exchange
Destinations : University of Granada, Spain & Free University of Brussels, Belgium
Top Tip : Never lose sight of the skills you're gaining and friends you're making whilst abroad - both are invaluable and will reward you long after your exchange has ended.
See as much of your host country as you can - go on all the trips!
Definitely take a disposable camera (or two!) abroad with you, to capture those special, once in a lifetime moments - there's something so special about getting those priceless photos developed.
Email Eloise
Degree : Law with European Legal Studies
Destination : Aarhus University, Denmark
Top Tip: Hello!
I am a fifth-year law student, and in 2022/23 I spent the year in Aarhus, Denmark learning all about European Law.
My biggest tip to make the most of your experience is to be as open to trying new things as possible.
During your time away you will be given opportunities to go places, try different foods, meet new people, and explore different cultures.
By keeping an open mind and giving everything a go, you are less likely to feel you have missed out or leave your exchange with any regrets.
You might just discover your new favourite thing!
Email Will
Degree : History
Destination : Utrecht University, the Netherlands
My Experience Abroad: Living and studying abroad was an amazing, transformative part of my university experience.
Immersed in new cultures, I met people from diverse backgrounds who expanded my world view in ways that I could never have imagined.
It wasn't just about learning academically, but also growing personally.
I would encourage everyone to study abroad - the opportunities open to you are endless!
Email Varun
Varun is our Go Abroad Champion for South Asian students, ask Varun about his experiences abroad.
Degree : Business Management - Finance
Go Abroad Programme : Summer School
Destination : Copenhagen Business School, Denmark
Why I Went Abroad: I went abroad because I wanted to develop my academic, professional, and personal skills.
It was a great opportunity to step outside my comfort zone and appreciate different cultures while working on career progression.
I have quite fond memories of Copenhagen during my time at CBS.
Denmark is a very cycle-friendly country, and I decided to take up cycling based on my experience commuting to the business school and exploring the city by bike.
Top tip: Be open to new cultures, languages, scenery, food, and drinks, but don't forget to focus on your studies during your time abroad.
Keep Safe!
Mazz is our Go Abroad Champion for Mature students, ask Mazz about their experiences abroad.
Email Mazz
Degree : Ecology
Destination : University of Tromso, Norway
My Experience Abroad: Studying in Tromsø was a great experience, I met loads of incredible people, both as part of my studies, and through volunteering at the international film festival in January.
Seeing the Northern lights and the midnight sun was incredible, and watching the reindeer racing was definitely a highlight!
I was worried about being away from my husband for 6 months, but having done a year abroad himself 10 years ago, he didn't want me to miss out on the opportunity, and ultimately, neither did I!
I really enjoyed sharing my experiences with him when he visited me, and even teaching him to cross country ski!
Email Matt
Degree : Civil Engineering
Go Abroad Programmes : Radboud Summer School; Mitacs Globalink Research Internship
Destinations : Nijmegen, the Netherlands (Radboud Summer School); Quebec, Canada (Mitacs Globalink Research Internship)
Why I Went Abroad: As the years pass , I realise the necessity of exposing yourself to a new environment such as studying abroad.
It is an amazing opportunity to understand the diversity around the world, expose yourself to a new culture, meet new people or grasp a new language.
The environment we are adjusted to puts us in the comfortable zone but in order to develop on an emotional, personal and educational level, it is important to put yourself into the unknown.
Studying abroad made me appreciate the stability of the life I have in the UK, but simultaneously ignited the forever-burning spark related with travelling and exploring the world.
After coming back from abroad studies, I realised that everything is possible if you can focus your mindset on your goals.
Email Katie
Degree : Politics and International Relations
Go Abroad Programmes: Study Exchange
Destinations: Yonsei University, South Korea & University of Lapland, Finland
Top Tip: Be open-minded!
Try things you might never have considered before, meet lots of new friends and be prepared to step outside of your comfort zone.
After all, adventure and travel are some of the best ways to learn.
This advice was given to me before I left on my first exchange, which I enjoyed so much that I took advantage of the opportunity to complete a second exchange.
If I hadn't listened to this advice I wouldn't have experienced seeing the northern lights in Lapland or backpacking across South Korea and Japan.
Email Lily
Lily is our Go Abroad Champion for Neurodiverse students, ask Lily about her experiences abroad.
Degree : Psychology - Sociology
Go Abroad Programme : Mitacs Globalink Research Internship
Destination : Quebec, Canada
My Top Tip: Embrace Every Moment!
Take every opportunity you can by saying yes to things and immersing yourself in the local culture.
Also, stay open-minded.
The most unexpected adventures became some of my favourite memories.
Spend time with locals and fellow students as building friendships was a foundational part of my experience.
Also, try and document your journey by taking lots of photos and maybe by keeping a diary/ creating a scrapbook, so you can look back on your time abroad.
Remember, it's okay if every day isn't perfect.
Embrace the ups and downs - they're all part of the experience.
Most importantly, have fun and make some memories!
Email Laura
Degree : English - Spanish and Latin American Studies
Go Abroad Programmes: Traineeship; Summer School
Destinations : Meddeas, Spain (Traineeship); The Chinese University of Hong Kong's Summer Undergraduate Research Programme (Summer School)
My Experience Abroad: Spending a year in Palma de Mallorca was nothing short of amazing.
It was a transformative journey that not only introduced me to the vibrant local culture but also enriched my understanding of myself.
The friendships I forged during my stay are some of the most cherished in my life, and the memories remain deeply ingrained in my heart.
Immersing myself in a different culture opened my eyes to new possibilities, allowing me to evolve and discover my true self.
Mallorca's beauty, the enriching culture, and the warmth of its people left an indelible mark on me, leaving me yearning to return to the place I called 'home' for the past year.
Email Marie
Marie is our Go Abroad Champion for First-Generation university students and students with learning differences, ask Marie about her experiences abroad.
Degree : Neuroscience with Psychology
Go Abroad Programme: Mitacs Globalink Research Internship
My Top Tip: Document everything!
Take loads of photos, keep notes of the fun moments, and put all your ticket stubs, receipts, stickers into a box.
At the end of your time abroad not only will you have a lovely reminder of everything you've achieved, but you can also use it all to make a fun scrapbook or collage frame as a keepsake.
Email Becca
Degree : Physiology
Destination : University of British Columbia, Canada
My Experience Abroad: I went abroad to experience living and studying in a different country.
I had an amazing time in Vancouver: I have met some of my closest friends through exchange, got to try cool sports like surfing and experience the North American college culture.
My top tip is to try things you'd never think you would back at home: whether that's a sport, travelling to a new location or different foods.
And plan ahead: get a bucket list of things you'd like to try out or visit beforehand as it can get overwhelming once at your host Uni and time flies by quickly, you'll be home before you know it!
Email Anastasia
Anastasia is our Go Abroad Champion for LGBTQ+ students and for students from a low-income background, ask Anastasia about her experiences abroad.
Degree : Marine Biology
Go Abroad Programmes: Study Exchange; Mitacs Globalink Research Internship
Destinations : University of British Columbia, Canada (Study Exchange); Ontario, Canada (Mitacs Globalink Research Internship)
My Experience Abroad: For my exchange, I was able to combine a semester at UBC and a Mitacs internship, and spent 8 months in this beautiful country.
This allowed me to experience different aspects of the academic culture, studying and working; to see many parts of the vast land; and to explore the amazing country.
During my time at UBC and in the month before my internship, I went all over British Columbia, enjoying wildlife and nature with an enhanced understanding I had gained from the courses I took there.
My internship took me to the remote place of Churchill, where I did not only gain a great new skillset in field research, but also saw Northern Lights and polar bears, and went paddleboarding with belugas!
Destination : University of Bergen, Norway
My Top Tip: I would say my top tip for going abroad is being able to manage your mindset well.
Going abroad is, for most students, a once in a lifetime experience where you will be exposed to new people, new places and new opportunities.
Of course, this also means new challenges!
I found that being able to frame the way I thought about my time abroad before I went really helped me navigate the experience once I was there and get what I wanted out if it.
For me, this was simply to push myself out of my comfort zone!
Prefer to speak to our Ambassadors directly?
The best way to contact our Go Abroad Ambassadors is via their emails listed above.
Our Ambassadors are knowledgeable on the destinations they went abroad to, and the application process for their degree subject.
They can provide first-hand experience on studying/working abroad and offer guidance on the process.
Have a question for the Go Abroad Team?
One-to-one virtual appointments
On Mondays 14:00-16:00 and Fridays 10:00-12:00 we offer bookable one-to-one virtual appointment slots with a member of the team - Go Abroad - appointment booking form .
You will receive a confirmation email once your slot has been booked, followed by a calendar invitation to an MSTeams Online Meeting for your time slot (you do not need login details to join the meeting).
If you can no longer attend your meeting, please make sure to cancel the via the booking email or by emailing GoAbroad.Outgoing@abdn.ac.uk .
Email
Otherwise, the best way to contact the team is via email - GoAbroad.Outgoing@abdn.ac.uk .
Our email is monitored Monday to Friday 09:00-17:00.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/go-abroad/engage-with-us/go-abroad-fair:
We held our 2024 Go Abroad Fair on 6 November and it was great seeing so many of you excited about all our go abroad opportunities!
If you missed the Fair, don’t panic, we have a recap below.
Or if you came along but now find yourself wondering what the next steps are, read on.
Catch up with the introductory presentation
As well as the opportunity to chat with the Go Abroad team, Go Abroad Tutors, Ambassadors and other exchange students, we gave an introductory info session at the Fair.
If you missed it, or want a refresher, you can access the “International Opportunities” presentation slides .
Next steps for study exchange
Start your application prep on our study exchange application page .
Check your eligibility and if there are any restrictions for your degree.
We have plenty of resources on our website to guide you through your options, such as the list of destinations by degree, where you can see which destinations our students have gone over the last five years sorted by degree programme.
Please be sure to read this information thoroughly.
Then figure out where you want to apply.
European destinations are sorted by subject-specific and “all subject” options, whereas the Swiss and International partners are sorted by country/destination.
Check each host for subject restrictions and if not otherwise stated, you can apply to any host that has sufficient courses available for exchange students for your degree.
Don’t forget that Joint Honours students can apply via a university-wide link or a link in either subject.
We have feedback reports from previous cohorts of students in the Go Abroad organisation within MyAberdeen.
These can be very helpful when considering your options and preparing your application.
Please email GoAbroad.Outgoing@abdn.ac.uk to be given access.
Once you’ve narrowed down where and when you want to apply, you can start preparing your documents before applications open on Wednesday 8 January 2025.
Traineeships and Summer Schools
Information about applying for traineeships and summer schools will be updated over the coming months, as we received updated information from our partners.
The application period for both of these is later than for study exchange, so there is less urgency.
Please keep an eye out for updates.
Questions?
If you still have burning questions and would like to ask a fellow student, you can reach out to our Go Abroad Ambassadors by email or by visiting InfoHub during the Go Abroad office hours (M/Tu 10:00-12:00; W/Th/F 14:00-16:00).
If your question is academic-related, you can contact the Go Abroad Tutor for your subject area.
Or you can always email the Go Abroad Team or arrange a virtual appointment .
Be sure to follow our Instagram for information and advice about the study exchange application in the coming months.
Upcoming Events

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/part-time:
The University of Aberdeen offers a broad spectrum of undergraduate degrees which draw high quality teaching and knowledge together.
The majority of these degree programmes are available to study on a part-time basis on campus in Aberdeen.
Exceptions are Medicine, Psychology, Dentistry, MA Primary Education and Engineering.
If you just want to study individual courses to update your qualifications or for interest then Individual Subject Study (ISS) may be the route for you.
In addition to part-time study on our Degree programmes we also offer two specialised part-time Programmes, Counselling Skills and Christian and Religious Studies.
International students are welcome to study on a part-time basis but, as full time attendance is not mandatory, the University is unable to supply you with a CAS for a Student Visa.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/part-time/part-time-degree--individual-subject-study:
If you may have any further questions please contact study@abdn.ac.uk .
We will be happy to assist you with these.
We understand that committing to part-time study is not the same as committing to full time study.
There are many more challenges surrounding fitting work and family commitments around your study.
Most of our degrees, with the exception of Medicine, Dentistry, Engineering, Music, Psychology and MA Primary Education are available to study part-time.
The online prospectus will give you more information about the degrees we offer and our entrance requirements.
Once you have decided on a degree you will want to know what you will need to study in any given year.
A full time student studies 120 credits in a year, usually equivalent to 8 courses.
Part-time students would be expected to study half this load, 60 credits or 4 courses a year.
It is possible to take fewer courses for interest or career development but you would then be registered as an Individual Subject Study (ISS) student rather than a part-time degree student.
Once you register as a student you will choose which courses you want to take in a year however, for a part-time student, it is important to gather as much information as possible when making the decision whether you can commit to study.
The University Degree Calendar lists the courses you are required to take for every degree we offer.
Once you have looked at the degree calendar you can then find these courses in the catalogue of courses and start to build up an idea of the time you will need to commit to study on campus.
Please be aware that the timetable is subject to change every year.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/part-time/application-process:
Part-Time Study Application Form
Entry Requirements
Applicants applying within 5 years of leaving school will normally be expected to produce evidence of at least four Highers passes at grade B or better, BBB at A Level, an HNC with at least a B in the graded unit, or equivalent qualifications.
For entrance to the Sciences these would include a good performance in at least two Mathematics/Science subjects.
For candidates who left school more than 5 years ago a minimum of four qualifications with evidence of high achievement should still be presented, but professional, work based qualifications, Open University or Access courses may be offered in lieu of Highers/A-Levels.
Students applying for counselling skills should be aware that relevant work experience in the caring professions will also be taken into consideration - as a partial requirement alongside qualifications.
Candidates will be considered on a case by case basis by the appropriate Undergraduate Admissions Selector.
How to Apply
Applications for part-time study are submitted directly to the University, not through UCAS.
To apply please complete the Part Time and Individual Subject Study application form .
Applications can be returned by post or email to ugadmissions@abdn.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/part-time/fees-and-funding:
Charges for part-time programmes are based on the credits or courses/modules you register for.
Funding is available for eligible students through the SAAS Part Time Fee Grant.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/info:
Click below to access all our useful information guides.
Staff within our recruitment and enquiry teams at the University of Aberdeen are on hand to help parents and guardians as much as possible.
Our staff can provide presentations, talks and deliver workshops on a range of topics for senior pupils.
Information on Curriculum for Excellence.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/info/information-guides:
We've prepared a selection of videos below covering key information for students applying to start university.
Click on each title to display a video recorded by our UK Team, or contact us at ukteam@abdn.ac.uk for more information!
For 2026 entry to University, the UCAS Equal Consideration deadline is 14th January 2026 .
For applications to Medicine, the deadline is 15th October 2025 .
View the Applicant Guide for 2025 entry at the University of Aberdeen.
Find out more information about Studying in Scotland in our UniTasterDays blog entry.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/info/information-for-parents:
Beginning university can be a daunting experience for parents as well as for new students and we know that you'll want to be sure that the university your son or daughter attends offers them help in finding their feet, making friends, settling into their studies and into student life.
Staff within our recruitment and enquiry teams at the University of Aberdeen are here to help parents and guardians as much as possible by providing advice and guidance at parents' evenings, school careers conventions and UCAS regional higher education conventions.
We've posted a series of helpful information videos for you and your child including: how to choose a degree course, studying at Aberdeen, student life and many others.
There is also a video specifically for Parents and Guardians to explain the university application process and important things to consider when supporting someone through the process.
There is also information on our student accommodation options, including videos and 360 pictures of the rooms.
We are also happy to receive email or phone enquiries from parents and guardians through the contact details below:
Student Recruitment and Admissions Directorate of External Relations and Marketing, The University of Aberdeen, University Office, King's College, Aberdeen AB24 3FX
Phone: +44 (0) 1224 272090/91 E-mail: study@abdn.ac.uk
Download our 2025 entry applicant information guide.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/info/information-for-teachers:
If you wish to request any physical copies of our undergraduate prospectus for your school, please email ukteam@abdn.ac.uk with your name, school address and number of prospectuses you would like to request.
The UK Student Recruitment Team sends out a quarterly newsletter to school contacts containing information such as open day dates, university events and more!
If you are a teacher/careers advisor from a school in the UK, ROI, Isle of Man or Channel Islands and wish to be added to our newsletter distribution list then please fill out the form below.
Please don't hesitate to get in contact with us at ukteam@abdn.ac.uk if you have any questions.
Please find below a series of resources for teachers and advisers supporting students sitting SQA exams.
These include informed subject choices for Highers and National 5s, and information about our Widening Access and Contextualised Offers policy.
Please find below a series of resources for teachers and advisers supporting A Level students.
These include informed subject choices for A Level applicants, as well as funding information for students applying from England, Wales, or Northern Ireland.
Please find below a series of resources for teachers and advisers supporting Irish Leaving Certificate students.
These include informed subject choices for Leaving Certificate applicants, as well as funding information for students applying from the Republic of Ireland.
Please view the document below for detailed information about entry requirements for International Baccalaureate (IB) applicants.
Find out more information about the different ways our teams can help support your pupils explore their higher education options.
These tips about what we are looking for in a UCAS reference are still helpful even for the new reference format being introduced by UCAS for 2025 applicants.
The 4000 character limit has now been changed to the 3 text box areas (which total together to 4000 characters).
Please get in touch with us if you have any questions about this or would like further guidance.
"A guide to studying in Scotland" - essential reading for any guidance teacher or career adviser who is looking to encourage their pupils to consider applying to study at a Scottish university.
This article was written by Helena Ziegler, our UK Student Recruitment Team Manager, for the UniTaster Days.com publication "Teachers' Guide to University 2023", produced in collaboration with HELOA, to support the university guidance provided in secondary schools and colleges.
Download a full copy of the guide (no registration required).

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/info/information-for-teachers/supporting-pupils:
The University of Aberdeen welcomes school and college groups to visit the campus.
Our recruitment team would be happy to organise a presentation on a range of topics for senior pupils primarily in S4-S6 and college students.
Examples of presentation topics we can deliver include:
Our team are always happy to discuss the requirements for your school or college and to adapt presentations to suit your needs.
If you would like to discuss a visit please email ukteam@abdn.ac.uk and one of our team will be in touch.
*dependent on ambassador availability.
The Access & Articulation Team welcome school and college students to campus throughout the year.
We would also be delighted to arrange a visit to your school or college to discuss support available.
Please contact us directly for further information accessaberdeen@abdn.ac.uk .
Reach Aberdeen provides support to widening access school pupils interested in studying Medicine or Law.
Reach offers a range of on campus and virtual events and opportunities to S4-6 in Aberdeen City, Aberdeenshire.
Moray, Highland, Orkney and Shetland.
Helping to prepare young people for university and their future careers is of high importance to us.
As such, the University of Aberdeen is delighted to receive invitations to university preparation events including career evenings, university fairs and careers displays.
We receive a high number of invitations to school events each year and we endeavour to attend as many of these as possible.
If you would like to contact us about an event at your school, please email our UK recruitment team .
Our Open Day is one of the biggest events in the University calendar and is one of the best occasions for prospective students to visit the University.
During this day, the University showcases all it has to offer and gives prospective students a chance to get a taste of what studying in Aberdeen will really be like.
In addition to our Open Day, prospective students and their parents are welcome to visit the University by arranging a campus visit .
The timings and availability of these visits will be dependent on staff availability.
We are also very pleased to arrange for Secondary School pupils to visit to campus as part of an arranged class visit.
This usually includes a short presentation about the University and a tour of the campus led by one of our Student Ambassadors.
Please email the UK Student Recruitment Team to enquire.
The University is committed to providing opportunities for young people in our local schools to engage with the university.
Whether that be by visits to our campus, on campus/online events or our staff visiting schools, the School Engagement Summary document details all of the key contacts for Primary and Secondary outreach for local schools.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/info/key-dates:
We look forward to welcoming you to the University of Aberdeen!
The below contains information about key dates for United Kingdom and overseas applicants for our undergraduate programmes.
Please remember to complete all required steps as soon as possible.
Don't wait until the date listed below to complete a step!
If you have any questions about your application, please email Undergraduate Admissions .
Apply via UCAS by 29th January 2025 (equal consideration deadline).
For Medicine, the deadline to apply is 15th October 2024.
Some degrees will still be accepting applications after this date, so do check on UCAS to see what might still be open for application.
Attend one of our Virtual or In-Person Applicant Information Evenings running from December 2024 to February 2025.
Receive your decision (Unconditional, Conditional or Unsuccessful): you will receive a decision from the University by 14th May 2025 at the latest, though we will hope to have all decisions made by the end of March 2025.
Keep an eye on your UCAS Hub account and your emails!
Attend our on-campus Offer Holder Day on 23rd April 2025.
Once you receive an offer from Aberdeen, you will be sent an email with information on how to book your place for this event.
Make Aberdeen your Firm Choice.
If you have received all of your university offers on UCAS Hub by 14th May 2025, then you will need to make your decision on UCAS Hub by 5th June 2025.
Exam Results Day - Good luck!
SQA Results Day is 5th August 2025 and A Level Results Day is 14th August 2025.
Remember, if things don't go as expected, do call our Clearing Hotline to talk through your possible options with our friendly Clearing Team.
Welcome Week (Freshers) starts 15th September 2025 and teaching starts 22nd September 2025.
See you then!
Applications must be made through UCAS.
Applications must be submitted by 4th August for September 2025 though we shall accept applications up to 22nd August for those receiving results a little later in August.
All decisions will be made as soon as possible but we may have to ask you for additional information.
Accept & send all required documents to the Admissions Team.
If your offer was conditional on sending your results then please do this as soon as possible to ugadmissions@abdn.ac.uk.
You also need to return to the Admissions Team the Financial Guarantee document (no CAS can be issued without this).
You will have to pay a non-refundable deposit if you meet specific criteria and you need to apply for your visa as soon as possible after receiving your CAS.
Once you have a Student ID you need to set up your IT account and complete multi-factor authentication from mid August.
You need to complete online registration from mid August.
Welcome Week starts on 15th September 2025.
Welcome Week is all about helping you settle in and prepare for your academic and non-academic university life.
Teaching starts on 22nd of September 2025.
The last date you can register for your undergraduate programme is 6th of October.
Please note that you must be in Aberdeen, registered and ready to begin your studies in person by this date.
We will not permit students to begin their studies online and will not permit you to register after this date.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/info/request-a-prospectus:
As part of our commitment to sustainability, the University of Aberdeen encourages anyone who would like to read our Undergraduate Prospectus to access a digital copy .
You can also find full details on all of our undergraduate degree programmes, including entry requirements and what you will study, in our online prospectus .
Our webpages have lots of other helpful information about applying to and studying at the University of Aberdeen.
If you would like a copy of our Undergraduate Prospectus sent, we would be delighted to post one out to you (please note: we only post to addresses in the UK and Ireland).
Please complete the form below with your details and we will aim to send a copy within 7 days of receiving your request.
If you are a Careers Advisor, Guidance Teacher, or other school staff member looking for printed resources, including the Undergraduate Prospectus, for your school or college, please contact ukteam@abdn.ac.uk and we would be happy to discuss this with you further.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/meet-the-uk-team:
The UK Team are responsible for the recruitment of students from across the UK and the Republic of Ireland, primarily at undergraduate level.
We attend HE/Recruiting fairs (such as UCAS, UK Uni Search), school careers fairs and provide talks to prospective students.
We also organise key university events, including 3 annual Open Days, Offer Holder days, Applicant Evenings and other events to support those interested in studying at the University of Aberdeen, as well as teachers/career advisers who are supporting them.
We work closely with the admissions team to provide advice and guidance to students and staff regarding applications, grades, subject choices and personal statements.
View a selection of our guidance videos .
Our Team consists of the following four members.
We can all be reached by emailing ukteam@abdn.ac.uk or alternatively chat to us on Unibuddy.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/stem:
Are you passionate about climate change?
Are you curious to discover ground-breaking medicines?
Perhaps you're good at maths and want to make and break codes?
Studying STEM could be the best pathway for you!
STEM is the collective of subjects covering science, technology, engineering, and maths.
It's estimated that in the next decade over 75% of careers will involve STEM-related skills, so studying a STEM course could open doors to an expansive range of job and career opportunities .
Here at the University of Aberdeen we offer a range of STEM-related courses and degrees , and with our cutting-edge facilities and world class team of academics we can give you access to some of the best STEM teaching and research in Scotland.
Watch our latest STEM videos
Find out in more detail what that means in our video.
Explore the reasons why studying a STEM degree at the University of Aberdeen could be the right choice for you.
Our purpose-built Science Teaching Hub provides STEM students with advanced analytical tools, flexible lab spaces and access to research grade equipment in a digitally focussed, paperless environment.
We've been ranked in the Top 20 of 2 major UK league tables.
So what makes a Top 20 university?
View our video to find out more about our recent accolades.
Learn from world-class academics, researchers and industry experts at the forefront of current scientific discoveries.
Explore all your areas of interest through our flexible degree structure, single and joint honours programmes and extensive choice of courses.
Maximise your learning potential and thrive on our beautiful campus with cutting-edge facilities and industry-standard teaching labs.
Our state-of-the-art Science Teaching Hub is now open.
Develop your transferable skills and maximise opportunities for work experience throughout your degree to prepare you for the future.
Benefit from our links with innovative STEM companies and experience living in a vibrant city surrounded by countryside and coastlines.
Discover what our current students enjoy the most about studying STEM at Aberdeen.
"The excellent teaching and research facilities have really enhanced my time here.
The opportunity to work with industry-standard equipment in labs has provided me with valuable experience."
"The professors at the University of Aberdeen have made my degree not only enjoyable but full of support and opportunities.
The lecturers in the Engineering school care about their students."
"Studying Marine Biology has given me so many skills that have set me up for my future career.
The engaging labs and lectures have opened my eyes to so many new areas of research."
Find out why a few of our alumni chose Aberdeen and where their STEM degrees have taken them since graduating.
Fiona Harden credits her experience at the University of Aberdeen for the progress of her academic career.
She now works at CERN, the European research organisation that operates the world's largest particle physics laboratory.
Double graduate Babak Alnasser is a Managing Director in the energy sector, responsible for the UK arm of Safetec Nordic AS, including business development, marketing, and technical study development.
Laura Wyness is an award-winning Nutrition Consultant and scientist specialising in nutrition research and communications, and workplace wellness.
Discover more about the subjects we offer and how to apply to study with us.
See our full range of STEM courses available to undergraduates and find out more about the subjects we offer.
Interested in studying STEM with us?
Learn how you can apply to study at the University of Aberdeen today.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/stem/stem-courses:
We have a large variety of STEM courses to choose from which can be studied in a variety of combinations.
Click on the subject areas below to find out more about the courses available to you!
Archaeology
Biochemistry
Biological and Environmental Sciences
Biomedical Sciences
Chemical Engineering
Chemistry
Civil Engineering
Computing
Computing Science
Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Engineering
Geography
Geology and Geophysics
Mathematics
Mechanical Engineering
Molecular Biology
Neuroscience with Psychology
Petroleum Engineering
Pharmacology
Physics
Physiology
Psychology
Sports and Exercise Science

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/deposits:
International undergraduate applicants needing a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) for a student visa must pay a tuition fee deposit to the University of Aberdeen upon receiving an offer.
View the Deposits Policy document
You will have to pay a non-refundable deposit if you meet the following criteria:
Please note: No action is required on your part until you receive an email instruction detailing how to pay the deposit from the University.
The Deposit will be deducted from your Programme Tuition Fees and will be evidenced on your CAS - this is not an additional cost.
Please note the Deposit is non-refundable except in certain circumstances as outlined in the Undergraduate Deposit Policy .
Paying the Deposit shows a firm commitment to study at the University of Aberdeen.
We will only issue a CAS where a deposit has been paid, paperwork is in order and we believe you will be issued with a Student Visa when applying to the UKVI.
The deposit for a Taught Undergraduate Programme is £3,000.
Certain nationals may be required to pay a percentage of the Programme Fee before a CAS will be issued (up to 100%) instead.
You will be notified prior to any CAS being issued and will be provided with instructions on how to make the payment.
Please do not pay anything until you receive an email instruction detailing how to make the deposit payment.
You can pay as soon as you receive the email requesting the deposit payment.
This will be when you have firmly accepted a conditional or unconditional offer on UCAS and completed and returned the Financial Guarantee Form.
Paying the Deposit will then enable us to review your documentation in support of us issuing the CAS document as early as possible, which you will need to make a student visa application.
If you are studying online via one of our pre-sessional programmes, then you will be required to pay a deposit.
However, if you are attending the pre-sessional programme on our campus in Aberdeen, then you will not be required to pay the deposit.
No, if you are progressing from the Foundation Programme into your main programme of study, you will not be required to pay a deposit.
No, you should only make one payment towards your deposit to enable us to progress and issue a CAS.
Please use the link(s) provided in the deposit email and make one payment of a minimum of £3,000.
Yes, when making your deposit payment you can pay more than the minimum Deposit amount requested – up to the value of your programme fee.
If you are being fully sponsored (i.e.
full tuition fees paid) by a recognised sponsor (as defined by the UKVI), then you are not required to pay a Deposit.
You must provide the appropriate evidence, i.e.
Final Award Letter.
The University will only accept sponsorship letters from recognised sponsors (overseas governments, international business, universities, Trusts and Charities, etc) and not from friends or family members.
If your family will be paying your tuition fees, you or your family must pay the deposit, as this is deemed to be self-funding.
If you are only partly sponsored, then you will still be required to pay a Deposit.
No, if your full fees are being covered by a US Federal Student Aid Loan, then you are not required to pay a Deposit.
However, you must notify us that this is your intention and we will liaise with our colleagues who deal with Federal Loans to ensure that an application is being processed.
No, if your fees are being covered by the Lanenkassen Loan, then you are not required to pay a Deposit.
You will have to provide supporting documentation before the deposit requirement will be waived.
If you have been awarded a full tuition fee scholarship (i.e.
100% of your tuition fees) by the University of Aberdeen, we will waive the requirement for a Deposit.
If you have a partial scholarship (less than 100% of your tuition fees), you are still required to pay the deposit.
No, you will not be required to pay an additional £3,000.
You will have to pay either 50% or 100% of your 1st year tuition fees and a weblink will be provided to allow you to do so.
Please note that if you decide not to come to the University of Aberdeen once you have paid your tuition fees, the first £3,000 of any payment will not be refunded, except in exceptional circumstances.
Once you have paid the deposit and you have received email confirmation the University has successfully received your payment, your file will move to the next stage of CAS issuance.
An Admissions Officer will liaise with you, via CAS Shield, to review your documentation to ensure it meets current UKVI regulations which will give your visa application a greater chance of being granted.
Deposit payments will be accepted via our payment partners Flywire and Convera who accept a variety of payment methods including international and UK bank transfer, card and ewallet payments.
A University of Aberdeen link to our partner website will be provided via email when you have firmly accepted a conditional offer via UCAS and state that you are self-funding via the Financial Guarantee form.
The University of Aberdeen does not accept Applicant Deposit payments by any other method.
Both of our payment partners provide receipts and payment tracking.
You will also receive an email from the University to confirm that your payment has been received and your record has been updated.
Please note once you have completed your transfer with our payment partner it can take up to 14-days for the University to receive your payment.
No, if you have used the link in the deposit email sent out to you, you do not need to let us know that payment has been made, as we will be automatically notified by our payment partner.
You can advise that payment has been made through your CAS Shield account but this will only be confirmed once payment has been received by our Finance Team.
Yes, the Deposit amount will be shown on your CAS as a deduction from your tuition fees.
Please email our Undergraduate Admissions Team who will be able to answer your specific questions, but please check the FAQs in case your question is answered here.
You can email ugadmissions@abdn.ac.uk .
No, if you decide to defer your place to the next intake, and have already paid your Deposit, the Deposit will be retained and rolled over to the next entry point.
You will not have to pay it again.
Please note that the Deposit will only be rolled over to the next entry point once.
Your deposit will be refunded in the following situations:
Your Deposit will not be refunded:
You must email deposits@abdn.ac.uk to request a Deposit Refund detailing in full the reason for requesting a refund and provide any relevant documentation to support your request.
Please ensure that you provide your UCAS Personal ID number and your Date of Birth to ensure we can locate your file.
The refund will be processed through our payment partners to the source of the original payment.
If a family member paid the Deposit on behalf of the applicant, the University is unable to refund directly to the applicant.
You may be requested to provide proof of payment (e.g.
payment receipt or bank statement showing payment from that account).
Failure to provide any of these will delay the refund and may render it unpayable.
If being refunded into a non-Sterling Bank where currency conversion is necessary, any exchange rate fluctuations and any charges made by the receiving bank are the responsibility of the party receiving the funds.
Once a refund has been approved, it can take up to 60 working days for the payment to be processed.
If you are an Undergraduate International Applicant who has received a conditional or unconditional offer, which you have Firmly accepted via UCAS and have completed and returned the Financial Guarantee Form, you will receive an email from the University of Aberdeen requesting payment of your non-refundable deposit.
You can make payment using the Flywire and Convera payment links.
No other payments should be made on these portals.
Do not make payment until you receive an email requesting payment.
Be Fraud Aware - The University of Aberdeen does not accept Applicant Deposit Payments by any other method.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/how-to-apply/postgraduate-programmes-and-frequently-asked-questions:
Find out how to apply for Postgraduate Programmes and view Frequently Asked Questions.
It's easy to apply, simply create an account and apply via the Postgraduate Applicant Portal .
There is no application fee for postgraduate taught or research applications.
For help on using the applicant portal, watch this short video:
Please note that applications for the PGDE in Primary Education or PGDE in Secondary Education must be submitted through UCAS .
Please take the time to gather your documents and write your personal statement before starting your application, you have 30 days in which to complete it before submitting.
There is an option for you to request an extension within the Applicant Portal but only after the first 28 days have passed.
If your application has expired we may be able to re-activate it for you, please email pgadmissions@abdn.ac.uk with your personal number and application number (if known) and the postgraduate degree programme you were applying for.
You won't be able to submit the application until you have uploaded the following documents:
Official transcript.
If you have graduated, this should be a copy of your final transcript.
If you haven't finished your degree yet, please upload a copy of your transcript to date.
We accept scanned copies of the official transcript issued by your current or former university.
If the transcript is not in English, please upload a scanned copy of the transcript in the original language with an official translation in English.
Personal Statement.
We suggest that you prepare the personal statement before you start the application.
As a guide we would recommend that you write between 250 to 500 words to answer the following questions:
Some degree programmes may require additional documentation such as a CV/Resume or professional references before a decision can be made.
Please check the prospectus entry for your programme before submitting your application in case any additional documents are necessary.
We can usually assess your application if the minimum documents have been uploaded with your application.
If you haven't graduated or, if you haven't supplied an essential document, you might receive a conditional offer of admission.
If so, you can upload documents to satisfy the condition via the Applicant Portal later.
Other documents which can be submitted with your application or which can be uploaded later are:
Final official transcript or degree certificate
We can only accept a copy of the final official transcript or degree certificate, which confirms the degree has been achieved in the original language and with an official English language translation.
You can upload these after you have submitted the application form.
Evidence of English language proficiency
View information about our English language entry requirements and the documents that are acceptable to demonstrate proficiency in English.
The University's Language Centre also offers a range of English language courses to help you improve your English language skills and to reach the University's English language entry requirements.
References
References may be required for some postgraduate programmes.
These may be academic references or professional, employer references.
If references are required, this will be noted in the Entry Requirements section of the prospectus entry for your programme .
Referees are welcome to email to us directly from their professional e-mail address or, if providing you with a letter, the reference should be written on headed paper so that you can e-mail it or upload it to the Applicant Portal .
Previous UK Study (PUK)
If you are an International Student who has previously undertaken or are currently undertaking any period or type of study in the UK please upload copies of your UK Visas and/or Biometric Residence Permits (BRPs) and admission/CAS letters to your Applicant Portal.
Visa Refusal
If you have previously submitted a UK visa application which was unsuccessful please upload a copy of the refusal letter to your Applicant Portal.
For any other questions about the application process, please contact: Postgraduate Admissions or the School of Education for queries relating to their specific programmes.
We recommend that applications from non-UK applicants looking to join us in September 2025 are sent as soon as possible, and preferably by Monday 11 August.
We recommend that you accepted your offer and sent all required documents to the Admissions Team as soon as possible and preferably by Monday 18 August.
Please note that in some cases where students can clear their conditions and have access to fast track visa services some flexibility can be provided.
The application deadline for applicants not requiring a Student Visa for part time and full time postgraduate taught degrees starting in September 2025 is Monday 8 September.
This includes applications for online postgraduate taught degrees.
If you have completed a degree at a UK university this year but not been issued with a final certificate of award and are therefore concerned that you will not meet out entry requirements, please be assured that we will consider your application and may well be able to offer you a place.
Your offer will needed to be accepted and any outstanding documents to meet the conditions of your offer uploaded to your applicant portal by Monday 15 September.
This will give the Admissions team time to process your paperwork in time for the start of teaching which commences on Monday 22 September.
Research degrees
Unless you are applying for an advertised studentship or research project, most Research degrees can start at any time.
You are welcome to apply up to 18 months before your preferred start date.
Actual start dates will be confirmed in the admissions documentation.
View all of our key dates for getting started at the University of Aberdeen
Previous deadlines
Applicants requiring a Student Visa – January 2025
We recommended that applications from non-UK applicants looking to join us in January 2025 were sent as soon as possible, and preferably by Monday 2 December.
We recommended that you accepted your offer and sent all required documents to the Admissions Team as soon as possible and preferably by Monday 16 December.
Applicants not requiring a Student Visa - January 2025
The application deadline for applicants not requiring a Student Visa for part time and full time postgraduate taught degrees starting in January 2025 was Monday 9 December.
Your offer needed to be accepted and any outstanding documents to meet the conditions of your offer uploaded to your applicant portal by Wednesday 18 December.
This gave the Admissions team time to process your paperwork in time for the start of teaching which commences on Monday 10 February.
After submitting your application, you will receive an email acknowledgement from the University.
Your application will be reviewed by an Admissions Co-Ordinator and an Admissions Officer.
We will contact you if additional information or documentation is required before a decision can be reached.
Additional documents would need to be uploaded onto the Applicant Portal .
We will let you know the outcome of your application by e-mail however you can check the status of your application at any time in the Applicant Portal .
We will always communicate with you using the e-mail address which is linked to your application, if you change e-mail address please ensure you update your e-mail address in the Applicant Portal .
Information about what to do next can found in the Offer Holder Information section of our website.
Possibly depending on how long it is since you started the application.
Please email pgadmissions@abdn.ac.uk with your personal number and application number (if known) and the postgraduate degree programme you were applying for.
No, you can only accept one offer of admission.
This does not prevent you from applying for several programmes, waiting for the decisions, and then accepting your preferred offer.
When your acceptance is processed, your remaining applications with decisions are withdrawn and any without a decision are removed.
It may be possible to change your programme after your acceptance has been processed by emailing pgadmissions@abdn.ac.uk.
You may have to pay a non-refundable deposit if you meet specific criteria.
No, once you have accepted your offer, provided evidence to meet any outstanding conditions, confirmed how you will finance your studies and provided us with a copy of your passport, your file will be reviewed by an Admissions Officer who will authorise the issuing of your joining papers and CAS.
If you need to update your financial information following acceptance of your offer you can do so at any time through our online Financial Guarantee Form and upload supporting documents to the Applicant Portal .
Yes, you can request a defer using our Deferral Form .
You may make a maximum of two deferral requests only , no more than two years from the original application entry date.
You are only allowed to defer one offer .
The final date for deferring is the “application deadline date” for the cycle you are deferring to.
View the Deadline Dates .
It is important if you decide to request a defer that you check your record in the Applicant Portal and ensure all your information is up to date, including your email address.
Please note that academic entry requirements and English requirements for our programmes are subject to change.
Some English Language Tests are only valid for a limited time so your application will need to be reassessed, and a new offer issued.
Your new offer may have new conditions attached so please check this over thoroughly before completing the acceptance form.
Tuition fees are detailed on the individual programmes prospectus pages.
More information is available here: Tuition Fees or email tuitionfees@abdn.ac.uk if you have any additional questions.
You usually pay 50% of your tuition fees when you complete your online registration at the start of term.
Please email pgadmissions@abdn.ac.uk for confirmation, please note we have to contact another team for this information so it might take longer than usual to receive a response.
You can find information on tuition fees here: Scholarships and Funding
Check your Scholarship eligibility criteria:
No, we receive a daily report detailing what has been uploaded to the Online Portal.
If you are having issues uploading document please email servicedesk@abdn.ac.uk .
If you add 'Issues with PGAP' into the subject line this will ensure that it gets passed to the correct team.
If you are required to obtain an ATAS certificate this will be detailed in your Offer letter.
We do not automatically issue an unconditional Offer once your conditions have been met, however if you require a letter for funding purposes we can arrange for a new Offer to be sent out.
Please email pgadmissions@abdn.ac.uk and provide your personal and application numbers to request this.
Most postgraduate degree programmes start in September, however a number of programmes now also have a January start date.
Please make sure you select your preferred start date when filling out the application form.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/how-to-apply/admissions-policy:
View the current Postgraduate Taught Terms and Conditions

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/how-to-apply/academic-technology-approval-scheme:
Please note that overseas applicants for some Science, Engineering or Technology disciplines may require an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate.
The ATAS certificate must be obtained before applying for a student Entry Clearance or VISA.
You can submit an ATAS application up to 6 months before the programme start date, even if the offer is still conditional.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/offers:
You can add documents to your application online, via our postgraduate applicant portal
Information for international students who require a visa.
Read our step-by-step guidance
Information for students who do not require a visa.
If you require a visa to study in the UK you can find more information on the UK Visas & Immigration website or on the University's website .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/offers/accepting-or-deferring---international-applicants-requiring-a-visa:
Understanding your Offer
Carefully read your Offer Letter in conjunction with our Terms and Conditions- Postgraduate and the information on Student Visa requirements which is available on the University's International webpages and on the UK Visas & Immigration website.
Your Offer will be either Unconditional or Conditional .
If the offer is conditional you can still accept it, however we will need evidence that you have met the conditions of the offer no less than six weeks before the programme start date.
Making your decision
If your Offer is Unconditional or if you are confident you will be able to satisfy the conditions of the Offer if it is Conditional, and you are also able to satisfy the Student Visa application requirements, you can go ahead and accept your offer of admission by clicking on the link in your Offer Letter and accessing your online Acceptance Form.
However, if you have submitted more than one application and are awaiting further decisions please wait until you have received all your decisions before proceeding.
If you are not confident you will be able to satisfy the Student Visa requirements for the start date you have applied for, we can defer your Offer of admission to allow you time to do this, please submit your defer request through this online Form .
Accepting your offer through the Online Acceptance Form Link in your Cover Letter
Please complete the first section of the form.
You will need the Applicant ID and Application Number detailed in your Offer Letter and also the full name of the Degree for which you have received an Offer.
Please advise us if you need a Student Visa to study in the UK.
If you do you will be asked to upload a CLEAR AND LEGIBLE copy of the passport you will use to apply for your visa.
If applicable you will also be asked to upload evidence of previous visa refusals and evidence of previous or current UK study.
NOTE: If you are unable to provide us with the required documents during the acceptance process you can upload these at a later date to the Applicant Portal .
We will need copies of these documents before we can clear you for entry so please ensure these are uploaded no later than six weeks before the programme start date.
Please complete the second section of the form, this section of the form is where you need to advise us how you are going to fund your studies.
You have five options to choose from:
NOTE: If you select this box you must update us when your funding source has been confirmed through our online Financial Guarantee Form
NOTE: You will be required to demonstrate to the UK Visas & Immigration that you have held the full amount for tuition fees and £9207 for maintenance funds in your bank account for a minimum of 28 consecutive days before you apply for a visa Student Visa Policy Guidance.
NOTE: You are required to upload the letter of confirmation from your sponsor however if you are unable to provide us this document during the acceptance process you can upload these at a later date to the Applicant Portal.
We will need copies of these documents before we can clear you for entry so please ensure these are uploaded as soon as possible.
Please also note that if your sponsor fails to meet the cost of your Tuition Fees, you will become personally responsible for this.
Further information is available here Student Visa Policy Guidance for a description of an Official Sponsor.
NOTE: We will need your STAFF ID number
NOTE: We will need the School name and contact details
NOTE: If you need to update your financial information following acceptance of your offer you can do so at any time through our online Financial Guarantee Form and upload supporting documents to the Applicant Portal .
However we will need up to date copies of these documents before we can clear you for entry so please ensure these are uploaded no later than six weeks before the programme start date.
Submit the Form
Submit the form to the Admissions Team, you will receive an acknowledgement to the email address you used to submit the form, please retain this.
Satisfying conditions of your Offer
If the offer of admission is conditional we will need you to upload the documents required to meet the conditions as soon as these are available to the Applicant Portal.
If you need to improve your English language, the University's Language Centre offers a range of Pre-sessional and Academic English Preparation courses to help applicants achieved the required standard in English language.
Please visit the Language Centre website for more information.
Alternatively, the University accepts several different English Language Tests all of which are listed Here.
If your offer letter indicates that you need to apply for ATAS clearance, please submit your ATAS application within the 6 months prior to the degree start date.
You can submit the ATAS application while your offer is still conditional, before you have accepted the offer of admission and whilst you are still waiting to hear the outcome of scholarship applications if necessary.
However, do not apply too early as the ATAS certificate must be valid when you submit it with the visa application.
If you defer or change degree, you will have to submit a new ATAS application.
You will need to provide some information in relation to your chosen programme of study as part of your application.
Once you have received ATAS approval please upload evidence of this to the Applicant Portal.
To enable us to review your file and clear you for entry you must have:
Clearing takes place over a number of months prior to commencement date.
Your Joining Papers, which contain your Certificate of Acceptance (CAS) will be sent to the email address which was used to make your application.
The University uses the online self-service system CAS Shield to enable us to review your documents for CAS issue.
Once you have fulfilled all conditions and firmly accepted your offer, you will receive an email invitation from CAS Shield to create an account.
CAS Shield will be auto-populated with information about you and your programme and you will be asked to check this for accuracy.
It is very important that all the information is accurate, otherwise there is a risk that your visa may be refused.
Note: We cannot send the Joining Papers and Certificate of Acceptance out any earlier than 6 months before the degree start date.
Your CAS will be valid for 6 months.
Taught Degrees
For most Taught programmes, the start date detailed in the offer of admission letter is the start of registration week.
It is important to try to arrive during registration week so that you can attend orientation and induction events.
In most cases, teaching will usually begin on the Monday of the following week but please check the New Students website in the weeks before your programme is due to start for programme-specific information.
If you arrive later than the start of teaching week you will miss classes and it will be your responsibility to catch up on everything that you have missed.
In all cases, all students must arrive by the latest state date noted on the Certificate of Acceptance.
You will not be admitted after the latest start date.
Research Degrees
For Research degrees, the start date given in the offer of admission letter (or the first working day thereafter) is normally both registration and the start of your studies.
All Students
You must register before you can commence studies and, if appropriate, re-register at the start of each new academic year (in September).
Yes, you can request a defer using our Postgraduate Taught Deferral Form .
The final date for deferring is the “application deadline date” for the cycle you are deferring to Deadline Dates .
Some English Language Tests are only valid for a limited time so your application will need to be reassessed and a new offer issued.
Your Offer will expire after two years or if following your initial entry date the programme is withdrawn or the conditions for entry change.
Yes, you can request a defer using our Postgraduate Research Deferral Form .
To decline your Offer, please select “I wish to DECLINE the offer of admission” on the online Acceptance Form or email Postgraduate Admissions making sure you include your Applicant ID and Application Number, which are detailed in your Offer Letter.
We will acknowledge receipt of your request and withdraw the Offer.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/offers/accepting-or-deferring---applicants-not-requiring-a-visa:
Carefully read your Offer Letter in conjunction with our Terms and Conditions- Postgraduate
Your Offer will be either Unconditional or Conditional.
If the offer is conditional you can still accept it, however we will need evidence that you have met the conditions of the offer no less than four weeks before the programme start date.
If your Offer is Unconditional or if you are confident you will be able to satisfy the conditions of the Offer if it is Conditional, you can go ahead and accept your offer of admission by clicking on the link in your Offer Letter and accessing your online Acceptance Form.
If you are not confident you will be able to satisfy the conditions of your offer for the start date you have applied for, we can defer your Offer of admission to allow you time to do this, please submit your defer request through this online Form .
NOTE: You are required to upload the letter of confirmation from your sponsor however if you are unable to provide us this document during the acceptance process you can upload these at a later date to the Applicant Portal .
However we will need up to date copies of these documents before we can clear you for entry so please ensure these are uploaded no later than four weeks before the programme start date.
If the offer of admission is conditional we will need you to upload the documents required to meet the conditions as soon as these are available to the Applicant Portal .
Alternatively, the University accepts several different English Language Tests all of which are listed here
Clearing
We will be able to clear you for entry when you have:
Your Joining Papers, will be sent to the email address which was used to make your application.
Note: We cannot send the Joining Papers out any earlier than 6 months before the degree start date
To request deferring entry, please submit your Defer request through our Postgraduate Taught Deferral Form or Postgraduate Research Deferral Form .
On receipt of this form if the programme you have received an Offer for is available for the required entry date we will issue you with a new Offer.
Note: Some English Language Tests are only valid for a limited time and deferring your entry date may result in you needing to undertake an additional test.
It is important if you decide to defer that you keep us informed of any changes to your correspondence address by updating your record in the Applicant Portal .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/finance/uk-students:
For more information on where to find out about all available funding, scholarships, bursaries, loans and discounts through the University and externally from organisations, companies and charities

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/finance/uk-students/scholarships-and-funding:
For all available funding, from general bursaries and discount scheme to discipline and country specific scholarships, within the University and externally, visit our funding database.
Continue your Aberdeen journey and unlock exclusive financial support with a reduced tuition fee of just £7,000 for most full-time, on-campus taught Masters programmes.
We offer a 20% discount for postgraduate tuition fees to all alumni who have an undergraduate degree from University of Aberdeen.
The Alumni Discount Scheme applies to both home and overseas students and to the self-funding element of the postgraduate tuition fee.
Scottish-domiciled students undertaking a one year full time taught postgraduate course will be able to access, via the Students Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS), a loan to support theirs studies.
For AY 2022/23, this can be up to £10,000 - comprising £5,500 for fees and £4,500 for living costs.
For AY 2023/24, the tuition fee loan portion will increase to £7000.
You can apply for this from April 2023.
Please note that SAAS eligibility rules do apply.
From September 2016, you may be able to get a Postgraduate Loan of up to £10,000 to help with course fees and living costs.
Postgraduate Loans (PGL) are arranged through Student Finance England and are a contribution towards your cost of study and it is at your discretion to use the loan towards fees or maintenance costs.
They are non-means tested and will be paid directly to you.
The main sources of financial support for UK postgraduate students are the government research councils and other agencies.
If you achieve a First-Class Honours degree you can apply for a Carnegie Scholarship.
Details can be obtained from the the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland and our Funding Database .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/finance/international-students:
To help you budget we have included an approximate guide on the cost of study.
Costs will vary depending on your lifestyle requirements.
You can also use the International Student Calculator to help plan and manage your budget when studying in the UK.
Scholarships, grants and student loans could be available from your local government.
Enquire with the Ministry of Education within your own country to find out what is available.
We recognise that postgraduate study is a major personal and financial undertaking and so for September, we have a significant range of postgraduate scholarships to offer to talented students, to help with the cost of learning.
Open to all international students and available on a competitive basis, the University of Aberdeen invites high-achieving students to apply for scholarships.
In the absence of a local British Council office, consult the nearest British Embassy or High Commission.
You may like to visit:
You may like to explore governmental and non-governmental bodies, including educational charities, provide financial assistance to a diversity of students seeking education overseas.
You can approach commercial and industrial companies in the fields related to your specialisation, e.g.
in the medical field to pharmaceutical companies.
Generally, apply to the Managing Director in the first instance.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/january:
We offer a number of programmes with a January start date.
Starting your studies in January is perfect if you're still considering your options, you need more time to secure funding or you're looking for a new challenge in the new year.
The University of Aberdeen understands that flexibility is key for postgraduate study so we have a number of degree programmes available with a January 2026 start date.
All new self-funded international on campus postgraduate Masters students starting in January 2026 will receive the Aberdeen Global Scholarship, a £8,000 tuition fee waiver.
Many of our January start programmes are also available to study online or you can start with an online short course and build credits towards some of our online Masters degrees.
As a top 15 UK University* and 2nd in Scotland**, we offer students an exceptional academic environment and access to leading faculty members.
We also rank 2nd in Scotland in the Guardian University Guide 2025.
There are also a number of PhD opportunities available for January start
*Guardian University Guide 2025 and Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 **Guardian University Guide 2025
Information on key dates, scholarships, English language requirements and accommodation.
All the key dates for starting in January.
We offer a range of funding and scholarship opportunities.
The University's Language Centre offers a pre-sessional English language programme for students whose degrees start in January.
We offer a range of accommodation for all of our students close to our Old Aberdeen and Foresterhill campus, perfect if you are looking to join us in January.
If you require a Student visa, you will need:

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/employment:
As an Aberdeen graduate you will be perfectly placed to take the first steps to success.
Aberdeen graduates earn some of the highest starting salaries in the UK and we offer a professional Careers and Employability Service for life in order to maximise our student's employability.
As a taught postgraduate student your year will be busy - some planning early on and good time management will ensure you make the most of it.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/employment/industry-links:
Each school has gained local, UK and international connections from alumni, industry, research and consultancy.
We attract a wide range of UK and international employers and many of our postgraduates provide consultancy work in business.
Many programmes allow for professional accreditation at exam time giving you a great start to your career.
University of Aberdeen is ideally situated in the energy capital of Europe.
The city and university attracts major FTSE 100 employers, a significant number of suppliers and services across the supply chain.
Known for its intensive agricultural farming Aberdeenshire supplies many of the food and drink industries, including the nearby whisky and fine foods trail.
Aberdeenshire and the Islands have their fair share of luxury heritage international home and fashion brands.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/employment/employment-during-your-studies:
You will likely be allowed to work up to 20 hours a week part-time during vacations if you are an international student.
The amount you earn will allow you to supplement your income.
Seasonal and part time work is available locally and throughout Scotland and is a great way to gain employment experience, learn about a variety of work and find out about the way of life in Aberdeenshire and Scotland.
You will meet many interesting people and often make connections for life.
The work available is extremely varied and you could be doing anything from working in retail and hospitality to heritage tourism and manufacturing.
Many companies can offer placements during the summer months in your chosen area of employment so it is worth approaching them if you want to find out about their opportunities.
Outside of term time there are seasonal job opportunities available throughout Scotland.
Scotland is a tourist destination for international travellers from all over the world.
There are opportunities at major tourist destinations, including retail, hospitality, heritage attractions, arts cafes in more rural locations, galleries, accommodation, and much more.
Some areas of Scotland provide winter sports and winter city breaks which also attract a lot of seasonal work.
The Careers and Employability Service is happy to help students with finding part-time work.
Details of opportunities are published on their MyCareerHub system, which all students are automatically registered to use.
They can also help with writing CVs, covering letters and application forms.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/options:
We understand that your circumstances may change.
We want you to know that we are here for you, and you have a number of options available.
If you are unable to join us in January 2025, you can ask for your offer to be deferred to September 2025 or January 2026.
If you wish to defer your offer, click on the link below to fill in the deferral form.
If you hold multiple offers, please fill in the form separately for each offer.
Please note that if you have already registered on your degree, you cannot defer your offer.
You need to request a suspension of studies from our Registry Team.
Click here for more information on this
We understand that these are anxious times.
If you want to talk to someone about your options, you can email study@abdn.ac.uk to discuss, you can chat with our staff and students or you can join us for one of our virtual events .
If you are unable to join us in person to undertake your studies you may find studying online a suitable alternative.
We offer respected online degree qualifications across a range of disciplines.
All designed to fit around full-time work and family life.
Online learning gives you access to our academic expertise wherever you are, with no need for a study visa
We help thousands of students achieve an online education each year, from over 100 countries.
Join our online community and we'll support you every step of the way.
If you'd like to discuss your online learning options, we're here to help .
If you are unable to commit to a full-time, on-campus degree, our online short courses offer a flexible, affordable entry route to some of our online Masters degrees.
Our Masters-level online short courses can help you start studying for a Masters degree if:
View our online short course routes

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/deposits:
The University of Aberdeen requires a tuition fee deposit from international applicants in receipt of an offer to Postgraduate Taught programmes, and who require a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) for a student visa application.
Please note the Deposit is non-refundable except in certain circumstances as outlined here .
We do not require a tuition fee deposit for any research-based Postgraduate Programmes.
No action is required on your part until you receive an email instruction from the University.
Programme Exemption List
The deposit for a Taught Postgraduate Masters Programme is £3,000.
This will be when you have firmly accepted an unconditional offer.
No you are not required to pay a deposit for the main programme.
Yes, when making your deposit payment you can pay more than the minimum Deposit amount requested up to the value of your programme fee.
No.
If your family will be paying your tuition fees, you are classed as self-funding and you or your family must pay the deposit.
No, if your full fees are being covered by the Lanenkassen Loan, then you are not required to pay a deposit.
No, if your full fees are being covered by the Prodigy Loan, then you are not required to pay a deposit.
Please do not pay a Deposit until you have met all conditions in your offer letter.
If you originally received a conditional offer and you have now met all of your conditions, we will email you to advise that your offer is now unconditional.
A payment link email will be sent out to you once you have firmly accepted an unconditional offer so you can pay the Deposit.
Making a payment on a conditional offer does not influence the outcome of your application nor does it speed up the process.
You will have to pay either 50% or 100% of your tuition fees and a weblink will be provided to allow you to do so.
Links to our partner website will be provided via email when you have firmly accepted an unconditional offer and state that you are self-funding.
Please note once you have completed your transfer with our payment partner it can take up to 14 days for the University to receive your payment.
No, if you have used the link in the deposit email sent out to you, you do not need to let us know that payment has been made as we will be automatically notified by our payment partner.
No, deposits cannot be transferred to another student or any other individual.
-If you request a refund of the deposit within 14 days of payment being received by the University.
In this instance it will be assumed that you no longer wish to study at the University of Aberdeen and your offer of admission will be marked as declined.
However, if a CAS has been issued, within the 14 days, no refund will be authorised as it will be assumed that you no longer wish to study at the University of Aberdeen.
Your CAS will be cancelled and your offer of admission marked as declined.
- If the University is unable to provide the academic programme originally applied for, offered and accepted, and you do not want to take a place on any alterna ti ve programme offered.
- If you do not meet the condi ti ons of your offer, including any English language requirements, and you provide sa ti sfactory valida ti ng evidence.
Note that if you made no a tt empt to meet the offer conditions no refund will be given.
- If your ATAS clearance applica ti on is refused.
- If the University deems it necessary to withdraw your CAS or visa sponsorship, except where this is due to due to evidence of fraudulent ac ti vity, plagiarism, or omission in the applica ti on process or visa applica ti on process.
- If your UK student visa application is refused or rejected, except where refusal is a result of:
Your deposit will not be refunded if you:
Once a refund has been approved, it can take up to 30 working days for the payment to be processed.
If you are a PGT international student who has received a firm, unconditional offer and received an email from the University of Aberdeen requesting payment of your non refundable deposit, you can make payment using the Flywire and Convera payment links below.
Do not make payment until you receive your firm unconditional offer and email requesting payment.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/dates:
For guidance, we've provided the key dates for September 2025 on a dedicated webpage.
Please remember to complete all required steps as soon as possible; you don't have to wait until the date listed to complete a step.
In some cases where students can clear their conditions and have access to fast-track visa services some flexibility can be provided.
If you have any questions about your application, please email pgadmissions@abdn.ac.uk .
The dates for January 2026 are to be confirmed.
View the key dates for September 2025.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/conversion-programmes:
Thinking about a new career
Postgraduate Conversion Programmes are designed for graduates who are ready to pivot into a new subject area or industry.
A Postgraduate Conversion Programme is a Master's degree that enables you to transition into a new career by gaining essential knowledge and practical skills in a subject you may not have studied before, removing the need to start over.
These programmes are career-focused, hands-on, and tailored to prepare you for employment or further professional qualifications in your chosen field.
Whether you’re looking to future-proof your career, pursue a long-standing interest, or adapt to changing job prospects, a conversion course offers a practical and recognised route forward.
Our conversion programmes can help you move into areas such as:
View a full list of Postgraduate Taught programmes
Postgraduate conversion programmes are eligible for the same funding support as other taught Master’s degrees.
If you are about to graduate or already hold a degree from the University of Aberdeen, and are from Scotland or the rest of the UK (Home/RUK) you could benefit from a reduced tuition fee of just £7,000 for most full-time, on-campus taught Masters programmes.
This aligns with the SAAS tuition fee loan.
Self-funded international students starting in September 2025 or January 20256 can receive an £8,000 tuition fee waiver.
Additional funding may also be available depending on your programme and circumstances

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/excellence:
View our Institutes and Centres
From the deepest ocean trenches in the world, to the smallest particles in the universe; from Alaskan permafrost discoveries to pioneering cancer treatments, the University of Aberdeen houses world-leading academics from across the globe committed to deep thinking.
How did Aberdeen do in the last REFinternationally?
Read more detail about research assessments
Current Research strengths:

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/support:
Find out about the support we offer you as a researchers at the University of Aberdeen.
Supporting your PGR experience, find out about your PGR community and the policies and milestones that govern your PhD.
The Wellbeing of our researchers is important to the University.
Therefore the PGR School has developed a number of services and events.
We are passionate about you development and equipping you with the tools to be successful in your field and beyond
The Careers and Employability Service is available to inspire and support your career choices beyond your doctorate.
The Centre for Academic Development provides learning, teaching and professional development for staff and students across the University.
Helping all students to achieve their full academic potential

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/centres:
The University of Aberdeen is part of several Doctoral training centres carrying our world class research across disciplines.
Each Centre or partnership provides funded PhD positions) and place significant importance on development into an independent researcher, as part of a larger cohort, under the guidance of an expert supervision team.
The multi-million pound project, funded by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) and the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC) is a research and training programme designed to equip PhD students with the skills, expertise, outlook, and real-world experience to become the next generation of scientific leaders capable of addressing the most pressing environmental grand challenges such as climate change, biodiversity loss, and sustainability.
It brings together research and teaching centres of excellence in biological sciences and geosciences from the University of Aberdeen and Queen's University Belfast and collaborative partners to provide a transformative platform for PhD Research and training.
The £1 million project directly address the urgent global need to develop new and innovative strategies for the sustainable production of chemicals and materials using renewable feedstocks and renewable energy.
Funded jointly by the Arts and Humanities Research Council and the Scottish Funding Council, the University of Aberdeen is a partner in the SGSAH, the world's first national graduate school in the Arts & Humanities.
The DTP offers offer unparalleled training and support to doctoral researchers in Scotland.
Funded jointly by the Economic and Social Research Council and the Scottish Funding Council, the University of Aberdeen is a partner in the SGSSS, the UK's largest facilitator of funding, training and support for doctoral students in social science.
By combining the expertise of sixteen universities across Scotland, the school facilitates world-class PhD research.
EASTBIO is the East of Scotland BioScience Doctoral Training Partnership.
The University of Aberdeen is a partner in this DTP, funded by the BBSRC and supported by the Scottish Universities Life Sciences Alliance.
Funded by the natural Environment Research Council, the SUPER DTP addresses an interdisciplinary "catchment to coast" research portfolio, combining the expertise of a well-established collaborative group of universities, delivering world-leading research and training in natural environmental sciences
Established with government support, through the Oil and Gas Technology Centre (OGTC), this multi-million-pound global centre of excellence works in partnership with government and industry to deliver research and training aimed at transforming oil and gas decommissioning and mature field management.
Political Concepts in the World (POLITICO) is a Horizon2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie doctoral training programme for ground-breaking research on how political concepts, such as citizenship, civil society and rule of law, are used in the world.
The Hydro Nation scholars programme is part of the Scottish Government's Hydro Nation strategy.
The objective of the strategy is to develop the economic, environmental and social value of Scotland's water resources
Funded jointly by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council and the Scottish Funding Council, the Industrial Biotechnology (IB) Innovation Centre (IBioIC) supports industrially-relevant PhD projects that bring biotechnology closer to industrialisation.
Funded by the Medical Research Council, The MRC-NIHR Trials Methodology Research Partnership (TMRP) aims to Improve health by improving trials.
The DTP presents an opportunity to undertake training for a PhD in trials methodology.
Projects will be available in various areas including statistics, data analytics and informatics, computer science, health economics, qualitative methods, mixed-methods, clinical medicine and psychology.
The SUSTAIN Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) empowers the next generation of AI scientists to invent, develop and deploy technologies, co-created with growers and agri-food practitioners.
The £10.6 million project, funded by the UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) brings together the excellence of the Universities of Lincoln, Aberdeen, Queen’s Belfast and Strathclyde, and focuses on the application of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to sustainable agri-food.
SUSTAIN facilitates meaningful partnerships between academics and industry, investing in stakeholder-driven innovation, to provide a transformative platform for PhD Research and training.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/why-aberdeen:
Whatever your research field, you'll gain an exceptional PhD experience, skills, inspiration, support and opportunity at Aberdeen.
Over the centuries, Aberdeen researchers have made outstanding contributions to public life, science and medicine, business, politics and the arts.
Learn more about facilities we offer, our areas of research and the support we offer our researchers.
Read about our research history and understand why we have such a proud research reputation.
View all of the University of Aberdeen Research Centres and Institutes
Find out more about the support available to you as a Postgraduate Researcher including support for research, personal and professional development.
Key information you will need to know as a student, including a overview of the support services available to all students, ready to help you through your time here at the University.
Key information if you are an international student applying for postgraduate Research study at the University of Aberdeen.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/country-territory:
We welcome students from all over the world.
If you cannot find your country or territory in the list below, please contact the International Office by emailing study@abdn.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/requirements:
The information below is provided as a guide only and does not guarantee entry to the University of Aberdeen.
For information relating to your degree please check the online prospectus for specific requirements.
Undergraduate : Applicants from your country will be required to take a Foundation Year before progressing to an Undergraduate degree.
For more information, see our International Study Centre’s website here: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/ Postgraduate : Diplomë e Nivelit të Pare / Bachelor is equivalent to a UK Honours degree.
A score of 8.5-9.5 from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1 while a score of 8-8.5 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
For more information, see our International Study Centre’s website here: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/
Postgraduate : Diplomë e Nivelit të Pare / Bachelor is equivalent to a UK Honours degree.
Undergraduate: Arts and Social Sciences: Overall 18 Science: A minimum average of 18 with grades 18 or more in each of two specific science subjects.
Engineering: A minimum average grade of 18 with grades of 18 or more in Maths and Physics.
Medicine: Please refer the School of Medicine and Dentistry website for information on entry requirements and how to apply.
Postgraduate: 4-year Licenciado is deemed equivalent to a UK bachelors degree.
A score of 15/20 from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1 while a score of 13-14/20 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
For Business School PGT programmes the minimum entry requirement is an undergraduate degree at UK Honours level (or a degree from a non-UK institution which is judged by the University to be of equivalent worth).
Kindly use the provided link to find out how you can fulfil our English language requirements.
English Language Requirements | Study Here | The University of Aberdeen (abdn.ac.uk)
Undergraduate The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Argentina presenting a range of qualifications including GCE A Levels US High Diploma (with other standardised tests including the SAT, ACT or APs) International Baccalaureate Students presenting the Argentinian high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Medicine - For detailed information, please visit the Medicine and Dentistry website.
Postgraduate Typically we require a four year Bachelors degree: A score of 6.0+ is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Argentina presenting a range of qualifications including
Students presenting the Argentinian high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Typically we require a four year Bachelors degree: A score of 6.0+ is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate : Please contact our Admissions Team with your qualifications: u gadmissions@abdn.ac.uk.
For MBChB (Medicine) please contact Medical Admissions at medadm@abdn.ac.uk Postgraduate : A score of 70-79% from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 60-69% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
For MBChB (Medicine) please contact Medical Admissions at medadm@abdn.ac.uk
Postgraduate : A score of 70-79% from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 60-69% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate Reifeprüfungszeugnis/Maturazeugnis Arts & Social Sciences: 2 overall Science: 2 overall, 2 in two science subjects Engineering: 2 overall, 2 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 1.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : A Bachelor's degree, Diplomstudium/Magister with a score of 60% or B or 2.7 from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 50% or C or 3.1 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2
Undergraduate
Reifeprüfungszeugnis/Maturazeugnis
Arts & Social Sciences: 2 overall Science: 2 overall, 2 in two science subjects Engineering: 2 overall, 2 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 1.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : A Bachelor's degree, Diplomstudium/Magister with a score of 60% or B or 2.7 from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 50% or C or 3.1 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2
Undergraduate: Applicants from your country will be required to take a Foundation Year before progressing to an Undergraduate degree.
For more information, see our International Study Centre’s website here: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/ Postgraduate: A score of 80% is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 70% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2
Postgraduate: A score of 80% is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 70% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2
Undergraduate Students who follow the national curriculum (Thanaweya Amma) need to apply to our foundation programme: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/programmes/ug .
Students who follow an international curriculum (A-levels, IB, SAT/AP) can be considered for direct entry into first year.
Postgraduate: A score of 2.7-3.3/4.0 from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 2.2-2.6/4.0 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Students who follow the national curriculum (Thanaweya Amma) need to apply to our foundation programme: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/programmes/ug .
Undergraduate Higher Secondary Certificate Science: A minimum GPA of 3.5, with 3.0 or more in Maths and a science subject.
Law/Social Science/Arts: A minimum GPA of 3.5 Engineering: A minimum GPA of 3.5, with 3.5 or more in Maths and Physics.
3.5 is also required in Chemistry for Chemical Engineering Detailed Medicine information Please find information on our Foundation programmes here: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/ Postgraduate: For programmes requiring a 2:2, (ie all programmes except those in the Business School - see below) a four year undergraduate degree with an overall achievement of 55%, B- or 2.75/4 CGPA.
For Business School programmes the minimum entry requirement is an undergraduate degree at UK Honours level = 2.5/4 CGPA In addition to these academic requirements, an applicant must show English language proficiency per our standard requirements.
Language requirements MoI may be accepted for some Universities provided you apply via one of our official agents Please have a look at the list of English language tests we accept (and associated marks)
Higher Secondary Certificate
Science: A minimum GPA of 3.5, with 3.0 or more in Maths and a science subject.
Law/Social Science/Arts: A minimum GPA of 3.5
Engineering: A minimum GPA of 3.5, with 3.5 or more in Maths and Physics.
3.5 is also required in Chemistry for Chemical Engineering
Detailed Medicine information
Please find information on our Foundation programmes here: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/
Postgraduate:
Language requirements
MoI may be accepted for some Universities provided you apply via one of our official agents
Please have a look at the list of English language tests we accept (and associated marks)
Undergraduate Certificat d'enseignement secondaire superieur or DVHSO Arts & Social Sciences: 70% overall Science: 70% overall, 70% in two science subjects Engineering: 70% overall, 70% in Mathematics and Physics Law: 75% overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bachelor degree/Licenciaat/Licencie.
A grade of Summa Cum Laude from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a Magna Cum Laude is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Certificat d'enseignement secondaire superieur or DVHSO
Arts & Social Sciences: 70% overall Science: 70% overall, 70% in two science subjects Engineering: 70% overall, 70% in Mathematics and Physics Law: 75% overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bachelor degree/Licenciaat/Licencie.
Undergraduate The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Bolivia presenting a range of qualifications including GCE A Levels US High Diploma (with other standardised tests including the SAT, ACT or APs) International Baccalaureate Students presenting the Bolivian high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Medicine - for detailed information, please click here .
Postgraduate Typically the Licenciado is deemed equivalent to a UK Bachelors degree.
A score of 63% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Bolivia presenting a range of qualifications including
Students presenting the Bolivian high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Typically the Licenciado is deemed equivalent to a UK Bachelors degree.
Undergraduate The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students presenting a range of qualifications including GCE A Levels US High Diploma (with other standardised tests including the SAT, ACT or APs) International Baccalaureate Students presenting the Brazilian high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Postgraduate: Typically the Bacharel/Licenciado/Licenciatura is deemed equivalent to a UK Bachelors degree.
A score of 65% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students presenting a range of qualifications including
Students presenting the Brazilian high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Undergraduate: Coming soon!
Postgraduate: A score of 60% or B or 3.1 from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 50% or C or 2.7 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate Diploma za sredno obrazovanie Arts & Social Sciences: 5.5 overall Science: 5.5 overall, 6 in two science subjects Engineering: 5.5 overall, 6 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 5.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bachelor's degree (started after 2001) or the Master's degree (awarded pre-2001).
A score of 5 from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 4 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Diploma za sredno obrazovanie
Arts & Social Sciences: 5.5 overall Science: 5.5 overall, 6 in two science subjects Engineering: 5.5 overall, 6 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 5.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bachelor's degree (started after 2001) or the Master's degree (awarded pre-2001).
Postgraduate: A four year Licence degree with a score of 8.0 - 8.4 or Very Good or B+ from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 7.0-7.9 or Good or B is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate Grade 12 High School Graduation Diploma, or Quebec DEC All Programmes (except Medicine) Entry Requirements can vary depending on the programme applied for, however as a general guide, we recommend that students should present an average of 75% in the relevant high school diploma for their province or territory.
Students applying to Law, Science and Engineering may require higher grades in specific subjects.
Medicine: The entry requirements for Medicine can be found here .
Postgraduate Typically either a GPA 2.7 out of 4.0, 67% or above, or B will be considered equivalent to a 2:2 degree.
Grade 12 High School Graduation Diploma, or Quebec DEC
Entry Requirements can vary depending on the programme applied for, however as a general guide, we recommend that students should present an average of 75% in the relevant high school diploma for their province or territory.
Typically either a GPA 2.7 out of 4.0, 67% or above, or B will be considered equivalent to a 2:2 degree.
Undergraduate The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Chile presenting a range of qualifications including GCE A Levels US High School Diploma (with other standardised tests including the SAT, ACT or APs) International Baccalaureate Students presenting the Chilean high school diploma (Licencia) are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Medicine : For detailed information, please click here .
Postgraduate Typically the Licenciaturo is deemed equivalent to a UK Bachelors degree.
A score of 5.0 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Chile presenting a range of qualifications including
Students presenting the Chilean high school diploma (Licencia) are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Typically the Licenciaturo is deemed equivalent to a UK Bachelors degree.
Undergraduate University Entrance Examination (GAOKAO) Arts and Social Sciences: Students with overall scores of 80% and above in the Senior High School Diploma will be considered for entry.
Alternatively, good scores in the GAOKAO will also be considered.
Science: Students with overall scores of 80% and above in the Senior High School Diploma will be considered for entry.
Students must score 80% or above in two science subjects.
Engineering: Students with overall scores of 80% and above in the Senior High School Diploma will be considered for entry.
Students must score 80% or above in Maths and Physics science subjects.
Law: Students with overall scores of 85% and above in the Senior High School Diploma will be considered for entry.
Medicine: For detailed information, please click here .
Postgraduate A score of 70% is considered equivalent to a British 2:2, while a score of 75% is considered equivalent to a British 2:1 Students applying to the School of Engineering should score at least 65% (60% can be considered from prestigious institutions) Students applying to the Business School should score at least 75% ( 70% can be considered from prestigious institutions) Students from 211 universities with lower scores may be considered
University Entrance Examination (GAOKAO)
Arts and Social Sciences: Students with overall scores of 80% and above in the Senior High School Diploma will be considered for entry.
Postgraduate
A score of 70% is considered equivalent to a British 2:2, while a score of 75% is considered equivalent to a British 2:1
Students applying to the School of Engineering should score at least 65% (60% can be considered from prestigious institutions)
Students applying to the Business School should score at least 75% ( 70% can be considered from prestigious institutions)
Students from 211 universities with lower scores may be considered
Undergraduate The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Colombia presenting a range of qualifications including GCE A Levels US High School Diploma (with other standardised tests including the SAT, ACT or APs) International Baccalaureate Students presenting the Colombian high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Postgraduate: Typically we require a Licenciado which is deemed equivalent to a UK Bachelors degree.
A score of 3.0 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Colombia presenting a range of qualifications including
Students presenting the Colombian high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Undergraduate Matura Arts & Social Sciences: 4 overall Science: 4 overall, 4 in two science subjects Engineering: 4 overall, 4 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 4.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : The minimum qualification for entry to a master's course is either the Baccalaureus/Baccalaurea degree (started after 2005) or the Visoko Obrazovanja/Level VII/1 when awarded before 2005.
A score of 4 from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 3 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Matura
Arts & Social Sciences: 4 overall Science: 4 overall, 4 in two science subjects Engineering: 4 overall, 4 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 4.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : The minimum qualification for entry to a master's course is either the Baccalaureus/Baccalaurea degree (started after 2005) or the Visoko Obrazovanja/Level VII/1 when awarded before 2005.
Undergraduate Cypriot High School qualification (Apolytirion) Arts & Social Sciences: 19 overall, including the Pancyprian exams OR 19 overall and BB at A-level excluding Greek Science: 19 overall, 19 in two science subjects, including the Pancyprian exams OR 19 overall and BB in two science subjects at A-level Engineering: 19 overall, 19 in Mathematics and Physics, including the Pancyprian exams OR 19 overall and BB in Mathematics and Physics at A-level Law: 19 overall, including the Pancyprian exams OR 19 overall and AB at A-level, excluding Greek Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Bachelor's degree considered comparable to British Bachelor degree standard.
A score of 7.0-8.49 from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 6.0-6.99 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Cypriot High School qualification (Apolytirion) Arts & Social Sciences: 19 overall, including the Pancyprian exams OR 19 overall and BB at A-level excluding Greek Science: 19 overall, 19 in two science subjects, including the Pancyprian exams OR 19 overall and BB in two science subjects at A-level Engineering: 19 overall, 19 in Mathematics and Physics, including the Pancyprian exams OR 19 overall and BB in Mathematics and Physics at A-level Law: 19 overall, including the Pancyprian exams OR 19 overall and AB at A-level, excluding Greek Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Bachelor's degree considered comparable to British Bachelor degree standard.
Undergraduate Maturitni Zkouska Arts & Social Sciences: 2, 2, 2, 2 Science: 2, 2, 2, 2, including two science subjects Engineering: 2, 2, 2, 2, including Mathematics and Physics Law: 2, 2, 2, 1 Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bakalar degree (issued since 2001).
A score of 2+ from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 2 or 2- is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Maturitni Zkouska
Arts & Social Sciences: 2, 2, 2, 2 Science: 2, 2, 2, 2, including two science subjects Engineering: 2, 2, 2, 2, including Mathematics and Physics Law: 2, 2, 2, 1 Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bakalar degree (issued since 2001).
Undergraduate Studenterekasmen Arts & Social Sciences: Four A-level subjects at 10, 10, 7, 7 Science: Four A-level subjects at 10, 10, 7, 7, with 10 in two science subjects Engineering: Four A-level subjects at 10, 10, 7, 7, with 10 in Mathematics and Physics Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : A score of 10-11 from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 7-10 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Studenterekasmen
Arts & Social Sciences: Four A-level subjects at 10, 10, 7, 7 Science: Four A-level subjects at 10, 10, 7, 7, with 10 in two science subjects Engineering: Four A-level subjects at 10, 10, 7, 7, with 10 in Mathematics and Physics Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : A score of 10-11 from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 7-10 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Ecuador presenting a range of qualifications including GCE A Levels US High School Diploma (with other standardised tests including the SAT, ACT or APs) International Baccalaureate Students presenting the Ecuadorian high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Postgraduate Typically we consider a Licenciado to be deemed equivalent to a UK Bachelors degree.
A score of 70% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Ecuador presenting a range of qualifications including
Students presenting the Ecuadorian high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Typically we consider a Licenciado to be deemed equivalent to a UK Bachelors degree.
Undergraduate: Students who follow the national curriculum (Thanaweya Amma) need to apply to our foundation programme: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/programmes/ug .
Postgraduate: A score of 80 - 89% from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 65 - 79% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
See USA for American grading systems.
Undergraduate:
Undergraduate Gumnaasiumi Ioptunnistus and Riigiesksamitsunnistus Arts & Social Sciences: 4.5 overall, 75% in three state exams Science: 4.5 overall, 75% in two science school exams, as well as 75% in Mathematics state exam and one other state exam Engineering: 4.5 overall, 75% in Mathematics and Physics school exams, as well as 75% in Mathematics state exam and one other state exam Law: 4.5 overall, 80% in three state exams Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bakalaureusekraad, or Magister or Magistrikraad.
A score of B from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of C is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Gumnaasiumi Ioptunnistus and Riigiesksamitsunnistus Arts & Social Sciences: 4.5 overall, 75% in three state exams Science: 4.5 overall, 75% in two science school exams, as well as 75% in Mathematics state exam and one other state exam Engineering: 4.5 overall, 75% in Mathematics and Physics school exams, as well as 75% in Mathematics state exam and one other state exam Law: 4.5 overall, 80% in three state exams Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bakalaureusekraad, or Magister or Magistrikraad.
Undergraduate Studentsprógv Arts & Social Sciences: Four A-level subjects at 10, 10, 7, 7 Science: Four A-level subjects at 10, 10, 7, 7, with 10 in two science subjects Engineering: Four A-level subjects at 10, 10, 7, 7, with 10 in Mathematics and Physics Law: Four A-level subjects at 12, 10, 10, 10 Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Please contact Mr David Stoll
Studentsprógv
Arts & Social Sciences: Four A-level subjects at 10, 10, 7, 7 Science: Four A-level subjects at 10, 10, 7, 7, with 10 in two science subjects Engineering: Four A-level subjects at 10, 10, 7, 7, with 10 in Mathematics and Physics Law: Four A-level subjects at 12, 10, 10, 10 Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Please contact Mr David Stoll
Undergraduate Ylioppilastutkintotodistus/Studentexamensbetyg Arts & Social Sciences: 5 overall, with at least two E grades Science: 5 overall, E in two science subjects Engineering: 5 overall, E in Mathematics and Physics Law: 6 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require Kandidaattii/Kandidat awarded pre-1993 or post 2007 or the Maisteri/Magister.
Two grading schemes are in place.
In the 1-3 system, we typically require marks of 2 or above.
In the 1-5 system, we typically require marks of 2.5 or above.
Ylioppilastutkintotodistus/Studentexamensbetyg
Arts & Social Sciences: 5 overall, with at least two E grades Science: 5 overall, E in two science subjects Engineering: 5 overall, E in Mathematics and Physics Law: 6 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require Kandidaattii/Kandidat awarded pre-1993 or post 2007 or the Maisteri/Magister.
Undergraduate Baccalauréat or Option Internationale Arts & Social Sciences: 13 overall Science: 13 overall, 14 in two science subjects Engineering: 13 overall, 14 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 14 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require a Licence obtained after three years of study.
A score of 13-13.9 from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 11.6-13 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Alternatively the Maîtrise with grades of 12/20 or above.
Baccalauréat or Option Internationale
Arts & Social Sciences: 13 overall Science: 13 overall, 14 in two science subjects Engineering: 13 overall, 14 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 14 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require a Licence obtained after three years of study.
Undergraduate : Please contact David Stoll with your qualifications.
Postgraduate : A Bachelor's degree (minimum 4 years duration) with a score of 4.5 - 4.9 from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 4.0 - 4.49 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate Abitur Arts & Social Sciences: 2,0 overall Science: 2,0 overall, 12 in two science subjects Engineering: 2,0 overall, 12 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 1.8 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require a Fachhochschuldiplom/Diplom (FH) with minimum grades of 2/Gut or Bachelor's or Magister Artium/Diplom/ Erstes Staatsexamen with minimum of 2.2/Gut.
A score of 2.0-2.4 from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 2.5-3.1 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Abitur
Arts & Social Sciences: 2,0 overall Science: 2,0 overall, 12 in two science subjects Engineering: 2,0 overall, 12 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 1.8 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require a Fachhochschuldiplom/Diplom (FH) with minimum grades of 2/Gut or Bachelor's or Magister Artium/Diplom/ Erstes Staatsexamen with minimum of 2.2/Gut.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE REQUIREMENTS In many cases, in place of a formal English test such as IELTS, Ghanaian students can submit a copy of their WAEC Year XII English score provided the score was at least C6.
We accept Medium of Instruction Letters from select universities on our approved list.
For more information, click here .
Undergraduate - West African Senior Secondary School Certificate Students who have achieved at least one “A” and two “Bs” in the West African Senior Secondary School Certificate can apply for direct entry to Year 1 for all programmes except Medicine.
Some Programmes also have individual subject requirements - Science: English, Maths and Science OR English and 2 x science subjects.
Law, Arts and Social Sciences : English Engineering: English, Maths and Physics (Chemistry also required for Chemical and Petroleum Engineering) Medicine: GCE A-levels, International Baccalaureate or Scottish Highers required.
Students who are not eligible to apply for direct entry to Year 1 can apply for our Foundation Course which is offered on campus in our International Study Centre .
Postgraduate: A score of 60-70% or 3.0-3.49 from a well ranked public institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 50-59% or 2.5-2.99 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE REQUIREMENTS
In many cases, in place of a formal English test such as IELTS, Ghanaian students can submit a copy of their WAEC Year XII English score provided the score was at least C6.
Undergraduate - West African Senior Secondary School Certificate
Students who have achieved at least one “A” and two “Bs” in the West African Senior Secondary School Certificate can apply for direct entry to Year 1 for all programmes except Medicine.
Some Programmes also have individual subject requirements -
Science: English, Maths and Science OR English and 2 x science subjects.
Law, Arts and Social Sciences : English
Engineering: English, Maths and Physics (Chemistry also required for Chemical and Petroleum Engineering)
Medicine: GCE A-levels, International Baccalaureate or Scottish Highers required.
Undergraduate Apolytirion of Eniaio Lykeio Arts & Social Sciences: 19 overall, as well as 19 overall in the Panhellenic exams, OR 19 overall and BB at A-level, excluding Greek Science: 19 overall, 19 in two science subjects, as well as 19 overall the Panhellenic exams, OR 19 overall and BB in two science subjects at A-level Engineering: 19 overall, 19 in Mathematics and Physics, as well as 19 overall in the Panhellenic exams, OR 19 overall and BB in Mathematics and Physics at A-level Law: 19 overall, as well as 19 overall in the Panhellenic exams, OR 19 overall and AB at A-level, excluding Greek Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Bachelor's degree considered comparable to British Bachelor degree standard.
Apolytirion of Eniaio Lykeio
Arts & Social Sciences: 19 overall, as well as 19 overall in the Panhellenic exams, OR 19 overall and BB at A-level, excluding Greek Science: 19 overall, 19 in two science subjects, as well as 19 overall the Panhellenic exams, OR 19 overall and BB in two science subjects at A-level Engineering: 19 overall, 19 in Mathematics and Physics, as well as 19 overall in the Panhellenic exams, OR 19 overall and BB in Mathematics and Physics at A-level Law: 19 overall, as well as 19 overall in the Panhellenic exams, OR 19 overall and AB at A-level, excluding Greek Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Undergraduate The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students presenting a range of qualifications including GCE A Levels US High Diploma (with other standardised tests including the SAT, ACT or APs) International Baccalaureate Students presenting the Guyana high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Postgraduate: Students are normally required to hold a Master's degree with good grades to be considered for postgraduate studies, except for Law and Medicine where a Bachelor's degree can be considered.
Students presenting the Guyana high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Undergraduate Hong Kong Diploma in Secondary Education Arts: Successful completion of the Hong Kong Diploma in Secondary Education including a pass in all four Core subjects including grade 4 or better in English, and a pass at grade 4 or better in any three further subjects.
Science: Successful completion of the Hong Kong Diploma in Secondary Education including a pass in all four Core subjects including grade 3 or better in English and Maths (Compulsory part), and a pass at grade 4 or better in four subjects, including two Electives either selected from {Biology, Chemistry, Physics, ICT, Geography} or selected from {Science, ICT, Geography} (if one of these four subjects is Maths then both the Compulsory and Extended parts should be passed at grade 4 or better).
Engineering: Successful completion of the Hong Kong Diploma in Secondary Education including a pass in all four Core subjects including grade 3 or better in English and Maths (Compulsory part), and a pass at grade 4 or better in four subjects, including Electives in Maths (where both the Compulsory and Extended parts should be passed at grade 4 or better) and Physics.
Law: Successful completion of the Hong Kong Diploma in Secondary Education including a pass in all four  Core subjects, including level 4 in English, level 4 in three further subjects and level 5 in any one subject.
Postgraduate: A score of 3.00-3.30 is usually considered comparable to a UK 2.1 and a score of 2.50-2.90 is usually considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
However exact requirements do vary according to the institution and specific department studied at.
The honours awarded will be clearly stated in the final transcript.
Hong Kong Diploma in Secondary Education
Arts: Successful completion of the Hong Kong Diploma in Secondary Education including a pass in all four Core subjects including grade 4 or better in English, and a pass at grade 4 or better in any three further subjects.
Undergraduate Érettségi Matura Arts & Social Sciences: 4 in all subjects, including at least two subjects at higher level Science: 4 overall, 5 in two science subjects at higher level Engineering: 4 overall, 5 in Mathematics and Physics at higher level Law: 4.5 overall, including at least two subjects at higher level Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require the Alapfokozt from a university (when started after 2004) or the Egyetemi Oklevel from a university.
Érettségi Matura
Arts & Social Sciences: 4 in all subjects, including at least two subjects at higher level Science: 4 overall, 5 in two science subjects at higher level Engineering: 4 overall, 5 in Mathematics and Physics at higher level Law: 4.5 overall, including at least two subjects at higher level Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require the Alapfokozt from a university (when started after 2004) or the Egyetemi Oklevel from a university.
UNDERGRADUATE Higher Secondary School Certificate Arts : At Standard XII a minimum percentage of 75% overall.
Additionally , a minimum percentage of 80% in English at Standard XII or our normal English language requirements.
Science : At Standard XII a minimum percentage of 75% overall, including 75% or more in two science subjects, or Mathematics and a science subject.
A minimum grade of 75% is required where the prospectus specifies good performance in a particular subject.
Additionally , a minimum percentage of 80% in English at Standard XII or our normal English language requirements Biomedical sciences : At Standard XII a minimum percentage of 80% overall, including 80% or more in two science subjects, or Mathematics and a science subject.
Additionally, a minimum percentage of 80% in English at Standard XII or our normal English language requirements Engineering : At Standard XII a minimum percentage of 75% overall, including 75% or more in Mathematics and Physics.
Additionally , a minimum percentage of 80% in English at Standard XII or our normal English language requirements Law : At Standard XII a minimum percentage of 80% overall.
Additionally , a minimum percentage of 80% in English at Standard XII or our normal English language requirements Medicine : For detailed information, please click here .
Advanced entry to Year 2 BSc and MA programmes : Applicants who have achieved at least 80% overall in Year XII as well as at least 85% in the relevant subject areas of the degree they are applying for can apply for entry to Year 2 of a 4 or 5 year MA or BSc programme at the University.
BEng programmes : Applicants who have achieved at least 85% overall in Year XII as well as at least 85% in maths and physics (+ 85% in chemistry for Chemical/ Petroleum Engineering) can apply for entry to Year 2 of a 4 or 5 year Engineering programme at the University.
This should be indicated on the UCAS application.
Applicants who do not meet the conditions of their year 2 offer will automatically be considered for year 1 entry.
Please email ugadmissions@abdn.ac.uk if you would like to discuss this option before completing your UCAS application.
INTERNATIONAL BACCALAUREAT (IB, IBDP and IBCP) Indian applicants can also apply with IB qualifications.
Please have a look at https://www.abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/requirements/ for details of requirements, including advanced entry where this is offered.
For IBDP we require 3 HL courses at a minimum of 5 (and 32 points overall minimum).
For IBCP , we require 2 HL at 4 or 5 plus an A-Level (at C) or BTEC Level 3 (at Distinction).
POSTGRADUATE Requirements will vary dependant on the ranking of the institution.
For State and Central Universities we would look for a minimum of 60% for programmes requiring a 2.2 degree.
For Private and Deemed Universities we would look for a minimum of 65% for programmes requiring a 2.2 degree.
While the above is a general guide we understand that the marking system in some states and national universities make it harder to achieve 60%, therefore we will accept 55% from the University of Mumbai, University of Calcutta, University of Delhi etc.
among others.
Graduates from the IITs and IIMs will also be considered with marks in the region of 55%.
For Business School programmes the minimum entry requirement is an undergraduate degree at UK Honours level (or a degree from a non-UK institution which is judged by the University to be of equivalent worth).
Please note that for an LLM we will consider applicants who have attained 55% or better and decisions for those applicants will be based on a combination of their institution, their overall degree performance and any relevant work experience obtained following completion of the degree.
LANGUAGE REQUIREMENTS Applicants who in the 10 years before the start of a programme have achieved 80% in Year 12 are not normally required to submit additional proof of English language.
Please have a look at the list of English language tests we accept (and associated marks) - https://www.abdn.ac.uk/study/international/english-requirements.php MoI may be accepted from some institutions
UNDERGRADUATE
Higher Secondary School Certificate
Arts : At Standard XII a minimum percentage of 75% overall.
Additionally , a minimum percentage of 80% in English at Standard XII or our normal English language requirements
Biomedical sciences : At Standard XII a minimum percentage of 80% overall, including 80% or more in two science subjects, or Mathematics and a science subject.
Additionally, a minimum percentage of 80% in English at Standard XII or our normal English language requirements
Engineering : At Standard XII a minimum percentage of 75% overall, including 75% or more in Mathematics and Physics.
Law : At Standard XII a minimum percentage of 80% overall.
Advanced entry to Year 2
BSc and MA programmes : Applicants who have achieved at least 80% overall in Year XII as well as at least 85% in the relevant subject areas of the degree they are applying for can apply for entry to Year 2 of a 4 or 5 year MA or BSc programme at the University.
INTERNATIONAL BACCALAUREAT (IB, IBDP and IBCP)
Indian applicants can also apply with IB qualifications.
POSTGRADUATE
Requirements will vary dependant on the ranking of the institution.
LANGUAGE REQUIREMENTS
MoI may be accepted from some institutions
Postgraduate: The Sajarna degree (S1, accredited with B3 or above) is deemed equivalent to a UK bachelors degree.
Undergraduate: Pre-University Certificate (Peeshdaneshgahe) Arts and Social Science: An average score of 17.
Science: An average score of 17, with 17 or more in two specific science or maths subjects.
Engineering: An average score of 17, with 17 or more in the maths and physics stream.
Postgraduate: A score of 15-17/20 (75%) from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 13-15/20 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Pre-University Certificate (Peeshdaneshgahe) Arts and Social Science: An average score of 17.
Undergraduate: Students who follow the national curriculum need to apply to our foundation programme: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/programmes/ug .
Postgraduate: A 4-year bachelors degree from a well ranked institution generally with grades of 75-89% would be considered as equivalent to a 2:1, while a score of 60-74% would be considered comparable to a 2:2.
Students who follow the national curriculum need to apply to our foundation programme: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/programmes/ug .
Undergraduate ILC Arts & Social Sciences : A minimum of 5H with 3 at H2 and 2 at H3, or AAABB obtained at a single sitting.
The grading within band B must be at B2 or above.
Science : A minimum of 5H with 3 at H2 and 2 at H3, OR AAABB including a minimum of H3 or BB from two science or mathematics subjects.
Engineering : A minimum of 5H with 4 at H2 and 1 at H3 including H2 and H3 in Mathematics and Physics OR AAAAB including AB in Mathematics and Physics.
Mathematics at a H2 or an A.
Grade B's must be at B2 or above.
Law : 5H at H2 OR AAABB obtained at a single sitting.
Medicine : For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : As UK system.
ILC
Arts & Social Sciences : A minimum of 5H with 3 at H2 and 2 at H3, or AAABB obtained at a single sitting.
Medicine : For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : As UK system.
Undergraduate Esame di Stato Arts & Social Sciences: 85% overall Science: 85% overall, 85% in two science subjects Engineering: 85% overall, 85% in Mathematics and Physics Law: 90% overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require a Diploma di Laurea.
A score of 27-29 or 104/110 is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 24-26 or 100/110 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Esame di Stato
Arts & Social Sciences: 85% overall Science: 85% overall, 85% in two science subjects Engineering: 85% overall, 85% in Mathematics and Physics Law: 90% overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require a Diploma di Laurea.
Postgraduate: A bachelors degree is considered comparable to British bachelors (Honours) degree standard.
A score of B or 3.0 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of C or 2.0 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Postgraduate: A score of 75-91% (GPA of 3.0/4.0 or 3.5/5.0) from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 63-74% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate: Students who complete Atestat (Certificate of Secondary Education) need to apply to our foundation programme: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/programmes/ug .
Postgraduate: Minimum of Bakalavr, Specialist Diploma, Magister Grading scale out of 5.0 : a score of 4.3 - 4.69 out of 5.0 is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 3.9 - 4.29 out of 5.0 is considered comparable to a 2.2.
Grading scale out of 4.0 : a score of 3.20 - 3.66 out of 4.00 is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 2.80 - 3.19 out of 4.00 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2
Students who complete Atestat (Certificate of Secondary Education) need to apply to our foundation programme: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/programmes/ug .
Minimum of Bakalavr, Specialist Diploma, Magister
Grading scale out of 5.0 : a score of 4.3 - 4.69 out of 5.0 is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 3.9 - 4.29 out of 5.0 is considered comparable to a 2.2.
Undergraduate - direct entry to Year 1 Kenya Certificate of secondary education KCSE Science: An overall average of B+ (B+ required in two science subjects or one science + mathematics).
Engineering: An overall average of B+ ( B+ required in mathematics and physics) Arts and Social Science: An overall average of B+ Medicine: For detailed information, please click here .
The University of Aberdeen International Study Centre offers preparation programmes for international students who do not meet the direct entry requirements for undergraduate study.
Postgraduate: A score of 60-69% from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 50-59% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate - direct entry to Year 1
Kenya Certificate of secondary education KCSE
Science: An overall average of B+ (B+ required in two science subjects or one science + mathematics).
Engineering: An overall average of B+ ( B+ required in mathematics and physics)
Arts and Social Science: An overall average of B+
Postgraduate: A score of 3.3-3.6 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 2.6-3.2 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate Atestats par visparejo videjo izglitibu Arts & Social Sciences: 75% overall, including in two state exams Science: 75% overall, 75% in two science subjects in state exams Engineering: 75% overall, 75% in Mathematics and Physics in state exams Law: 80% overall, 80% in three state exams Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Bakalaurs (courses from 2000) and Magistrs (before 2000) are considered comparable to UK Bachelor's degree.
A score of 7 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 6 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Atestats par visparejo videjo izglitibu
Arts & Social Sciences: 75% overall, including in two state exams Science: 75% overall, 75% in two science subjects in state exams Engineering: 75% overall, 75% in Mathematics and Physics in state exams Law: 80% overall, 80% in three state exams Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Bakalaurs (courses from 2000) and Magistrs (before 2000) are considered comparable to UK Bachelor's degree.
Undergraduate Baccalauréat General Arts & Social Sciences: 16 overall Science: 16 overall, 16 in two science subjects Engineering: 17 overall, 17 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 17 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : A score of 80-89% from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 70-79% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Baccalauréat General
Arts & Social Sciences: 16 overall Science: 16 overall, 16 in two science subjects Engineering: 17 overall, 17 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 17 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : A score of 80-89% from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 70-79% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate : Students who follow the national curriculum (Thanaweya Amma) need to apply to our foundation programme: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/programmes/ug .
Postgraduate : A score of 75-84% from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 65-74% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate :
Undergraduate Brandos Atestatas Arts & Social Sciences: 9 overall, 70% in two state exams Science: 9 overall, 9 in two science subjects, 70% in two science subjects in state exams Engineering: 9 overall, 9 in Mathematics and Physics, 70% in Mathematics and Physics in state exams Law: 9 overall, 80% in two state exams Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Bakalauras is considered comparable to British Bachelor's degree.
A score of 9 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 8 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Brandos Atestatas
Arts & Social Sciences: 9 overall, 70% in two state exams Science: 9 overall, 9 in two science subjects, 70% in two science subjects in state exams Engineering: 9 overall, 9 in Mathematics and Physics, 70% in Mathematics and Physics in state exams Law: 9 overall, 80% in two state exams Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Bakalauras is considered comparable to British Bachelor's degree.
Undergraduate Diplôme de fin d’études secondaires Arts & Social Sciences: 45 overall Science: 45 overall, 45 in two science subjects Engineering: 45 overall, 45 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 47 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bachelor's degree.
A score of 16-18 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 14-16 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Diplôme de fin d’études secondaires
Arts & Social Sciences: 45 overall Science: 45 overall, 45 in two science subjects Engineering: 45 overall, 45 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 47 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bachelor's degree.
Undergraduate Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) Science: A CGPA of 3.0 or more, including grade B or better in two science-based subjects, or Mathematics and a science-based subject.
A minimum grade of B is required where the Prospectus specifies good performance in a particular subject.
Grade C or better in GCE O level English.
Engineering: A CGPA of 3.0 or more, including grade B or better in Mathematics and Physics.
Postgraduate: A score of Class 2.1 or 3.3 - 3.5 (Islamic University - 3.0-3.2) from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of Class 2.2 or 2.7-3.3 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
English Language Requirements In many cases, applicants will not need to submit IELTS scores if they have achieved C6 or above in SPM1119 or if they have a letter from their former university demonstrating that their degree was taught in English.
Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM)
Science: A CGPA of 3.0 or more, including grade B or better in two science-based subjects, or Mathematics and a science-based subject.
English Language Requirements
In many cases, applicants will not need to submit IELTS scores if they have achieved C6 or above in SPM1119 or if they have a letter from their former university demonstrating that their degree was taught in English.
Undergraduate Matriculation Certificate Arts & Social Sciences: B overall, including B in two subjects at A-level Science: B overall, B in two science subjects at A-level Engineering: B overall, B in Mathematics and Physics at A-level Law: B overall, including B in two subjects at A-level Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Bachelors degree with honours is considered comparable to UK Bachelors degree, with the same grading system as the UK.
Matriculation Certificate
Arts & Social Sciences: B overall, including B in two subjects at A-level Science: B overall, B in two science subjects at A-level Engineering: B overall, B in Mathematics and Physics at A-level Law: B overall, including B in two subjects at A-level Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Bachelors degree with honours is considered comparable to UK Bachelors degree, with the same grading system as the UK.
Undergraduate The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Mexico presenting a range of qualifications including GCE A Levels US High Diploma (with other standardised tests including the SAT, ACT or APs) International Baccalaureate Students presenting the Bachillerato or Prepa are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Medicine : Please refer the School of Medicine and Dentistry website for information on entry requirements and how to apply.
Postgraduate Typically we consider a Licenciado as equivalent to a UK bachelors degree.
A score of 7.5 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Mexico presenting a range of qualifications including
Students presenting the Bachillerato or Prepa are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Typically we consider a Licenciado as equivalent to a UK bachelors degree.
Undergraduate National Examinations Board (School Leaving Certificate Year 12) Social Science, Arts, Law, Business: A minimum average percentage of 65% overall.
A minimum grade of 65% is required where the Prospectus specifies good performance in a particular subject.
Science: A minimum average percentage of 65% overall, including 65% or more in two science subjects, or Mathematics and a science subject.
Engineering: A minimum average percentage of 65% overall, including 65% or more in Mathematics and Physics.
Postgraduate : Typically 70%+ from a four-year or longer Bachelor degree programme from a recognised University-level institution will be required.
For Business School programmes the minimum entry requirement is 6 0%+ from a four-year or longer Bachelor degree programme Language requirements We do not accept Medium of Instruction letters.
Please have a look at the list of tests we accept (and associated marks)
National Examinations Board (School Leaving Certificate Year 12)
Social Science, Arts, Law, Business: A minimum average percentage of 65% overall.
For Business School programmes the minimum entry requirement is 6 0%+ from a four-year or longer Bachelor degree programme
We do not accept Medium of Instruction letters.
Undergraduate Diploma Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs Arts & Social Sciences: 7 overall Science: 7 overall, 7 in two science subjects Engineering: 7 overall, 7 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 7.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bachelors degree (started after 2002) or the second level doctorandus (drs/ir/mr) obtained after four to six years of study.
A score of 7-8 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 6-7 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
For degrees graded on a 4.0 GPA scale, we require an overall GPA of 3.5.
Diploma Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs
Arts & Social Sciences: 7 overall Science: 7 overall, 7 in two science subjects Engineering: 7 overall, 7 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 7.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bachelors degree (started after 2002) or the second level doctorandus (drs/ir/mr) obtained after four to six years of study.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE REQUIREMENTS As well as a formal secure English language test like IELTS, Nigerian students have the option to submit their WAEC Year XII English result, with a minimum score of C6.
This must be submitted through the WAEC portal to our admissions team (not via email) for it to be examined by our team.
Applicants who have taken NECO can submit official documentation confirming both your examination and token numbers for review by the admissions team.
Postgraduate Degree Class % CGPA /4.0 CGPA/5.0 CGPA/7.0 2:1 60-70 3.00 - 3.49 3.5 - 4.49 5.0 - 5.99 2:2 50 -59 2.5 - 2.99 2.99 - 3.49 4.0 - 4.99 For Business School PGT programmes the minimum entry requirement is an undergraduate degree at UK Honours level (or a degree from a non-UK institution which is judged by the University to be of equivalent worth).
As well as a formal secure English language test like IELTS, Nigerian students have the option to submit their WAEC Year XII English result, with a minimum score of C6.
Degree Class
%
CGPA /4.0
CGPA/5.0
CGPA/7.0
2:1
60-70
3.00 - 3.49
3.5 - 4.49
5.0 - 5.99
2:2
50 -59
2.5 - 2.99
2.99 - 3.49
4.0 - 4.99
Undergraduate VVO (Upper Secondary Leaving Certificate) Arts & Social Sciences: 4 overall Science: 4 overall, 4 in two science (including Mathematics) subjects Engineering: 4 overall, 4 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 4.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bachelor degree.
A score of B from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of C is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Alternatively, Candidatus Magisterii with minimum grades of 2.5 or less.
VVO (Upper Secondary Leaving Certificate)
Arts & Social Sciences: 4 overall Science: 4 overall, 4 in two science (including Mathematics) subjects Engineering: 4 overall, 4 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 4.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bachelor degree.
Postgraduate : A score of 2.7-3.3/4.0 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 2.2-2.6/4.0 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSSC) Law, Arts & Social Sciences: Higher Secondary School Certificate (science or arts version): an average of 75% or better.
For degrees involving Accountancy, Economics or Finance, a mark of 75% in Mathematics is needed.
We also require 75% (HSSC) English.
Science: A minimum average grade of 75% or more, including 75% or more in two science or Mathematics subjects.
Engineering: A minimum average grade of 75% or more, including 75% or more in two science or Mathematics subjects (one science must be Physics.
Chemistry also required for Chemical and Petroleum Engineering).
Postgraduate: Requirements may vary according to recognition of University and scoring system used.
Typically, students will need to complete a 4 year Bachelors Degree to be considered for PG study.
A  GPA of 2.6 (around 65% depending on grading scale of institution) is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
University of London External degree programmes are also considered for entry.
NB While a NEBOSH qualification is at the equivalent level of a Bachelor degree, it is not usually accepted for Master’s studies at the University of Aberdeen as it is a professional rather than academic qualification.
Language requirements We accept 75% HSSC English (with a validity of 10 years) in lieu of English language test https://www.abdn.ac.uk/study/international/highschool-english-acceptance-3882.ph p You can view the English language tests we accept (and associated marks) at https://www.abdn.ac.uk/study/international/requirements-pg-266.php MoI may be accepted for some Universities provided you apply via one of our official agents
Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSSC)
Law, Arts & Social Sciences: Higher Secondary School Certificate (science or arts version): an average of 75% or better.
Typically we require a Licenciado (four year bachelors) degree .
A score of C, 71% or GPA of 1.0-1.6 out of 3.0 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2
Undergraduate The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Panama presenting a range of qualifications including GCE A Levels US High Diploma (with other standardised tests including the SAT, ACT or APs) International Baccalaureate Students presenting the Panamanian high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Panama presenting a range of qualifications including
Students presenting the Panamanian high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Undergraduate The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Peru presenting a range of qualifications including GCE A Levels US High School Diploma (with other standardised tests including the SAT, ACT or APs) International Baccalaureate Students presenting the Peruvian high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Postgraduate Typically we require a four year bachelors degree.
A score of 12 or Bueno is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Peru presenting a range of qualifications including
Students presenting the Peruvian high school diploma are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Typically we require a four year bachelors degree.
Postgraduate: Typically holders of bachelors degrees from Prestigious State Universities would be considered for entry to postgraduate programmes.
A minimum final mark of Magna Cum Laude would be considered equivalent to a 2:1.
Undergraduate Matura Arts & Social Sciences: Pass with an overall average of marks in the sixth stanine, including at least two written exams at extended level Science: 75% overall, 75% in two science subjects at extended level Engineering: 75% overall, 75% in Mathematics and Physics at extended level Law: Pass with an overall average of marks in the eighth stanine, including at least two written exams at extended level Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require the Magister or master's degree (awarded pre-2006) or the bachelor's degree (started after 2006).
A score of 4.5 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 4 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Arts & Social Sciences: Pass with an overall average of marks in the sixth stanine, including at least two written exams at extended level Science: 75% overall, 75% in two science subjects at extended level Engineering: 75% overall, 75% in Mathematics and Physics at extended level Law: Pass with an overall average of marks in the eighth stanine, including at least two written exams at extended level Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require the Magister or master's degree (awarded pre-2006) or the bachelor's degree (started after 2006).
Undergraduate Diploma de Ensino Secundário Arts & Social Sciences: 18 overall Science: 18 overall, 18 in two science subjects Engineering: 18 overall, 18 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 18 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require a Diploma de Estudos Superiores Especializados (DESE) or Licenciado.
A score of 14-15 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Diploma de Ensino Secundário
Arts & Social Sciences: 18 overall Science: 18 overall, 18 in two science subjects Engineering: 18 overall, 18 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 18 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require a Diploma de Estudos Superiores Especializados (DESE) or Licenciado.
Postgraduate : A GPA of 2.7-3.3/4.0 (3.5/5.0) from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a GPA of 2.2-2.6 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
A GPA of 3.3 from any of the US universities in Qatar is typically considered as equivalent to a 2:1 for postgraduate entry.
Undergraduate Diploma de Bacalaureat Arts & Social Sciences: 8.5 overall Science: 8.5 overall, 9 in two science subjects Engineering: 8.5 overall, 9 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 9 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : The Diploma de Licenta is considered comparable to British Bachelor's degree.
Diploma de Bacalaureat
Arts & Social Sciences: 8.5 overall Science: 8.5 overall, 9 in two science subjects Engineering: 8.5 overall, 9 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 9 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : The Diploma de Licenta is considered comparable to British Bachelor's degree.
For more information, see our International Study Centre’s website here: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/ Postgraduate : A score of 4.3-4.69 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 3.9-4.29 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Postgraduate : A score of 4.3-4.69 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 3.9-4.29 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Postgraduate: A 4-year bachelors degree with a GPA of 3.75-4.39 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a GPA of 3.10-3.74 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate: See A Level requirements (UK A Level requirements are the same as Singapore A Level requirements).
Holders of other qualifications such as polytechnic diplomas may be considered for certain degree courses provided excellent grades have been achieved.
Also see IB and American systems.
Postgraduate: Holders of a degree at Bachelor (Hons) or Masters level with good grades from Singaporean universities will be considered for entry to postgraduate degrees.
A score of 60% or B or 3.1 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 50% or C or 2.7 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate Maturita Arts & Social Sciences: 2 overall Science: 2 overall, 2 in two science subjects Engineering: 2 overall, 2 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 1.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : A score of 1.5 - 2.0 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 2.1 - 2.5 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Maturita
Arts & Social Sciences: 2 overall Science: 2 overall, 2 in two science subjects Engineering: 2 overall, 2 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 1.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : A score of 1.5 - 2.0 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 2.1 - 2.5 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate Maturiteteno Spricevalo Arts & Social Sciences: 4 overall Science: 4 overall, 4 in two science subjects Engineering: 4 overall, 4 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 4 overall, 4.5 in at least two subjects Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : A score of 8.5 - 9.5 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 7 - 8.4 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Maturiteteno Spricevalo
Arts & Social Sciences: 4 overall Science: 4 overall, 4 in two science subjects Engineering: 4 overall, 4 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 4 overall, 4.5 in at least two subjects Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : A score of 8.5 - 9.5 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 7 - 8.4 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Please check below for recent updates on course requirements!
Undergraduate Science We require the award of the National Senior Certificate (NSC) or IEB with an overall average of 65%, including grade 6 in each of two science-based subjects, or Mathematics and a science-based subject.
We also require an NSC or IEB grade of 4 in English, or an approved English language test such as IELTS Engineering We require the award of the National Senior Certificate (NSC) or IEB with an overall average of 65%,including good grades in Maths and Physics essential (with Chemistry also required for some Engineering programmes).
We also require an NSC or IEB grade of 4 in English, or an approved English language test such as IELTS Arts We require the award of the National Senior Certificate (NSC) or IEB with an overall average of 65% in at least four N.S.C.
subjects, ideally excluding “Life Orientation.
We also require an NSC or IEB grade of 4 in English, or an approved English language test such as IELTS Law We require the award of the National Senior Certificate (NSC) or IEB with an overall average of National Senior Certificate, 80% or better in six subjects (not including Life Orientation) AND National Benchmark Tests: Proficient at 70% in Academic Literacy and Intermediate in Q uantitative Literacy Postgraduate A four year bachelors degree with a score of 70-74% or Upper Second from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1.
A score of 60-69% or Lower Second is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Information on subject specific entry requirements can be found here .
Science
We require the award of the National Senior Certificate (NSC) or IEB with an overall average of 65%, including grade 6 in each of two science-based subjects, or Mathematics and a science-based subject.
We also require an NSC or IEB grade of 4 in English, or an approved English language test such as IELTS
We require the award of the National Senior Certificate (NSC) or IEB with an overall average of 65%,including good grades in Maths and Physics essential (with Chemistry also required for some Engineering programmes).
Arts
We require the award of the National Senior Certificate (NSC) or IEB with an overall average of 65% in at least four N.S.C.
We require the award of the National Senior Certificate (NSC) or IEB with an overall average of National Senior Certificate, 80% or better in six subjects (not including Life Orientation)
AND
National Benchmark Tests: Proficient at 70% in Academic Literacy and Intermediate in Q uantitative Literacy
A four year bachelors degree with a score of 70-74% or Upper Second from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1.
Postgraduate: Coming soon!
Undergraduate Título de Bachillerato Arts & Social Sciences: 7.5 from the Bachillerato, plus any three marks of 8/10 (or 11/14) from any subjects in the P.A.U.
Science: 8 overall, 9 in two science subjects Engineering: 8 overall, 9 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 8.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : The Licenciado or Título de Ingeniero or Título de Arquitecto is considered comparable to UK Bachelor's degree.
A score of 8-9 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 6-8 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Título de Bachillerato Arts & Social Sciences: 7.5 from the Bachillerato, plus any three marks of 8/10 (or 11/14) from any subjects in the P.A.U.
Science: 8 overall, 9 in two science subjects Engineering: 8 overall, 9 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 8.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : The Licenciado or Título de Ingeniero or Título de Arquitecto is considered comparable to UK Bachelor's degree.
Undergraduate Sri Lanka Advanced Level Business, Arts and Social Sciences: BCC at A-level .
B is required where the prospectus specifies good performance in a subject.
Science: As above + 2 science subjects (or one science and one maths subject).
Engineering: As above + B in maths + at least one from physics, design & technology, engineering or chemistry).
B in chemistry required for chemical and petroleum engineering.
Medicine: AAA at A-level.
Chemistry + at least one of physics, biology, maths (+1 other subject).
For detailed information, please click here .
Advanced entry to Year 2 BSc and MA programmes : Applicants who have achieved at least ABB  as well as at least A in the relevant subject areas of the degree they are applying for can apply for entry to Year 2 of a 4 or 5 year MA or BSc programme at the University.
AAB is required for Biomedical Science.
BEng/MEng programmes : Applicants who have achieved at least AAB as well as at least A in maths and physics (+ A in chemistry for Chemical/ Petroleum Engineering) can apply for entry to Year 2 of a 4 or 5 year Engineering programme at the University.
Postgraduate: Four year bachelor special degrees from recognised universities are considered for entry.
A score of 55-59% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Language requirements We do not accept Medium of Instruction letters.
Sri Lanka Advanced Level
Business, Arts and Social Sciences: BCC at A-level .
BSc and MA programmes : Applicants who have achieved at least ABB  as well as at least A in the relevant subject areas of the degree they are applying for can apply for entry to Year 2 of a 4 or 5 year MA or BSc programme at the University.
Undergraduate Gymnasieexamen Arts & Social Sciences: C overall, including at least two B grades Science: C in 80% of subjects, B in two science subjects Engineering: C in 80% of subjects, B in Mathematics and Physics Law: B overall, including at least one A grade Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require a Kandidatexamen or Magisterexamen.
A score of VG from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of G is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Gymnasieexamen Arts & Social Sciences: C overall, including at least two B grades Science: C in 80% of subjects, B in two science subjects Engineering: C in 80% of subjects, B in Mathematics and Physics Law: B overall, including at least one A grade Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require a Kandidatexamen or Magisterexamen.
Undergraduate Arts & Social Sciences: 5 overall Science: 5 overall, 5 in two science subjects Engineering: 5 overall, 5 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 5.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bachelor's degree (started after 2006) or Diplom or Lizentiat or Staatsdiplom/Diplôme d'Etat.
A score of 5 from a well ranked institution is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 4.5 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate Arts & Social Sciences: 5 overall Science: 5 overall, 5 in two science subjects Engineering: 5 overall, 5 in Mathematics and Physics Law: 5.5 overall Medicine: For detailed information, please click here
Postgraduate : Typically we require a Bachelor's degree (started after 2006) or Diplom or Lizentiat or Staatsdiplom/Diplôme d'Etat.
Undergraduate Students who follow the national curriculum need to apply to our foundation programme: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/programmes/ug .
Postgraduate Generally 'Very Good' or a GPA of 80-89% from private universities/70-79% from state universities would be considered as equivalent to a 2:1 for postgraduate entry.
A score of 'Good' or 70-79% from private universities/ 60-69% from State universities is considered comparable to a 2:2.
Generally 'Very Good' or a GPA of 80-89% from private universities/70-79% from state universities would be considered as equivalent to a 2:1 for postgraduate entry.
Postgraduate: Typically a four year bachelors degree from a national or highly recognised university.
A score of 75% or B from a well ranked university is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 70% or C is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate: Applicants with the Certificate of Secondary Education and the Secondary School Leaving Certificate will be required to take a Foundation Year before progressing to an Undergraduate degree.
For more information, see our International Study Centre’s website here: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/ The Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education is considered equivalent to A-Levels, so please see A-Levels entry requirements.
Postgraduate: A score of 60-69% or B+ from a well ranked university is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 50-59% or B is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
The Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education is considered equivalent to A-Levels, so please see A-Levels entry requirements.
Postgraduate: Four-year Bachelor degrees from well-ranked institutions, normally with a minimum CGPA of 3.3 out of 4.0 are generally considered comparable to a 2:1 for postgraduate entry.
A score of 3.0 - 3.29 is considered comparable to a 2:2.
Undergraduate: The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Trinidad and Tobago presenting a range of qualifications including: International Baccalaureate - 32 with 5,5,5 at Higher Level A-Level - BBB CAPE: 6 units, including 2 double unit courses, and an overall average of III Postgraduate: University of the West Indies - A score of B, 65% or GPA of 3.0 from a well ranked university is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of B-, 60% or GPA of 2.7 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate: The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Trinidad and Tobago presenting a range of qualifications including:
Postgraduate: University of the West Indies - A score of B, 65% or GPA of 3.0 from a well ranked university is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of B-, 60% or GPA of 2.7 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
For more information, see our International Study Centre’s website here: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/ Postgraduate : Lisans Diplomasi or a Műhendis Diplomasi.
A score of 3.0-3.5 is considered comparable to a UK 2.1.
A score of 2.7-3.0 is considered comparable to a 2.2.
However the standing of the awarding institution is important and equivalents may vary.
Postgraduate : Lisans Diplomasi or a Műhendis Diplomasi.
Postgraduate : A 4-year bachelors degree with a GPA of 3.0-3.49 out of 4.0 (3.5/5) from a well ranked university is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 2.60-2.99 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
For qualifications from US, French, Australian, Indian, and other education systems, please see relevant country.
Undergraduate: Applicants with the Uganda Certificate of Education will be required to take a Foundation Year before progressing to an Undergraduate degree.
For more information, see our International Study Centre’s website here: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/ The Uganda Advanced Certificate of Education is considered equivalent to A-Levels so please see A-Level entry requirements.
Entry Requirements | Study Here | The University of Aberdeen Postgraduate: A 3-4 year bachelor degree from a recognised institution with the following equivalencies are considered for entry into our postgraduate taught programmes.
1st 70% A GPA 4.4 - 5.0 2:1 60-69% B+ GPA 4.0 - 4.3 2:2 50-59% B GPA 3.0 - 3.9 For Business School PGT programmes the minimum entry requirement is an undergraduate degree at UK Honours level (or a degree from a non-UK institution which is judged by the University to be of equivalent worth).
English Language Requirements: if you have completed your undergraduate programme at one of our approved Universities, you can provide a Medium of Instruction Letter.
You can find the approved University lists here Approved MOI Universities | Study Here | The University of Aberdeen (abdn.ac.uk) Please check the list of English language tests we accept.
English Language Requirements | Study Here | The University of Aberdeen
The Uganda Advanced Certificate of Education is considered equivalent to A-Levels so please see A-Level entry requirements.
Entry Requirements | Study Here | The University of Aberdeen
Postgraduate: A 3-4 year bachelor degree from a recognised institution with the following equivalencies are considered for entry into our postgraduate taught programmes.
You can find the approved University lists here Approved MOI Universities | Study Here | The University of Aberdeen (abdn.ac.uk)
Please check the list of English language tests we accept.
Undergraduate : Students who finish high school ( Attestat ) and have no additional qualifications have to apply to our foundation programme: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/ .
Students who have the Certificate of External Independent Examination (ZNO) can be considered for direct entry into 1st year if they achieve a minimum average score of 75% (this does not apply to Medicine).
Unfortunately, the NMT which replaces the ZNO in 2022 cannot be accepted for entry.
Students who have started studying at university level or who have gained additional qualifications might be considered for advanced entry.
Please contact the International Officer for Ukraine, Kirsty Watret, with your qualifications: kirsty.watret2@abdn.ac.uk Postgraduate : Dyplom Magistra or a Bachelors degree with a score of 4.5 from a well ranked university is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 4.0 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
The University recognises that prospective students affected by the conflict may not be able to evidence their qualifications by normal means.
The University may consider a wider range of evidence where this is the case.
Prospective students who may require this support should contact study@abdn.ac.uk
Please contact the International Officer for Ukraine, Kirsty Watret, with your qualifications: kirsty.watret2@abdn.ac.uk
Postgraduate : Dyplom Magistra or a Bachelors degree with a score of 4.5 from a well ranked university is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 4.0 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Postgraduate: Typically we require a 2:1 (upper second class honours) or above for entry to most degree programmes however this does vary depending on the specific subject area.
Undergraduate Arts and Humanities For entry to the Master of Arts (MA) programme, we look for a minimum cumulative 3.0 unweighted High School GPA plus one of the following: SAT 1250+ ACT composite score of 26+ 3 AP examinations (in relevant subjects): 3+ If taken pre-2020, 3 SAT subject tests (in relevant subjects): 600+ Science & Engineering For entry to the BSc/BEng., we look for a minimum cumulative 3.0 unweighted High School GPA plus both of the following: SAT 1250+ OR ACT composite score of 26+ One of the following standardised subject tests: 1 AP Subject Test with a grade of 3+ from either Math, Biology, Chemistry, or Physics If taken pre-2020, we will accept 1 SAT Subject Test with a score of 600+ (in a relevant subject) instead of 1 AP Alternatively, we will accept one of the following: 3 AP examinations (in relevant subjects): 3+ If taken pre-2020, 3 SAT subject tests (in relevant subjects): 600+ Law For entry to the LLB, we look for a minimum cumulative 3.3 unweighted High School GPA plus one of the following: SAT score of 1320+ with minimum 650+ in Evidence-Based Reading and Writing ACT composite score of 28+ 2 AP Subject Test at grade 4+ If taken pre-2020, 2 SAT Subject tests with a score of 650+ Alternatively, we will accept one of the following: 3 AP examinations (in relevant subjects): 4+ If taken pre-2020, 3 SAT subject tests (in relevant subjects): 650+ Medicine Please refer the School of Medicine and Dentistry website for information on entry requirements and how to apply.
Postgraduate Entry to a Master programme usually requires the equivalent of a 2:2 (Second Class Honours) British degree, which equates to a USA degree of: Bachelor’s degree (unweighted GPA: 3.0+) from an accredited university or college in a relevant subject Postgraduate programmes at the University of Aberdeen and other British universities do not generally require standardised tests such as the GRE, GMAT, LSAT, MCAT etc.
Instead, applicants are assessed on the merit and relevance of their undergraduate studies, as well as references and personal statement.
For further information, please refer to the online prospectus or email Frances Walsh, Regional Manager for the USA: frances.walsh@abdn.ac.uk
For entry to the Master of Arts (MA) programme, we look for a minimum cumulative 3.0 unweighted High School GPA plus one of the following:
For entry to the BSc/BEng., we look for a minimum cumulative 3.0 unweighted High School GPA plus both of the following:
Alternatively, we will accept one of the following:
For entry to the LLB, we look for a minimum cumulative 3.3 unweighted High School GPA plus one of the following:
Please refer the School of Medicine and Dentistry website for information on entry requirements and how to apply.
Entry to a Master programme usually requires the equivalent of a 2:2 (Second Class Honours) British degree, which equates to a USA degree of:
Postgraduate programmes at the University of Aberdeen and other British universities do not generally require standardised tests such as the GRE, GMAT, LSAT, MCAT etc.
US Entry Requirements: Test Optional Policy The information below is provided as a guide only and does not guarantee entry to the University of Aberdeen Applying for Fall 2025 SAT/ACT test optional for September 2025 entry Due to the COVID 19 pandemic and cancellation of SAT and ACT tests, the University of Aberdeen has confirmed its test optional position.
This means that it will still welcome applications and make offers to students who are not sitting the standardised tests.
In place of standardised tests, the University of Aberdeen Admissions Selectors will review your High School Transcript and look for strong academic performance overall and in related subjects.
You should clearly state in your Personal Statement on your application why you were unable to take either the SAT or ACT.
The University will, however, continue to make applications based on standardised test scores for those able to sit them.
The normal minimum requirement for MA and BSc admission in Fall 2025 is : ACT: score of 26+ (writing optional) SAT: score of 1250+ (essay optional) Applicants taking the SAT, APs or ACT can have their test scores sent directly to the University of Aberdeen via the College Board or ACT websites: College Board test code number: 0818 ACT test code number: 5364 If you have had any issues in sitting SAT/ACT Tests or have had your test cancelled due to COVID 19 and would like to discuss your options please email frances.walsh@abdn.ac.uk
US Entry Requirements: Test Optional Policy
The information below is provided as a guide only and does not guarantee entry to the University of Aberdeen
Applying for Fall 2025
SAT/ACT test optional for September 2025 entry
Due to the COVID 19 pandemic and cancellation of SAT and ACT tests, the University of Aberdeen has confirmed its test optional position.
The normal minimum requirement for MA and BSc admission in Fall 2025 is :
Applicants taking the SAT, APs or ACT can have their test scores sent directly to the University of Aberdeen via the College Board or ACT websites:
If you have had any issues in sitting SAT/ACT Tests or have had your test cancelled due to COVID 19 and would like to discuss your options please email frances.walsh@abdn.ac.uk
Undergraduate: Applicants from your country will be required to take a Foundation Year before progressing to an Undergraduate degree.
For more information, see our International Study Centre’s website here: https://www.aberdeen-isc.ac.uk/ Postgraduate : A score of 80-90% from a well ranked university is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 75-80% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Postgraduate : A score of 80-90% from a well ranked university is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 75-80% is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
Undergraduate The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Venezuela presenting a range of qualifications including GCE A Levels US High School Diploma (with other standardised tests including the SAT, ACT or APs) International Baccalaureate Students presenting the Venezuelan high school diploma (Bachillerato) are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Postgraduate: Typically we will consider a score of 11 out of 20 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.
The University of Aberdeen welcomes applications from students from Venezuela presenting a range of qualifications including
Students presenting the Venezuelan high school diploma (Bachillerato) are normally required to complete a recognised Foundation year programme for admission to undergraduate study.
Postgraduate: A Bachelor's degree (Bang tot nghiep dai hoc) from a recognised Vietnamese university is sufficient for postgraduate entry.
Holding a Master's degree (Thac si) will strongly enhance an application.
A score of 7.0-7.9 from a well ranked university is considered comparable to a UK 2.1, while a score of 6.0-6.9 is considered comparable to a UK 2.2.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/english:
Find out how our Foundation Programmes prepare you for undergraduate and postgraduate study at the University of Aberdeen.
Find out about the English language programmes we offer at the University of Aberdeen and which course would be most suited to you.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/english/undergraduate-degrees---english-requirements:
To study for an undergraduate degree at the University of Aberdeen it is essential that you can speak, understand, read, and write academic English fluently.
These skills will allow you to understand lectures, produce high standards of written work, and perform well in examinations.
We can assess your English language proficiency through a variety of means: through your nationality, through the qualifications you gained in high school, through the degree you undertook or are undertaking at university, or through a recognised English language test.
Please use the checklist below to determine how you can meet our English language requirements:
Are you a national of Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Canada, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ireland, Jamaica, Malta, New Zealand, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, or The United States of America?
If YES then no further evidence will be required of your English language proficiency.
Have you undertaken and passed three A Levels or achieved the IB Qualification (studied in English) within the last 10 years?
If YES then all we require is a copy of your transcript or certificate.
Have you undertaken one of the high/senior school qualifications on our approved list and achieved the minimum grade?
If yes your certificate must be no older than 10 years at the start of your programme of study.
If YES then all we require is a copy of your high school transcript and certificate.
Have you undertaken or are you undertaking a qualification equivalent to a Honours degree in Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Ireland, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Malta, New Zealand, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, The United Kingdom, or The United States of America?
Have you achieved the required grades in a recognised English language test as shown in the table below?
If YES then all we require is a copy of your certificate, which we will verify with the awarding organisation.
Please note certification must be within the two years prior to commencement of your course, unless otherwise stated.
If NO you will need to register for one of the tests listed below and achieve the required grade prior to commencement of your studies with us, we will make this a condition of your offer.
Have you undertaken or are you undertaking a degree that is taught and assessed fully in English from a university on our approved list ?
If YES then all we require is an official medium of instruction (MOI) letter from your university confirming that your degree was/is taught, assessed, and examined fully in English.
Please note certification of your English Language test must be within the two years prior to commencement of your course, unless otherwise stated.
The standard English Language criteria for undergraduate study at the University of Aberdeen are listed below (referred to as Undergraduate Standard).
Please note that this standard does not apply to Medicine (MBChB) where a higher level of English is required.
Alternative English Language qualifications are NOT accepted for Medicine (MBChB) applicants.
Where available the University accepts valid one skill retake test scores.
Undergraduate Standard
Medicine (MBChB)
University of Aberdeen Academic English Pre sessional programmes
Valid for one year, refresher can be offered if out of date.
Pass
Pre-sessional Academic English Preparation Programmes undertaken at other UK universities
Certification must be within one year prior to commencement of your course.
Pass at an equivalent of 6 (B2) with B2 in all four skills
Pass at an equivalent of 6 (B2) with C1 in Speaking and B2 in the other skills
IELTS Academic or IELTS UKVI Academic (not IELTS Indicator or IELTS General Training or IELTS Online
The University accepts valid IELTS One Skill Retake test scores
Listening - 5.5 or above Reading - 5.5 or above Speaking - 5.5 or above Writing - 6.0 or above Overall - 6.0
Listening - 5.5 or above Reading - 5.5 or above Speaking - 7.0 or above Writing - 6.0 or above Overall - 7.0
TOEFL iBT and TOEFL Home Edition (online)
The University accepts MyBest scores for the TOEFL iBT test in addition to TOEFDL iBT scores from a single test date
TOEFL DI code is 0818
Listening - 17 or above Reading - 18 or above Speaking - 20 or above Writing - 21 or above Overall - 78
Listening - 21 or above Reading - 22 or above Speaking - 28 or above Writing - 21 or above Overall - 100
Listening - 60 Reading - 60 Speaking - 60 Writing - 65 Overall - 65
Listening - 60 Reading - 60 Speaking - 75 Writing - 65 Overall - 75
Cambridge B2 First or C1 Advanced or C2 Proficiency
Listening - 162 or above Reading - 162 or above Speaking - 162 or above Writing - 169 or above Overall - 169
Listening - 162 or above Reading - 162 or above Speaking - 185 or above Writing - 169 or above Overall - 185
Oxford ELLT Digital - English Level Test Online
Must have a minimum of 5.0 in all elements
LanguageCert International ESOL B2 Communicator Online/In Centre
This test is not accepted for entry from September 2025 onwards
Overall Pass
Listening, Reading and Speaking 33 or above
Writing - 38 or above
Not accepted
PTE Academic
Online test not accepted
Listening - 59 or above Reading - 59 or above Speaking - 59 or above Writing - 59 or above Overall - 59 or above
Listening - 59 or above Reading - 59 or above Speaking - 70 or above Writing - 59 or above Overall - 70 or above
Trinity ISE - Trinity Integrated Skills in English
Pass overall at ISE II with a distinction in writing and merit in the other three skills
Pass overall at ISE III with a distinction in writing and merit in the other three skills
Duolingo*
*Tests taken from 1st July 2024 onward
Listening - 95 Reading - 95 Speaking - 95 Writing - 105 Overall - 105
Skills for English: SELT
B2 Pass
.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/english/postgraduate-degrees---english-requirements:
To study for a postgraduate degree at the University of Aberdeen it is essential that you can speak, understand, read, and write academic English fluently.
UK degree holders are not required to provide proof of English proficiency .
For postgraduate study, there are two main distinct English language criteria, referred to as Postgraduate Standard and Postgraduate Higher as outlined in the table below.
Postgraduate Standard requirements are used by the Schools of Biological Sciences; Engineering; Geosciences; Natural and Computing Sciences; and Psychology.
Postgraduate Higher requirements are used by the Schools of Business; Divinity, History and Philosophy; Education; Language, Literature; Medicine, Medical Sciences and Nutrition; Music and Visual Culture; Law; and Social Sciences.
The MSc in Oil and Gas Enterprise Management and MSc in Integrated Petroleum Geoscience also make use of the Postgraduate Higher requirements.
University of Aberdeen English Pre-Sessional Programme (PSE)
IELTS Academic or IELTS UKVI Academic (not IELTS Indicator or IELTS General Training) or IELTS Online
Listening - 5.5 or above
Reading - 5.5 or above
Speaking - 5.5 or above
Writing - 6.0 or above
Overall - 6.5
Reading - 6.0 or above
TOEFL iBT and TOEFL iBT Home Edition
The University accepts MyBest scores for the TOEFL iBT test in addition to TOEFL iBT scores from a single test date
Listening - 17 or above
Reading - 18 or above
Speaking - 20 or above
Writing - 21 or above
Overall - 90
Reading - 21 or above
Listening - 60
Reading - 60
Speaking - 60
Writing - 65
Overall - 70
Reading - 65
Listening - 162 or above
Reading - 162 or above
Speaking - 162 or above
Writing - 169 or above
Overall - 176
Reading - 169 or above
Listening - 5.0 or above
Reading - 5.0 or above
Speaking - 5.0 or above
Overall - 7.0
Listening - 59 or above
Reading - 59 or above
Speaking - 59 or above
Writing - 59 or above
Overall - 62
* Tests taken from 1st July 2024 onward

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/english/english-language-programmes:
International students who are planning to study at the University of Aberdeen or any other British university, but whose English language skills are slightly lower than the minimum required for direct entry can apply to study English at our Language Centre, which offers a range of English language courses.
These courses aim to help you transition to study at the University of Aberdeen and focus on the language and skills that you will need.
Our online courses cover similar course content as our Campus Courses, so you can choose to take a fully online pre-sessional English course.
We offer Academic Writing and Communication Skills sessions, both general and those related to a specific degree subject.
Find out more about what it's like moving to Scotland and living in Aberdeen
Access our essential guides for new students, including our UoA Student Guide app, here.
Get more information about our student support and information services here.
Find out more about current and upcoming students events.
Find out more about current and upcoming University of Aberdeen events.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/english/english-language-course-finder:
The University offers a range of English language programmes.
To help us determine which course would be most suitable for you, please enter your IELTS Academic for UKVI scores in the form below.
Any recommendation from the English Language Course Finder is only advisory, and does not represent a decision on whether you are required to undertake a Pre-Sessional English course.
Please contact the Language Centre for more advice .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/finance/fee-status-living-costs-and-work-allowances:
When we receive your application for admission, you will provide information that will help us determine your fee status.
Should we require further information, we would contact you.
If you currently live overseas and you do not hold a UK passport, it is likely that you will be classified as an International Fees student.
UKCISA, the UK Council for International Student Affairs, can provide detailed guidance on the following areas: Immigration; Fees and Student Support; Finance and Funding; Welfare, Health and Tax benefits; Council Tax.
UKCISA is happy to advise students about the fee regulations and case law that apply to them, and to provide a second opinion following an institution's assessment of a student's fee status.
Visit the UKCISA website.
In addition to tuition fees, students will require money to cover their living costs including accommodation, food, books, entertainment, clothing, phone bills, local travel, and laundry.
These expenses will vary depending on your lifestyle and spending habits.
In keeping with UKVI rules, we recommend that students budget £1,023 per month to cover their living costs.
For more information on this please visit our visa page .
International students who require a Student visa to study in the UK also have to pay the NHS health surcharge of £470 per year of study, plus £235 (any additional period of 6 months or less is charged at the rate of half the annual amount) when applying for a visa.
For more information, please visit our visa information page .
International students who will be studying for more than 6 months are permitted to work for 20 hours per week during term-time, though this may be increased during the holiday periods.
Find out more about part-time work.
Please note that this must not be relied upon as a means to fund your studies.
Students coming to study for one semester only (less than 6 months) are usually not granted permission to work.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/cas-and-visa:
Find out more about immigration requirements
Make sure you have all the necessary information before you travel to Aberdeen
Your Certificate of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) will allow you to begin arrangements for obtaining your student visa

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/engage:
If you have an enquiry about studying with us here at the University of Aberdeen, Student Life or any other query, our staff are here for you.
Please note this chat is not active 24 hours a day.
Join us on the University of Aberdeen International Facebook page to connect with current and former students, ask any questions you may have, find out what's going on and see what everyone is talking about!

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/blogs:
Find out what being a student at the University of Aberdeen is like by reading the blogs from our current students.
Our imaginations can often run wild and free!
And for a first time traveller, your guess is as good as mine, especially travelling from a developing country to a developed country.
I was excited and scared and full of wonder about the new place I was going to call home!
What I was told
Even before I made up my mind to do my MSc at the University of Aberdeen, I had heard and read a lot about the United Kingdom.
The way of life there, the never-depreciating currency, the transport system, the food and the enviable British Accent!
I mean the stories spanned from tangibles to abstract, but one thing that was common throughout all the stories was the unique Scottish weather and for that matter Aberdeen and how I needed to come prepared.
But just as I hinted earlier, I did my own personal research and only God knows how many times I read about life in Aberdeen!
Well you can call me Aber-newbie!
The Journey to Aberdeen
On 11th of September 2018, at around 5pm, I made my way to the Kotoka International Airport in Ghana and finally made it through all the security checks without any hustle or bustle.
My flight was scheduled to depart at around 11pm.
Fast forward, the time came for us to board.
Somewhere in between being civilised and 'posh' like I had always seen in the movies and trying not to look like I had no clue, I managed to keep my cool and anxiety levels down.
Remember the old saying 'do not follow the crowd?' Well I shunned that saying and followed the crowd this time and located my seat.
Seated in between a matured looking man and a woman who could pass as my mum, and in high spirit, I clicked a selfie for the family and friends who were praying for safe travels back home.
Finally made it to the Schiphol airport in Amsterdam after about six hours in the air, again made it through the necessary checks and at about 11am in the morning after a 3 hour layover I boarded my next flight to Aberdeen!
Aberdeen alas!
I got to Aberdeen in high spirits ready to make friends and make the most of the opportunity, however the Aberdeen weather had different plans for me, how chee-kay?
(Written in my full-fledged accent lol).
Well honestly, for a first timer, I would say I was not adequately dressed, how sad!
As I strut confidently out of the plane and took my first step, the weather was breezy I thought to myself, did the plane have a special way of saying goodbye to me?!
It was finally when I got on the ground that I realised that I was in Aberdeen, the most amazing city in Scotland and I was completely under dressed....
made it through security and amidst getting used to a new climate, guess what I did?
I had to pose in front of the Dyce Airport for a final picture.
Whilst you read this and your imagination gets a good hold of you, don't forget to pack warm clothing.
It will take a little time to adjust to the British weather!!
This is not African heat but instead something new and exciting.
I now love the weather and purchased a few new warmer items of clothing here.
For a first time traveller always have a good jacket for your journey....other than that, just so you know, Aberdeen is a lovely and calm city and the University of Aberdeen is even Lovelier!
By Abigail Boakye
I started studying at The University of Aberdeen in September 2018.
I had just concluded my first degree in Hungary.
During the Fresher's week, I attended a lot of events for new students and I found out about the Careers and Employability Service.
The career's service at the University of Aberdeen offers advice and support to students and graduates of the university.
The Careers and Employability Service helps students to explore all career options in order to make a well-informed career choice.
Through workshops and seminars, the service aims to help students to develop their skills and gain confidence in their potential.
As a student of the university, I have attended a number of workshops hosted by the Careers and Employability Service and I found every one of them to be very enlightening and helpful.
To help you understand how amazing it is, I will describe a timeline of my involvement with the Careers and Employability Service.
Step 1: After finding out about the Careers and Employability Service during Fresher's week, I booked an appointment to speak to one of the advisors.
In order to get the most out of the meeting, I went along with a copy of my CV.
The first meeting was basically an introduction to the service.
After this brief introduction, the advisor took a quick look at my CV and told me everything that was wrong with it while offering advice on a few adjustments to make.
I found this very helpful and I made all the corrections he suggested.
I also signed up to receive alerts of part-time jobs available at the University and that was how I got my first part-time student job!
Step 2: After my first meeting with an advisor, I frequently attended other seminars organized by the Careers and Employability Service.
During one of such seminars, I learnt how to use the networking site: LinkedIn.
During this session, I also got a professional head-shot picture taken for my LinkedIn profile for free!
I know!
It was such a huge bonus.
After the seminar, I was able to set up my LinkedIn page and I have been connecting with important people in my professional field ever since!
Step 3: During my second semester at the university, I attended a series of workshops aimed at helping students to develop core skills which job recruiters often look for.
I attended workshops on leadership, time management and networking.
It was an amazing experience and after the workshops, I felt a lot more confident in myself and in my skills.
Step 4: I am currently involved in a Career Mentorship program.
Let me explain it; so I have been paired with a well-established career mentor and we have meetings every two weeks.
This program is run by the Careers and Employability Service and it aims to give students a sort of hands-on experience with their chosen career.
You get to speak to someone who already has your dream job and they give you advice on the proper steps to take before and after graduation.
I have found my mentor to be very helpful and very inspiring.
I am very grateful to the Careers and Employability Service for this opportunity.
As new students, it is often so confusing and stressful to move to a new city and you probably have no idea of what you're going to do when you graduate, but that's what the Careers and Employability Service is there for.
The advisors are very helpful and amazing!
All you have to do is book an appointment and show up and get all the necessary help that you need, all for free!
By Oluwafayokemi Tijani
As a Postgraduate International Student from Ghana, I have had quite a number of exciting experiences in Aberdeen barely 7 months since I got here.
From meeting people with diverse backgrounds and making lifelong friendships and experiencing different cultures has been one of the many things i will carry with me wherever I go.
Over my short stay here, if there's one thing I am more convinced about is that the University of Aberdeen offers more than just an education, it is part of the reasons most of us have travelled far and near to be a part of this great University, no wonder we were adjudged the 2019 Scottish University of the year, a bragging right I have over my friends who are in other universities.
As a Masters student studying International Relations, I have been so keen on leadership opportunities such that, right from the beginning of my course I was given a fair opportunity to be a class representative and not just that, but given the requisite skills to be able to deliver my duties as a class rep.
As if that was not enough, the election window for Aberdeen University Students Association opened for students to participate in a free and fair elections where I got the opportunity to stand as Education Officer together with other competitors and again, I was given the requisite training and support to enable me go through the process smoothly without fear.
Whilst the experience was challenging it has by far been one of my most exciting experiences in the University of Aberdeen I must say!
All the other competitors running for various positions were given equal play field and support!
Something that is somewhat rare from where I come from.
Through that, I met so many amazing people and learnt a great deal and I strongly believe all the experiences I gathered from campaigning and talking and explaining my policies to people will be used and shared somewhere along my career path.
Whilst my opponent won by just ninety-four votes, I am grateful for this exciting experience that I probably would not have had if I had not come to the University of Aberdeen and I am so certain I would do it again if given this same opportunity in my next life.
As an international student with a limited income from a scholarship, it is sometimes necessary to find an additional source of revenue.
Thankfully, the Tier 4 student visa allows us to work up to 20 hours per week during term time and full-time during holidays.
I came to Aberdeen to do a masters and decided to stay for my PhD as well.
During my masters I did not work as I felt I would be unable to take on a job while adjusting to living in the UK.
However, I had some free time after lectures and assignments that I could have very well spent earning money instead of drinking it.
Once I finished my masters and while waiting for the PhD to start, I got my first part-time job in Aberdeen.
I applied for several jobs I found listed on Indeed and was rejected by most of them or didn't get a response.
I remember feeling particularly terrible when I was rejected by McDonalds.
I mean, why would I not be qualified to work a cash register or flip burgers having just attained a masters degree!?
Nevertheless, I continued looking for options and I finally started working at COSMO Aberdeen as floor staff (i.e.
waitressing and cleaning) mid-October 2016.
Shortly after I got another job as a Biology and Maths tutor for Nat 5 and Higher students.
I got into COSMO because I had a friend working there who recommended me to the manager.
I handed in my focused CV and had a short interview.
Here's where I learnt you should have a different CV depending on the job you are applying for.
In the CV I handed in to COSMO, I made emphasis on my hospitality experience and on the skills which were relevant to the job (i.e.
cleaning, agreeableness, attention to detail, team work etc.).
I also mentioned my academic qualifications but did not go into detail as they would not be relevant for a waitressing job.
I had a look at Aberdeen University's job listings page and found an advert for a tutoring job at Homework Help (UK) Ltd.
I prepared another CV to apply for this job which focused on my academic qualifications.
I mentioned relevant courses I had covered which would make me the ideal candidate to tutor biology and maths.
For this job I also wrote a cover letter, which is important as it gives you the opportunity to explain why you are interested in the job and why you think you'd be an ideal candidate.
I had a short Skype interview for this job and had my first pupil shortly after.
I had both jobs when I started my PhD.
Halfway through my first year, I decided to drop one of the jobs because it was becoming too overwhelming.
I kept the waitressing job as I got more hours, it required less moving around and no preparation.
Having started my third year, I decided it was time to get a different job and once again turned to the University's job listings and found my current job as an International Student Ambassador.
Working and studying may seem like very hard work and sometimes it is.
However, the experiences you share and the friends you make along the way are very much worth it.
By Yolanda Muñoz Balbontín
When I first thought of coming to Aberdeen, I thought I would be the only Mexican in my course and one of the few in the campus.
I was dead wrong.
When I was planning and getting all the paperwork ready to come to Aberdeen, I stumbled across a few other Mexicans in a live chat event carried out by the University and we formed a WhatsApp group.
In this chat I met a Mexican girl who was coming to study the same course as me and who later became my best friend.
She helped me out before coming to Aberdeen and when I arrived, she let me stay with her while I sorted out where I would live.
In this same chat I met a Mexican guy who came to do a PhD and I ended up sharing a flat with him for three years.
Having settled in, I met many other lovely Mexicans and we soon formed a tight group.
We got together for field trips and celebrated holidays together.
We also had barbecues and parties to mix it up during the weekends.
Overall, we were around 30 Mexicans that year.
The next year ou r numbers grew to around 50 and currently there are over 100 Mexican students at Aberdeen University.
When the time came to part ways, we were there for each other at the graduation ceremonies.
It was an amazing experience and being able to share it with such great people made it even more so.
We still keep in touch and some of us have attended weddings of friend's who met their match in Aberdeen!
Given our growing community, this year the Mexican Society was created to assist and support Mexican students in Aberdeen University.
This new society seeks to organise integration and informative events to promote socialisation and make professional contacts.
As for Mexican celebrations in Aberdeen, the holiday that has gained the most popularity in recent years is the Day of the Dead.
The first ever Day of the Dead festival in Aberdeen took place in November, 2017.
The festival featured Latin dance music, face-painting and a lively performance of traditional Mexican songs.
If you are interested, feel free to have a look at the Mexican Society Facebook page
By: Yolanda Munoz Balbontín
Aberdeen is a small city compared to Glasgow or Edinburgh but no less busy for its nightlife and places to go.
Moving about the city centre and hotspot sites is quite easy as everything is about a 5-35 min walk at most.
Old Aberdeen campus is only a 20-30 min walk from the city centre, however, if you are not a big fan of walking there are plenty of bus routes to get you around as well.
First and Stagecoach are the two main bus companies in Aberdeen city.
The former is slightly more costly than the latter but covers the whole city.
As students, we are entitled to a student discount on the day-ticket, which allows you to move around buses for the day.
All you must do is show your student ID when purchasing the ticket on the bus.
Some routes to take a note of are First route 20, which takes you from the city centre, through Aberdeen University's (AU) Old Aberdeen campus, to Hillhead Student Village; First routes 1 and 2, which take you to from AU Old Aberdeen campus, through the city centre, to Robert Gordon University (RGU) and Deeside; First routes 3 and 8 and Stagecoach route 59, which take you from the city centre to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary (ARI) and AU Foresterhill health campus; and Stagecoach Jet 727 route which takes you from the city centre to Aberdeen Dyce airport.
If you are the adventure-seeking type, Aberdeen and its shire are the place for you.
With over 250 castles in the area, Aberdeenshire is considered 'Scotland's castle county' and getting around is no problem.
Stagecoach dominates over First in coverage of Aberdeenshire and nearby towns and chalets.
Several bus routes drop you off very close to the biggest castles around Aberdeenshire.
Alternatively, you may also take the train.
Exploring Aberdeenshire does not necessarily mean getting a bus.
You can take your bicycle around in one of the many cycling routes around Aberdeen and the shire.
Deeside way is part of the National Cycle Network and goes from Duthie park in Aberdeen city to Ballater in Aberdeenshire.
This trail follows the former Deeside railway ending in Ballater railway station, which was the closest station to Balmoral castle, home of queen Victoria in the 1800s.
Another remarkable trail is the North Sea cycle route, which takes you along the coastline of Aberdeen, the shire and beyond.
This is an international route for more experienced cyclists.
Nonetheless, you may follow the route along Aberdeenshire for a shorter trip.
On this route, you may see the coastal town of Stonehaven and close-by Dunnottar castle, which was captured by William Wallace in 1297.
Stonehaven is famous for The Bay Fish & Chips and Aunty Betty's ice-cream shops (both which I highly recommend).
You may also take a train or Stagecoach route 7B from Aberdeen city centre to Stonehaven and then hike for 30-40 min from Stonehaven harbour to the castle.
It's a great day trip!
As an international student, you will need to work hard to ace your programme.
But all work and no play make a student stray.
Taking some time off to explore the city and its surroundings with your new friends will enhance your international experience and refresh you for your studies.
Created by Yolanda Muñoz Balbontín
Hello!
I am Guillermo, I am from Mexico and I am studying a Master's degree in International Law and International Relations at the University of Aberdeen.
In this occasion, I want to tell you about a part of my experience in this beautiful city that no one talks about, but that I think is useful for you who are planning to come to study here.
One of the greatest things about my experience in Aberdeen is that it is a walkable city where you can go to everywhere without worrying about security and without having to spend your money in public transport, which is good because you will be able to use in more important stuff, depending on your interests.
In fact, Aberdeen is a very secure city where you can return to your home walking even at late night, it is ranked as one of the most secure cities in the United Kingdom, among London, Edinburgh and Glasgow.
In my case, I loved the fact that I could go to any place walking, but most importantly, that I could go to places of my interest in no more than 20 minutes.
For example, I live practically within the University, behind the Starbucks.
If you want to go to the City Centre, you just need to walk, get out through the Harry Potter's entrance (It is not per se Harry Potter's entrance but it feels that way-see picture), turn right in College Bounds and continue walking straight 20 minutes until you get to Union Street.
Union Street is the street where you can find all types of stores, cloth stores, bars, clubs, libraries, restaurants, jewellery stores, banks, gift shops, pharmacies, videogame stores, cash multicurrency stores, among other things.
I love going there because there is a lot of variety of restaurants and bars where you can just go to clear your mind from the sometimes-stressful studies.
Moreover, one of the great things about walking to the City Centre is that you can experience great views of the City.
For a person that is not used to live in a grey city, would find it with a medieval sense that makes it cosy.
Another amazing thing about walking in this City is that all the Supermarkets are 10 to 15 minutes walking.
My favourite one is Lidl, and it is very near my home.
I just go through the Harry Potter's entrance, go to the left in College bounds, and continue straight 15 minutes and I am there.
If I want to go to the gym I can just cross the University, and I get there in 5 minutes.
If you want to enjoy a great spring view, you can always walk to Seaton Park, which is 5 minutes walking from the University, and you will see the contrasts of the different types of shades that the trees have to offer here in Aberdeen.
Finally, the City will always give you surprises, like this beautiful passage near the University, full of beautiful flowers, where you could be able to read a book and grab a cup of coffee in Kilau coffee shop or Starbucks, which are one minute walking from the University.
Hope you could come to an unforgettable experience in a city full of contrasts.
By Guillermo Diaz
It's always a nice idea to relax after a long day at University.
Many studies have shown that a balanced work and relaxation life is essential for a healthy life.
I always try to make time for my hobbies between school work and my part time job.
Since moving to Aberdeen, I have also picked up a number of new hobbies and I must say, I am getting really good at all of them.
My oldest and probably the least fascinating hobby is running.
I started running in high school and used to compete in a number of relay races.
I often run for about 1.8 miles on stressful days.
I have found that the feel of the breeze on my face makes me feel relaxed and free.
Plus it's a really great way to keep in shape.
I also enjoy taking long walks on the beach while listening to Claire de Lune.
The ideal time for these walks is in the evening so I can watch the sun set.
This is something I think everyone should definitely try in their lifetime because it just brings a form of calm that can't really be explained with words and another bonus is the beauty of the sun itself as it sets for the day.
I have always enjoyed reading since I was a child.
One of the first stores I visited when I moved to Aberdeen was the bookshop in a mall about 10 minutes away from my apartment.
Since moving here, I have acquired a large number of books which I read on the weekends while enjoying a cup of tea.
I also enjoy reading some of the classics over again like Jane Eyre, Wuthering Heights and Pride and Prejudice.
I find out new things every single time I read these books.
Since moving to Aberdeen, I have taken up Zumba, an exercise program which involves moving along to fast or slow rhythmic Latin-American songs as a form of cardio.
I have gotten so good at it that I currently teach a number of classes at the gym.
I also attend a number of fitness classes at the gym on most evenings when I'm not out running.
I have met so many people who are as committed to fitness as I am and it's been amazing so far.
I have recently signed up for a number of teaching classes at the Aberdeen Sports Village for the summer.
I am really looking forward to learning how to swim again.
I also enjoy taking photography classes at the Apple store during my free weekends.
I have taken a few of these and I can proudly state that my photography skills have improved greatly!
I also do some volunteer work with AberGreen which mainly involves speaking to people about the dangers of climate change and how to conserve energy in their homes.
Aberdeen is a lively city and there are so many things to do here and many clubs to join at the university too!
Looking at a map of Scotland, you might notice that Aberdeen is quite far north.
You might be thinking that you'll experience extreme weather or feel cold most of the time, but it's quite the opposite.
As the sunniest city in Scotland, we experience far less rain than other cities in Scotland, and our temperatures are quite mild.
Temperatures in the winter usually do not drop below freezing, staying around an average of 7 degrees Celsius during the day and 1 degree Celsius at night.
Occasionally it will get cold enough to snow a few days, but nothing too unmanageable.
With a warm winter coat, a hat and some gloves, you will do just fine in Aberdonian winter.
While it rains less than other cities in Scotland, Aberdeen is still in the UK so you will still get your fair share of rain.
Coming from a city that rains less than Aberdeen, I am quite used to a rainy climate and yet never seem to have an umbrella.
If you're from a sunnier city it might be something you're not used to, but a rain jacket is an essential in the UK.
Rain tends to be quite sporadic and can sometimes come out of nowhere, so be prepared for the unexpected shower here and there.
Rain or shine however, it is a great place to be.
Springtime in Aberdeen you never really know what to expect.
It can be perfectly sunny one day and rainy the next.
As we get closer to summer, the weather warms up and the rain lessens.
Average summer temperatures will reach a high of about 20 degrees Celsius and a low of about 10.
After a while in Aberdeen, you will get used to sporadic changes in weather and be prepared for whatever nature throws at you.
I find a stormy walk on the beach quite therapeutic and peaceful, so do not let a bit of rain spoil your plans.
Overall, we are quite lucky in Aberdeen with having a mild climate.
Without extreme cold or heat, and not a large fluctuation in temperature between winter and summer it's a great place to live.
Aberdeen is one of the most diverse and multi-cultural cities I have ever lived in.
The city is commonly called the 'granite city' because this rock can be found in abundance in this city.
In fact, many structures in Aberdeen were constructed using granite.
Aberdeen has been voted as one of the safest cities in Britain to live.
This is such a huge deal because this city is the home to many students and it is very important that they can move around without the fear of being harmed.
Another impressive thing that the University does is that they provide support to students in bad situations.
For example, if you go out partying and maybe your wallet gets stolen along with all your money, you could just call a taxi and show them your student card and you'd get a free ride to your apartment or hostel.
All you must do is refund the money to the student union at your earliest convenience.
Aberdeen has two huge malls: The Union Square shopping centre and the Bon Accord centre.
These malls contain various stores like Zara, New Look, River Island, Deichmann, H&M, Michael Kors and many restaurants like Nando's, Burger King, Starbucks and many others.
The Union Square mall has a cinema which shows several movies and is the most comfortable cinema I have ever been to!
Both malls have Boots stores and pharmacies, so you could buy cosmetics or even fill in your prescription.
My favourite place to shop is at John Lewis in the Bon Accord shopping centre.
They have a huge range of designer clothes and they always have a sale going on.
In addition to that, they do something called a 'price match', where if you see a product at a cheaper price at another store, they would sell it to you at that price irrespective of how much they have labelled that product in their store.
Another one of my favourite places to shop is at New Look.
The customer service at their stores is very impressive and all students get a discount too!
There are many places to shop for groceries in Aberdeen.
Some of these places include: Lidl, Sainsbury's, Morrisons, Tesco, Aldi and Coop.
My favourite place to buy groceries from is Lidl because they have a lot of stuff and their prices are very affordable.
(See the blog on 'Which supermarkets are cheaper?)
As a new student in Aberdeen, one of the places you must visit is the beach.
The beach is my favourite place in the city.
It's the best place to go to have a quiet walk to think or even to have a quick run.
I enjoy watching the sunset from the edge of the water.
It is simply serene and beautiful.
Another beautiful place to visit is the Duthie Park Winter Gardens.
This place is simply beautiful!
There are many colourful plants and flowers.
It would simply make a good addition to your Instagram feed!
The Seaton Park is one of the largest parks in Aberdeen.
It is located close to the Hillhead halls of residence, so it is a great place to unwind after a stressful day.
The view of the park is breath-taking and serene.
A visit to the Aberdeen Maritime museum is a great way to learn about the history of the maritime industry in the city.
It is a perfect way to spend a Saturday with family or friends.
The University of Aberdeen's Zoology museum is another lovely place to visit.
Entry to this museum is free and it has a large collection of zoology specimens.
It is a great place to visit even if you're not into that sort of stuff.
The King's College chapel is in the heart of the Old Aberdeen campus.
It is an old and beautiful building that is open to students during the semester to meditate or pray.
It is a great place to visit.
Aberdeen is a very beautiful city and you can get around the city on foot, so you don't have to spend a lot of money on transportation.
As a new student, moving to a new city is stressful and you'd have many worries but rest assured, you will enjoy your time in Aberdeen because I certainly have!
By: Oluwafayokemi Tijani
Change can be difficult sometimes and even more difficult when the change is with food.
Our taste buds are unique and not easily adaptable to other tastes especially for International students like us who are predominately used to our local dishes, hence finding what you love in a different environment becomes really important!
But the good news is that, the world has become a global village that makes it possible to find whatever traditional cuisine you want, whether you are thinking of a sit-in restaurant or a place to buy your local and traditional ingredients.
Finding a place to shop for foods and other groceries is more easy-breezy in Aberdeen than you can imagine.
Even though the city seems to be geographically far, and you will not readily think of finding your common local spice or food stuff, however the city offers a vastly diversified cultural setting for anyone visiting or planning to study in Aberdeen for the first time.
In lieu of the cultural diversity, there're lots of continental shops available in Aberdeen.
African shops are around in the city.
Popular amongst them are described below:
Famous among the shops is 'Rice n Spice' at 175 King street, AB24 5AE.
Fifty metres after Morrison shopping centre on Kings Street, when heading towards Union Street from University of Aberdeen.
It's about 15 minutes' walk from the University to the shop.
Rice n Spice has two shops on Kings Street facing each other.
The shop has most if not all African foods and spices you can think of.
Foods like; gari, plantain, cassava, vegetables, garden eggs, onion, ogbono (for my Nigerian friends), palm oil, fufu mixes, banku and pap flour among others.
Another good place to get your groceries is 'Harmonie Ventures On' at 555 George Street, AB25 3XX.
Here, you can get most of your West African foods and spices, especially for those from Ghana and Nigeria, it's a great shop to buy food stuff.
Also at 542 George Street, AB25 3XJ, is 'De-Glory shop' which deals in all African food stuffs, cosmetics and has a hair salon.
'World Spice' is another shop you get African groceries.
It's an international shop that deals majorly in Asian, African and Filipino groceries.
You can locate the shop at 489 George Street, AB25 3YB.
All these shops are opened seven days a week usually from 9am to 8pm on average except De-Glory which closes on Sundays.
You're sure to get fresh vegetables, fresh halal meat, African snacks at all of these shops.
For those of us who don't want to cook, there are African restaurants available to eat from.
Some of the famous African restaurants include; Metiyo African Restaurant and Tasty T's - all of which are on George Street.
So, rest assured, whether you are home or abroad, whilst you study in the University of Aberdeen and spend a year or more in this ancient city, your food preferences will always be guaranteed.
By Augustine Appiah
Scotland is blessed with many castles which have been around for many years.
Every year, a large number of tourists visit these castles in hopes of catching a glimpse of what it was like many years ago when these castles were inhabited by lords, noble men and their families.
I once heard a tour guide say that there are about 3,000 castles in Scotland.
This means you totally get to study in a fairy-tale country!
Crathes Castle
I went on a day trip with some of my friends from the university.
First, we visited Crathes castle, which is located in Banchory - a town about 29km from Aberdeen.
This beautiful castle belonged to the Burnett of Leys family before it was handed off to the National Trust for Scotland for maintenance.
The castle is built on the land which was given to the family by King Robert the Bruce in 1323 after the war.
The castle takes up only a small portion of the land.
There is also a lovely garden on the grounds with breathtakingly beautiful plants and flowers.
Balmoral Castle
After leaving Crathes castle, we visited Balmoral castle.
It is commonly referred to as the Scottish holiday home to the Royal family.
The castle has belonged to the British Royal family since 1852 and the Queen often spends her summer vacations there.
During that time, the castle will be closed to the public.
Balmoral welcomes many tourists from around the world hoping to catch a glimpse of a royal or two during their visit.
There is an audio guide tour which is available in a number of languages so you can walk around the castle at your own pace.
Interesting fact- during our visit, my mates and I got to meet Prince Charles.
It was such a huge surprise to us because we had only just joked about running into Prince Harry or Meghan Markle when we saw the prince walk by.
He chatted with us for a short time before moving on.
That was definitely one of the most memorable days of this year!
Edinburgh Castle
This is the most famous castle in Scotland.
It is located in Edinburgh, which is only a 2-3 hour bus ride away from Aberdeen.
Edinburgh castle is of a huge historic significance because it has been involved in a huge number of sieges - about 26 in total.
Making it the most attacked castle in the world.
There is also an audio guide tour so you can move around the castle at your own pace.
During my visit, there were so many tourists and it was a great way to meet new people from different parts of the world.
Scotland is one of the most beautiful places I have ever lived in.
Organizing day trips to castles with your mates is one great way to unwind during the semester or holidays.
These are only a few castles I have visited.
As I mentioned earlier, there are more castles in Scotland and I look forward to visiting more in the future.
As a new international student, it is always useful to know which supermarkets are the friendliest for your limited student budget.
Knowing this before hand might save you some money when you do your first grocery run.
Lidl
Starting with their slogan “Big on Quality, Lidl on Price” you may already have an idea of their prices.
This is where is usually do my grocery shopping.
In my opinion, the best thing about Lidl is their glorious bakery.
They have a wide range of freshly baked breads, cookies, mini pizzas, croissants and baked treats to delight your nKermose and taste buds.
And most, if not all, are a fraction of a pound per piece.
I usually spend around £20 per week on groceries shopping here.
This includes eggs, milk, some sort of meat (fish, beef or chicken), cheese, ham, bacon, at least 3 to 4 different veggies, at least two different fruits, oatcakes and/or biscuits, box bread, pasta or rice, cereal, and 2 to 5 snack treats from the bakery (of course).
Occasionally, I spend around £30 if I purchase toilet roll, kitchen roll, cleaning products etc.
But it is hard to spend more than this per week unless you get fancy.
Another advantage of Lidl is their location.
There is a new Lidl very close to the city centre and about a 15 min walk from Old Aberdeen University campus.
There is also one at Bridge of Don, a 10 min walk from Old Aberdeen.
The downside of shopping at Lidl is that you might not find exotic ingredients (like chillies, spices, specialty cheese) or certain brand products.
ALDI
To be honest, I've only been to ALDI once.
Nonetheless, I've heard from acquaintances and friends it is also cheap.
My experience corroborated this, however, there is no bakery and there is less product variety.
Also, there is no ALDI close to Old Aberdeen campus, so a bus ride would be involved unless you fancy a 40 min walk.
If you are based at Foresterhill Health Campus, you are in luck!
There is an ALDI at Cornhill Shopping Arcade 15 minutes walking from there.
Morrisons
This is the middle ground.
You can find almost everything here at a reasonable price.
I did my first shopping in a Morrison's and spent around £60, including cleaning products and hygiene basics.
After that, a weekly grocery run would come to around £30 per week.
The advantage of Morrison's is its central location (almost at the city centre and a 20 min walk from campus), making it easy to move around other close-by shops to complete your shopping or have a wander.
You can also find a wider variety of specialty and brand products.
Another advantage is their delivery service (incurs a fee).
Other supermarkets
TESCO, ASDA, The Coop, and Sainsbury's are other supermarkets.
These are usually a bit more expensive unless you hunt for offers at the end of the day.
The advantage of shopping in these places are they are usually larger, and you can find anything from specialty import products to clothes, and basic kitchen appliances.
Most also have delivery services straight to your door.
Carrier bag charge at shops
As a newcomer who isn't used to how things are done in the UK, it might be surprising to be charged for carrier bags in supermarkets and corner shops.
I was unaware of this when I first arrived and bought carrier bags without knowing during my first month here until a friend pointed out the charge.
This charge is usually 4 to 5 pence per bag, which might seem like very little but once you do the math it turns out you could've bought yourself a pint or two at the pub with all the bags you've bought throughout your time in the UK.
Also, think of the plastic waste!
A good practice is to make a one-time purchase of durable shopping bags and take them with you to do your shopping every time.
I like to carry one with me all the time, just in case.
Also, most supermarkets will replace a “bag for life” if it is torn or ripped, free of charge!
How to ask for biodegradable food waste bags from the City Council
Another surprise was obtaining biodegradable bin liners for green caddies or bins (for organic food waste).
These are special compostable bags provided by Aberdeen City Council.
They can be picked up (for free!) from the following locations around the city:
Wherever you live, be sure you will find a green caddy or a large green bin.
So, remember to pick up your biodegradable bags!
By: Yolanda Munoz Balbontin
Whether you are a library mouse or a party animal, we all need to blow off some steam once in a while.
Aberdeen has plenty of options to offer, ranging from fine dining to pubs and clubs, and there's plenty to satisfy even the most demanding.
Dining out
Aberdeen may be a small city, but is has a wide variety of foods to offer from all over the world.
From American and Mexican food to European and Asian food.
If you are into fine dining, Trip Advisor's top three restaurants are The Marcliff, The Silver Darling and XI Restaurant, all offering fine British and European food.
I would personally recommend The Silver Darling for its fresh seafood and lovely view of Aberdeen harbour, perfect for date night or an important celebration.
If you are more into Asian food, Chaophraya, the Manchurian restaurant and Rishi's Indian Aroma offer traditional Thai, Chinese, and Indian food, respectively, and at affordable prices too!
Or if you fancy that all-in-one place, COSMO restaurant offers an all you can eat buffet that includes foods from India, China, Thailand, Italy and the Mediterranean.
It also has barbecue and Tepanyaki grills and a chocolate fountain!
Pubs, clubs and more!
My first year in Aberdeen, I tried to go to as many different pubs as possible.
I had a blast with my new friends and tried all sorts of beers and drinks.
I also went to some clubs to dance my legs off and later got some comfort food to finally go home for a good rest.
There are different places for everyone.
If you are into student pubs, The Bobbin is the place for you.
At the Bobbin you will find it all: food, drinks, board games, pool, table hockey and televised sports.
This was the usual meeting place before going to the club as it is conveniently located right in front of Old Aberdeen campus.
If you are in the mood for a more traditional place, The Archibald Simpson and The Old Blackfriars are the places for you.
Archie Simpson (Wetherspoon) is right at the corner of Aberdeen's largest streets in the city centre and is a great place to go if you have a tight budget.
If you are craving some traditional Scottish food, the Old Blackfriars has haggis and the famous deep-fried Mars bar as well as a good whisky selection and other beloved British foods and a drinks.
These two are in front of each other so it's very convenient if you fancy some bar hopping.
If you are more into craft-beers, cocktails or consider yourself a whiskey connoisseur, Brewdog, The Bridge Street Social Club and CASC are the places for you.
Brewdog is an Aberdeenshire craft brewery that offers excellent quality beer and has two pubs in the city centre.
The Bridge Street Social Club is famous for its great cocktails and is conveniently located close to the most popular clubs in Aberdeen.
CASC is a bar at the heart of the city centre that specialises in scotch whisky, craft beer, and cigars.
It even has a humidor.
If you are a party animal, there are a few clubs where you can go to blow off the stress from Uni.
My personal favourite is Underground, mainly because it has two dancefloors and you can alternate between rock and R&B depending on your mood.
If you are in the mood for some salsa dancing and Caribbean cocktails, Revolucion de Cuba is the place for you.
If you fancy some electronic music and a more fancy-looking place, Espionage and NOX are the places for you.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/language-centre:
Providing language training for students, staff and the wider community
The Language Centre has a long history of providing Language Training and support for students, staff and the wider community.
We pride ourselves on the friendly and professional services that we provide.
For general enquiries, please email us at lc-enquiries@abdn.ac.uk .
We are specialists in academic language and communication:
These courses prepare students to improve language proficiency before starting degree programs.
Our courses help you focus on skills such as: writing structure, source material use, effective academic study, active reading and listening, seminar participation and academic presentation.
Benefits also include: removing the language requirement from your offer, preparing for university life and meeting other international students.
Apply to study English at our Language Centre, which offers a range of English language courses for international students whose English language skills are slightly lower than the minimum required for direct entry.
You can choose to take a pre-sessional English course on campus.
Find out more about this option here.
You can choose to take a fully online pre-sessional English course.
This means you can study from the comfort of your own home.
These classes are designed for all international students who have started their degree studies.
The Language Centre offers support with both Academic Writing, and Speaking & Communication Skills.
We offer general sessions as well as some sessions specifically related to your degree subject.
Writing classes Writing workshops Legal academic writing (Pg) 1-2-1 sessions Drop-in sessions
Listening skills Seminar skills Presentation skills Fluency & Communication
Our Evening Classes are designed for anyone interested in learning a new language or in improving existing language skills.
Our experienced and friendly language tutors can provide language tuition for beginners through to advanced students.
The courses are open to University of Aberdeen staff, students and the general public.
The Language Centre offers a wide range of modern foreign language evening classes, including: Arabic, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish.
We offer evening IELTS preparation and General English courses.
A two week residential course for students of our partner institutions.
Boost your communication skills by studying English in the UK.
You will find opportunities to practice your English in a city that is both safe and friendly.
In weekday classes you will develop your academic communication skills.
Evenings and weekends are filled with social events, excursions, and local trips to learn more about Scotland.
E-Learning Coordinator
EAP Tutor
Pre-sessional Coordinator
Language Centre Administrative Officer
Language Centre Assistant
Spanish Tutor
German Tutor
French Tutor
Advanced English & IELTS Tutor
English Tutor

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/language-centre/language-centre---evening-classes:
We pride ourselves on the friendly yet professional services that we provide.
The University of Aberdeen Language Centre offers a wide range of modern foreign language evening classes from beginners to advanced.
We also offer evening IELTS preparation and English language courses for students whose first language is not English.
Students should note courses are for recreational purposes only and do not involve any form of assessment prior to the courses starting, during or after.
Sign up to join our mailing list and receive email updates from the Language Centre when our new timetable is released.
Term 1 2025-2026
12 week course
Monday 6 October to 16 January 2026.
Please see timetable for individual  course dates.
Please check the course descriptors to find the correct level.
Booking is open for term 1 2025-2026
Please enrol for your course on our online store.
Term 2 2025-2026
Monday 2 February  to 8 May 2026.
A one-week break applies from Monday 30 March to Friday 10 April 2026.
Booking will open for term 2 on Monday 3 November 2025.
Term 3 2025- 2026
6 week conversational courses
Monday 25 May to Friday 3 July
Booking will open for term 3 on Monday 2 March 2026
Our evening languages programme is open for anyone interested in learning a new language or improving existing skills.
Courses are available for English and several other languages.
These classes are designed for University of Aberdeen students whose first language is not English and who have started their degree studies.
Course fees
You should book early to secure your place as there are limited spaces available on each course.
Please register for your course as soon as possible to avoid disappointment, especially in the level 1 classes.
If your class is full when you go to book it, add your details to the waiting list as we may be able to add another class if staff availability and time permit.
We only accept payment via our secure Online Store.
Payment can be made by debit card, credit card or paypal.
You will receive an email to confirm your place once we have received payment.
Please note that the cost of textbooks is not included in any course fees.
Payment for the term is due at the time of enrolment.
You will not be permitted to attend classes if payment has not been made during the enrolment period and no place can be reserved for you on a course until you have paid.
Please note that we reserve the right to cancel any evening course which does not attract sufficient numbers.
In this case you will have an opportunity to transfer to an alternative course or to receive a full refund
Your registration on a evening language course will be subject to our terms and conditions.
Your registration on a Language Centre Evening Class course will be subject to the following terms and conditions:
Applicants must be over 17 years old to enrol.
Participants under 17 years old will be removed from the course and will not receive a refund.
Course fees payment is required in advance of the course starting - please note that a place on the course will only be confirmed upon receipt of full payment through the Online Store .
Applicants are responsible for selecting a level that is suitable for them.
Any queries can be made to the Language Centre admin team ahead of reserving a place.
Following the application and payment for a course, our course fees are non-refundable and non-transferable.
The Language Centre will seek to keep to the advertised course dates but reserves the right to alter times/dates in the event of unforeseen circumstances.
Where we need to alter the course times/dates a course, we will email all students enrolled on that course to notify them of this decision.
You will have an opportunity to transfer to an alternative course or to receive a full refund.
We endeavour to process all refunds within two weeks.
It is not possible to attend an alternative course on a trial basis.
If you request or attend an alternative course, we will not process a refund.
The Language Centre reserves the right to cancel any course which does not recruit a viable number of students.
Where we need to cancel a course, we will email all students enrolled on that course to notify them of this decision.
We endeavour to process all cancellation refunds within two weeks.
The Language Centre cannot accept responsibility for unforeseen changes in a participant's circumstances that may prevent attendance.
The payment is refundable if you decide to withdraw your application within 14 days of the payment.
For courses taking place over multiple weeks, the Language Centre reserves the right to cancel a class if the tutor is absent due to illness or other unavoidable circumstances.
If a class must be cancelled, the tutor will arrange a replacement class at a time to suit the majority of students.
If you are unable to attend the replacement class, we will process a partial refund.
The University does not accept responsibility for losses or expenses incurred, however caused.
If you have a query about any of these terms and conditions, please contact the Language Centre by email lc-eveningclasses@abdn.ac.uk .
I'm not sure what level I should enrol for.
What can I do?
To ascertain which level is best suited for you, we recommend looking at the individual course content guides which detail the content covered in each level.
If there are aspects of a certain level that you would like to improve on or have not covered yet, then that level would be most appropriate for you.
Please read this content carefully and think about which level of course best suits your current knowledge of the language.
I'm still not sure.
Do you offer assessments?
We do not offer language level assessment.
What if I enrol in the wrong level?
Any request to change to a different course depends upon the availability of places and may not be granted.
If you are unsure what level to choose, please have a look at the description of levels or contact us before making a purchase.
When do your classes run?
Mondays-Fridays, 6PM-8PM Term 1: October - January
Term 2: February - May
Term 3: May - July
Where do your classes run?
Location : University of Aberdeen, King's College Campus, Old Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB24 3FX
The Old Aberdeen campus map showing the location of the building where your course is held can be viewed at the following link: https://www.abdn.ac.uk/about/campus/maps/download.php
You will receive detailed information around one week before the class is due to start (room number, access instructions etc.)
There is free parking on campus after 4PM but all other regulations (double yellows, disabled bays, hatched areas, etc) apply at all times for safety and equality.
How can I apply?
If enrolment is open and there is space left in your class of choice, you will be able to pay and enrol using the online store.
Completing the Online Store payment is the only step you need to take to ensure that you have a place.
When should I apply?
As soon after enrolment opens as possible!
We enrol on a first-come, first-served basis.
Can you reserve places?
We do not reserve places.
Can I come to a taster lesson?
We do not offer taster session.
Are evening language courses eligible for CAS?
The Evening Classes are not eligible for CAS.
Student visas can only be issued for credit bearing courses.
The term 1 and term 2 evening language courses last for 12 weeks, and as a student, you will attend one class per week.
All classes last for 2 hours.
The term 3 evening language courses last for 6 weeks, and as a student, you will attend one class per week.
Term 1 and 2:
A maximum class size 20 for campus based courses .
A maximum class size 12 for online courses.
Term 3:
A maximum class size 16 for term 3 conversational courses .
Please do not purchase the textbook until the course is confirmed to run.
You will receive an email approximately 1 week before the course starts to confirm the course is running.
Please refer to the course descriptor to confirm the course textbook and the correct edition.
Contact us and we may be able to send you some materials to complete on your own time to catch up.
Evening Classes students do not gain access to the library facilities
Our classes are not credit bearing.
You must have attended 70% of the classes in your course for this.
If you require a certificate at the end of the course, please submit the following information by email to lc-eveningclasses@abdn.ac.uk .
An electronic version of the certificate will be sent to your email address.
If you require a certificate at the end of the course please submit the following information by email :
On the evening class programme, should you have a problem with any aspect of the course provision, please contact the Language Centre Admin Team if the issue cannot be resolved with the course tutor.
International students whose English language skills are slightly lower than the minimum required for direct entry to the University of Aberdeen can apply to study English at our Language Centre, which offers a range of English language courses.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/language-centre/language-centre---evening-classes/part-time-evening-courses-open-to-all:
The Language Centre at the University of Aberdeen runs a range of evening classes open to both students and the general public in a wide range of global languages, including English, Japanese and Spanish.
We run evening English language courses for students whose first language is not English.
These are also open to the general public.
We also offer in-sessional English classes which are designed for students whose first language is not English and who have started their degree studies.
Find out more about those here .
Our evening course programme in Modern Foreign Languages is designed for anyone interested in learning a new language or improving existing language skills.
Once you have checked the course details below, please ensure you register for your course as soon as possible to avoid disappointment.
The above courses are open to University staff, students and the general public.
The courses are for recreational purposes only and do not involve any form of assessment prior to the courses starting, during or after.
They are not intended as preparation for any formal examinations that participants may wish to take in their own time (apart from the IELTS Preparation course).
Students should note that the modules offered in the evening language courses are not part of any degree pathway and may not be used as credit counting towards a degree programme .
The evening language courses are extremely popular, and the University tries to respond to this demand with the courses and levels that are offered.
However, due to timetabling restrictions, not every level of study is available for every language or level of English each term .
Please register for your course as soon as possible to avoid disappointment.
To ascertain which level is best suited for you, we recommend looking at the guides above which detail the content covered in each level.
If there are aspects of a certain level that you would like to improve on or haven't covered yet, then that level would be most appropriate for you.
Please read this content carefully and think about which level of course best suits your current knowledge of the language.
It is important not to choose courses that will either be too easy or too difficult for you.
You may enrol in any of the levels even if you have not previously attended our classes.
Couse fees payment is required in advance of the course starting - please note that a place on the course will only be confirmed upon receipt of full payment through the Online Store .
If an opportunity was given to attend a rescheduled class, the Language Centre is not liable for missed classes refunds.
Terms and Conditions (PDF)

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/language-centre/language-centre---evening-classes/part-time-courses-for-students-studying-at-the-university:
These classes are designed for students whose first language is not English and who have started their degree studies.
The Language Centre offers support with both Academic Writing and Communication Skills.
We offer general sessions for all international students, as well as some sessions specifically related to your degree subject.
Email: lc-application-enquiries@abdn.ac.uk
Find out more about In-Sessional English

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/language-centre/english-on-campus:
If you have any questions please contact the Language Centre here.
Please note that the information below is subject to change.
As a PSE student you will be eligible to take additional free English skills classes.
The Language Centre delivers a wide range of support including academic writing and bespoke courses that focus more specifically on the demands of different degree programmes.
For more information, visit the In-Sessional Academic English Skills Support page .
2025 Autumn
10 weeks PSE - 13 October 2025 - 19 December 2025 (application deadline 12 September 2025)
2025/26
40 weeks PSE - 13 October 2025 -  28 August 2026 (application deadline 12 September 2025)
30 weeks PSE - 12 January 2026 - 28 Aug 2026 (application deadline 5 December 2025)
20 weeks PSE - April 2026 - 28 August 2026 - dates to be announced
10 weeks PSE - June 2026 - 28 August 2026 - dates to be announced
5 weeks PSE - July 2026 - 28 August 2026 - dates to be announced
10 weeks PSE - 13 October 2025 - 19 December 2025 - link to follow
40 weeks PSE - 13 October 2025 -  28 August 2026 - link to follow
Student Visa (Standard or Joint CAS Pathway)
You will need a SELT (Secure English Language Test) .
More information is available at: https://www.gov.uk/student-visa/knowledge-of-english
Standard CAS Pathway (Available for 40, 30, 20, 10, 5 weeks pre-session)
Joint CAS Pathway (Only available for 10- and 5-week PSE courses leading to all Undergraduate/PGDE Programmes, not Medicine)
Contact us: lc-application-submission@abdn.ac.uk
Short-Term Study Visa (STSV)
No SELT required or SELT is below IELTS 4.0; up to two English test certificates may be submitted for admission/placement.
Suitable for courses up to 6 months or English Language Visa (6–11 months) .
Available for 40, 30, 20, 10, 5 weeks pre-session.
Important Visa Conditions:
Other Visa Types That Allow Study
If you're already in the UK with any of the following visas, you may be eligible to study without a SELT:
Please contact us for eligibility confirmation and an internal placement test.
Accepted SELTs for Standard CAS Pathway:
You may submit up to two certificates for placement purposes.
Accepted Certificates for Joint CAS Pathway:
Note: Joint CAS only available for 10- and 5-week PSE courses leading to all Undergraduate/PGDE Programmes, not Medicine courses.
Accepted Certificates for Short-Term Study Visa
Postgraduate - Standard CAS Pathway
5 weeks
10 weeks
20 weeks
30 weeks
40 weeks
UKVI IELTS
O 6.0 L 5.5 R  5.5 W 5.5 S 5.5
O 5.5 L 5 R 5.5 W 5.5 S 5
O 5 L  5 R 5 W 5 S 5
O 4.5 L 4.5 R 4.5 W 4.5 S 4.5
O 4.5 L 4 R 4 W  4.5 S 4
UKVI PTE
O 59 L 59 R 59 W 59 S 59
O 57 L 52 R 59 W 59 S 52
O 52 L 52 R 52 W 52 S 52
O 47 L 47 R 47 W 47 S 47
O 44 L 43 R 43 W 47 S 43
Language Cert UKVI
O B2 Pass L 33 R 33 W 33 S 33
O B2 Pass L 29 R 33 W 33 S 29
O B1 High Pass L 38 R  38 W 38 S 38
O B1 Pass L 33 R  33 W 33 S 33
N/A
Language Cert Academic SELT  UKVI
O 65 L 60 R 60 W 60 S 60
O 60 L 55 R 60 W 60 S 55
O 55 L 55 R 55 W 55 S 55
O 50 L 50 R 50 W 50 S 50
Postgraduate - Joint CAS Pathway
IELTS (UKVI or non-UKVI)
O 6.0 L 5.5 R 5.5 W 5.5 S 5.5
O 5.5 L 5.5 R 5.5 W 5.5 S 5.5
TOEFL iBT (incl.
Home Edition)
O 74+ L 17+ R 18+ W 19+ S 20+
O 78+ L 17+ R 18+ W 19+ S 20+
PTE (UKVI or non-UKVI)
LanguageCert Academic SELT or non-SELT
O 60 L 60 R 60 W 60 S 60
Duolingo
O 105 L 95 R 95 W 95 S 95
O 95 L 95 R 95 W 95 S 95
Cambridge English B2 First or C1 Advanced or C2 Proficiency
O 170 L 165 R 165 W 165 S 165
O 165 L 165 R 165 W 165 S 165
Undergraduate - Standard CAS Pathway
O 5.0 L 5.0 R 5.0 W 5.0 S 5.0
O 5.0 L 4.5 R 4.5 W 4.5 S 4.5
O 4 L 4 R 4 W 4 S 4
O 29 L 29 R 29 W 29 S 29
O 52 L 47 R 47 W 47 S 47
O 43 L 43 R 43 W 43 S 43
Language Cert B1 UKVI
O 33 L 33 R 33 W 33 S 33
O B1 High Pass L 38 R 38 W 38 S 38
O B1 Pass L 33 R 33 W 33 S 33
O 55 L  55 R  55 W  55 S  55
O 55 L 50 R 50 W 50 S 50
Undergraduate - Joint CAS Pathway
5  weeks
O 75+ L 17+ R 18+ W 19+ S 20+
Please note that you will not be able to change your course, withdraw or receive a refund for the course you have applied for after the applications have closed.
The deposit is not refundable.
We ask that you pay the full fees prior to the start of the course.
We require a sponsorship letter which specifies that it is for the University of Aberdeen online/on-campus pre-sessional course prior to the start of the course.
If you start your course and have not provided the official sponsor letter or we do not receive payment of your tuition fees from your sponsor fees, you will be invoiced in person.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/language-centre/english-online:
If you have any questions please contact the Language Centre here .
This means that you can study from the comfort of your own home.
Our online courses cover similar course content as our Aberdeen Campus Courses.
We have worked hard to make our online courses an engaging and interactive experience.
However, for those of you that have less proficient speaking and listening skills we recommend that you choose our Aberdeen Campus Courses so that you get that fully 'immersive' experience.
10 weeks PSE - 13 October 2025 - 19 December 2025 ( application deadline 15 September 2025)
5 weeks PSE - 17 November 2025 - 19 December 2025 (application deadline 17 October 2025)
We close for new applications four weeks before the course starts.
2026 Summer
10 weeks PSE - June 2026 - August 2026 - dates to be announced
5 weeks PSE - July 2026 - August 2026 - dates to be announced
Join our online live chat events to find out more:
5 weeks PSE - 17 November 2025 - 19 December 2025 - link to follow
You can submit up to two certificates in order to meet the entry requirements.
Changes to LANGUAGECERT
As of 1 January 2025, LANGUAGECERT ESOL SELT has replaced its 4-skills test with the below options:
LANGUAGECERT Academic SELT (UKVI)
LANGUAGECERT Academic (non UKVI)
If you already have a valid LANGUAGECERT 4-skills result, it will remain valid for two years from the test date.
30-week Pre Sessional English
IELTS
TOEFL iBIT
PTE
Overall
4.5
47
54+
Listening
10+
Reading
8+
Writing
15+
Speaking
20-week Pre Sessional English
5.0
52
64+
14+
Reading3
12+
17+
10-week Pre Sessional English
Language Cert B2
Language Cert Academic
5.5
57
72+
59
33
18+
19+
29
55
5-week Pre Sessional English
6.0
78+
65
20+
Reading33
Please ensure that you meet the following system requirements:
Hardware · A stable Internet connection · A computer fulfilling the software requirements outlined below · Speakers or headphones and a microphone connected to your PC · A webcam set up on your PC
Software · The online course is designed to work best with Mozilla Firefox or Google Chrome · A PDF reader such as Adobe Reader or Foxit Reader · A .docx file compatible office suite (as a student of the University of Aberdeen you are able to access Office 365 for free, use this link Microsoft Office to find out more)
Digital skills · You should be familiar with using emails and Microsoft Word or similar · You should be able to search the internet and be able to use online meeting software
Please note that you will not be able to switch from an online course to an Aberdeen campus based course after the applications have closed.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/language-centre/aske-academic-skills-in-english-in-session:
Classes are designed for international students who have started their degree studies.
For more information about the sessions and to book a place, please view the sections below.
Please note that while we're preparing classes and workshops for the next academic year, some links and titles might not be available, but will be updated within the next couple of weeks.
These classes will highlight the common features of academic writing in English.
To help with possible differences in writing styles and expectations:
This in-sessional course has been designed for students doing an LLM in the Law Dept.
Each weekly session focuses on writing sub-skills that are transferable to different LLM assessments.
The course is especially tailored to meet the writing and language requirements of international law students.
The classes are on campus only.
Classes may be available in the following semester.
These sessions are helpful if you are experiencing some challenges with your writing tasks, or if you would like some general advice about your writing.
You will have up to an hour with an experienced writing tutor to discuss your concerns.
This could include issues such as:
Click here to make an appointment .
A tutor will then contact you to arrange an appointment.
Please note the advice we give focuses on supporting you with writing assessments in English.
It is advice only which you may choose to accept or not.
Academic Writing tutors are not subject experts and cannot advise specifically about subject content.
For that, you should contact your subject tutor.
1-2-1 sessions are limited to 3 per student per semester.
These sessions are helpful if you have a quick question about your writing.
For example, you might be working on an assessment and find you are not sure about something such as:
You can just drop in and ask a tutor.
Please note that the time you have with a tutor may be limited, depending on the numbers of students looking for help.
Date, time & venue:
We are not offering drop in-sessions at the moment.
These sessions are to help you create effective, well-designed, and clear presentations.
If you are currently working on a presentation, or need to prepare one in the future, these sessions can support you with its design & delivery.
Bring your laptop.
Part of your degree studies may involve participation in seminars and group discussions.
Our seminar skills sessions are an opportunity for you to practise these skills in a small and relaxed group environment.
The more you can speak & communicate, the more confident you may feel about your studies in general.
These sessions are an opportunity to talk & socialise with other students in a relaxed environment.
Topics of discussion are informal and are an opportunity to find out more about living in the UK.
They are intended to help build your confidence in your speaking skills.
I wouldn't have written anything without these courses, because I was at a loss at first as it was my first to write academic English.
It helps me to have a basic structure about essay writing in my mind, this class is helpful, and I think I have learned some writing skills which are contributed to my essay.
Gives me a better idea of expectations from the professors, the structure of the assignment, etc.
And as someone who has not been in academia in a few years, I appreciate that.
It serves as a reminder of the need for developing critical thinking skills, approaching academic writing, and provides a guide to follow.
Academic Communication sessions helped me overcome some difficulties in communicating in English to a certain extent, such as lack of self-confidence, nervousness, etc.
I learned to make my expression more natural in different contexts, and also more confident.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/refugees:
Find out about the support we offer:
Higher education institutions in the UK have a long tradition of providing sanctuary for academics and young people forced to flee conflict and persecution and find safety elsewhere and The University of Aberdeen has committed to become a 'University of Sanctuary.
We work in partnership with City of Sanctuary, The Council for At-Risk Academics (CARA) and other partner initiatives to inspire and support universities to develop a culture of welcome within their own institutions and their wider communities.
The University of Aberdeen is offering its unqualified support and solidarity for the people of Ukraine and for our students who have spoken out to condemn the war.
University of Aberdeen graduate Shahid Khan speaks about the experience of coming to Scotland as an asylum seeker, before being granted refugee status.
Shahid graduated with a first class degree in Politics and International Relations.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/mumbai:
Global Learning.
Local Access.
Lifelong Impact.
Study our proposed programmes in Mumbai
(Guardian University rankings 2025)
(Times and Sunday Times Rankings 2025)
The plans under pin the University’s commitment to India and i ts vision of fostering world-class education, cutting- edge researc h and tra nsformative innovation.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/mumbai/undergraduate/data-science:
Study Data Science at the University of Aberdeen Mumbai
Are you excited by the rapid advancements in big data, predictive analytics, and AI technologies such as ChatGPT?
Are you looking to study a subject that can unlock tremendous social and economic benefits and is highly sought after by employers?
The information on this page is provided for general guidance.
While the University of Aberdeen makes every effort to ensure that all course options are available as described, specific courses and content may be subject to change without notice.
Data scientists combine advanced mathematical, statistical, and computational skills to solve complex problems in fields as varied as climate change mitigation, medical diagnosis, process optimisation, and customer experience enhancement.
Recent advances in big data, predictive analytics, and AI technologies such as ChatGPT have transformed how organisations automate processes, forecast trends, and engage with customers.
Yet the sheer scale and complexity of modern datasets demand professionals who can not only build systems but also apply mathematical modelling and statistical reasoning to extract meaningful, reliable insights.
Our BSc Data Science is designed to meet this demand.
You will develop technical expertise in programming, data management, and distributed systems alongside advanced capabilities in mathematical modelling, statistical analysis, and algorithm design, equipping you for specialist roles in AI, machine learning, deep learning, and cybersecurity.
Courses in nonlinear dynamics, chaos theory, and modelling theory further sharpen your analytical edge, enabling you to tackle challenging real-world datasets with precision and creativity.
Unlike some standard Data Science degrees, this programme combines rigorous mathematical training with core computing skills in programming to prepare you for high-demand careers that require advanced analytical and modelling expertise, from data scientist and quantitative analyst to AI engineer and risk modeller.
Throughout the programme, you’ll also explore the ethical and legal frameworks surrounding data use, and learn how to clearly communicate data-driven solutions to technical and non-technical audiences—preparing you for high-demand roles in sectors from technology and finance to healthcare and energy.
Data Science is one of the most in-demand and fastest-growing fields globally—and the trend shows no signs of slowing down.
According to the World Economic Forum's Future of Jobs Report 2025, technology-driven roles top the list of emerging careers, with Big Data Specialists, AI and Machine Learning Experts, Fintech Engineers, and Software Developers leading the way.
Graduates of this programme will be well prepared to enter a wide range of high-growth, high-impact roles across sectors such as finance, healthcare, technology, energy, consulting, and government.
Details of scholarships and funding opportunities for our Mumbai campus will be announced soon.
Full details of the application process for our Mumbai campus will be available soon.
Please check back for updates.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/mumbai/undergraduate/computing-science:
Study Computing Science at the University of Aberdeen Mumbai
From AI and machine learning to quantum computing, blockchain, and data science, the BSc Computing Science prepares you for the technologies shaping tomorrow.
Gain the skills to open doors to careers in software engineering, cybersecurity, data analytics, and other high-demand computing fields worldwide.
Computing Science at the University of Aberdeen in Mumbai encompasses both the theory and the practice of computing with particular emphasis on developing your technical analysis, design and programming skills.
You will study topics including software programming, databases and data management, computer systems, artificial intelligence (AI) and cyber security and learn to apply your programming and creative problem-solving skills to a wide variety of commercial, scientific and socio-economic contexts.
Our teaching reflects how advances in computing are constantly transforming how we live, learn, work and socialise – from how we detect and treat disease or analyse business, scientific or social data to how we make online shopping easier and more secure.
This programme features four optional courses, with two per year on an alternating basis.
This means that two such courses will be available in year 3 of your degree and a further two in year 4.
Whether you want to develop software, manage infrastructure, specialise in AI, or launch your own tech startup, a BSc in Computing Science from the University of Aberdeen in Mumbai gives you the tools, credentials, and confidence to succeed.
Our strong focus on both practical skills and theoretical foundations means you’ll graduate with the problem-solving, coding, and system design expertise employers value.
You’ll also benefit from a final-year project and opportunities for real-world applications, giving you a head start in the job market.
Your expertise in programming, software engineering, AI, cybersecurity, data science, and emerging technologies will prepare you for careers such as software developer, systems analyst, data scientist, AI engineer, cybersecurity specialist, web developer, IT consultant, and solutions architect.
With strong transferable skills in problem-solving, analytical, and project management skills, you’ll also be well placed to work in industries beyond technology, such as finance, healthcare, gaming, and the energy sector, where computing professionals are essential to innovation and digital transformation.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/mumbai/undergraduate/business-management:
Study Business Management at the University of Aberdeen Mumbai
The MA Business Management equips you with the knowledge, skills, and confidence to excel in business roles across industries worldwide.
Taught by experts in finance, strategy, marketing, and organisational change, this degree combines academic excellence with practical experience to prepare you for success in today’s competitive global marketplace.
This programme brings the proven excellence of the University of Aberdeen Business School, an EQUIS-accredited institution, to the heart of Mumbai.
You’ll gain the same world-class education, taught by faculty from a range of professional backgrounds and experience, who are leaders in the fields of accounting practice and theory, financial markets and corporate finance, and organisational change.
Designed to equip students with both theoretical foundations and real-world business skills, the programme covers a comprehensive range of subjects, from economics and entrepreneurship to marketing, strategy, and change management.
Delivered by expert academics and supported by the University of Aberdeen’s longstanding reputation for academic excellence, this programme prepares students for graduate-level roles across diverse industries, with pathways to future leadership positions.
Being based in Mumbai means students benefit from India's fast-growing business environment, entrepreneurial culture, and global connectivity while accessing the same high-quality curriculum and degree as those studying in the UK.
The programme’s focus on contemporary business issues, ethics, and professional skills ensures that graduates are not only academically accomplished but also workplace-ready, with a strong understanding of both local and international business contexts.
Studying Business Management with the University of Aberdeen in Mumbai gives you more than just a degree, it gives you the professional edge employers look for today.
You’ll develop a strong foundation in business theory alongside practical skills in leadership, problem-solving, and strategic thinking, preparing you for graduate roles with clear pathways to senior management.
Early courses develop your abilities in communication, teamwork, data analysis, and entrepreneurship - the key foundations for roles in business management and consultancy.
As you progress, modules in marketing, operations, and human resource management prepare you for careers in areas such as marketing, organisational development, and talent management.
Specialist topics in business strategy, organisational behaviour, and change management equip you for leadership and advisory positions, while training in economics, finance, and decision-making supports careers in finance, stockbroking, and investment.
Employers worldwide value Aberdeen graduates for their analytical abilities, global perspective, and adaptability in addressing modern business challenges.
Many of our graduates have gone on to build rewarding careers with top multinational and blue-chip companies including Ernst & Young (EY), Royal Bank of Scotland, Bank of Scotland, and British Airways, demonstrating the strength and reputation of an Aberdeen degree in the global job market.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/mumbai/undergraduate/economics:
Study Economics at the University of Aberdeen Mumbai
Gain analytical skills and a global perspective to understand markets, influence policy, and drive change at the heart of India’s financial capital.
This programme blends economic theory, policy, and practice in one of the world’s most vibrant economies.
You’ll learn from internationally recognised academics and researchers, including experts in labour, health, and environmental economics, and benefit from the University of Aberdeen’s strong reputation for research into energy transition and sustainability.
This degree equips you with the analytical tools and critical thinking skills needed to understand and address real-world economic challenges, from inflation, unemployment, trade and investment to global financial systems.
Through core topics such as microeconomics, macroeconomics, and applied economic analysis, you’ll develop a deep understanding of how economic decisions shape societies and influence public policy.
Economics graduates are highly sought after by employers across many sectors including business, finance, consulting, and technology due to their blend of analytical, critical thinking, and problem-solving abilities with quantitative and data analysis skills that are essential in data-driven roles.
Graduates will be well equipped for successful careers in finance, government, consultancy, international development, and policy analysis.
Typical roles economics graduates enter include economic analyst, financial consultant, policy advisor, investment banking associate, data analyst, market researcher, and public sector economist.
This degree not only develops a strong global perspective but also deepens your understanding of India’s unique economic challenges and opportunities, preparing you to shape future economic policy and business strategy in a rapidly evolving landscape.
Studying in Mumbai, India’s economic and financial capital, offers also offers the advantage placing you at the heart of one of the world’s fastest-growing major economies, with potential access to opportunities for internships and networking opportunities to enhance your career prospects in India or overseas.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/mumbai/postgraduate/mba:
MBA at the University of Aberdeen Mumbai
Fast-track your career with a UK MBA from our Mumbai campus.
Gain the strategic vision, leadership skills, and global business insight to excel in management, consulting, finance, and operations and prepare to lead with confidence in today’s competitive, fast-changing business world.
Designed for aspiring business leaders and professionals ready to accelerate their careers, this intensive programme equips you with the strategic insight, leadership skills, and practical tools needed to thrive in a global business environment.
Our curriculum covers all the critical areas of modern management, from economics, accounting, and finance to operations, marketing, and leadership.
Through the Business Venture Project and modules in Managing Change and Supply Chain Management, you'll gain hands-on experience tackling real-world business challenges and driving innovation.
Whether you're aiming to progress within your organisation, pivot to a new industry, or launch your own business, this MBA will build the confidence and competence to lead with impact.
Studying in India’s commercial and financial hub also means you’ll be immersed in a global business ecosystem, with access to multinational companies, start-ups, and industry leaders across various sectors.
The University of Aberdeen MBA is more than a qualification, it’s a powerful launchpad to senior leadership roles, both in India’s fast-growing economy and on the global stage.
Designed for ambitious professionals, the programme provides the strategic thinking, leadership capabilities, and practical business acumen needed to succeed in competitive, high-impact roles.
Whether you’re aiming to rise through the ranks, secure a C-suite role, or lead a multinational venture, a globally recognised MBA from our Mumbai campus will equip you to accelerate your career in sectors such as investment banking, private equity, healthcare and pharmaceutical management, and corporate leadership in Fortune 500 companies.
Our alumni have gone on to work with leading organisations across the world, including Accenture, KPMG, Shell, Standard Chartered Bank, Centrica, and the Bank of Scotland.
With the programme now available in Mumbai, you gain access to a world-class education while staying connected to the vibrant business networks and career opportunities in India and beyond.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/international/mumbai/postgraduate/artificial-intelligence:
Study Artificial Intelligence at the University of Aberdeen Mumbai
Future-proof your career with the MSc Artificial Intelligence.
Build your expertise from AI fundamentals to the latest breakthroughs driving innovation across industries and gain the technical skills and strategic insight needed to lead in a world where AI is reshaping business and our everyday lives.
The MSc Artificial Intelligence covers the theoretical underpinning of a wide variety of AI-related techniques including data and text mining, machine learning, reasoning, natural language generation, knowledge representation, and distributed AI systems as well as the technology, techniques, tools, software and methodologies used to apply these underlying theories to real-world problems.
You will learn how to engineer and evaluate AI systems and also engage in debates around the legal and ethical issues involved in the ethics of AI technology.
The programme culminates with a research project, which you will undertake under the supervision of a member of staff and can also be undertaken with an external company or organisation.
Typical projects include extending, improving or adapting existing AI theories or techniques to solve different problems or comparing competing techniques or tools to solve a particular problem.
The skills and knowledge you will learn on this programme is shaped by the latest research in AI and our close industry links mean you will have opportunities to apply your skills through training and networking events and industrial placements.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is transforming industries across the globe – and India is emerging as a key player in this revolution.
Rapid advancements in natural language processing, speech recognition, machine learning, and optical character recognition are being widely adopted, driving strong demand for professionals who can design, implement, and manage AI solutions.
Graduates of an MSc in Artificial Intelligence are well equipped for high-demand roles including AI Engineer, Machine Learning Engineer, Data Scientist, NLP Specialist, Robotics Engineer, Computer Vision Engineer, AI Consultant, and Research Scientist - opening up a wide range of exciting career opportunities in one of the fastest-growing fields.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/facilities:
We invest heavily in our facilities and learning resources, ensuring that our staff and students have access to everything they need to help them succeed in their work and study.
The growth of our learning resources has placed Aberdeen on the map as one of the UK's leading universities for study and research.
Aberdeen Sports Village and Aquatics Centre is open to students.
Explore the stunning Sir Duncan Rice Library, The Taylor Library and Medical Library.
The University has a significant collection of books, artefacts and scientific specimens.
Grab some lunch, have a drink with fellow students or pick up some stationary.
The InfoHub acts as the first point of call for all student services, information and enquiries.
InfoHub staff can provide information and guidance on a range of topics, including helping you make appointments to see specialist advisers from Careers, Registry or the Student Learning Service.
Our Language Centre offers a broad range of audio, video, computer and satellite television facilities, along with an extensive range of materials which cover up to 50 different languages.
The Centre also offers various courses for students whose native language is not English, and all the language learning advice and support which students may need during their time in Aberdeen.
Whether you are studying for a degree in languages, preparing for an exchange visit, hoping to improve your CV or are simply fascinated by other cultures and languages, The Language Centre is available throughout the year.
We support a variety of web and computer based resources, complementing your studies and allowing you to manage and review coursework at your pace and in your own time.
Our students enjoy free, fast, wireless internet access in all Halls of Residence and most administrative and academic buildings across the campus.
You can contact the Service Desk for advice on all computing matters, including electronic resources.
There is a drop-in Service Desk in the Computing Centre and in the Medical School Library.
Find out more about the Science Teaching Hub which is now open!

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/facilities/libraries:
The Sir Duncan Rice Library is one of the largest and best equipped in the UK, offering an outstanding learning experience.
The Taylor Library for Law and the Medical Library at the Foresterhill Campus also offer specialist subject support and study space.
Our libraries have been collecting resources and supporting learning since 1495.
Our library services give you:
At the Sir Duncan Rice Library, there are also informal seating areas on every floor, including the Hardback Café on the Ground Floor, and the Craig Suite on Floor 7, where students can enjoy stunning views of the city and the North Sea.
Library and IT staff are on hand to support your learning and help with queries.
It is also possible to borrow from external libraries through our inter-library loans service.
Find out more about our libraries

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/facilities/sports-facilities:
The Olympic standard Aberdeen Sports Village and Aquatic Centre is the premier sports facility in the North East of Scotland.
It is open to students, staff and the public with facilities for athletics, football, swimming, racquet sports, hockey, martial arts, weight lifting, boxing and fitness classes, as well as spaces for a variety of sports clubs such as trampolining and ultimate frisbee.
The facility is designed to be somewhere for people to enjoy, train and compete in sporting activities.
Exercise classes cater for a wide range of tastes and levels of ability, from novice to advanced, including lunchtime and evening classes such as aerobics, circuits, sports conditioning, boxfit, body conditioning, step and studio cycling.
There's also personal advice on all aspects of fitness and training, health-related fitness, nutrition and weight management, fitness assessments, body fat analysis and 1-to-1 training.
The facility allowed the North of Scotland to play an integral part in the run up to the London 2012 Olympic Games, and again, was used as a key training facility for elite athletes competing in the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow.
It is a training ground for elite athletes and allow sports stars of the future to achieve their full potential and compete at the highest level.
Add to this a vibrant and growing Sports Union with 58 sports clubs, 3,500 members, numerous events and six intra-mural leagues and we have the perfect environment to offer students a sporting experience second to none!

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/facilities/museums-and-special-collections:
To complement our collections, you can also find a broad range of rare books which the University has built up over the last 600 years.
Our University Collections hold an internationally significant collection of over 200,000 rare books, printed mostly before 1840, and 4,000 unique archive and manuscript collections.
These are complemented by the University's museum collections, which include Anatomy, Archaeology, Anthropology, Art, Geology, Herbarium, History, Pathology, Scientific Instruments and Zoology.
The University's museum collections are amongst the largest in the country and of national importance.
Our museums are open to the public and our collections can be used to support taught courses in ways not possible in most other universities, such as being involved in the curation of exhibitions.
They are also available for individual study and enjoyment, and can provide volunteer opportunities to enhance your CV.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/facilities/science-teaching-hub:
The University of Aberdeen's state-of-the-art Science Teaching Hub opened in early 2022.
The Science Teaching Hub is a modern learning space at the University of Aberdeen.
The building has been designed around the provision of specialist teaching, training and learning for students across a number of disciplines including chemistry, medical sciences, biological sciences and geosciences.
Fully Digitalised
Mirroring Real Industry Experience
Advanced laboratory facilities mean you will be using the same high quality equipment found in an industry setting, which will provide you with invaluable experience and knowledge to take you into the world of work.
Interactive Learning
Students will benefit from a cloud-based learning system with live data acquisition and analysis capabilities.
This platform allows a more hands-on learning experience and access to cutting-edge equipment.
Labs are fitted with earpieces and mobile tablet-PCs that provide a feeling of one-on-one teaching and enable greater clarity and understanding between staff and students.
Digitised learning systems allow for a 'flipped classroom methodology', where students can work on relevant material prior to coming into the lab environment, allowing for more flexibility in learning styles and the ability to cater for learning differences and flexible teaching and learning patterns.
Staff working with students in labs.
Panel and AV Systems.
Science Teaching Hub equipment.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/facilities/students-union-building:
If you are looking to enjoy a light bite, a coffee or a craft beer, Union Brew on the ground floor of the Students' Union is the place for you.
The Bear Essentials Union Shop sells a range of stationery, meal deals, greetings cards and University of Aberdeen gifts and clothing.
If it's something more substantial you want to eat, the food court on the first floor of the Students' Union serves a wide range of hot and cold meals, drinks, and snacks.
Bookends
Established in the 1980's, BookEnds is only second-hand bookshop on campus.
BookEnds sells a wide selection of fiction, non-fiction, textbooks, CDs and DVDs and raises money for charities.
Find us on the ground floor of the AUSA building.
Swap Shop
The Swap Shop is a space where students can exchange clothes, shoes, homeware and more.
Visit the Swap Shop: save money and save the environment!

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/aberdeen/location-and-travel:
Aberdeen offers the perfect balance of vibrant, colourful city life and beautiful countryside to explore.
The city itself has a dynamic and friendly community, known not only for being the Cultural Centre of the North East of Scotland, but also Scotland's Safest University City (Unbroken Britain Survey, Provident Financial, 2018) and is in the top 10 in the UK for places to live and work (PricewaterhouseCoopers, 2018).
To top it off, our travel links are excellent, which means getting around the rest of Scotland and the UK is easy.
Big enough for the "big city" experience, student friendly Aberdeen is compact enough to make it easy to find your way around and make friends.
Bustling by day and lively by night, Aberdeen is a centre for industry, research, learning and life.
UK wide train services connect Aberdeen with direct trains to London, Edinburgh, Glasgow and Inverness.
King's College Campus lies just off King Street, one of Aberdeen's main thoroughfares.
You can catch a taxi from the airport, the centre of town and by telephoning individual taxi companies.
Find out more about travelling in the city and at night.
Aberdeen boasts excellent direct air links to major UK and European cities.
Local bus and taxi services offer fast, convenient connections from the airport to the University.
Long-distance bus and coach services connect Aberdeen to the rest of the UK and beyond from Union Square Bus Station:
Old Aberdeen Campus - Bus No.
20,19,1,2, Tickets and Night Service Stagecoach Buchan Link Foresterhill Campus - Bus No.
5, 5A, 3, 3A, 59 All buses run from roads around each campus.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/aberdeen/entertainment-and-nightlife:
With a student population of over 50,000, Aberdeen has plenty to offer in the way of entertainment.
The city is a hidden gem of culture and entertainment, right in the heart of North East Scotland.
Attend a show at the stunning His Majesty's Theatre or the Lemon Tree.
There is a panto every December.
A number of world renowned bands play at P&J Live (the new exhibition centre) and the Music Hall.
Bands that have played in Aberdeen include The Killers, Little Mix, Manic Street Preachers, Catfish and the Bottlemen and Iron Maiden.
Top of the range comedians also come to the Granite City.
There is no doubt that the number of top shows in Aberdeen will continue to grow!
Aberdeen is home to four cinemas including the unique and traditional Belmont Cinema and a 4DX in Union Square.
There is also a Cineworld at the Beach and Vue at Shiprow.
Aberdeen has a vibrant nightlife and the city has been awarded five consecutive Purple Flags for safety in the city centre.
There is something to suit everyone.
Live music acts perform at venues across the city.
This includes new and local acts on the scene as well as tribute acts to those artists that you love.
There are a number of great bars and pubs to choose from and most of them also offer hearty meals.
If nightclubbing is your thing, then you will find something that suits your taste.
There are clubs that throwback to the 80s, 90's and 00s, one that covers indie music and those that cover the charts.
In the city centre there is a retro bowling venue where you can enjoy a game of table tennis, pool or a game on the arcades.
Find out more about the nightlife in Aberdeen

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/aberdeen/galleries-and-museums:
The city's rich and diverse collections, exhibitions and public programmes are some of the most varied in the UK and can guarantee that there's always something new for visitors to see.
The Aberdeen Maritime Museum houses a unique collection covering shipbuilding, fast sailing ships, fishing and port history, and has displays on the North Sea oil and gas industry.
The Tolbooth Museum is set in one of the best-preserved 17th century gaols in Scotland.
Visitors can explore the cells of the gaol and view displays on local history and the changing face of crime and punishment through the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries.
Aberdeen Art Gallery is one of Scotland's finest art galleries, re-opened November 2019 after a £30-million redevelopment.
This project has doubled the number of galleries, with displays and interactives that inform, engage and entertain the widest possible audience.
The Aberdeen Treasure Hub is the Council's main museum collection store where visitors are welcomed to learn more about the collections that they care for on behalf of the people of Aberdeen.
Visits must to be booked in advance.
The Gordon Highlanders Museum tells the 200 year story of “the Finest Regiment in the World” - from its 18th-century roots to its service in the Gulf War.
The museum's collections include uniforms, arms and equipment used by the regiment and its opponents through the centuries, as well as extensive archives that are available for use by researchers.
The University's own collections are spectacular, with collections ranking alongside the largest in Scotland and being one of few institutions with a Recognised Collection of National Significance.
You can visit the Gallery in the Sir Duncan Rice Library with its constantly changing programme of exhibitions, and the Zoology Museum which is the only museum of its kind in the north of Scotland.
The University Collections include artefacts from Scottish history and archaeology, Egyptian and Classical antiquities, World Cultures, coins and medals, fine art, scientific instruments, geology, zoology, a herbarium and medical collections.
There are many other museums in the region, notably the Grampian Transport Museum in Alford which boasts an impressive range of transport exhibits, from travelling chariots of the 1800's, to some of the fastest cars ever made.
Duff House in Banff is as a a five-star country house and gallery, run in partnership by Aberdeenshire Council, Historic Scotland and the National Galleries of Scotland.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/aberdeen/shopping-and-eating-out:
The city is a shoppers dream and a number of shops offer student discounts.
Five centres are located in the heart of Aberdeen and there are a number of shops on Union Street - also known as the Granite Mile.
Shops include Next, Hugo Boss, Debenhams, Apple, Fossil and Primark.
Up on Belmont Street you will find specialist outlets and at the top of Union Street you have some high end shopping.
Aberdeen has three retail parks with a wide selection of shops.
There is something for everyone to get their retail therapy fix.
Aberdeen is home to a number of top restaurants and bars.
In the city centre, there is a great selection of food such as Indian, Chinese, Italian, Spanish, Mexican, Thai, Nepalese and of course traditional Scottish cuisine.
Brew Dog was founded in Aberdeen and you can take a tour of their brewery in Ellon or visit their bar at the Castlegate or on Gallowgate.
The city is also home to up and coming craft brewers such as Six Degrees North and Fierce Beer, both who have bars in the city centre.
There is also a great selection of cocktail bars.
Find out more about the great range of restaurants and bars in Aberdeen

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/aberdeen/festivals-and-events:
A number of festivals and events take place in Aberdeen city and Aberdeenshire throughout the year.
From sporting, outdoor, music and art and design festivals, there is something for everyone.
Highlights of the events calendar include:
The Highland Games includes traditional competitions such as tug-of-war, highland dancing, pipe band championships and family fun!
There is also a Winter Festival to enjoy in November and December as well as a stunning fireworks displays.
Find out more about the range of festivals and events in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/aberdeen/the-outdoors:
Aberdeen sits on the stunning east costs of Scotland, with miles of beautiful coastline and golden sands to enjoy.
We are also home to some of the most spectacular countryside.
You can choose to take a hike up Bennachie or one of our munros (a mountain over 3,000 feet high).
If you want a challenge, you can go 'Munro Bagging', which would see you climb all munros in Scotland.
There are a range of watersports you can enjoy including surfing, diving and sailing or go fishing in the River Dee, River Don or our lochs.
If Winter sports are more your thing, take a trip to the Cairngorms National Park, The Lecht or Glenshee to do some snowboarding or skiing.
You can even do this in the middle of summer at the dry ski slopes in the city of Aberdeen.
Find out more about the range of outdoor pursuits

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/aberdeen/aberdeenshire:
Aberdeenshire is a beautiful part of the world.
There are castles, rivers, mountains and stunning countryside.
The area has over 260 castles and these include the ruins of Slains Castle, thought to be the inspiration for Bram Stoker's Count Dracula, and Dunnottar Castle, the former home to one of the most powerful families in Scotland and inspiration for Disney's Brave.
University of Aberdeen graduate Gordon Cameron is a technical advisor at Disney Pixar, the animated studio who created the film.
Royal Deeside is where Aberdeenshire meets the Cairngorms National Park and where the River Dee starts its journey to the North Sea.
Take a trip on the Royal Deeside Railway or a go on a highland safari.
This really is a royal area.
Take a tour of one of our Whisky distilleries.
You will see the brewing process for Aberdeenshire's “water of life” and even have a sample of some of our traditional drink.
Spot some wildlife with seals at Newburgh Beach, puffins at the Bullers of Buchan and dolphins from the coastline.
Aberdeenshire really is incredible…be sure to check it out in all of its glory.
Explore Aberdeenshire

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/aberdeen/sport:
Aberdeen has a range of sports on offer.
You are sure to find something that suits you!
The Granite City is home to Aberdeen Football Club, a team that has won two European trophies.
'The Dons' compete in the Scottish Premiership, Cup competitions and the Europa League.
Take a trip to Pittodrie on a Saturday afternoon to watch the Reds in action.
Just over the road from Pittodrie is the home of Aberdeen Lynx, an ice hockey team who play in the Scottish National League and are former play-off champions.
This is a fast and exciting sport that is well worth a watch.
Aberdeen City and Aberdeenshire has over 50 golf courses.
There are championship courses including Royal Aberdeen which hosted the Scottish Open in 2014.
Some of the courses hug the east coast with other inlands taking in the stunning Aberdeenshire scenery.
There are also a number of gyms and sporting facilities across the city.
The amazing Aberdeen Sports Village has a range of top facilities including a 3G football pitch, indoor and outdoor athletics tracks and a gym.
Aberdeen Aquatics Centre has a Olympic Standard 50m Pool, a 25m pool, diving boards, sauna and steam room.
If you want to get involved with a sport while you are a student here, there is a wide variety of clubs to choose from and you can join more than one!
Find out more about the sport societies at the University of Aberdeen.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/societies:
With over 100 clubs and societies to choose from there is something for everyone at The University of Aberdeen.
View the full list of clubs and societies on the Aberdeen University Students' Association website
The Students' Association is open to everyone.
Find out how you can get involved.
There are over 50 sport societies to choose from at the University.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/societies/students-association:
Our Students' Association (AUSA) is open to every student at the University.
Members have access to a range of advice and services, as well as the opportunity to meet new people, start new hobbies, develop existing interests and influence the student culture which surrounds them.
AUSA provides an Advice Centre for students to help with a range of issues, including accommodation, welfare, equal opportunities, healthcare, bus routes and more.
The Money Advice Service is available through AUSA at the Information Centre.
It provides tips for budgeting, money management, and information on private accommodation.
AUSA is also home to our University Sabbatical Officers, who are here to help with any problems you may encounter during your time at University.
AUSA hosts an overnight support service called Nightline, a confidential listening and information service which is run by trained volunteers.
Joblink and Volunteering Centre within AUSA can help you find part-time work and volunteering opportunities to enhance your CV.
View the Aberdeen University Students' Association website
There are over 150 societies covering all interests and joining a society is a great way to meet like-minded people, gain new skills or excel in your interests.
AUSA's Societies include:
AUSA (Aberdeen University Students' Association) has its own radio station, Aberdeen Student Radio, and is one of the only institutions in the UK with a free, weekly newspaper.
This comes in the form of Gaudie , totally run by students, for students, which reports on news from the University and the wider world.
Raising and Giving (RAG) is a collection of students from across Aberdeen who raise huge amounts of money for local charities through a variety of events.
Two of the largest events are the Student Show; and the Torcher Parade, the largest torch-lit parade in Europe involving around 2,000 students, 45 lorries and 50,000 spectators.
Raising and Giving also hosts a Fashion Show and is the group responsible for providing a charitable second hand book shop in the Students' Union Building called Bookends.
AUSA organise and host a variety of events each year including Freshers Week and Graduation Ball.
It also hosts smaller events and campaigns such as the infamous Superteams Sporting Challenge and welfare campaigns which bring student issues to the forefront of campus.
Find out more on the AUSA website

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/societies/sports-and-recreation:
Aberdeen University Sports Union is home to over 50 Sports Clubs, winning medals in many sports.
The University has an excellent record in The Granite City challenge, the largest multi-sport event in Aberdeen, competing against local rivals Robert Gordon University.
The Students Association organises a wide range of non-competitive clubs, intra-mural leagues and one-off physical activity events .
Some of our students have competed in the Commonwealth Games, the Paralympics and many other national and international competitions.
Based at Aberdeen Sports Village, the Sport and Exercise Team are a University department providing professional support - such as strength and conditioning - to our sports clubs, performance programmes, and bursary and scholarship students.
They work in collaboration with the Sports Union, ASV, and our academic colleagues in Sports Science.
Aberdeen Sports Village and Aquatics Centre is open to all students and has state of the art facilities including a full size, 3rd Generation FIFA approved indoor football pitch, 50 metre, 10 lane Olympic standard swimming pool and fitness suite.
Find out more about the Sports Village and Aquatics Centre
The King's Pavilion contains a performance weights gym, dedicated ergo training suite, and changing facilities.
It also supports outdoor playing fields consisting of two rugby pitches, a lacrosse pitch, an artificial cricket wicket, as well as three tennis courts.
Balgownie at Bridge of Don hosts football and shinty teams.
The Hillhead Centre hosts an exclusive stadium grass football pitch, a full-size sand-dressed synthetic pitch, and an impressive sports pavilion.
We also have a boathouse on the banks of the river Dee which serves the thriving rowing club.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/societies/sports-and-recreation/sports-bursaries--scholarships:
The University of Aberdeen supports a wide variety of sports bursary and scholarships schemes.
These schemes are available to support elite student athletes seeking to combine academic and sporting excellence during their time at university.
The most common award is our Sports Bursary, sponsored by the Development Trust, which offers an exciting package of financial and wrap-around support for high-performing athletes in any sporting discipline.
Applications for the Development Trust Sports Bursary for 2025/26 are now open.
The closing date for applications is Friday 12 September 2025 at 5pm.
In addition to the Sports Bursary scheme, we also offer major sports scholarships, and a number of other stand-alone awards.
Full details of all the awards are included below.
Development Trust Sports Bursary Application 2025 to 2026
Bursary Support
Each year the University's Development Trust provides funding for a number of Sports Bursary awards.
The scheme is funded by the generosity of donors to the University.
Around 20 bursaries are awarded annually.
Awards are made on a one year renewable basis and are open to both undergraduate and postgraduate students.
The bursar packages include:
Where appropriate, University staff can also provide support to elite sports performers seeking to apply for academic flexibility.
There is also the possibility of arranging shared accommodation with other athletes.
Applications are welcome from students performing at a high-level in any sport.
In recent years we have supported students in athletics, rowing, swimming, gymnastics, hockey, rifle, boxing, weightlifting, rugby, modern pentathlon and more.
Main criteria: applicants need to demonstrate clear evidence of their recent sporting performance.
Evidence may vary by sport but could include, for example, your 'Power of 10' ranking (athletics) or your relative performance against a BUCS qualifying standard.
Applicants from team sports will need to differentiate their individual performance and demonstrate, for example, representative honours and/or a realistic expectation of playing at national league level or above.
Applications: usually open in April with a decision made early in the academic year (i.e.
September).
Further Information: on the scheme and guidance on how to apply is available from sport@abdn.ac.uk .
Here's a short video and profile of recent bursar Kelsey Stewart (Athletics) .
The John Robertson Scholarship has been awarded for the years 2023-2026.
For all other scholarships please visit the Funding database .
First-year undergraduate students who have displayed outstanding commitment and achievement in sport are encouraged to apply for the John Robertson Sports Scholarship.
The Scholarship is valued at £3,000 per annum.
The scholarship will be disbursed in two equal parts, one at the end of November and, pending satisfactory progress, and at the beginning of the second half session in February.
The successful scholar will also be awarded free annual membership to Aberdeen Sports Village and specialist advice and coaching from the Sports & Exercise Team, including attendance at seminars and Strength and Conditioning sessions.
NB: Students are welcome to apply for the John Robertson Sports Scholarship and the Development Trust Sports Bursary Scheme at the same time.
However the successful recipient of the John Robertson Sports Scholarship will not be eligible for a sports bursary.
Students competing in elite-level sport (e.g.
Olympic Games, Paralympic Games, World Championships, Commonwealth Games, European Championships and World University Games) may be eligible for Academic Flexibility.
Applications for academic flexibility must be considered and approved by the Academic Flexibility Group prior to attendance at sporting events.
Students are strongly encouraged to contact their course coordinators at the start of each year to confirm their elite-athlete status and any sporting commitments that might affect attendance or assessment.
All requests for approval must be submitted to academicservices@abdn.ac.uk at least 14 working days in advance of each sporting commitment.
For full details please see the University's policy and application procedure below:
All student athletes (of any level) are strongly encouraged to communicate with their course coordinators and notify them of any training/competitions that may impact academic activity.
A number of stand-alone awards are available for students whose sporting achievements have stood out or who are involved in certain sporting or academic programmes.
For further information on availability and how to apply for any of these awards please contact sport@abdn.ac.uk
The prize (£300) is awarded annually to the student who in the opinion of the Principal has, by his or her conduct, scholarship or eminence in sport, done most to advance or enhance the reputation of the University.
This prize will also be noted on the student's transcript.
Nominations open each year from February and close at the end of March.
Thomson Memorial prize nomination form
Development Trust Sports Bursar 2013-2017
* Indoors.
"Being on the sports bursary program at the University of Aberdeen aided me greatly throughout the duration of my degree.
I incorporated the personalised gym program and fitness yoga sessions offered by the program into my weekly training schedule.
Access to physiotherapy helped me stay in top condition and the financial aid provided helped me to fund travel to competitions."

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/chat:
Do you want to know more about your programme, student life in Aberdeen or what it's like to study at our University?
Our students and staff are here to help you!
Unibuddy is a chat platform that enables one on one chats between you and current University of Aberdeen staff students and staff to share their knowledge and experiences!
Use the dropdowns below to filter, or scroll through and find a student or staff member you want to chat with...
Please note our student and staff ambassadors are here to share information on what it is like to be a student at Aberdeen and about the course, they are unable to answer questions on the status of your application – if you have a query about this please email study@abdn.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/tours:
Old Aberdeen Campus Tour with Theo
Old Aberdeen Campus Tour with Simba
Old Aberdeen Campus Tour with Georgie
Old Aberdeen Campus Tour with Michaela
360 Old Aberdeen Campus Tour
2023 Hillhead Student Village Accommodation tour with Rebecca
2021 tour with Michaela - Headspace building, New Carnegie, Grant Court, North Court, laundry facilities
2019 tour with Matt - Headspace building, New Carnegie
University of Aberdeen City Life
Welcome to Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/undergraduate-open-day:
Registration is open for our Undergraduate Open Day on Saturday 4 October.
Our next Open Day will take place on Saturday 4 October.
Register for 4 October Open Day
If you want to visit sooner you can book a campus tour.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/undergraduate-open-day/open-day-information:
From Anthropology to Zoology, and everything in between, meet academic staff and current students to learn more about the right subject for you.
There will be talks on the day and an academic fair to answer your burning questions.
Why not check out our Online Prospectus now to find out more?
The Open Day offers an extensive schedule of academic subject and non-academic talks, covering a range of topics from student finance to employability and careers.
Our staff are happy to help with any questions you have about the subjects you are interested in and the topics that matter to you.
Based in Old Aberdeen, the University of Aberdeen has no shortage of cobbled streets and courtyards which you will enjoy on one of our Student Ambassador led tours.
You can watch some virtual campus tours before your visit, then enjoy in person on the day!
On Open Day, you will be able to browse our refurbished Hillhead Halls of Residence, where the majority of students in halls stay in their first year.
We offer a guaranteed offer of accommodation for new students (T's and C's apply).
Before you arrive for your visit, check out what we have available at the link below.
Open Day will encompass all aspects of general student life, with a dedicated Medicine programme for all you need to know about our MBChB.
If you are interested in studying Medicine, your Open Day begins at our Suttie Centre Medical School on our Foresterhill Campus .
More information about the course is available at the link below.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/undergraduate-open-day/plan-your-day:
King's College Campus (all subjects excluding Medicine)
On arrival, you'll need to check in at one of our registration gazebos and collect your Welcome Pack; there are registration and information points throughout campus - look out for our gazebos or make your way to Elphinstone Hall.
Your Welcome Pack will include a full guide for the day and a campus map, and our experienced Student Ambassadors will be available to help you throughout the day.
Foresterhill Campus (Medicine students)
If you are interested in studying medicine please go directly to Foresterhill where our medicine team will be running a separate programme for you.
You are very welcome to come down to King's College Campus throughout the day to see other aspects of the university.
Our Student Ambassadors will be available around campus in red hi-vis vests in case you have any questions (or get lost!).
Alternatively, make your way to one of our Information Points around campus or on Elphinstone Lawn at the heart of the campus.
There will be a series of complementary buses running on the Open Day.
A timetable will be uploaded onto these webpages ahead of each Open Day.
The printed and online guides will also include the complementary shuttle bus schedules.
Note that, at this time, the buses are not wheelchair accessible however please contact us at ukteam@abdn.ac.uk to discuss alternative arrangements if required.
We have several independent cafes on campus, which offer a range of food options.
A number of the University operated cafes will also be open.
The University operates a cashless campus and the University operates a cashless campus where payments can be made using debit/credit cards or with Google Pay and Apple pay.
All options will be outlined in full in the Open Day Guide.
For your own personal safety, please ensure that you obey all safety and warning signs whilst on campus.
If there is an emergency, please alert a Student Ambassador or the nearest member of University staff.
If a fire alarm sounds, you must evacuate the building via the nearest emergency exit and remain outside until you are told otherwise.
Please do not use any lifts under these circumstances.
First Aiders will be available on the day if required.
If you need First Aid assistance, please make your way to the Information Point in Elphinstone Hall and a member of staff will assist you.
You can advise us of any individual needs you might have on the Open Day booking form.
If you would like to discuss issues relating to studying at the University of Aberdeen and disability, please visit the Student Support information stand.
A British Sign Language (BSL) interpreter will be present at some general talks (marked in the Open Day Guide) and may also be able to provide translation at a subject talk if requested.
Please speak to one of our event organisers outside Elphinstone Hall or contact ukteam@abdn.ac.uk .
If you wish to contact our Student Support team in advance of the day, please contact student.disability@abdn.ac.uk .
Campus Access guides are available for each building on our Old Aberdeen Campus.
If you have any questions on the day then please don't hesitate to ask any of our staff or student ambassadors.
Everyone is welcome to attend Open Day regardless of when you plan to begin your studies with us.
You are welcome to come on your own, with parents, teachers and other guidance staff, or as part of a school party.
For those who can't make it along on the day, we also operate an open door policy whereby you can book a separate visit on a different date - find out more about our private visits .
The Open Day guide is available to view online.
You will also receive a printed copy on the day.
View the Open Day guide.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/undergraduate-open-day/open-day-instagram-competition:
Would you like to win a £25 Amazon gift card as well as a bag full of University of Aberdeen goodies ?
Simply post a photo of the 26th August with the tag #makeitabdn before 8pm on the 27th August to be in with a chance to win!
Please keep in mind that if your account is private, we won't be able to see your post.
Make sure to follow our Instagram where we'll be sharing some pictures and videos of the day.
Terms and Conditions:
We will choose a photo from the publicly visible Instagram posts tagged with #makeitabdn and posted before 8pm on the 27th August.
One winner will be selected.
The winner will be contacted directly by Instagram and a message will be sent by private message from uniofaberdeen .
We will not attempt to contact you by any other account name.
We will ask the winner to send their email address used to register for the event to verify attendance.
The prize will be posted to the winner upon receipt of their details.
Winners must have a UK address to receive their prize and Amazon voucher will be issued in GBP.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/undergraduate-open-day/travel-and-parking---open-days-2025:
Please see below for suggested travel options.
For a campus map please click here .
Scottish Under 22s - don't forget that your National Entitlement Card (NEC) or Young Scot National Entitlement Card (Young Scot NEC) allows you to access free bus travel across Scotland!
If you already have your card, then you can plan your journey at Traveline Scotland .
If you need to get your card, you can find out all the details and apply here !
Most major bus operators in Scotland are part of the scheme but check before travel to be sure.
Tour buses and any services that are charged at a premium rate (such as some night buses) are not included.
There is no parking on the university campuses on week days .
There is limited parking available on campus at weekends .
Visitors are advised to travel by public transport where possible.
There are also car parks around the city and buses can be used to travel to the campuses.
For car park locations and further information please see the Aberdeen City Council page by clicking here .
Blue Badge holders are able to park on campus without a permit 7 day a week.
Blue badges must be clearly displayed.
Aberdeen train station is a 10 minute bus ride from the University's main (King's College) campus or a 25 minute walk.
The University also often runs complimentary shuttle buses in the morning of Open Days and return buses at the end of the day.
Please see the Open Day Guide 2024 for shuttle bus information.
From the train station, you can get the number 1 or 2 First bus service to King Street or the number 20 First bus direct to High Street.
Student Ambassadors will be available in the morning to guide you towards the bus station.
Please note: First Bus require exact change for their bus fares or accept contactless cards.
There are regular coach services which connect Aberdeen with the rest of the UK.
You can find more bus and coach information including timetables at:
From the train station, you can get the number 1 or 2 First bus service to King Street; on the edge of campus.
Alternatively a taxi fare is approximately £7 to the University.
Aberdeen International Airport is one of the fastest growing airports in the UK and has excellent travel links throughout the UK, Europe and further afield.
It's just a short taxi or bus ride from the airport to the University (around 6 miles).
From Aberdeen Airport the 727 bus service runs every 10 minutes to the city centre where you can get the number 1 or 2 bus.
A taxi to the University will cost approximately £20.
For more information on main destinations to and from Aberdeen Airport, please visit their website .
For bus timetables and to plan your onward journey from the airport please click here
Rainbow City Taxis 01224 878787
ComCabs 01224 353535
Central Taxis (Aberdeen) 01224 890089
Once you arrive in Aberdeen, you'll discover it is pretty easy to find your way around.
There are plenty of quick and direct bus routes all over the city.
Stagecoach Bus
The number 60, 61, 62, 63, 67 and 68 Stagecoach buses run regularly from Union Square bus station and stop at King Street next to the campus.
For more information on times and to plan your journey please visit the Stagecoach website .
Cash and card are both accepted.
A single from Union Square to King Street is roughly £2.50
First Bus
The number 1, 1A, 2 and 20 First buses run every 7 minutes (or less during peak times) and go direct from various parts of the centre of town straight to the campus.
You can also visit the First Bus website for more detailed timetables and information on planning your journey.
The following buses will take you to Foresterhill.
They all stop at slightly different locations but are all suitable.
3 - This bus leaves Guild Street, outside of the train station, and stops at Ashgrove Road West
35 - This bus leaves from the bus station and stops at the Aberdeen Royal Infirmary.
59 - This bus also leaves from Guild Street and stops on Foresterhill Road.
10 - This bus leaves from the bus station at Union Square, next to the train station, it stops at the Aberdeen Royal Infirmary.
If you need any assistance please contact the UK Team at ukteam@abdn.ac.uk prior to arrival and we will be happy to advise you.
Aberdeen is a large commercial city and we would recommend booking early to guarantee accommodation and the best possible rates.
There is a wide variety of hotels, guesthouses and B&B's in both the city and in Aberdeenshire, which cater for every requirement and budget.
You can also find recommended accommodation through Trip Advisor , Visit Scotland or comparison websites such as booking.com .
Please note some hotels do not accept under 18s travelling unaccompanied.
Why not book your accommodation for Open Day at the University's accommodation.
We can offer single rooms at Hillhead Student Village for 1 or 2 nights if you're coming to Aberdeen for the University's Open Day on 26th August 2025.
We may have some limited availability for the 4th October Open day but we will not be able to confirm this until September.
Stay with us for only £30 per person per night (includes a continental breakfast*).
Rooms are all standard single in a 5 person flat with shared kitchen and bathroom facilities (each bedroom is lockable).
Please note availability is limited and will be on a first come first served basis.
The accommodation is only a 15 minute walk from the main campus and is ideal if you are under 18 and travelling alone.
We can also group families or those who are travelling together in the same flat.
To book please contact hillheadstudentvillage@abdn.ac.uk quoting "Open Day 2025”
*Please indicate if you have any dietary requirements.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/undergraduate-open-day/medicine-open-day:
Our 2025 Open Day dates have now been confirmed!
Booking now open for our Open Days
The University of Aberdeen remains at the forefront of medical education.
Students of medicine at the University of Aberdeen experience a modern, dynamic, and clearly delivered course in our state of the art facilities.
The Medical Schools Council, Dental Schools Council and Pharmacy Schools Council have a website with lots of great resources to support you while applying for these degrees.
Our campus, recreational facilities and student support services ensure your experience at the University of Aberdeen will be second to none.
Our Gateway2Medicine (G2M) programme offers young people from a widening access background in Scotland the opportunity to study Medicine.
There is a vibrant student life for those studying Medicine at the University of Aberdeen - find out more about our Medicine Student Societies below.
Don't forget to visit our main campus at King's College and Hillhead Student Village after the Medicine Programme.
We hope you take this opportunity to explore other parts of campus while visiting for the Medicine Open Day.
The Medicine programme takes place at the Foresterhill medical campus within the Suttie Centre:
Suttie Centre Foresterhill Aberdeen AB25 2ZD
Please note: there is parking available at the University Car Park off Ashgrove Road West at the Institute of Medical Sciences at Foresterhill on weekends only.
There is NO parking from Monday-Friday.
We encourage you to travel by public transport if possible.
If you have travelled by train or coach you'll arrive at Union Square.
Stagecoach number 59 leaves from Guild Street (outside Union Square) at: 08:41, 08:51, 09:15
Stagecoach buses 10, 35, 37 will also leave from the bus station in Union Square.
To check details and for more information on travelling from the city centre to the Foresterhill Medical campus please visit the Stagecoach website

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/offer-holders:
Congratulations on your offer from the University of Aberdeen!
Aberdeen is a truly global city, welcoming students from all over the world, with a diverse student body of over 14,000 students from 130 countries.
The university's campus is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities and a vibrant Students' Union, offering over 100 societies to get involved in.
The Granite City by the Silver Sands is a beautiful city surrounded by stunning natural landscapes.
With a wide range of accommodation options available, you can choose the perfect place to call home.
We can't wait to welcome you.
All the key information for joining us in September 2025!
Offer Holder Day will be held on the 23rd of April 2025.
Those made an undergraduate offer will be invited via email in due course.
Applications for SAAS or Student Finance will open in the Spring.
Apply as soon as you can to ensure your funding is in place for September.
If you received all responses by Wednesday 14th of  May, choose your Firm, and Insurance if required, choices on UCAS Hub by Wednesday 4th of June.
You can apply for accommodation when you make Aberdeen your Firm Choice, whether your offer is conditional or unconditional.
Apply by the end of August for a guaranteed offer of accommodation.
Our Disability Team can offer confidential support throughout your studies.
If you have a conditional offer, good luck!
SQA Results Day is Tuesday 5 August and A-Levels Results Day is Thursday 14 August.
Accommodation is guaranteed for all new students in Hillhead Student Village (T&Cs apply).
Chat to one of our current students via Unibuddy.
Don't forget to apply for funding for your chosen programme.
Find out about life at the University of Aberdeen and in the North-East of Scotland.
View all of the key dates for starting at Aberdeen in 2025.
Find out more about our the range of Student Support on offer.
Register for one of our 2025 Open Days.
Book now!
Join our Offer Holder Facebook group to chat to fellow offer holders and ask any questions.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/offer-holders/student-life-resources:
View each area below to find further resources about student life at the University of Aberdeen.
Aberdeen Sports Village is the premier sport and exercise facility in Scotland and provides world class opportunities for everyone in the community.
Most first-year students will live at our purpose-built Hillhead Student Village, our main accommodation site.
New students are guaranteed a space in halls (subject to T&Cs).
Aberdeen University Students' Union (AUSA) is a student-led organisation that aims to support, empower and represent students during their University experience.
Find out more about catering options available on campus, from where to grab a coffee to our indoor canteen in the Student Union Building.
Study or work abroad from one week to a full academic year during your time at Aberdeen.
Gain academic credits overseas which contribute to your degree here with us.
Aberdeen is a vibrant student city in the North East of Scotland with culture, sport, festivals, beaches and nature right on your doorstep.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/offer-holders/student-life-resources/aberdeen-sports-village:
Welcome to our Aberdeen Sports Village resources page.
You will find information more information about Aberdeen Sports Village (ASV) below.
Aberdeen Sports Village is the premier sport and exercise facility in Scotland and whilst studying at the University of Aberdeen - who are one of ASV's main partners - it is your home for sport during your studies, and right on your doorstep.
Maintaining your health and wellbeing and taking a break is crucial during your studies, and you can do this at ASV.
With an ASV Student Lifestyle membership you will have access to all of below and much more helping you to pave the way for a healthy mind and body during your university life.
Access to;
University of Aberdeen students are offered a fitness membership at a price that cannot be beat in Aberdeen.
To find out more, visit our website www.aberdeensportsvillage.com
ASV - Your "Home for Sport" during your studies
ASV Student Lifestyle Membership

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/offer-holders/student-life-resources/accommodation:
Welcome to our Accommodation resources page.
You will find information more information about Accommodation below.
Most first-year students will live at our purpose-built Hillhead Student Village, which is our principal accommodation site.
Hillhead welcomes around 2,000 students each year and new students are guaranteed a space in halls (subject to terms and conditions).
You can even take a virtual tour of our different facilities on our website!
We are offering a free gym membership for Aberdeen Sports Village to all students who accept an offer of to stay in University accommodation * .
Terms and Conditions for ASV Membership

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/offer-holders/student-life-resources/the-students-union:
Welcome to our University of Aberdeen Students' Union (sometimes referred to as AUSA) resources page.
You will find information more information about the Students' Union below.
The University of Aberdeen Students' Union Association (AUSA) is a student-led organisation that aims to support, empower and represent students during their University experience.
When you join the University, you're automatically enrolled in the Students' Union where you are encouraged to share your views so that we can help you make the most of your time at university.
The Students' Union is led by five elected students, known as Student Officers.
These officers work together as a team, each focusing on their individual remit to represent you and drive forward your interests.
Officers will collaborate on issues aiming to make positive changes at University, local and national levels.
With over 300 sports clubs and societies, the Students' Union and the University have a vibrant community spirit.
Whether you're looking to play football, learn to skate, or appreciate a fine whisky, we have a society and club for everyone.
Joining a club or society is a great way to meet new people and experience new things as well as continue to develop your skills, hobbies and passions.
The Students' Union can also help with free and impartial advice to students.
You can get in touch with us for support with anything from academic advice, health & wellbeing, part-time employment to housing and accommodation needs.
You can find out more about The Students' Union at their website: https://www.ausa.org.uk/

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/offer-holders/student-life-resources/go-abroad:
Welcome to our Go Abroad resources page.
You will find information more information about Go Abroad below.
Aberdeen students can spend a semester or full academic year abroad at one of our many Go Abroad partners.
You can go on study exchange to Europe, North America, Asia, Australia or South Africa, and experience a new culture and student life, whilst gaining credits that count towards to your degree in Aberdeen.
On some degrees it is also possible to undertake a traineeship, industrial placement, degree project or medical elective overseas.
We also offer a range of short term options.
Check out the links below to find more information about where you can go, what previous students have to say about their experience, and how you can get involved.
Find out more about our Go Abroad Ambassadors, who have all spent a semester or summer abroad through one of our network opportunities
If you have any questions, you can get in touch with the Go Abroad team, our Go Abroad Tutors and our Go Abroad Ambassadors.
Find our contact details here
Outgoing Students

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/offer-holders/student-life-resources/life-in-aberdeen:
Welcome to Life in Aberdeen resources page.
You will find information more information about Life in Aberdeen below.
Aberdeen is the third largest city in Scotland and home to a vibrant cultural scene, as well as being easily situated close to the beautiful Scottish coastline and countryside.
The city has everything you need from a large city - bustling shopping centres, great cafes and restaurants, and a year-round calendar of events across the city - but also is a compact city, easy to get around and well situated to make the most of everything the North East has to offer.
Our student life pages can be found here: https://www.abdn.ac.uk/study/student-life/aberdeen-city-1499.php
Visit Scotland: Aberdeen (external)
Visit Scotland: Aberdeenshire (external)

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/offer-holders/student-support-resources:
View each area below to find further resources about our student support services.
The Careers and Employability Service inspires and supports career success through collaboration, innovation and professionalism.
The Student Learning Service (SLS) works with all students to enhance their academic skills
IT Services are responsible for the management of technology across the University of Aberdeen and Toolkit is our online tech support portal.
The Student Advice and Support Office offer impartial and confidential advice and support to students on a variety of different issues.
The Access & Articulation Team work with individuals, schools & colleges in Scotland to support learners.
Find out more information about student finance, including government loans for UK and Republic of Ireland students.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/offer-holders/student-support-resources/careers-and-employability-service:
Welcome to our Careers and Employability Service resources page.
You will find more information about our Careers and Employability Service below.
We provide our students with the advice and information they need for effective career planning and skill development along with opportunities for networking and connecting with employers.
Check out their talk below, plus other information about the support they can provide to help you reach your dream career.
If you have any further questions, please email the team at careers@abdn.ac.uk .
This inbox is checked daily and a member of staff will get back to you.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/offer-holders/student-support-resources/finance--funding:
Welcome to our Finance & Funding resources page.
You will find information more information about Finance & Funding below.
How you will fund your studies will be important to consider for all students starting university.
Students from the UK and the Republic of Ireland can apply to national funding bodies to a range of funding - make sure to start your research early to find out what loans and/or grants you may be eligible for!
There is also a range of funding available through the University of Aberdeen.
We run a range of Entrance Scholarships each year, and there's a range of other scholarships from other sources which can help you fund your day-to-day costs as a student.
We also have a dedicated Money Matters service who can provide support and guidance to students and provide practical advice on managing your money.
UK-domiciled students and Irish nationals in the Republic of Ireland can find more information about government funding available at the links below:
Funding Database
Money Matters

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/offer-holders/student-support-resources/it-services:
With over 180 members of staff across four divisions, IT Services at the University of Aberdeen are responsible for the management, operation and support of technology across the University.
We support a variety of web and computer-based resources to complement your studies and allow you to manage and review coursework at your pace and in your own time.
Toolkit is the University's online support portal.
It is updated every month, and features over 100 helpful video guides made in collaboration with our staff and students.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/offer-holders/student-support-resources/student-advice--support:
Welcome to our Student Advice and Support resources page.
You will find information more information about Student Advice and Support below.
The Student Advice and Support Office offer impartial and confidential advice and support on a variety of different issues, including: personal, academic, money matters, disabilities and specific learning difficulties, visas and immigration matters, mental health and wellbeing, and more.
If you require support or wish to speak with an adviser, please email student.support@abdn.ac.uk .
If you wish to book an appointment, please include your telephone number in your email and we can offer you a 'remote meeting' by telephone or Microsoft Teams.
The Disability Service provides advice, information and practical study-related support to prospective and current students who have sensory and physical impairments, mental health conditions, long-term health conditions, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)/ Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD), Dyslexia and other Specific Learning Differences (SpLD) and students who have an Autism Spectrum Condition (ASC).
They are available to assist undergraduate, postgraduate, full time, part time and online distance learners.
Our Counselling Service currently offers 'virtual' therapeutic support through Microsoft Teams.
In order to manage demand, counselling is 'One-at-a-Time', meaning that we aim to offer on appointment per person at the time of need, rather than a block of future appointment.
In order to book an appointment please email counselling@abdn.ac.uk .
The Chaplaincy Team provide pastoral care, support and advice to all members of the University community of any faith and none.
They welcome everyone to share and nourish the vibrant multicultural campus that we all enjoy.
Our Student Residence Assistants (SRA) Team are based at Hillhead Student Village and look after the welfare of residents.
The SRA team are happy to help with any concerns you might have such as: homesickness, exam worries, relationship or family problems, tensions between flatmates or simply if you need to talk to someone in confidence.
They provide friendly, confidential advice and point you in the direction of appropriate professional services.
Student Advice & Support Office
Disability Services
AccessAble guide to University of Aberdeen campus
Counselling Service
Multi-Faith Chaplaincy
Student Resident Assistants

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/offer-holders/student-support-resources/student-learning-service:
The Student Learning Service (SLS) works with all students to enhance their academic writing, study and maths skills through one-to-one appointments, workshops and online resources.
We offer bookable workshops , individual sessions and have a range of online resources on Study Strategies, Academic Writing and Maths Skills.
Find out more about the range of resources and services that we offer
If you have any questions or would like to get in touch with the team, you can email the team at the Student Learning Service

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/offer-holders/student-support-resources/widening-access-and-articulation:
We are pleased to welcome our offer holders from our Widening Access and Articulation backgrounds.
If you have any questions then please don't hesitate to contact the Access and Articulation Team .
View our Unibuddy profiles here.
Lots of information on Widening Access available here
Information for those articulating from a Scottish college to University available here

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/events:
Page 1 of 2 1 to 10 of 16 Events
Join the UK Team at this UCAS Exhibition in Forth Valley
Join the UK Team at this UCAS Exhibition in Edinburgh
Join the UK Team at this UCAS Discovery Exhibition in Aberdeen
Join the UK Team at this UCAS Discovery Exhibition in Glasgow
Join the UK Team at this UCAS Exhibition in Lanarkshire
Join the UK Team at this UCAS Exhibition in Ayrshire
Join the UK Team at this UCAS Exhibition in Moray
Join the UK Team at this UCAS Exhibition in Inverness
Join the UK Student Recruitment Team at this UCAS Discovery Exhibition in Dunfermline
Join the UK Team at this UCAS Exhibition in the Borders

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/virtual:
You can engage with current staff and students at virtual events, send us an enquiry or request a call back.
Please continue to check our calendar of events below as this will be updated regularly.
you can also speak to our staff and students at anytime through Unibuddy .
We look forward to speaking to you.
Keep an eye out for our upcoming virtual events
Our next Postgraduate Virtual Open Day (PG VOD) takes place in October, with registration opening in September
Find out more about PG VOD

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/visit/parking:
If you wish to drive to the campus you can use the postcode AB24 3FX to find us.
We cannot guarantee spaces will be available so encourage you to allow plenty of time for parking.
Parking is limited at the Foresterhill campus as it shares a site with the city hospitals.
Visitors should only park in the University of Aberdeen car parks.
The best car park to park in is outside the Polwarth Building as shown below.
There is also pay and display parking on Ashgrove Road West.
Please avoid parking in NHS car parks.
We recommend if possible, using public transport.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/visit/medicine-visitors:
Come visit our Medical School based at the busy Foresterhill Campus!
We offer Medicine talk and tours between April and October each Wednesday, beginning at 11 am.
One of our enthusiastic student ambassadors or staff will provide you with information relating to our entry requirements, provide you with a tour of the Suttie Centre and more information about the course and studying medicine in Aberdeen.
After this (if you wish), you will be able to travel to Old Aberdeen and join the campus tour on King's College campus, so you can see and experience all of what is on offer here in Aberdeen.
Book your visit here .

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/open-days/meet-us-ucas:
Come to our stand and chat about your subject interests and ask any questions you might have and find out more about studying with us.
The University of Aberdeen is ranked 12th in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2025 and 15th in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025.
Our friendly team looks forward to meeting you.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/1137/N400/accountancy:
Accountancy at Aberdeen gives you a thorough grounding in theory, practice and business skills, taught by experts in accounting practice, with the advantage of real-life employers and scenarios integrated into your programme.
The MA Accountancy at Aberdeen provides a thorough grounding in theory, practice, and business skills, taught by experts from a diverse range of professional backgrounds, with the advantage of real-life employers and scenarios integrated into the programme.
The programme provides a path to professional accreditation, and develops the essential skills, experience, and attributes required for a career in chartered accountancy or another key role in the dynamic environment of business and finance.
You will benefit from having close links with employers, real-life business scenarios, and professional training facilities such as our Bloomberg finance lab, used by major financial services companies across the world.
The University of Aberdeen is delighted to offer eligible self-funded international on-campus undergraduate students a £6,000 scholarship for every year of their programme.
The use of various forms of assessment and learning environments facilitates the development of generic transferable skills enhancing student employability.
Students will also benefit from developing and having close links with employers, real-life business scenarios, and professional training facilities such as audit simulation and Bloomberg finance lab, used by major financial services companies across the world.
15 Credit Points
This course introduces the theoretical and contextual foundation of accounting.
It does not involve any technical aspects of accounting or bookkeeping but provides an introduction to the political, economic, institutional, professional and managerial context of accounting.
The main content includes:
This course is an introductory course in microeconomics where we study the decision making of individual actors (consumers, employees, firms, governments, etc.) in an economy.
Actors must make decisions about behaviours because they face scarce resources, but often they find that trading with other actors in markets can increase the wellbeing of all parties.
This course models and examines the nature of these interactions, highlighting when they work well and when they fail to increase wellbeing and what might be the solution to these failures.
This foundation course in finance, risk and investment is the requisite for several degree programmes and for level 2 real estate and finance courses.
The module considers the nature and operation of investment markets, focusing on three asset classes; shares, bonds and real estate.
It looks at the characteristics of these investment options in terms of their risks and returns.
The module introduces basic financial mathematics: time value of money, calculation of present values and investment rates of return.
Finally, it considers the role of financial institutions and regulatory bodies in personal finance, where consumers and financial markets interact.
This is an introduction to accounting which aims to provide an understanding of how organisations – particularly small and medium sized businesses – capture, create and use accounting information both to guide their activities internally within the management function and to communicate their financial performance and position to external users of the accounts.
This course allows students to develop practical and analytical skills through a problem-solving approach to accounting-related aspects of business performance reporting and control, particularly in relation to bookkeeping, accounts preparation, budgeting and management accounting.
This course is an introductory course in macroeconomics  where we study the behaviour of the economy as a whole.
Whereas microeconomics focuses on individual markets, macroeconomics addresses the “big issues” such as unemployment, inflation, economic growth, and financial crises.
Macroeconomics is a lively subject, full of discussion and debate, as economists and policymakers take different views on macroeconomic issues, their causes and appropriate policy responses.
Issues such as: Is the economy growing?
What causes unemployment and how can we reduce it?
How can we avoid recessions?
When is inflation a problem?
Are banks lending too much?
This course, which is prescribed for level 1 undergraduate students and articulating students who are in their first year at the University, is studied entirely online, is studied entirely online, takes approximately 2-3 hours to complete and can be taken in one sitting, or spread across the first 4 weeks of term.
Topics include University orientation overview, equality & diversity, MySkills, health, safety and cyber security, and academic integrity.Successful completion of this course will be recorded on your Transcript as ‘Achieved’.
This compulsory evaluation is designed to find out if your academic writing is of a sufficient standard to enable you to succeed at university and, if you need it, to provide support to improve.
It is completed on-line via MyAberdeen with clear instructions to guide you through it.
If you pass the evaluation at the first assessment it will not take much of your time.
If you do not, you will be provided with resources to help you improve.
This evaluation does not carry credits but if you do not complete it this will be recorded on your degree transcript.
Plus further credit points from courses of choice to gain a total of 120 credits (60 in each half-session)
This course extends the operational tools and techniques introduced in level 1 Accountancy courses.
It develops more complex problem-solving techniques in the planning, control and decision-making process.
It shows how quantitative methods and analytical techniques can be applied in management accounting solutions to management problems.
It also emphasises the diverse industrial, commercial and not-for-profit settings in which management accountants work.
It seeks to develop in students an understanding of the organisational context as well as the nature of management accounting information.
The focus is to enhance students' problem-solving and communication skills, and develop their ability to select and apply appropriate techniques in specific contexts.
The main aim of this course is to develop a sound understanding of fundamental principles underlying the theory and practice of finance, thereby providing a strong basis for further study of advanced finance theory and cognate disciplines.
The course introduces students to important concepts in finance: principles of assets pricing,  concept of risk and return, theory of interest rates and pricing fixed income securities, evaluation of investment project with a focus on embedded real options.
It equips students with good analytical skills in order to understand the implications of financial decisions by understanding  the fundamentals that govern them.
The objective of FA2 is to build upon material introduced in first year in order to develop students'  technical skills in financial statement preparation.
Students will gain an appreciation of the regulatory framework for financial reporting.
They will examine the usefulness of financial statement information, by looking at the form and content of accounts produced by public limited companies.
Students will explore how to account for basic transactions through the implementation of current accounting standards and apply their knowledge in both the manual and the computerised environment, the latter through the SAGE accounting package.
This course aims to provide students with an understanding of statistical concepts and methods relevant to accounting, management, finance, real estate and economics.
The course is intended to enable students
i) To understand the principles of descriptive statistics, index construction, statistical inference, correlation, regression and time series analysis
ii) To apply statistical techniques to the analysis of accounting, business and economic issues and interpret findings
iii) To identify important sources of data in accounting, business and economics
This course is designed to provide non-LLB students with an understanding of the main issues in business law.
Topics will cover elements of the Scottish law and legal system concerning Company Law, Partnership, Employment Law, Agency, Contract Law, Delict, Bribery Act and Intellectual Property Law.
This course, which is designed for level 2 students and above, is studied entirely online.
Topics include career planning, finding work experience and articulating your skills and experiences in applications and interviews.
Successful completion of this course will be recorded on your Enhanced Transcript as ‘Achieved’.
The course takes approximately 5-6 hours to complete and can be taken in one sitting, or spread across a number of weeks.
Plus 45 credit points from courses of choice to gain a total of 120 credits (60 in each half session).
The optional courses must include at least 30 credits from level 2 Business School courses(AC, EC, FI, IN, MS, PO).
Selecting the following course may exempt students from the ICAS Law module: LS2533
This course builds upon AC2530 Financial Accounting 2.
The aim is to further develop practical and analytical accounting skills through the knowledge and understanding of controversial financial accounting and reporting issues, facilitating the ability to critically appraise current financial and non-financial reporting practice.
Building upon the material in Management Accounting 2, the course examines in greater detail behavioural, managerial, and strategic aspects of management accounting and management control.
The course content includes management accounting issues pertaining to:
This course aims to develop the students’ knowledge, understanding and critical awareness of the audit techniques, judgements and practical skills associated with a financial statement audit.
The context of the course reflects both the UK and International legal, regulatory and ethical framework.
The course forms an introduction to the 4th year Audit Theory and Evolution course which goes on to explore the historical context and current professional, regulatory, ethical and societal challenges and developments facing the audit and assurance profession.
The aim of this course is to provide knowledge and understanding of the UK tax system and its administration.
Students will gain an appreciation of direct taxes payable on income, profits, and other gains by both individuals and by corporations, and indirect taxes on spending.
Knowledge application of the different taxes within the UK taxation system will be achieved by solving tax problems and computing tax liabilities.
Plus 60 credit points from courses of choice to gain a total of 120 credits (60 in each half session).
The optional courses must include at least 30 credits from level 3 Business School courses (AC, EC, FI, IN, MS, PO).
At least 30 credit points from the following Accountancy courses: AC4034, AC4035, AC4036.
30 credit points from the following courses: AC4537, AC4538, AC4539
Audit Theory and Evolution (AC4035)
30 Credit Points
All Accountancy and Finance students must undertake a dissertation.
Students taking a joint degree may undertake the dissertation in either discipline, but not both.
It is designed to show that you are able to:
Carry out a substantial piece of research on a chosen subject without close supervision
Critically analyse and evaluate work carried out by others
Reach your own conclusions based upon your analysis and evaluation of relevant evidence, whether this is prior research only or prior research coupled with your own research.
Write-up the results of your work in a clear, coherent and logical way.
Sustainability, both in its ecological and social dimensions, has now become a challenge that concerns all types of organisations across the world.
The media coverage has raised awareness among the general public on different aspects of sustainability and new regulations are emerging on this issue.
Thus, a well-structured accountability system capable of managing and disclosing sustainability impact of organisational practices is an essential element for the successful sustainable organisation.
Disclosure is an important part of the accountability process.
Social and environmental accounting explores how organisations can disclose information to various stakeholders pertaining to issues such as: socially responsible investments, human rights, climate change and other environmental matters.
Reporting and auditing of information on sustainability issues are a relatively new practice in the accounting field but rapidly growing in relevance.
Managers will be required to deal with these issues on a frequent basis.
Thus, this course will build up strong employability skills.
This course examines of the special issues concerning the public sector of the economy.
It investigates why public sector accounting is different from private sector accounting and examines management accounting, financial accounting and auditing from a public sector perspective.
The course will be of interest those wishing to develop knowledge and understanding of the importance of financial management of this segment of the economy.
It utilises a research-based set of readings and examples and is highly accessible to accounting students.
Is knowing the history of accounting useful?
Would it make it easier to be an accountant?
Would you understand business better?
Would you be a better accountant?
“Yes”.
This course will show you why.
In accounting history, we strip back the façade that surrounds accounting.
Revealed are the business-driven needs and the financial reporting needs that led us to where accounting is today.
You will understand why what accountants do is indispensable, from perspectives only history can bring.
Corporate governance has become one of the most significant challenges for organisations and for the managers who work within them.
The reasons for this include high-profile corporate scandals, conflict of interests, manipulations of financial statements, ethical dilemmas, crises like  the global financial crisis, credit crunch or even pandemic, and a growing need to demonstrate corporate accountability, transparency and ethical practices.
The “Corporate Governance and Professional Ethics” course will deepen students understanding and stimulate critical thinking in these areas.
Students will have the opportunity to practise problem-focused decision-making on a range of governance and ethical issues that affect the operation of contemporary organisations.
The course will be of benefit if students wish to develop further insights into good corporate governance system and professional ethics as part of their career development.
The 21st century accountant is facing a host of challenges in the workplace.
This course examines a range of topics that are shaping the nature of the work that accountants do, and which will drive the future directions of professional practice.
Due to the sometimes transient nature of the issues concerned and the need to respond to current events, the list of topics in the syllabus is indicative rather than fixed.
Plus additional credit points from Business School Honours courses of choice to gain a total of 120 credits for the year (60 in each half-session).
Options must be selected from level 3 or 4 Business School courses(AC, EC, FI, IN, MS, PO).
We will endeavour to make all course options available.
However, these may be subject to change - see our Student Terms and Conditions page .
In exceptional circumstances there may be additional fees associated with specialist courses, for example field trips.
Students are assessed by any combination of three assessment methods:
Entry from College (Articulation)
Year 2 entry: Satisfactory completion of HNC Accountancy (120 SCQF credit points).
A in all Graded Units.
Year 3 entry: Satisfactory completion of HND Accountancy (240 SCQF credit points).
A in all Graded Units and curriculum to include Research Skills ((J1NC 34/F60A34) and Company Law (DE5H35).
SQA Highers
Standard: BBBB
Applicants who have achieved BBBB (or better), are encouraged to apply and will be considered.
Good performance in additional Highers/ Advanced Highers may be required.
Minimum: BBC
Applicants who have achieved BBC at Higher and meet one of the widening participation criteria above are encouraged to apply and are guaranteed an unconditional offer for MA, BSc and BEng degrees.
Adjusted: BB
Applicants who have achieved BB at Higher, and who meet one of the widening participation criteria above are encouraged to apply and are guaranteed an adjusted conditional offer for MA, BSc and BEng degrees.
We would expect to issue a conditional offer asking for one additional C grade at Higher.
More information on our definition of Standard, Minimum and Adjusted entry qualifications.
Standard: BBC
Minimum: BCC
Adjusted: CCC
International Baccalaureate
32 points, including 5, 5, 5 at HL.
Irish Leaving Certificate
5H with 3 at H2 AND 2 at H3.
PLEASE NOTE: National 5/ Standard Grade/ GCSE (or equivalent) in Mathematics / Applications of Mathematics is required in addition to the requirements noted above.
Entry from College Advanced entry to this degree may be possible from some HNC/HND qualifications, please see www.abdn.ac.uk/study/articulation for more details.
Applicants that present with BBBB will usually receive an unconditional offer.
Where we have more applicants than places we may need to ask for more than the minimum so continued engagement in school is recommended.
Widening Access:
BBC
Applicants who meet one or more of our widening access metrics and present with BBC, are guaranteed an unconditional offer.
Foundation Apprenticeship: One FA is equivalent to a Higher at A.
Note: We do not double count a Higher and Advanced Higher in the same subject, but we do consider that a B grade at Advanced Higher is equivalent to an A grade at Higher.
National 5 English (or equivalent) is required at Grade C or above.
National 5 Mathematics or Applications of Mathematics (or equivalent) is also required for Accountancy, Economics and Finance programmes.
Widening Access: CCC
GCSE English (or equivalent) is required at Grade C/4 or above.
GCSE Mathematics at Grade C/4 is also required for Accountancy, Economics and Finance programmes.
BTEC LEVEL 3 EXTENDED DIPLOMA
DMM in related subjects.
Note: BTEC Level 3 Extended Certificate (Subsidiary Diploma) achieved at Distinction level, is normally acceptable in lieu of one A Level at grade B.)
IRISH LEAVING CERTIFICATE
Five subjects at Higher at H3.
O4 in Mathematics is also required.
INTERNATIONAL BACCALAUREATE
32 points including 5, 5, 5 at HL.
SL in English and SL in Mathematics are also required.
The information displayed in this section shows a shortened summary of our entry requirements.
For more information, or for full entry requirements for Arts and Social Sciences degrees, see our detailed entry requirements section .
To study for an Undergraduate degree at the University of Aberdeen it is essential that you can speak, understand, read, and write English fluently.
The minimum requirements for this degree are as follows:
IELTS Academic:
OVERALL - 6.0 with: Listening - 5.5; Reading - 5.5; Speaking - 5.5; Writing - 6.0
TOEFL iBT:
OVERALL - 78 with: Listening - 17; Reading - 18; Speaking - 20; Writing - 21
PTE Academic:
OVERALL - 59 with: Listening - 59; Reading - 59; Speaking - 59; Writing - 59
Cambridge English B2 First, C1 Advanced or C2 Proficiency:
OVERALL - 169 with: Listening - 162; Reading - 162; Speaking - 162; Writing - 169
Read more about specific English Language requirements here .
Additional details for international applicants, including information specific to your country or territory, are available here.
Discover your foundation pathway here .
You will be classified as one of the fee categories below.
The above fee includes the £6,000 Aberdeen Global Scholarship provided to self-funded international students.
Full terms and conditions apply .
Students from England, Wales and Northern Ireland, who pay tuition fees may be eligible for specific scholarships allowing them to receive additional funding.
These are designed to provide assistance to help students support themselves during their time at Aberdeen.
View all funding options in our Funding Database .
Graduates with an accountancy degree often undertake further professional training to pursue careers as chartered accountants, internal and external auditors, tax specialists and management accountants.
Other areas of specialism include insolvency and forensic accounting.
Large multinational accountancy firms offer professional training opportunities in addition to small-medium sized accountancy firms.
A wide range of opportunities for accountancy graduates exist in finance departments across a spectrum of private sector organisations in addition to managing government finances in the public sector.
The University of Aberdeen courses are accredited by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland (ICAS), Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) which can form part of a direct path to being granted exemptions from the examinations necessary to get professional qualification status.
Graduates of the MA Accountancy degree also receive exemption to five papers of the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA) professional qualification.
The Business School is EQUIS accredited, placing it among a select group of globally recognised institutions.
Out of over 15,000 business schools worldwide, only around 200 schools across 45 countries have attained this distinction.
Our results speak for themselves with 97.9% of graduates from the University of Aberdeen Business School in employment or further study 15 months after graduation (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2024)
For more details on academic experts and those who will be teaching within your programme discipline please visit the People section of the Business School website.
You will be taught by a range of experts including professors, lecturers, teaching fellows and postgraduate tutors.
The University of Aberdeen, established in 1495, is Scotland’s third oldest and the UK’s fifth oldest University.
The university’s ancient campus reflects its long-standing academic tradition, with historic buildings such as King's College, which dates back to the 15th century.
This blend of ancient architecture and modern facilities creates a unique atmosphere where students can experience the best of both tradition and innovation.
The University’s award winning Sir Duncan Rice Library is listed in the “Top 20 spellbinding University libraries in the World”.
It contains over a million volumes, more than 300,000 e-books and 21,000 journals.
Named Scotland's Safest University City (Unbroken Britain Survey, Provident Financial, 2018) and is in the top 10 in the UK for places to live and work (PricewaterhouseCoopers, 2018).
Aberdeen has been named the cheapest place for students to rent private accommodation in the UK.
In 2024, StuRents reports that the average price of a student private rental property in the Granite City was just over £96 a week.
Discover Uni draws together comparable information in areas students have identified as important in making decisions about what and where to study.
You can compare these and other data for different degree programmes in which you are interested.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/411/NN24/accountancy-and-business-management:
Accountancy and Business Management at Aberdeen will help you gain a strong advantage in pursuing a career in business and finance.
You will gain a thorough grounding in the theory and practice of accountancy and will acquire the business knowledge and skills to manage the challenges of fast-moving regional, national and global economies.
You will gain a strong foothold in accountancy and develop the analysis and evaluation skills required to process accounting information in a modern economy.
Your studies in Business Management will complement your learning in Accountancy, giving you a strong ‘people’ perspective and a wide understanding of how organisations function as well as the challenges they face as business becomes increasingly global.
Your skills will develop within the confines of a dynamic learning and research environment, inspired by staff from a range of professional backgrounds and financial markets.
You will learn how complex organisations operate and will benefit from being involved in real-life scenarios.
You will have access to professional training facilities such as our virtual trading room and the Bloomberg finance lab, which is used by major financial service companies across the world.
You will thrive in the international, dynamic environment of our Business School with classmates from over 40 nationalities creating a truly global experience.
The support you will receive from teaching staff and dedicated careers advisers will help you to develop as an individual with the skills and attributes sought by employers from a range of businesses.
The aim of this course is to introduce students to the fundamentals of management, the internal structure and processes of organisations.
Students will understand the main functions of management, what management is, what managers do and the factors that influence behaviour and performance of managers and other employees within an organisation.
The course will introduce a range of theories, research and real-life illustrations of a diverse range of management practices and organisational behaviour.
The course will cover areas of: Staffing, Groups and Teams, Leadership and Management, Human Resource Management, Organisational Structure, Culture and Change, Communication, Marketing, Branding and Organisational Processes.
Plus further credit points from courses of choice to gain a total of 120 credits
Operations is the part of management that considers processes rather than people and focuses on the  organisation rather than its environment.
We study processes and process types: when we produce goods or provide services through projects, jobs, batches or by mass production or mass services.
We study layout–how facilities are arranged–, capacity and inventory–how much we can make and when to store–, supply chains, project management, quality and improvement.
The course considers theories such as lean and just-in-time but also practice.
You will need a calculator besides the ability to write reports.
This course provides students with an overview of the underpinning concepts of marketing, and the requirements for the development of a market oriented organisation.
Specifically introduces the basic concepts of buyer behaviour, market research, the marketing mix and the strategic context of marketing.
The linkages between marketing and other key functional areas of management, notably operations and human resource management are highlighted by this course, encouraging the adoption of a systems perspective.
The aim of this course is to provide an introduction and overview of contemporary business issues.
Contemporary business issues are cultural, economic, political or technological factors in the business environment which have emerged as having an important impact on contemporary organisations.
These may vary, over time, as new business issues emerge and become important.
Currently the course will focus on two contemporary issues: (1) environmental sustainability and climate change, and (2) the impact of new information and communication technologies such as mobile technologies (smartphones, computers etc) and artificial intelligence (algorithms, AI) technologies on work.
This course provides an introduction to key theories and concepts in Human Resource Management (HRM).
Key themes to be covered include core HRM topics such as the link between strategy and HRM, reward and performance management, training and development, equality and diversity management.
This course builds upon AC2530  Financial Accounting 2.
What is Business Ethics and why should we care?
There is an impression amongst many that Business and Ethics are opposed ideas.
This course seeks to address these issues.
Exploring Business Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility, tracing its historical origins through to current practice within organizations and the impact on the wider world.
The course covers the fundamental question of what ethics is, granting a context for wider discussion.
It looks at why ethics is relevant in the business world today and does so through traditional lectures and interactive learning such as the debates that have proven popular with students.
Plus further credit points from level 3 courses in Business Management to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline.
NOTE: If you intend to take your dissertation in Business Management you must take MS 3553 Research Methods for Business in level 3.
Human Resource Management (MS3554)
Entrepreneurship skills are highly important to current economy and they are required to reach higher levels of economic growth and innovation.
It is also widely believed that increased levels of entrepreneurship can be reached through, especially, entrepreneurship education.
Therefore, this course help students build fundamental blocks that essential to embarking on an entrepreneurial venture.
This theoretically informed and practical course aims to explore the key concepts and theories of consumer behaviour.
Students will explore: the consumer as an individual (understanding motivations, psychographics, demographics and cognitive processes) and social and group aspects of consumer behaviour (the role of friends, family and reference groups).
The course uses interactive lecture sessions and tutorial activities to encourage students to reflect both on theory and their own experiences as consumers.
The course will be very useful for those interested in marketing and market research careers.
This course introduces students to what is involved in undertaking research into business phenomena.
It introduces philosophical issues in the theory of knowledge, ethical issues in research conduct, and considers quantitative and qualitative methods in turn, addressing issues in sampling and design, details of specific approaches, and considerations in data analysis.
The course is taught through weekly lectures and an extended two hour tutorial every fortnight, with two pieces of coursework.
The emphasis throughout is on understanding the conceptual underpinning of different methods, and their strengths and limitations in research.
At least 30 credit points from the following Accountancy courses:
PLUS EITHER:
AC4528 (Dissertations in Accountancy) and MS4536 (Business Strategy)
OR:
MS4540 (Dissertation in Management Studies)
Plus further credit points from Honours course(s) in Business Management to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline and further level 4 Business School courses (AC, EC, FI, IN, MS, PO) to gain a total of 120 credit points.
NOTE: You are required to gain a minimum of 90 credit points from level 4 courses.
This course introduces the theory and practice of change management, a key area in consultancy.
You will explore how individuals and organisations navigate transformation, gaining practical skills through case studies, group work, and presentations.
Designed to build your consultancy competencies, the course helps you understand how to diagnose problems, develop strategies, and support change in today’s fast-paced and evolving business environment.
This course is concerned with managing and understanding organisational behaviour.
Organisational behaviour is one of the most complex and perhaps least understood academic elements of modern general management but since it concerns the behaviour of people within organisations it is also one of the most central.
This course designed to prepare students for what lies within organisations, thus avoiding the 'reality shock'.
The emphasis will be on real-life rather than theoretical examples although wherever appropriate theory will be grounded in practical examples.
This course is about business strategy and covers a broad range of topics that come under the general heading of “Business Strategy” or “Strategic Management”.
The course has been designed to help you gain an understanding of the key areas of strategic management including an understanding of: what strategic management is and why it is important; the different types of strategic analysis tools available; the difference between corporate, business and functional strategy;  the complex issues associated with the implementation of strategy;  the concept of strategic fit; and the role for strategic leadership in shaping and implementing strategy.
The exact mix of these methods differs between subject areas, years of study and individual courses.
Honours projects are typically assessed on the basis of a written dissertation.
Graduates of this degree receive exemption for five papers of the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA) professional qualification, subject to passing the relevant courses.
Careers in Accountancy and Business Management are in high demand globally, especially within private global industry where there is opportunity to work across countries or as a consultant and advisor upon further study.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/412/NL41/accountancy-and-economics:
Studying Accountancy and Economics at Aberdeen is a great way to prepare for a sparkling career in international finance, business, politics, media and a variety of other sectors.
You will gain a thorough grounding in the theory and practice of accountancy, set within the wider perspective of the global economy.
You will be taught by leading international economists whose work influences government policy.
You will develop a solid understanding of accountancy and develop the analytical and evaluation skills required to process accounting information in a modern economy.
You will study the microeconomics of business and society, the macroeconomics of the world economy and will learn about economic challenges in a variety of political, social and historical contexts.
You will have access to professional training facilities, such as our Bloomberg finance lab, which is used by major financial service companies across the world.
This technology integrates real activity in financial markets directly into our students’ courses.
Your skills will develop in a dynamic learning and research environment, inspired by staff with a wide range of professional backgrounds, both in accountancy and finance.
You will be taught by leading international economists, such as Professor Alex Kemp, who is a world authority on oil and gas markets and an adviser to the Scottish Government and health economists, whose work influences Scottish and UK policy decisions on public health issues.
You will be supported by teaching staff and dedicated careers advisers, who will help you develop as an individual with the skills and attributes sought by employers in business, government, education and private consulting.
Accountancy and Economics are two diverse subjects that will provide you with a solid understanding of how the world's largest organisations process financial information.
You'll learn about the factors that influence wealth and will study topics such as academic writing, risk, and investment, microeconomics, statistics, and entrepreneurship.
This programme is taught through a selection of compulsory and optional courses totaling up to 120 credits.
This course builds on and is a natural extension of EC 1006.
By examining in a more rigorous way concepts introduced in EC 1006 students will develop further their analytical skills and they will obtain a better understanding of consumers and producers behaviour, market structure as well as the effectiveness of economic policy.
The course is designed to appeal to all students interested in economics.
This includes students who may wish not to enter into any further studies of economics, as well as students who may wish to continue studying economics at the honours level.
This course focuses on macroeconomic policy in a global economy.
The first part builds an open-economy Keynesian model to investigate what determines the effectiveness of fiscal and monetary policies, and how exchange rate regimes and capital mobility impact on policy effectiveness.
The second part investigates what determines the level of macroeconomic activity and its growth over time.
The final part looks at what determines inflation and unemployment.
This intermediate level course uses live lectures to develop your analytical skills evaluating economic policy in a rigorous and technical way to equip you with the skills needed for honours level study.
Select 60 credit points from level 3 courses in Economics.
Students are required to have exactly 240 credits at levels 3 and 4, at least 210 of which must be AC or EC coded, and normally no more than 120 credits from either discipline.
At least 90 credits must be at level 4.
At least 30 credit points from the following:
You must choose one of the following dissertation options:
Option 1:
Option 2
The dissertation presents students with the opportunity to apply their knowledge and research skills of Economics to an individual piece of research, focusing on a topic which has been chosen by the student and approved by the Dissertation coordinator and Dissertation supervisor.
Over the course of the Dissertation, with guidance from the supervisor, the student will study a particular topic, conduct a literature review of relevant material, select appropriate theoretical and/or empirical methods to address the topic and write a final analysis in the form of the Dissertation of up to 10,000 words.
We employ a range of teaching methods, emphasising transferable skills such as group work, presentation techniques and IT skills, in order to produce highly skilled graduates for the accountancy and related professions.
Teaching methods include lectures, seminars, tutorials, workshops and student presentations.
Accountancy and Economics graduates work in many roles across the business and financial sectors.
Our graduates have gone on to work in careers such as financial management, statistics and auditing for regional and national public sector bodies.
With the University's strong focus on employability, you will have a wide range of career options.
In Aberdeen itself, the unemployment rate is one of the lowest in the UK.
Career options with your Accountancy and Economics degree
Courses at the University of Aberdeen are accredited by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland (ICAS), CIMA (Chartered Institute of Management Accountants), and ACCA (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, all of which can form part of a direct path to being granted exemptions from the examinations necessary to get professional qualification status.
Utilise professional training facilities including the Bloomberg finance lab, used by major financial services companies across the world and integrating real activity in financial markets directly into our students’ courses.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/413/NN34/accountancy-and-finance:
Accountancy and Finance at Aberdeen is a great combination of subjects to help you prepare for a stellar career in international finance, business, politics, media or many other sectors.
You will gain a thorough grounding in the theory and practice of accountancy, set within the wider perspective of the principles of finance and how organisations operate within a fast-changing global economy.
The MA Accountancy and Finance at Aberdeen provides a thorough grounding in theory and practice of accountancy within the wider perspective of the principles of finance and how organisations operate within a fast-changing global economy.
The subject matter prepares students for a diverse range of career options including professional accountancy practice, international finance, and business.
The programme provides a path to professional accreditation, and develops the essential skills, experience, and attributes required for a career in chartered accountancy or as a finance professional
Your skills will develop in a dynamic learning and research environment, inspired by staff who are internationally known for their leading research in accountancy, finance, economics, and business management.
Students seeking maximum accreditation from ICAS should also take Managing Organisations (MS10092).
Select further credit points from courses of choice to gain a total of 120 credits (60 in each half-session) .
This course provides students with an understanding of the financial system, primarily from a UK perspective, introducing students to the reasons for, and nature of, financial markets and institutions before moving on to explore the need and importance of financial regulation, and investigating the causes and consequences of the recent global financial crisis.
The course will introduce students to a variety of topics including the role of wholesale and retail banks, non-bank financial institutions, the debt and equity markets, and the derivative markets; market efficiency, UK and international regulation, consumer protection and market abuse.
Select further credit points from courses of choice to gain a total of 120 credit points (60 in each half-session).
The optional courses must include at least 30 credit points from level 2 Business School courses (AC, EC, FI, IN, MS, PO).
Plus 30 credits from level 3 courses in Finance (FI)
Students are required to take 30 credit points from the following Accountancy courses (each are 15 credit points):
Select ONE from the following:
Plus further credit points from level 4 course(s) in Accountancy or Finance to gain a total of 60 credits in each discipline and a total of 120 credit points.
This course aims to provide an overview of quantitative methods needed to conduct empirical research in finance and financial economics.
i) To develop knowledge and understanding of the theoretical practical approaches to quantitative methods in finance.
ii) To develop the practical quantitative skills to equip students for dissertations in finance and for on-going work in the finance area.
iii) To develop intellectual skills by understanding of the appropriate use of statistical techniques for various financial problems.
iv)  To develop the ability to write extended research reports on original topics in finance
Covering the intellectually and commercially fertile ground at the accountancy/finance interface.
Considering financial analysis from both theoretical and practical angles.
Do you need to understand financial reporting to be an investor?
How should we assess the success of an acquisition?
Why do accountants think mergers don’t exist?
How do companies decide on financing strategies?
Does corporate governance and ethics really matter – do share prices react to it?
These are some of the questions we will address alongside using DataStream and the ThomsonReuters Eikon system.
The course might give you some ideas for your dissertation too.
The last four years have been extremely rewarding.
With so much gained, both academically and personally, I owe a lot to Aberdeen.
After a challenging final year, to finish how I have is amazing and I will cherish these memories forever.
Aimed at those looking for a career as a professional accountant or another key role in the dynamic environment of business and finance.
Graduate roles include Trainee Chartered Accountant in local, national, or Big 4 accountancy firms.
Key accountancy / business / finance roles in both public and private sector organisations.
or pursuing an academic career through postgraduate studies, academic research & teaching.
The MA Accountancy programme at Aberdeen can form part of a direct path to professional qualification status being accredited by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland (ICAS).
Graduates also receives exemption to the certificate and operational level of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) qualification, and to the foundations in accountancy level and four papers from the applied knowledge and skills level of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) qualification.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/414/NR41/accountancy-and-french:
Accountancy and French at Aberdeen brings international opportunities to students with an existing grounding in accountancy, business and finance.
You will gain a competitive advantage by understanding a modern European language, gaining insights into a different culture and being fast tracked into a career in European and international organisations.
French & Francophone Studies at Aberdeen has a long-standing reputation for teaching and research.
The programme explores the diversity of French and Francophone culture and the complex global influence of France and the French language over the centuries.
You will add to your growing language skills with diverse courses in contemporary society and politics, philosophy and history, film and visual culture, advanced translation skills, and literature from the Renaissance to the present day.
NOTE: Language competency levels are listed as a guide, courses may vary based on ability and are subject to diagnostic testing.
Beginner
Intermediate/Advanced
Plus further credit points from courses of choice to gain a total of 120 credit points.
This course introduces students to twentieth and early twenty first century French and Francophone culture and society, focusing on the occupation of France during World War II, gender issues, and the impact and aftermath of colonialism and decolonisation.
Students will explore the socio-historical and socio-political context by engaging with literature, film, writing from the period and visual materials.
Texts will be available in translation for those with limited or no knowledge of French.
Focusing on major cities in Europe and the Americas, this course unit uses a range of texts, including films, poetry and fiction, to investigate urban spaces as sites of promise, power and loss.
Representations of global cities, and experiences of urban dwellers, highlight themes such as empire, identity, leisure, labour and love.
Set amid glittering facades and gritty back streets, the texts studied in this course explore the many meanings of the urban experience across place and time.
These urban encounters also provide a way of understanding key social, political and cultural moments in the past and present.
This course builds on the work done in FR1028, providing students with an adequate command of French language to allow them the possibility of continuing their studies into level 2 and Honours.
This intensive language course is designed for students who have little or no previous knowledge of French.
This course involves intensive language study.
Upon successful registration to this course, you are expected to complete a short online entry test on MyAberdeen to ensure that you are registered for the most appropriate course for your language ability.
You will not be able to access the course site until you have completed this short test.
It is strongly recommended that you complete this test at the earliest opportunity as your timetable/course selections may be subject to change if your language ability would be better suited to an alternative course.
You will be informed of this as soon as you complete the test.
The short entry test does not count toward your overall grade for this course.
It is recommended (subject to individual entry test results) that:
This course is intended for students who have studied French to the equivalent of Scottish Higher or beyond.
Building on the work done in the first semester, it seeks to enable students to consolidate and extend their knowledge of French, written and spoken.
This course is intended for students who have studied French to Higher or equivalent level.
It will enable them to consolidate and extend their knowledge of French, written and spoken.
NOTE: Candidates seeking entry to the Junior Honours programme must have accumulated, by award or recognition, or been exempted from, at least 240 credit points at levels 1 and 2, including the prescribed courses required to enter programme year 3.
This second year French language course which runs in the first half-session is only open to students who have passed FR1528.
It will improve their written, oral and aural skills, and is one of the two second year French language courses (along with FR2512) that has to have passed to be allowed into the French honours Programme.
This second year French language course which runs in the second half-session is only open to students who have followed FR2012.
It will improve their written, oral and aural skills, and is one of the two second year French language pre-requisite courses (along with FR2012) that one must have passed to be allowed into the French honours Programme.
This second year French language course which runs in the first half-session is only open to students who have passed FR1529.
It will improve their written, oral and aural skills, and is one of the two second year French language courses required to be allowed into the French honours Programme.
This second year French language course which runs in the second half-session is only open to students who have followed FR2002.
It will improve their written, oral and aural skills, and is one of the two second year French language pre-requisite courses to be allowed into the French honours Programme.
Academic year spent in a French-speaking country
This Junior Honours French language course, whose pre-requisites are FR2502 or FR2512, runs over the full session and is only open to Single and Joint Junior Honours degree in French students.
Building on the skills gained during their first two years of study of French, this course will improve the students' French language skills in all four areas of listening, speaking, reading and writing, whilst increasing their grammatical and lexical knowledge, as well as their sensitivity to linguistic variety.
It carries 15 credits and is assessed by way of four equally weighted assignments.
Select further credit points from level 3 courses in French to gain a total of 60 credits.
This Senior Honours French language course, whose pre-requisite is the Junior Honours French Language course, is run over the full session and is only open to Single and Joint Senior Honours degree in French students.
Building on the skills gained in their third year of study of French, this course will help the students' French language gain very high skills in all four areas of listening, speaking, reading and writing, whilst increasing their grammatical and lexical knowledge, as well as their sensitivity to linguistic variety.
Select TWO Level 4 Accountancy courses from the list below,
Plus, select ONE of the following dissertation courses:
Select further credit points from level 4 courses in French to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline and further level 4 Accountancy courses to gain a total of 120 credit points
Candidates will write a dissertation of 8,000 words on a subject to be decided in consultation with the Course Co-ordinator, to be researched and written (under supervision by a member of staff) in the first half session of Senior Honours, and submitted at the beginning of the second half session of Senior Honours.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/415/NR42/accountancy-and-german:
Accountancy and German at Aberdeen adds considerable career benefits to your grounding in accountancy, business and finance, giving you the competitive advantage of a modern European language.
You will gain a cultural perspective and experience a fast track career in European and international organisations.
Not only will you gain a cultural perspective, you will benefit from developing a thorough business grounding through studying Accountancy with courses in Management, Statistics and Economics.
You will thrive in the international, dynamic environment of our Business School and will study with classmates from over 40 nationalities.
You will be inspired by staff who are leaders in accounting practice and theory, financial markets, corporate finance, and global economics.
All the while, you will benefit from small classes and be supported by dedicated careers advisers.
German at Aberdeen has an outstanding reputation with the highest possible rating of ‘Excellent’ in the last national Teaching Quality Assessment .
You will develop your language skills, taught by native speakers from Germany and Austria and you will gain a broad understanding of Germany’s complex history and culture.
As part of your programme, you will spend half of year three honing your language skills and cultural familiarity as a Language Assistant or visiting student in Germany or Austria.
Upon graduating, you will have the option of many career paths.
Should you opt for a career in business, you will be seen as highly valuable by employers and business organisations operating in Europe, including the European Commission.
Other career options include tourism and education.
This language course provides students with a sound foundation in German (grammar and vocabulary).
It enables students to understand the gist of authentic written and spoken German and to speak and write about familiar topics with a degree of accuracy and fluency.
No previous knowledge of German is required, but this course is also for students which took German at school before, on any level lower than Higher or A-level.
With 3 Language Classes and 1 Language Practical per week this course encourages and supports students to develop their personal self-study strategies.
Students will gain detailed knowledge and understanding of the fascinating political and cultural developments and historical events in 20th century Germany.
They will be introduced in weekly lectures and tutorials to a variety of texts and contemporary films.
This course is taught in English and normally taken in conjunction with GM1054 German for Beginners 1.
It is specifically recommended to students with the intention to proceed with German Studies beyond level one.
No pre-requisites are required.
This module is designed for students with an SCE H in German or equivalent.
The course develops receptive and productive oral and written German language skills.
Students who are considering applying for entry to German Honours must take this course.
Students who have studied German to Higher level (or equivalent) register for GM1050 German Language 1
Learn more about German 20th-century literature, dealing with the events that shaped German and European history.
As in all good literature, we will discuss universal themes and topics covering all of the most important aspects of modern life.
The course builds on GM1050.
AND/OR:
The Global City (LA1501)
Plus further credit points from courses of choice to gain a total of 120 credit points
Learn more about modern German history and culture while also extending your skills in reading German texts.
The course consists of language classes leading to advanced communicative competence in German and it will include the analysis of contemporary texts drawn from a variety of contexts.
This course may be taken only by students who have completed the German for Beginners courses.
The intention of the course is to extend and reinforce further students' command of German grammar, vocabulary and syntactic structures, and to introduce various styles of written and spoken German.
The course builds on the work done in GM2040 and  is intended only for continuing beginners.
Building on work done in GM 2042, the course will develop further language skills.
This level two language course will build on and extend students' fluency and written skills in German.
Academic Session spent in German Speaking country
This junior honours language course will build on and extend students' written skills and fluency in German.
German Junior Honours Language Study
Plus a further 45 credit points from level 3 courses in German
30 credit points from the following Accountancy courses:
Building on the skills gained during the Junior Honours language course and before, this module expands and refines German language expertise in writing, reading, speaking and listening, to an advanced level, for their final exit written and oral exam in German.
Plus further credit points from level 4 course(s) in German to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline and further level 4 Business School courses (AC, EC, FI, IN, MS, PO) to gain a total of 120 credit points
You must choose one of the following dissertation courses:
Students engage in their first larger project of independent research.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/417/NM49/accountancy-and-legal-studies:
Accountancy and Legal Studies at Aberdeen is a great combination of subjects, giving you a thorough foundation in the theory, practice and application of financial and business skills.
You will gain highly developed analytical and academic skills as well as a strong grounding in legal studies.
You will be given a head start for a stellar career in business and finance, among many other options.
You will gain a wide perspective and thorough business grounding through studying Accountancy, with courses in Management, Statistics and Economics.
You will thrive in the international, dynamic environment of our Business School with classmates from 45 nationalities, inspired by staff who are leaders in accounting practice and theory.
You will benefit from studying in small classes and you will be supported by dedicated careers advisers.
Legal Studies fosters important academic qualities including clear, careful and independent thought and will add value to your career options.
For example, you will learn about the legal framework within which the world of corporate finance operates.
Our Law school is ranked 12th in the UK out of more than 90 law schools and is in the top five for graduate prospects - with an impressive 95% score for student satisfaction.
A major factor in the quality of our legal teaching is the calibre and enthusiasm of our staff, testing your mental agility with complex, realistic legal scenarios.
You will also have the opportunity to be part of our student-led practical initiatives, including the Student Law Society, Law Review and our legal clinic – the Aberdeen Law Project.
This degree combination is an excellent passport for entry into a wide range of careers including chartered accountancy, media, finance and banking, government service and teaching.
The course provides firstly a map of private law as drawn from the institutional scheme.
It then progresses to an equivalent of the medical student’s study of anatomy in the sense that, concentrating on the law of property and obligations, it examines the main concepts of private law and how they operate together as a system to solve everyday legal problems.
This course introduces the fundamental components and characteristics of the Scottish legal system.
It includes a study skills programme which covers different facets of the study of law along with a series of practical workshops which introduce key legal information sources (both electronic and paper) and appropriate search strategies.
Lectures and tutorials will cover topics such as the Scottish legal tradition, formal sources of Scots law, the legislative process, organisation of the courts, judicial precedent, civil procedure, alternative dispute resolution, the European legal order, legal services and access to justice.
Plus, select 15 credit points from the following courses
This course is a compulsory course on the LLB degree introducing students to Scottish Criminal Law including its sources and current law.
It examines various aspects of substantive law including crimes against the person, crimes of dishonesty, crimes against property and criminal defences enabling students to understand and apply the law in these areas.
The course also develops student’s written, verbal and analytical skills utilising written course work and problem solving exercises in tutorial groups.
Contract is one of the central subjects of private law and is one of the main branches of the law of obligations, the other being Delict and Unjustified Enrichment.
Contract Law covers obligations which are voluntary in nature.
Every day we make contracts from buying a newspaper to buying a house.
Contract Law is an area where Scots law and English law are very similar, and this course will cover Scots contract law but also highlight where English law differs with the aim of giving students a working knowledge of contract in both countries.
This course is an introduction to the laws and rules of the UK Constitution.
Major topics include the institutions of state, parliamentary sovereignty, the rule of law, the separation of powers, and devolution.
This area of law is fast-moving, and an effort is made to address current issues.
This course introduces students to two of the key branches of the Scots law of obligations, namely delict (which governs legal liability for situations such as the negligent infliction of harm upon others and defamation) and unjustified enrichment (which is concerned with questions such as, if I pay you money in error, am I entitled to demand that you return it?).
This course presents legal history over several millennia and from many different original cultures.
This course carries the student through a legal adventure, exploring a wide range of legal systems around the globe and throughout human history.
The course covers the origins of law from Africa, South Asia, East Asia and beyond.
From those beginnings, it traces how legal cultures emerged, evolved, or transformed.
The course will explore the interplay of law and religion over the centuries.
The goal of the course is to enable students to become aware of the wonderful diversity of legal systems before the Era of Exploration.
The common law tradition is one of the major legal traditions of the world.
This course briefly introduces students to the conceptual and institutional structures of the common law tradition.
This in turn introduces the fundamentals of the modern English legal system and its practical operation.
A large section of the course then turns to the practical operation of English law through study of English Criminal Law.
Plus, select 60 credit points from the following courses
NOTE:
The course aims to systematically and critically introduce the foundations of Public International Law (PIL).
The history, nature, legal personality, statehood and recognition, sources, the law of treaties and how PIL interacts with domestic law are considered in-depth.
These are followed by topics such as jurisdiction, sovereignty, the role of the United Nations, the law of state responsibility and peaceful settlement of disputes between states.
The contents of the course are designed to enable students to understand why and how international law regulates the behaviour of its actors with respect to some specific subject areas.
This course is compulsory for LLB students.
It consists of various elements split broadly into three parts: (1) the law of agency and the law of partnership; (2) company law; and (3) debt and insolvency law.
The lectures will focus on the creation of agency, partnership and companies of different types; the rules that enable these commercial organisations to function; and the law concerning the termination of these commercial organisations, particularly due to insolvency.
Family Law is a compulsory course for LLB students  During this course, students will be introduced to the key facets of the law governing the formation of adult relationships, including the constitution of marriage and civil partnership, legal rights and duties of spouses and civil partners, same sex marriage, the grounds for divorce and the financial aspects of breakdown of marriage and relationships of cohabitation.
This course also focuses on the relationship between children and adults and the legal rights of children, including parental rights and responsibilities, court orders relating to children and the welfare principle.
7.5 Credit Points
The course provides students with an introduction to some of the topical issues of legal theory combining theoretical discussion with practical examples.
The course aims to give students an accessible introduction to some important theoretical concepts and help them to develop their skills in critical thinking.
The modular structure of the course makes sure that students will be exposed to a wide range of theoretical concepts and approaches.
Theoretical concepts will be discussed in the context of practical issues helping students to see the relevance of those concepts.
The course consists of four modules and each module consists of three lectures and one tutorial.
At present, the four modules are as follows: (Judicial decision-making, Feminist legal theory, Law and technology, Truth in law and science.)
Students studying for the Aberdeen LLB are required to take this course if they wish to use their degree to enter the Scottish legal profession.
The course will examine both testate and intestate succession, in the context of the general principles of the law of succession, including legal rights.
Furthermore, it will introduce the functions of trusts, the rights of beneficiaries and the powers and duties of trustees.
The course is available only to LLB students in Programme year 2 or above and graduates on the 2 year degree.
This foundational course  introduces students to the basic ideas, themes and insights of comparative law.
The first part of the course focuses on the various concepts and methods that legal and other scholars have used to analyse differences and similarities between legal rules across nations and cultures.
It also introduces students to various efforts to map and explain legal diversity across the globe (legal families and traditions, including the civil, common, mixed and other traditions).
The second half of the course includes a range of case studies to showcase how the comparative method can be used in different areas of the law and across nations and regions.
This course introduces the student to the three core questions of Private International Law:
1) Jurisdiction: when do the Scottish courts have jurisdiction over a dispute that has one or more cross-border elements?
2) Applicable law: which country’s law is applicable to cross-border legal relations and disputes?
3) Recognition and enforcement of judgments: what are the effects of foreign judgments in Scotland?
Throughout the course, students will develop an understanding of how Scots Private International Law deals with legal relations that are not exclusively contained within Scotland.
It helps students develop a skillset that will enable them to resolve the questions that arise due to a legal relation or dispute having a cross-border element.
Moreover, the course enables students to appreciate the role Private International Law plays in a broad swath of scenarios, ranging from litigation involving the civil liability of Scottish corporations for wrongdoings committed overseas (such as violations of labour standards), to consumer protection disputes, international child abduction cases, and cross-border inheritance, to give but a few examples.
This is an exempting course for the Faculty of Advocates exam on Private International Law.
This course will examine in detail both administrative law and civil liberties under the constitution of the United Kingdom.
Major topics include judicial review (scope, standing and grounds), the European Convention on Human Rights, the Human Rights Act 1998, voting rights, and common law rights.
This area is fast-moving, and an effort is made to address current issues.
The aim of this course, open to students who have already studied the Scots law of delict (and compulsory for those on the ‘Law with English Law’ programme), is to extend their knowledge of the law governing civil liability.
More particularly, it aims to provide knowledge and understanding of the conceptual structure of the English law of torts in comparison with the corresponding branch of Scots law, and deals in detail with a few specific areas of tort liability, such as trespass, occupiers’ liability and nuisance.
This compulsory LLB course is all about things.
What items can you own?
How do you become owner of property?
What can you do as an owner of property?
What can you do with the property of other people?
And so on.
An understanding of Scots property law is crucial to markets, commerce and domestic life.
This course will give students a broad overview of the regulation of land, moveable items and incorporeal rights like intellectual property in Scotland.
Plus 60 credit points from Legal Studies LX Honours courses.
This course examines the law of sales in both a Scottish and international context.
Seminar topics will give students a good working knowledge of issues that occur when a difficulty arises (e.g., non-conformity of goods, passing of risk, damages, exemption, avoidance) and the role of important European law as well as international treaties and conventions.
The precise focus of the course varies from year to year and depending on the teaching staff involved there may be a greater or lesser focus on Scots law, and in some instances, the students will be asked to analyse and compare the legal solutions in English law as well.
This course looks in depth at the main aspects of the Scottish criminal justice process, focussing upon its mainly adversarial nature.
Topics addressed include: prosecution systems; the position of the accused; the status of the victim; plea-bargaining; the trial process; and appeals.
The emphasis is not so much on ‘black-letter law’ but on the principles and policies, often clashing, which underlie the detailed legal rules and regulations governing the relevant institutions and processes.
The issue of how gender impacts upon and interrelates with law and legal processes is topical and socially important, with questions relating to gender equality and gender-based violence currently attracting a high degree of academic, media and government attention.
Through examining topics connected to the themes of criminal justice and family law, this course will introduce students to current legal dilemmas and legal responses in the area of gender and the law, in addition to sociolegal and feminist approaches to law.
The course is
intended to offer insights into the dynamics of the development of
international human rights law.
It provides advanced instruction in several key
aspects of international human rights law (freedom from torture, freedom of
religion, social rights, right to self-determination, etc.) in order to develop
a critical understanding of the protection of human rights at the global level.
It also seeks to shed light on the way the forces of globalisation and global
civil society activism shape the conditions under which human rights law can be
created and maintained.
The aim of this course is to introduce students to American constitutional law through the study of landmark Supreme Court decisions on controversial moral issues.
The material on the course will be organised in relation to broad themes that will enable students to develop and refine their understanding of major issues in American Constitutional Law.
The themes include abortion; homosexuality and same-sex marriage; freedom of religion; affirmative action.
The course will also help students to familiarise themselves with the main approaches to constitutional interpretation.
This course seeks to guide students through the core aspects of company law and corporate governance including, inter alia, corporate legal personality, directors’ duties, the protection of minority shareholders, and the basics of corporate finance.
The legal study will be combined with commercial and strategical scenarios such as private equity deals, initial public offerings (IPOs), and corporate control battles.
Major policy debates will also be engaged.
There are numerous career opportunities associated with this course
This course offers an introduction to study of the civil law tradition and may be taken by students with no prior knowledge of the subject.
The two seminars in the first part of the course examine the sources and literature through which the tradition has taken shape.
The two seminars in the second part examine selected topics from the law of property, and the two seminars in the third part selected topics from the law of obligations.
In each part some attention is paid to the relationship between Scots law and the civil law tradition.
The course aims to introduce students to the core aspects of privacy and data protection law, exploring its international, European, and national dimension.
The course addresses, in particular, the role of data privacy regulation in the digital environment, critically discussing key global challenges, such as: international data transfers; artificial intelligence and its impact on data subject’s rights; the balance between the right to data protection and other fundamental freedoms (e.g.
freedom of expression)
The course aims to introduce students to the legal challenges raised by Artificial Intelligence.
It aims at offering an overview of the applicable legal framework, critically discussing its potential shortcomings in concrete case scenarios.
The course will focus on the UK context, but – given the cross-border nature of the topics involved - it will be open to a comparative perspective.
This course invites students to engage with the law from an economic perspective.
Why and when should property be privately, communally, or publicly owned?
How can a legal system minimise the social costs of accidents?
Why and to what extent do we need to regulate contracts?
These are some of the questions that the course will address.
Each seminar will focus on a legal topic that will be analysed through an economic lens.
No prior knowledge of economics is needed.
This course builds upon the introduction to Delict provided in LS2025 and LS1536 examines a number of aspects of the law of delict in greater detail.
Topics will be discussed in a comparative, historical and/or theoretical context.
The specific topics covered will vary on a year-by-year basis as the course aims to examine issues of topical interest.
Some of the topics covered in previous years include: causation; product liability; liability for breach of privacy; liability for pure economic loss; psychiatric injury; advocates' immunity and the liability of the police for negligently-conducted investigations.
The course builds upon the basic understanding of criminal law acquired in LS1020 although it is very important to understand that the topics are approached from a much more theoretical perspective.
The course examines in detail selected principles of criminal liability, including the role and limits of the criminal law, the defence of mental disorder, murder, rape, provocation and the limits of excusability.
Comparative material from a variety of jurisdictions is included.
Many students will be members of clubs and societies and will go on to become board members for clubs and charities, or community organisation chairpersons and secretaries.
The aim of this course is to ensure that potential future practising lawyers can develop a good grounding in a commercially and socially important field of law.
In this respect it worth noting that the Third Sector is a growing area of specialism in law firms.
The course will provide a clear overview of the successful family law conventions made at the Hague Conference on Private International Law, as well as an analysis of the working methods of the Hague Conference in making, reviewing and helping to ensure uniform interpretation of Conventions.
Students will acquire a thorough knowledge of the Hague Conventions on child abduction (1980), intercountry adoption (1993), child protection (1996) and maintenance (2007); a good understanding of private international law relating to surrogacy with an international element, and an appreciation of the options for the legal regulation of family agreements at the global level.
This course will discuss the trajectory of the development of corporate governance over the past three decades, especially in the UK and the US, with a view to understanding the extent to which underlying theoretical assumptions and policy decisions impact legislative, regulatory and self-regulatory arrangements as well as reform options.
Students will gain an understanding of why the company as a legal entity has the shape and form that it does; why certain actors are regarded as internal to corporate governance arrangements and others external; and why ongoing (and sometimes apparently futile) reform efforts take the form that they do.
The course addresses international legal issues raised by the increasing need to secure information and communication technology.
It explores the modalities of international cyberattacks; discusses data protection in the EU and UK; questions the scope of the obligation of States to secure cyberspace; studies the role of private companies in monitoring online content and reacting to international cyberattacks; analyses how cyberoperations can be attributed to States; examines what cyberoperations violate international law and how States could react to unlawful international cyberoperations; and gives a comprehensive map of the governance and standards organisations in the cyberspace ecosystem.
This course addresses the international legal rules and principles applicable to activities in outer space, including the UN-based space treaties and international customary (space) law, and also the many specialised regimes such as those applicable to the protection of the outer space environment, the regulation of military activities and the peaceful settlement of international space law disputes.
Changes in medical technology frequently cause changes in ethical attitudes and in the content of the law.
The purpose of this course is to explore the interaction between law, ethics and medicine with an emphasis on the ethical aspects.
This course examines the relationship between the law and the exercise of public power.
Topics covered include: the nature of public administration and administrative law; mechanisms by which public administrative power is regulated; the development, role and impact of judicial review in both Scotland and England.
Through a series of seminars, this course engages students with a body of ‘media law’ which covers topics such as the freedom of the press, freedom of expression, access to information, open justice principle on the one hand, and on the other hand, the right to fair trial, right to privacy, right of publicity, right against defamation, and the regulation of obscene publications.
The focus is on the regulation of media contents.
While the course follows the relevant current developments in the law, it also lays the foundation and the broader social and historical contexts within which these developments take place.
Plus further credit points from Legal Studies Honours courses to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline and further level 4 Business School courses (AC, EC, FI, IN,MS, PO) to gain a total of 120 credit points.
This course, that is only available to final year honours students, allows you to write a 10,000 word piece on an aspect of law that you choose with the help of a supervisor.
Once your topic and plan are approved by the law school you work independently and hand in the dissertation shortly before the Easter Break.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/416/NR44/accountancy-and-hispanic-studies:
Accountancy and Spanish & Latin American Studies at Aberdeen brings international opportunities to your existing foundation in accountancy, business and finance.
You will gain a competitive advantage by studying a modern European language also widely spoken in the US and Latin America.
Your skills will greatly appeal to multinational employers and will set you on a fast track to a career in international business, NGOs, or other sectors.
You will benefit from small classes and will be supported by dedicated careers advisers.
Spanish & Latin American Studies has an outstanding reputation with the highest possible rating of ‘Excellent’ in the last national Teaching Quality Assessment.
You will be equipped with the skills to communicate in a global language, spoken by 350 million native Spanish speakers in 19 Latin American states, the Spanish Peninsula, and increasingly in the US.
You will complement this with studies in Spanish and Latin American culture.
As part of your programme, you will spend half of year three as a Language Assistant or visiting student in a Spanish-speaking country, honing your language and widening your cultural experience.
You will be seen as valuable to employers, particularly those operating in multinational environments, including the energy industry, which is important in the growing economies of Latin America.
You will also be an outstanding candidate for other international businesses and NGOs in the international development, education and tourism sectors.
This is a fast-paced and intensive language course for students with very little or no previous knowledge of Spanish.
It is aimed at students intending to pursue an honours (single or joint) degree in Spanish and Latin American Studies but is also suitable for students on other degree programmes.
This is a fast-paced language course for students with some previous knowledge of Spanish.
This course follows Spanish Language 2 or can be taken by students who have the required level of Spanish.
EITHER:
Spain and Spanish America: History, Culture, Politics (SP1039)
The Global City in Text and Film (LA1501)
The course introduces students to colonial encounters ranging from Muslim Iberia to the pre-conquest Americas and continuing into the period of the Spanish Empire.
From the nineteenth century, conquest and colonial encounters continued as newly-independent Spanish American states seized indigenous territories, while colonial mentalities re-surfaced in contexts as diverse as the Spanish Civil War and Southern Cone dirty wars.
These examples show how colonial encounters helped shape contemporary Spain and Spanish America.
This course aims to prepare intending Honours students of Spanish and Latin American Studies for their compulsory period abroad in a Spanish-speaking country.
The course will develop further Spanish language skills, both receptive and productive.
Classes on grammatical and linguistic analysis will contribute to the development of both sets of skills.
In addition students will complete a structured self learning programme of audio-visual study and grammatical reinforcement study.
This course follows Spanish Language 4 and aims to prepare non beginners intending Honours students of Spanish and Latin American Studies for their compulsory period abroad in a Spanish-speaking country.
The course will develop further Spanish language skills, expanding on the vocabulary and introducing formal documents and letters.
In addition students will complete a structured self learning programme of vocabulary and grammatical reinforcement study.
Latin America: Texts and Contexts (SP2036)
Spain in Literature and Film: Community and Conflict (SP2541)
This course uses texts, which can include plays, films, novels, music, letters and an etiquette guide, to understand issues, concerns and themes in Latin American history.
The course is organised chronologically and each week classes focus on texts from a particular country as a means to discuss bigger questions, such as how to make a new nation after three hundred years of colonial rule and a decade of warfare, how to demonstrate your honourability in an anonymous city and what cultural models are the best source of inspiration.
The course also focuses on 'context' shared throughout Latin America.
The aim of the Residence Abroad Project is to develop an in-depth understanding of a specific aspect (anthropological, political or cultural) connected with one of the Spanish and Latin American countries in which students are staying.
Students are expected to study a topic in its socio-and to complete a report in Spanish of c.
2000-2500 words.
This is a core prescribed course open only to Junior Honours Spanish and Latin American Studies students and a selected range of other programmes at the appropriate level.
This course aims to enable you to identify and use, accurately, fluently, and with an appropriate level of sophistication, a range of vocabulary and linguistic registers at advanced level.
Plus a further 45 credit points from level 3 Spanish and Latin American Studies courses.
This is the final Spanish language course within the degree that will provide students with advanced comprehension and writing skills in general and specialised registers.
30 credit points from the following level 4 Accountancy courses:
Accountability and Sustainability (AC4034)
Public Sector Accounting (AC4036)
Accounting History (AC4537)
Corporate Governance and Professional Ethics (AC4538)
Contemporary Issues in Accounting (AC4539)
Spanish Language 7 (SP40A5)
Dissertation in Spanish (SP4039)
Dissertations in Accountancy (AC4528)
Plus further credit points from level 4 course(s) in Spanish and Latin American Studies to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline and further level 4 Business School courses (AC, EC, FI, IN, MS, PO) to gain a total of 120 credit points
This year-long course unit combines dissertation research with research methods training.
The dissertation is a piece of extended independent research (8,000-10,000 words long), structured as a critical evaluation, analysis or argument, about a topic germane to Spanish and Latin American Studies.
The topic is chosen by the student, in conjunction with the dissertation coordinator and an individual Departmental supervisor, both of whom approve the topic.
Students are encouraged to design their topic building on their previous studies, especially honours courses.
The dissertation offers a chance for students to carry out in-depth independent study in Spanish and Latin American Studies, and to acquire and develop valuable research skills.
The course begins, in the first half session, with workshops on diverse research methods and the creation of peer support groups.
The second half session includes structured meetings with the dissertation supervisor and meetings with the peer support group, as well as independent research and writing.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/418/C349/animal-behaviour:
Combine Biology and Psychology to measure and understand the behaviour of wild animals, the behaviour and welfare of companion, domestic, and captive exotic animals, and explore links between behaviour and applications such as conservation.
Animal Behaviour is an interdisciplinary degree and field of science that examines why animals do the things they do, and what consequences their actions have for their survival and impacts on the wider ecosystem.
Behaviour is especially fascinating as it is highly flexible, it gives us some of the most mesmerising phenomena in the natural world, and feedback from behavioural decisions in turn drives evolutionary processes.
Our Animal Behaviour degree differs from our Zoology degree in that it includes courses from Psychology in the first two years.
Each year you take a selection of compulsory courses and optional courses that can be chosen from those on offer across the institution.
The first two years lay a foundation for the more specialised third and fourth years.
All students take eight courses in the first year.
On this degree you take seven compulsory courses and one elective, which can be selected from any discipline in the university.
Five themes, critical to understanding biology and life, will be explored – Developmental Biology, Microbiology and Disease, Evolution and Behaviour, Immune Systems and Environmental Physiology.
Each theme is structured to provide you with core knowledge, insight into how science is practiced, an introduction to current research topics and skills that are useful for investigating, recording and analysing information.
A walk through the evolutionary tree of life, examining the amazing diversity of major groups of organisms from plants through fungi to early invertebrates.
Learn about how each group of organisms arose, their characteristics, and how they achieved success.
Practical activities provide hands on experience of materials demonstrating the diversity of plants and invertebrates.
PS1009 introduces you to major concepts and theories in psychology to provide you with a strong understanding of the human mind and behaviour.
You will attend lectures on biological, social and cognitive psychology and participate in tutorials where you will work with peers to discuss topics related to the lecture materials.
Studying psychology is beneficial to a wide range of careers including management, education, and counselling, to name a few.
This course begins with study of the physical workings of the Earth and the interactions between living organisms and their environments.
We then look at the effects humans are having on the planet, potential solutions to global problems and how these are affected by politics, and thoughts on the future.Teaching is by staff with different subject specialisms who give both variety and immediacy to course material.Exposure to the problems we are facing both now and in the future will help you make informed choices in your everyday life.A range of ‘wet’ and computer-based practicals enhance the classroom teaching and develop generic scientific skills.
PS1509 introduces you to major concepts and theories in psychology to provide you with a strong understanding of human mind and behaviour.
You will attend lectures on evolution & emotion, lifespan development, and sensation & perception and participate in tutorials where you will work with peers to discuss topics related to the lecture materials.
• Cells are the fundamental unit of life – without them life could not exist, and as such understanding how they function is crucial to our understanding of biology and medical science.• This course provides theoretical knowledge in a diverse range of topics covering the fascinating world of cells, from molecules like DNA, to how different cell types function within our bodies.• All practical classes are research based and will provide theoretical knowledge and skills training in many areas of molecular and cell biology.• Employability skills will also be explored through a highly interactive enterprise session and our online mini course.
Plus select 15 credit points from Term1 courses of choice
In year two you will take six compulsory courses and two electives.
Both electives can be selected from any discipline in the university.
Year 2 consists of the following courses:
And for direct entrants there is the addition of:
The course will help you develop or consolidate skills in experimental design, sampling, analysis, presentation, and interpretation of data.
Each week, there are one 1-2 recorded introductory lectures to help you prepare for the computer practicals.
In two 2-hour sessions per week you will work through a series of computer-based data tasks, using relevant and realistic biological and environmental themes.
The course will introduce you to different types of software which can be used to analyse data, including Excel, Minitab, and R studio.Teaching is informal and friendly.
During sessions, staff will chat to you about your progress and provide help where necessary.
This course builds on themes from introductory ecology courses: effects of biodiversity, disturbance in natural communities, nutrient and energy cycles.
herbivory, predation, competition, population dynamics, parasitism, mutualisms and foodwebs.
You will develop your abilities to interpret data by applying theory discussed in classes to real-life data sets using short problem-solving exercises linked to each topic.
Feedback will help you improve writing and interpretation skills.
Extended problem-solving exercises will improve your communication skills, scientific writing and introduce you to valuable approaches to summarising complex datasets in Excel.
You will also consider issues around experimental design.
Genetics and evolution are inextricably linked and provide the foundation for all other biological concepts.
In this course we introduce the subject of genetics from an evolutionary perspective that is informed by genome analysis.A series of lectures and computer workshops will introduce you to the fundamental principles of evolution, genetics and molecular biology.
In practical classes you will have opportunity to practise modern molecular techniques.You will also explore ethical dilemmas that arise as a consequence of our potential ability to manipulate genomes.
Have you ever wondered how your body functions?
Imagine it as a complex machine, where each part plays a critical role.
Physiology is the science that explores how these parts work and interact to ensure the organism functions optimally.This course provides an introduction to the fundamentals of animal physiology, focusing on the similarities and differences in various animals across the tree of life.
Through engaging lectures, you will gain a theoretical understanding of the processes that underpin cellular, tissue, and organ functions and their communication.Hands-on practicals are designed to help you apply these concepts and develop laboratory skills.
By studying examples from different animal phyla, you will appreciate the universal processes fundamental to all animals and recognise the unique adaptations within different groups.Assessments are structured to consolidate and apply your knowledge, allowing you to delve deeper into a topic of interest through a group poster project and develop transferrable skills essential for your future career.
Plus select 45 credit points from courses of choice"
OR for direct entrants 15 credit points from term 2 only
Year three consists of eight courses; six compulsory and two elective.
You will utilise a robust approach to statistical analysis, a skill highly valued by employers and researchers.Lectures provide context, background and step-by step guidance on how to conduct and interpret a selection of statistical analyses.Through a series of exercises, you learn to explore data, to specify appropriate linear models for your research question and to interpret their results.Online tests structured around the exercises and lecture content allow you to demonstrate your achievement of course learning outcomes.Working with biological and environmental datasets in a structured and supportive environment, you will gain confidence and proficiency with data analysis.
This course considers the evolution, physiology and behaviour of domestic, companion and captive wild animals in relation to their husbandry and care.
You will apply your knowledge of biology and zoology to the improvement of management practices and to the enhancement of animal welfare.
Field trips to local farms and a wildlife park will allow you to observe industry standards for captive animal welfare.
By researching and presenting a seminar on ethical issues related to animals in captivity, you will develop critical thinking skills and build experience in constructing and evidencing an argument, and also gain skills in group working and oral communication.
Fundamental concepts of animal behaviour are introduced through a series of lectures and practicals, essential knowledge for those interested in better understanding animal behaviour as well as potentially undertaking an animal behaviour Honours project.
During the practicals students are encouraged to reflect on the theoretical knowledge learned during the lectures and apply that in explaining the observed behaviour of animals.
Students will have the opportunity to demonstrate their understanding of animal behaviour by producing a news bulletin and by writing an essay that synthesizes information across lecture topics.
This non-credit bearing course will facilitate your preparation for your Honours project.
Lectures will clarify expectations for project work and provide training in risk assessment, consideration of ethical issues, environmental impacts and project planning.
Resources to help you define and plan your project will be made available through MyAberdeen, helping you to be confident that your project planning is sufficiently advanced by the end of your Programme Year 3.
Submission of an agreed (with your supervisor) project outline, completed checklists and preliminary risk assessment will allow you to demonstrate engagement with your project.
Students carry out weekly practical activities which provide opportunities to observe animals, learn and practice the methods we use to study behaviour, and improve their ability to ask ecological and evolutionary questions about animal behaviour.
Before the practical sessions we give a lecture covering the subject area and methods we will use that week.
We conduct sessions at Newburgh seal beach, the Loch of Strathbeg, and in the Science Teaching Hub in Aberdeen.We provide training in the use of observational techniques such the different types of behavioural sampling and video recording, and data-based methods such as social network analysis.
This equips you with the skills to explore and understand all kinds of animal behaviour.Students analyse data from their observations and write up reports each week.
We provide regular feedback to allow you to rapidly improve your writing and analysis skills.Students will apply their knowledge by conducting their own bespoke research project, setting your question, choosing a study system, collecting, visualising, and analysing data, and writing up the report.
This course emphasises how evolution has shaped the spatial and temporal patterns of animal biodiversity, and how we can use molecular genetic tools to gain a better understanding of what biodiversity means and how we can measure it.
In lectures you are guided through the theory of evolution and how this influences patterns of genetic diversity and affects biodiversity.
In practical sessions, you gain insight into the microevolutionary processes that can shape genetic variation in natural populations and some tools used to study the evolution of biodiversity.
Through a poster presentation you gain specialised knowledge and experience communicating complex ideas and synthesizing information about the latest developments in evolutionary biology.
Through written assignments you will consider how evolutionary processes shape biodiversity in Scotland and how we can maintain this biodiversity through effective stewardship, conservation and management.
Plus select 45 credit points from courses of choice.
In year 4, the honours year, you will carry out a research project as well as writing an extended essay and completing advanced courses of your choosing.
45 Credit Points
In this course you will take your scientific skills to the next level, by carrying out an independent research project within the research group of an academic supervisor.
In the span of an entire semester, you will execute the full life cycle of a research project, from initial planning to data collection, analysis and write-up as a manuscript.
The course will also focus on developing generic professional skills through workshops and tutorials, providing you with a diverse toolkit for the next stages of your career in biological science or related professional fields.
Course highlights:
This course will give you the opportunity to learn about contemporary topics in fundamental behavioural ecology and how this knowledge can be applied to improve the conservation and management of animals.Academics working at the cutting edge of behavioural research will report on the state-of-art in their field, while you will gain direct experience of data-based approaches regularly used by researchers.
Independent learning activities will encourage further exploration of the latest advances in the field through recorded lectures and conference presentations and the critical examination of journal articles and pre-prints.You will develop your understanding of the state of the art in the field and be introduced to the process of research planning by reviewing grant proposals before writing your own grant proposal.
Plus 60 credits from courses of choice, at least 30 of which must be from courses delivered by the School of Biological Sciences (i.e.
BI, EK, EV, FY, PL, or ZO courses) at level 4.
A graduating curriculum for the Honours programme must include at least 90 credit points from Level 4 courses.
Combine practice and theory
Typically, one third of your class time is practical and many courses include full-day practical classes and field visits.
Most students take at least one residential field trip during their degree; these trips bring the subjects to life and provide the opportunity to make great friendships and get to know staff members.
Research experience
You are actively involved in scientific research throughout your degree.
In Year 4, you conduct independent research which can be pivotal to your career choice whether it be in dolphins, water voles, rare plants, tropical forest ecology, climate change in the Arctic, or any one of a diverse range of other exciting topics!
Engaging and inspiring teaching
Our teaching methods are diverse, innovative and based on research on how students learn.
For example, we use problem-based learning approaches, creative presentations, peer and self-assessment, presenting posters in public meetings, writing and editing wikis, writing grant proposals, science writing for publication, and the creation of portfolios using multi-media.
Opportunities for Study Abroad and work-related learning
You can take advantage of an optional year-out on a work placement and study abroad is encouraged for students in their 2nd year.
We invite employers and volunteering organisations to come and meet our students at our career evenings and there are opportunities for students to work with our partner institutions within and outside of Aberdeen.
The exact mix of these methods differs between subject areas, year of study and individual courses.
Year 2 entry: Satisfactory completion of HNC Animal Care (120 SCQF credit points).
B in Graded Units and curriculum to include either Ecology unit (H39A 34/J4RA 34) or Aberdeen University Online Introductory Ecology Course.
or
Satisfactory completion of HNC Wildlife and Conservation Management.
B in Graded Units and curriculum to include Biology:  An Introduction (J4R8 34).
Standard: BBBB*
* Including good performance in at least two Mathematics/ Science subjects by the end of your senior phase of education.
Standard: BBC*
Minimum: BCC*
Adjusted: CCC*
*Including good performance in at least two Mathematics/ Science subjects by the end of your senior phase of education.
32 points, including 5, 5, 5 at HL, with two Mathematics/ Science subjects at HL.
5H with 3 at H2 AND 2 at H3 including a minimum of H3 from two Science or Mathematics subjects.
Entry from College
Advanced entry to this degree may be possible from some HNC/HND qualifications, please see www.abdn.ac.uk/study/articulation for more details.
Standard : BBBB
Two Mathematics/Science subjects required.
Where we have more applicants than places we may need to ask for more than the minimum so continued engagement in school is Recommended.
Widening Access: BBC
National 5 at C or above is also required in English, Mathematics and one of Chemistry or Physics.
Standard : BBC.
Widening Access : CCC
GCSE at Grade C/4 or above is also required in English or English Language, Mathematics and either Chemistry, Physics or Dual Award Science.
DMM.
Main subjects to be Science or Mathematics.
(Note: BTEC Level 3 Extended Certificate (Subsidiary Diploma) achieved at Distinction level, is normally acceptable in lieu of one A Level at grade B).
Two Science/Mathematics subjects are required.
O4 in English and Mathematics is also required.
32 points including 5, 5, 5 at HL with at least two Mathematics/Science subjects.
SL or HL in English and Mathematics are also required.
For more information, or for full entry requirements for Sciences degrees, see our detailed entry requirements section .
We are committed to the career progression of our students and we collaborate with the University’s Careers and Employability Service to ensure that you have numerous opportunities to explore career options, develop your employability and connect with employers.
For more information visit www.abdn.ac.uk/careers or email careers@abdn.ac.uk .
Graduates in Animal Behaviour can expect employment opportunities in animal sciences in zoological, veterinary, and commercial areas; pharmaceuticals and applied medicine; conservation and natural resource management; and education and research.
This degree may also be a good choice as a pre-medical degree programme for international students interested in medicine, veterinary science or dentistry.
We have strong local, national and international links to industry, government bodies, charities and other research institutions.
You will benefit from these links in several ways:
Graduates from Accredited programmes will receive one year of free membership of the Royal Society of Biology in their final year of their degree.
This will open up networks at a crucial time when applying for jobs.
The Royal Society of Biology is the leading professional body for the biological sciences in the United Kingdom.
The Society represents over 18,000 biologists from all areas of the life sciences, as well as over 100 organisations which make up the diverse landscape of biology in the UK and overseas.
The Royal Society of Biology offers members unique opportunities to engage with the life sciences and share their passion for biology.
Whichever area of biology you wish to gain a career in, membership will help you:
Current and former students tell us why they choose to study biological and environmental sciences at Aberdeen
Fantastic facilities support our teaching and research, both on and off campus.
Our research facilities on campus include animal holding facilities, greenhouses, fresh and salt-water aquaria, an insectarium, molecular and analytical laboratories, and a state of the art genomics lab.
We have our own research and teaching facility, The Lighthouse Field Station which is situated on the Cromarty Firth.
In 2020 the station celebrated 30 years of teaching and research on the ecology of seals, dolphins and seabirds.
Our state-of-the-art Science Teaching Hub provides students with a digitally focussed environment including advanced analytical tools, research-grade equipment and flexible laboratory spaces.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/1831/C345/animal-behaviour-and-welfare:
Exciting opportunity for students with an HND in Animal Care to enter year 3 of Scotland’s only BSc programme in Animal Behaviour and Welfare.
Our BSc Animal Behaviour and Welfare prepares students for graduate careers by providing an exciting opportunity to explore the science that underpins our understanding of animal behaviour and welfare.
We are the only University in Scotland to offer HND Animal Care students the opportunity to “top up” their qualifications with a BSc Honours degree.
This additional qualification will enhance your employability and open up additional opportunities in terms of career options and further study.
Upon completion of the programme, you will have:
Part-time study options are available for this programme.
Students enter Year 3 of the programme and complete 120 course credits in Year 3 and 120 course credits in Year 4.
This comprises four compulsory courses in Year 3 and three compulsory courses in Year 4.
Students also complete three elective courses in each year from a selection of courses.
Year 3 consists of the following courses:
ZO3515 - Animal Evolution and Biodiversity
ZO3813 - Practical Skills in Animal Behaviour
Animal welfare is a concept based in science as well as philosophy – welfare can be measured and is important from an economic as well as moral point of view.This course uses a mix of class discussions, site visits, guest lecturers and self-directed study to provide a framework on which students can build and synthesise their knowledge of the science of animal welfare.
Student-led activities promote the development of transferable skills such as time management, project planning and reporting.
Plus 45 credits from courses of choice, at least 15 of which must be from courses delivered by the School of Biological Sciences (i.e.
Our teaching methods are diverse and are based on research on how students learn.
We use lectures, seminars, class discussions, group-based tasks, site visits, presentations from practitioners, and independent research to underpin assignments.
Field skills are taught and practiced in the field on day trip excursions, through supervised and independent practical work undertaken as part of your project.
You will learn to critically evaluate and interpret both scientific literature and real-world animal welfare scenarios through practical activities in class and self-study for assignments.
Data analysis and interpretation skills are learned in our compulsory courses and you will be encouraged to present information and your considered opinions, in essays, opinion pieces, scientific reports, oral presentations and group debates.
Students gain high level competence with standard software.
Students are assessed by a combination of assessments methods which include:
Year 3 entry: Satisfactory completion of HND Animal Care (240 SCQF credit points).
B in Graded Unit 1 and A in Graded Unit 2.
Curriculum to include either Ecology unit (H39A 34/J4RA 34) or Aberdeen University Online Introductory Ecology Course and Statistics for Science (H8XT 33) or Aberdeen University Online Statistics Course (BI2021).
Satisfactory completion of HND Wildlife & Conservation Management (240 SCQF credit points).
Curriculum to include Biology: An Introduction (J4R8 34).
This programme is only available as direct entry into Year 3 for candidates holding a relevant HND qualification eg.
HND in Animal Care or HND Applied Sciences (240 SCQF credit points).
Candidates are expected to have achieved an A in all Graded Units.
Curriculum to include: Ecology and Ecosystems (H39A 34) or University of Aberdeen online Introductory Ecology course and Statistics for Science (H8XT 33) or Aberdeen University Online Statistics Course (BI2021).
Graduates in Animal Behaviour and Welfare will have a set of graduate attributes that prepare them for a variety of jobs in animal science and the biosciences including:
Students who complete this programme at an appropriate level of achievement will also be able to continue with postgraduate study in a relevant discipline.
The museum’s displays are worldwide in scope, from protozoa to the great whales, including taxidermy, skeletal material, study skins, fluid-preserved specimens and models.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/419/L600/anthropology:
Anthropology at Aberdeen is the study of the diversity of human communities and cultures around the world.
Aberdeen is ranked 3rd in the UK for Anthropology and Archaeology (Guardian University Guide 2025)
Our courses examine the connections among all aspects of life – family and kinship, economic systems, political and religious institutions, human-animal and ecological relations – and the way in which they come together to create whole ways of living within an increasingly global and postcolonial world.
At Aberdeen, our degree draws on the expertise of staff specialists on South America, Tibet and South Asia, the Pacific and the circumpolar North from Scotland and Siberia to Canada.
It provides students with training in interview and social research skills, research design, ethnographic reporting and museum skills, culminating in a supervised fieldwork or library-based dissertation project of the student’s choice.
The skills you will develop in critical thinking and analysis will give you a deep knowledge and understanding of human behaviour which can be applied in business and many other fields.
Many of our graduates now work in research, teaching, media, politics, or in business or public sector organisations in a host of roles with international and cultural contexts.
Anthropology graduates go on to careers in development, foreign affairs, journalism and research, amongst many others.
You will enjoy a special, warm welcome at the University of Aberdeen and benefit from excellent teaching, the international impact of our research, and a global experience as part of our friendly and vibrant international community.
You will love our beautiful campus and great facilities for learning, sports and leisure, and many opportunities to develop extra skills, broaden your horizons, and gain the competitive advantage in the career path you choose.
Anthropology is also available as a joint degree along with a range of other subjects that you can find here.
Anthropology is a diverse field of study that will provide you with unique insights into the differences in human behaviour from a cross-cultural perspective.
You'll learn about the beliefs and attitudes of societies all over the world and will study themes such as ethnicity and nationalism, anthropological approaches to religion, colonialism, society, nature and morality.
This programme is taught through a selection of compulsory and optional courses adding up to 120 credits each year.
Anthropology explores ways of life in societies and cultures around the world.
Through fieldwork in the places people live, anthropologists connect global issues with everyday lives.
In this course you’ll learn about the key topics of anthropology and its research methods.
Lectures introduce anthropological research topics such as ritual, climate change and indigenous rights.
Small group tutorials will allow you to debate the issues and share your perspectives.
In this course students will be offered an extended introduction to social anthropology and will focus on topics: language and culture, belief and religion, gender and sex, kinship, and race.
Students will develop and refine their understanding of major issues in the discipline of social anthropology through staff lectures, tutorials, and ethnographic films.
Select a further 90 credit points from courses of choice.
This course explores some of the key questions that anthropologists have debated: what it is to be human, the nature of human interaction with other humans and with other species, the role language plays in thought and culture, and the different ways that people perceive the world and act within it.
Themes that will be discussed in this course include rationality, language, species difference, race, and place and community.
This course will explore contemporary colonial expressions from an anthropological perspective.
It will be split into two main themes: Material Histories; and Mediated Histories.
Within these themes it will address topics such as the "capturing" of cultures in museums, kinship and politics, gendered colonialism, economic development, media, aboriginal rights and contemporary resistance movements.
Select a further 60 credit points from courses of choice.
This course explores theoretical issues and key debates in contemporary anthropology.
We begin with the questioning of the central concepts of culture and society in anthropology during the 1980s.
Following this, we ask: how can anthropology proceed if the targets of its investigation can no longer be understood as objective entities?
How can anthropology proceed if the anthropologist themselves is inevitably implicated in and part of those very targets?
To look for possible answers, the course examines current anthropological interest in power and history, political economy and phenomenology, experience, embodiment and practice, ontology and things that speak.
This course acquaints students with the practical, methodological and theoretical issues involved in anthropological research.
It is particularly useful for students planning a fieldwork-based dissertation.
The course focuses on methodological approaches and the relation between fieldwork experience and ethnographic production.
It is taught through lectures, tutorials, class discussions and practical workshops, and covers research planning, fieldwork techniques and ethnographic interpretation.
Select one of:
AND one of:
NOTE: You are required to gain at least 210 credits from courses in Anthropology across levels 3 and 4.
In this course students will be introduced to the topical themes in contemporary anthropology:  roads, automobility, car cultures, migration, road narratives, and roads in film and literature.
The course is based on the notions of movement and mobility and will incorporate the ethnographic material from the North, including Scotland and Siberia.
During the course students will conduct their own research on the road of their choice.
The course includes: a fieldwork element, screenings of documentary films about roads, and weekly student-led discussions.
Through a series of lectures and a mix of tutor and student led tutorials, this course focuses on the sometimes difficult history of anthropology and the circumpolar north.
Misconceptions (sometimes intentionally created) about the people who live there and their relationships to the environment have informed both state policy and anthropological theory and now is the time for a new anthropology of the north to set the record straight.
Students will be encouraged and expected to do their own research on topics of their own choosing and bring these insights back to the course through lively tutorial discussions.
This course will examine anthropological theories of the state, political organization and violence.
Through an analysis of both modern and historical case studies from Europe, Asia, Africa and the Americas, we will critically examine theories of state of modern and non-modern state formation and organisation, and the nexus of religion and colonial history.
In the second half of the course, particular attention will we paid to the ethnography of violence as a mode of state and proto-state political action.
This course addresses the anthropological study of emotion and self.
It covers the different theoretical approaches to emotion, self and subjectivity.
The broad questions addressed revolve around the cultural construction of emotion and self, and the entanglement of psychodynamic processes and power in the formation of the subject.
The topics covered include anger and fear, grief and compassion, personhood, technologies of self and subjectification, identification and melancholia.
Indigeneity is one of the more controversial relations created by globalisation.
Widely criticised for being ‘essentialist’ and ‘anti-liberal’, it is one of the more quickly growing identities recognized by the United Nations and defended in the constitutions of many nation-states.
Using anthropological insight, this course survey the history of the term, study its expansion from the ‘salt-water colonies’ and ‘settler states’ to the heartland of Europe, and explore some of the challenges and advantages of the term.
The seminar will explore how the term has come to be used in different post-colonial situations from the classic “heartlands” of indigeneity in North America, Latin America, and Northern Fennoscandia, to new contexts in China, India, Africa.
The course will also explore how the politics of aboriginal rights has become closely linked to struggles for recognition, environmentalism, and collective struggles against neo-liberalism.
The course is run in a seminar format with students encouraged to weigh and evaluate the results of their reading.
This course explores new directions in how we think about humans and other species.
Recent years have seen an upsurge in interest in how the social sciences and humanities deal with animals, plants and other organisms and we scrutinise these cutting edge ideas in depth.
A lot of emphasis is placed on trying to think through real life encounters and issues, from a walk in the park to new revelations about life from the bottom of the ocean.
Although the focus is on anthropological work, the course should appeal to students from a wide range of backgrounds.
This course will build on the initial research design students built during Research Project Part 1 towards their undergraduate research project in anthropology.
Plus, select a further 60 credit points from level 4 Anthropology courses of choice, and a further 30 credit points from level 3 or 4 courses of choice.
The Anthropology programme combines a flexible combination of lectures, small-group seminars and personal supervision of individual project work.
Year 2 entry: Satisfactory completion of HNC Social Sciences (120 SCQF credit points).
Students should take units A and B of the discipline/s they wish to study at university.
For joint honours programmes, students must take A and B for both disciplines.
Where Anthropology units are not available students may still be permitted to enter the single honours degrees conditional on them taking both first and second year University compulsory courses consecutively in their second year.
Entry to Joint honours will not be permitted under these circumstances.
SL in English is also required.
The critical thinking and analysis skills that you develop from studying Anthropology at Aberdeen will enable you to work with people in a variety of cultural contexts.
Many of our graduates now work in research, teaching, media and politics for private and public sector organisations.
Alongside support from the University Careers and Employability Service, the valuable skills you will learn at Aberdeen will give you a competitive advantage in the career marketplace.
This programme is delivered by a team of experienced staff and as such, the Anthropology department at Aberdeen is one of the fastest-growing in the UK.
By studying Anthropology at Aberdeen, you will benefit from having access to staff and researchers who are Key Opinion Leaders.
You will be taught by people who have experience working in anthropological fields and will gain valuable insight into how current issues are perceived by different cultures.
We invest heavily in our facilities and learning resources, ensuring our students have access to everything they need to help them succeed in their studies - from the stunning Sir Duncan Rice Library, to Aberdeen Sport Village, and beyond.
We are a Scottish university that was founded with international connections.
Our community of 3,600 staff and over 14,000 students includes more than 130 nationalities, which enriches our teaching, research, and students' experiences.
The University's museum collections were founded in 1751, contain over 300,000 objects, and have been deemed Recognised Collections of National Significance by the Scottish Government.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/420/LF64/anthropology-and-archaeology:
The subjects of Anthropology and Archaeology are very closely linked and are an ideal combination for students who have a deep interest in the past, the way human cultures lived and developed, the way societies developed and grew and the way our land was inhabited.
The University of Aberdeen is ranked 3rd in the UK for Anthropology and Archaeology by the Guardian University Guide 2025.
The scope of contemporary anthropology is reflected in the way the subject is taught at Aberdeen.
To study the subject here is to join in an exciting new intellectual venture.
We offer an innovatory programme, with the emphasis throughout on work at the cutting edge of the discipline and on problems of pressing concern for people the world over.
You will benefit from the close links with other programmes, such as those in History and Sociology, from the resources of the University's Marischal Museum and Elphinstone Institute, with their unique anthropological and ethnological collections and above all from the opportunity to study in an environment where staff and research students are actively engaged in top-class, internationally recognised research.
While Aberdeen's contribution to the anthropology of the North is second to none, we are also developing exciting new research in the fields of art, visual perception, museums, material culture and religion.
This course, which is prescribed for level 1 undergraduate students (and articulating students who are in their first year at the University), is studied entirely online, takes approximately 5-6 hours to complete and can be taken in one sitting, or spread across a number of weeks.
Topics include orientation overview, equality and diversity, health, safety and cyber security and how to make the most of your time at university in relation to careers and employability.
This course provides an introduction to how archaeological discoveries are made, the types of questions we can ask about past human societies using the evidence of their material remains, and the range of methods that archaeologists can draw on to try to answer the questions that excite them.
By visiting archaeological sites, focussing on some of the world's most spectacular archaeological discoveries, and discussing some of the department's own original research projects, we will explore what the discipline of archaeology adds to our understanding of the human past and present, and what tools and techniques archaeologists employ in different environments.
This course provides a romping introduction to the deep human past, from our earliest hominin origins in Africa to the emergence of the first Early Medieval Kingdoms in Northern Europe.
Along the way we will discover the key stages in the evolution of our species and what it means to be 'human', from our use of symbols to express thoughts, ritualistic behaviours to our domestication of plants and animals and militarized empires.
The archaeological evidence for these fundamental transitions in human societies provides us with powerful insights into some of the world's most fascinating civilizations,
Britain has been inhabited by humans for more than half a million years.
This course provides an introduction to the peoples and societies that have occupied this island from the first pioneer populations to the dawn of history.
Ever wondered how Archaeologists know what Neandertals ate, or what killed Ötzi the Iceman?
Test Tubes & Trowels provides an accessible overview of the key scientific approaches used in modern archaeology to better understand archaeological sites and materials and to reconstruct past lives.
Using a combination of lectures and practical workshops, the course will cover scientific methods of dating, artefact provenancing and ancient technologies, methods used for the study of diet, health, and movements of humans and animals in the past, and the identification of the environmental impacts of past human activities.
Archaeology is ultimately the study of human social lives.
This course provides students with a detailed introduction to archaeological approaches to the study of human society.
Through case studies and key texts we will investigate how archaeology can generate detailed insights into the richness and diversity of the diverse human communities and individuals of the past.
This course is a detailed introduction to the ecological, economic and spiritual dimensions to the archaeology of the northern world.
Lectures will draw on a series of case-studies to examine the human adaptations to northern landscapes, ritual and spirituality, and finally the impact of colonisation and contact upon northern cultures.
We only have three days to find out!
Excavation and field survey in modern archaeology can lead to spectacular discoveries regarding our past.
This course, built around a short fieldschool and follow-up practicals and classes, will introduce and develop key skills in field archaeology, including excavation, field survey and sampling.
Students will go through the whole process of designing, carrying out and reporting on a site and landscape in a course that will provide invaluable professional development.
Lectures and laboratory practicals will provide experience in the techniques used to process and analyse archaeological artefacts and samples.
We will introduce analytical basics for lithic, ceramic, faunal and historic artefact analysis as well as techniques for conserving, cataloguing and curating archaeological collections.
This course also introduces practical skills required to obtain employment and placement in an archaeological workplace through practical exercises in writing CVs, job cover letters and job interview skills.
NOTE: If you intend to take your dissertation in Archaeology you must take Archaeological Research Project Part I (AY3512) in level 3.
Select further credit points from Anthropology and Archaeology Level 3 courses to gain 60 credits in each discipline.
This course is the first stage in producing an archaeological dissertation, which is completed in Level 4.
Lectures and practical training sessions introduce the theory and practice of archaeological research design.
As the course progresses the student puts this into practice through the development of their own original research project, its presentation at a research seminar, and the submission of a full research proposal, which they subsequently take forward as their dissertation.
A personal supervisor is identified and provides support, in addition to the other lecturers involved in delivering the lectures and skills training.
Choose one of the following options:
Select further credit points from Anthropology and Archaeology Level 4 courses to gain 60 credits in each discipline
This course is open to joint honours students in anthropology.
Having chosen a topic for their study, students will be allocated a supervisor and carry out readings, research and writing under the guidance of their supervisor.
Students will write a 10,000-word dissertation based on library research.
Archaeology is a contemporary discipline and the focus in archaeological questions, subject areas and theoretical debates constantly change with time.
In this course we focus on some of the topics that are important for the ongoing research within our department, from domestication and climate change to community archaeology and relating to death.
The different issues are discussed in text-based seminars, where the students themselves are responsible for presenting the topic and leading the seminars.
The course aims to explore and challenge current trends in the archaeological discourse.
Building directly on the skills learnt in AY3512, the student undertakes an original research project, under the guidance of their personal supervisor and course co-ordinator, and at the end of the course submits an archaeological dissertation.
The session begins with a research seminar when students present how their research has progressed over the summer and what they will now be doing to complete it.
The critical thinking and analysis skills that you develop from studying Anthropology and Archaeology at Aberdeen will enable you to work with people in a variety of cultural contexts.
Many of our graduates now work in research, teaching, media, and politics for private and public sector organisations.
Graduates have also gone on to further their knowledge and skillsets via postgraduate study.
Anthropology at Aberdeen is ranked 4th in the UK by the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
The University of Aberdeen is among the prestigious list of institutions whose archaeology programmes are accredited by the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CIfA) and University Archaeology UK (UAUK).

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/421/LQ63/anthropology-and-english:
Anthropology and English at Aberdeen is a great combination of subjects.
This programme will add to your thorough grounding in what it means to ‘be human’ and offers in-depth studies of language – in all its glorious variety of expression.
You will develop skills in critical thinking, communication and analysis through two highly-rated programmes at a recognised centre of excellence for both – which will appeal strongly to employers in business and many other fields.
Anthropology will give you a thorough grounding in humanity, the differences in human cultures and communities and how they have developed.
You will gain a unique insight into behaviours, beliefs and attitudes all over the world and find connections between aspects of life such as family, economics, politics and religion.
English at Aberdeen gives you the opportunity to learn in a creative hub, rated second in the UK for the quality of its research.
You will be inspired by enthusiastic teachers and researchers, themselves acclaimed authors and poets and be encouraged to develop your own creative writing skills while studying every period from Chaucer, Shakespeare and Milton to contemporary English, Scottish, Irish, European and American writing.
You will also learn about the cultural and critical impact of powerful and controversial modern works.
You will thrive in our dynamic international environment, at a historic university with an award-winning library, priceless literary treasures and in a region rich in tradition and heritage that also celebrates today's diverse cultures.
You will gain the core writing, research, technical and presentation skills to open up a wide variety of careers as diverse as publishing, teaching, research, journalism, or any sector of business.
This course introduces students to the study of English by exploring the dynamic relationship between author, reader and text in a series of classic works of fiction and poetry.
It covers a broad historical range (from Folk Tales and ballads to 21st century postmodernity) and offers a basic grounding in key elements of literary theory, literary history and the varieties of literary form.
Select Controversial Classics (EL1513) AND/OR Rethinking Reading (EL1536)
Select a further 60 credit points from courses of choice
Literature can provoke, offend and disturb as well as entertain.
This course considers some of the most powerful and controversial works of modern literature.
It examines the circumstances of publication, the nature of the controversy, and the cultural and critical impact of each work.
The course shows how poems, plays and novels can raise searching questions about national, racial and personal identity, and looks at the methods used by writers to challenge their readers, as well the responses of readers to such challenges.
'Rethinking Reading' complements the module ‘Acts of Reading’.
Intended primarily for students with degree intentions in English, this course introduces key areas in critical theory that inform the current work of staff at Aberdeen.
It asks students to consider the history of English studies and its relationship to colonialism, and how this impacts on conceptions of literature and authorship, alongside topics such as gender and sexuality, and genre.
Through a series of modules, the course introduces each area of theory alongside a literary text used as a case study.
The course supports students in learning to read and use critical theory in your work, incorporating reflective learning and a practical focus on the techniques involved in critical writing.
So you think you know Shakespeare?
This course invites you to think again.
Studying a range of plays we get behind the mythology of Shakespeare, and rediscover the dynamic inventiveness of the Elizabethan theatre.
Shakespeare and his contemporaries were the principal players in a period of literary experimentation that reinvented the possibilities of literature.
Encounters with Shakespeare is your chance to find out more.
This course traces the use of key Western myths from antiquity to the present to examine the way knowledge is often presented as both dangerous and compelling.
As well as introducing students to a range of historical, social, and formal variations on the theme of knowledge, the course also highlights the role of storytelling and adaptation in the formation of knowledge and understanding.
This optional course in literature allows students at pre-Honours to learn about the impact of global colonialism through the writings of those who experienced it and its repercussions.
It includes theorists of our time and texts like Daniel Defoe’s Robinson Crusoe and Buchi Emecheta’s Second Class Citizen.
The texts on this course are necessarily concerned with enslavement and freedom, with how one encounters difference, and what it means to possess or claim territory.
In examining these issues students will engage with issues of power and equality over centuries of writing about colonialism and empire.
One Term 2 level 3 Anthropology course from the Anthropology Annexe
Select a total of two courses from the following groups, each from a different group:
Medieval/Renaissance
Romantic/Victorian
Contemporary/Modern
Plus, select a further 30 credit points from Level 3 courses in Anthropology
This course explores the poetry, drama and prose of a period often referred to as the golden age of English literature.
A period which saw Shakespeare and his contemporaries produce innovative new literary works in which the language of desire took centre stage.
Knights, Virgins, and Viragos offers an introduction to the variety of medieval literature and culture.
Turning a critical eye on the role misconceptions of the Middle Ages play in present day white supremacy, the course highlights genres from medieval drama to life writing, with attention to the medieval history of race making and modern responses to medieval texts.
While the short story is often said to have developed in America, nineteenth-century Scottish writing is in fact instrumental in the emergence of the form.
Often drawing on oral and folk traditions Scottish writers in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries employ the supernatural, or our fear of it, to explore subjects such as guilt, fear, remorse and the extent to which we can control our own destinies.
This course will explore the ways in which the short story in Scotland develops from the early nineteenth century until the beginning of the twentieth.
It will include writers such as Walter Scott, James Hogg, John Galt, Margaret Oliphant, Robert Louis Stevenson, Arthur Conan Doyle and Jane Findlater.
The Romantic (1782-1832) and Victorian (1832-1901) periods were ones of remarkable activity for British citizens abroad.
Imperial expansion, increasing international trade, major conflicts and growing mass migration all drew more British citizens than ever into contact with the wider world.
This course explores the footprints left by these interactions in nineteenth-century literature.
Writers covered may include Henry Derozio, Jane Austen, Mary Prince, Robert Louis Stevenson and Arthur Conan Doyle.
The Romantic movement swept Europe in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries and produced some of the most innovative and exciting literature that has ever been seen.
This rule breaking art helped shape the way that we consider art today and underpins many of our ideas about imagination, originality, creativity and self-expression.
This course will explore the ways in which the Romantic movement manifested itself across Britain and Ireland and will consider writers such as Blake, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Scott, Austen and Byron.
The Victorian period is often seen as a time of sexual repression and rigid gender roles, in which men and women were expected to perform in accordance with established codes of behaviour that were based on assumptions about innate masculinity and femininity.
While this perception of Victorian attitudes may be true to some extent, many Victorians were well aware of the dangers of gender stereotyping, and wrote fiction in order to interrogate and challenge these expectations.
Focussing mainly on the novel, but including some poetry and drama, this module explores how Victorian writers engaged with gender stereotypes, and considers the literary tactics that authors used to re-examine, overthrow and sometimes reaffirm them.
We will also consider how these stereotypes changed during the nineteenth century in response to public controversies and campaigns that kept questions of gender at the forefront of public consciousness.
Figures such as the Fallen Woman, the Self-Made man and the Angel in the House will be explored in texts by authors including Emily Brontë, Christina Rossetti, Robert Louis Stevenson and Thomas Hardy.
The early twentieth century was a time of great literary experimentation as literary modernists rose to the challenge to make it new.
We will explore modernism’s stylistic experimentation while also considering the social contexts and changes that shaped this literature.
The course will examine a range of writers, genres, movements and locations which prompt us to consider what, when and where was modernism.
This course offers an overview of a wide range of twentieth-century Scottish literature, focusing on themes of haunting, death, and place.
Including novels, short stories, poetry, and drama, the course explores questions of the relationship between self and society, the legacy of the past, and the formation of gendered and regional identities.
There are lots of ghosts.
This course examines an important and diverse period in the development of American literature, lasting from the mid-nineteenth century until the 1930s.
During the course we will be analysing works by a variety of American writers from this period in their historical, social and political contexts as well as considering the ways in which they pioneered innovative literary forms and techniques.
How is the artist to respond when the virtual becomes the real and when words cannot carry the weight of trauma?
How can an author avoid the accusations of voyeuristic prurience or crass opportunism when he or she attempts to re-present events of public violence?
This multi-disciplinary course examines work from a wide range of modes, including fiction, poetry, film and graphic art, and looks at the difficulties of inscribing trauma and the ethics and praxis of remembrance.
Key events covered include the Holocaust, the Sabra and Shatila massacre, 9-11, the Gulf War and the conflict in the Balkans.
Plus further courses of Level 4 English to gain 60 credits in the discipline.
Students will have the opportunity to write a dissertation on a topic of their choosing within English literature.
The critical thinking and analysis skills that you develop from studying Anthropology and English at Aberdeen will enable you to work with people in a variety of contexts.
Other graduates have gone onto postgraduate study at Aberdeen and further afield.
We rank 6th in the UK for English.
Source: The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/423/LW66/anthropology-and-film-visual-culture:
Anthropology and Film & Visual Culture at Aberdeen is a great study combination and will enhance your grounding in what it means to ‘be human’ with an in-depth study of how we communicate thoughts and ideas visually – a key attribute for humans.
Your skills in critical thinking, communication and analysis, in addition to your subject knowledge will appeal strongly to employers in film, business and many other fields.
Anthropology will give you a thorough foundation in humanity, how human cultures and communities differ and how they have developed.
You will gain unique insights into behaviours, beliefs and attitudes all over the world and find connections between aspects of life such as family, economics, politics and religion.
Film and Visual Culture at Aberdeen gives a thorough exploration of one very human trait through rigorous training in the history and theory of the moving image within the shifting terrain of 21st century visual culture.
You will gain specialist knowledge and skills in the academic study of cinema and develop skills in digital video production and web design.
You will thrive in the stunning, international environment of a leading teaching and research university, in a vibrant regional cultural scene, set amid an inspiring visual environment of mountain, forest, field and sea.
Aberdeen is a city rich in tradition and heritage that also celebrates its modern, diverse cultures.
This subject combination is great preparation for a career in the film industry.
You will gain the core writing, research, technical and presentation skills required to pursue a wide variety of careers as diverse as publishing, media, teaching, research, or any sector of business.
What is Visual Culture?
Over the last twenty years, the visual landscape has become digital, virtual, viral, and global.
A vibrant cross-section of scholars and practitioners from Art History, Critical Theory, Cultural Studies, Anthropology, and Film Studies have responded, not only engaging contemporary image production and consumption, but also the foundations of visual knowledge: What is an image?
What is vision?
How and why do we look, gaze, and spectate?
From the nomadic pathways of the digital archive to the embodied look that looks back, this course will introduce students to the key concepts that shape this fluid field.
This course offers an introduction to the language and practice of formal film analysis.
Each week we will explore a different element of film form and analyze the ways in which it shapes the moving image.
This course invites students to think about formal elements within and across a wide range of genres, styles, historical moments, and national contexts.
By the end of this course, the successful FS1508 student will be able to recognize and communicate the ways in which meaning is made in cinema.
The first half of a film history sequence at the second year level, Visualising Modernity focuses on crucial moments, concepts and cinematic works from the period 1895 to 1945.
Students will be marked according to a mid-term essay, a final exam, short assignments on Blackboard, and attendance in lectures and tutorials.
The second half of a film history sequence at the second year level, Cinema & Revolution focuses on crucial moments, concepts and cinematic works from the period between 1945 and the present.
Students will be marked according to a mid-term essay, a final exam, short assignments on Blackboard, and participation and attendance in lectures and tutorials.
Students will have the opportunity to write a dissertation on a topic of their choosing within Film and Visual Culture.
Why Anthropology
Why Film & Visual Culture
The critical thinking and analysis skills that you develop from studying Anthropology and Film & Visual Culture at Aberdeen will enable you to work with people in a variety of cultural contexts.
Other graduates have gone on to postgraduate study.
The Centre brings together researchers from across the University with an interest in visual culture broadly defined, including film, photography, art history, anthropology and museum studies.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/424/RL16/anthropology-and-french:
Anthropology and French at Aberdeen is a great study combination and will enhance your grounding in what it means to ‘be human’.
With an in-depth study of a major modern European language and culture and the opportunity to study abroad, you will develop your language and cultural familiarity skills.
The language, perspective and skills you will develop will enable you to pursue a wide range of career options with an international flavour.
Through your Anthropology courses you will be able to examine the connections among all aspects of life – family and kinship, economic systems, political and religious institutions, human-animal and ecological relations – and the way in which they come together to create whole ways of living within an increasingly global and postcolonial world.
You will also develop essential skills in critical thinking and analysis, and gain a deeper understanding of human behaviour, all of which can be applied in business and many other fields.
Qualified
Select further credit points from level 1 courses of choice to reach 120 credit points
The course introduces students to the history, culture and identity of contemporary France by examining key moments and themes in the development of France as a political and cultural entity from the Early Modern period to the present.
Ex-Beginner
Second half-session will be spent in a French-speaking country.
First half session: 30 further credits from level 3 courses in French, and 30 credit points from level 3 courses in Anthropology
Second half session:
This course, open to Mode B students, provides an opportunity for students to build on their French language ability and cultural understanding of French society through either a placement, personal development project or volunteering activity based within any French speaking country during the first half session.
Students work towards a range of personal, educational or work-related outcomes over the course of their time abroad.
All external engagement activities require the approval from the student’s academic School and must be verified by the external organisation.
This course, open only to mode B Junior Honours students working in a French-speaking country, complements FR3089 and aims to develop receptive and productive skills in French.
Plus, further credit points from level 4 courses in Anthropology and French to gain a total of 60 credit points in each discipline
We rank 1st in Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland for Overall Satisfaction in French Studies.
Source: National Student Survey 2025.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/425/LR61/anthropology-and-french-5-years:
Anthropology and French at Aberdeen is a great study combination, adding to your existing grounding in what it means to ‘be human’.
With an in-depth study of a major modern European language and culture and a period of study abroad, you will develop your language and cultural familiarity skills.
FRENCH BEGINNER
FR1031 French Culture and Society: From Occupation to Decolonisation
FR1028 Beginners French Language 1
LA1501 The Global City
FR1528 Beginners French Language 2
Plus further credit points from level 1 courses of choice to gain a total of 120 credits.
FRENCH – QUALIFIED
FR1029 Qualified French Language 1
FR1529 Qualified French Language 2
FRENCH EX-BEGINNER
PLUS
FR2016 Revolution and Revolt in Modern and Contemporary France
FR2517 Decentering France: Social Movements and Cultural Transformation
FRENCH QUALIFIED
FR2015 French Culture, Politics and Society I
FR2515 French Culture, Politics and Society II
Academic session spent in a French-speaking country
Plus a further 45 credit points from level 3 courses in French.
One Term 2 level 3 Anthropology course:
AT4047 Joint Honours Dissertation in Anthropology
One Term 2 level 4 Anthropology course:
AT4557: Comparative Constitutional Systems
AT4558: Emotions, Self and Society
AT4559: Political Anthropology of Indigenous Rights
AT4560: More Than Human
FR4097: Dissertation in French
Plus further credit points from level 4 course(s) French to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/426/LQ65/anthropology-and-gaelic-studies:
Anthropology and Gaelic Studies at Aberdeen is a great study combination, adding to your existing grounding in what it means to ‘be human’.
With a special focus on the people of the north, you will undertake and in-depth study of Gaelic, Scotland’s oldest living language, and its origins and culture.
The language, perspective and skills you will develop will open up a wide range of career options with an international flavour.
Did you know?
We are ranked 1st in the UK for overall student satisfaction in Anthropology (National Student Survey 2024)
At Aberdeen, we’ve been teaching Scottish Gaelic (Gàidhlig) and culture for one hundred years, led by teachers and researchers passionate about Gaelic, and whose work directly influences Scottish policy on keeping Gaelic alive, healthy and important in Scotland today.
Today there are nearly 3,000 people in north-east Scotland with knowledge of Gaelic and our students and staff play an important role in the local community through Gaelic-interest clubs, activities, networks and organisations.
Opportunities for graduates fluent in Scottish Gaelic are plentiful.
With the skills and perspective developed through anthropology, your career prospects are very bright and may include roles in teaching, Gaelic development, arts management and media.
Gaelic is Scotland's oldest living language.
In this introductory course you will learn about the Gaels, their history and their role in the shaping modern Scotland.
You will also learn about how Gaelic language and culture became minoritised in its own country.
Students will learn learn about various contemporary initiatives that are aimed at saving and promoting this indigenous language and culture and this will be compared to minority languages and cultures elsewhere in the world.
Beginners
This is an 11-week course in the modern Scottish Gaelic language for students who have little or no prior experience of the language, or for students with no formal qualifications in Gaelic.
You will learn Gaelic through a mixture of interactive language classes, a class which focuses on conversational skills, and a programme of homework exercises, together with self-directed learning.
By the end of the course, you will be able to speak, read, write and understand Gaelic at a basic level and you will have mastered a large working vocabulary.
This is an 11-week course in the modern Scottish Gaelic language for students who have completed GH1007 Gaelic for Beginners 1A.
You will attend three interactive language classes and one conversation class each week, as well as undertaking self-directed learning.
By the end of the course you will be expected to have mastered a large working vocabulary and to be competent in understanding and using most of the major structures of the language.
This is a Gaelic language course for students who are relatively fluent in the language already and have studied it to at least Higher in school (Higher Gaelic or Gàidhlig) or have studied it to a similar level elsewhere.
This is the second-half of the first year Gaelic language course for students who are relatively fluent in the language already and have studied it to at least Higher in school (Higher Gaelic or Gàidhlig) or have studied it to a similar level elsewhere.
Godlike ‘immortals’, elves, fairies, the walking dead, the Loch Ness Monster: uncanny Otherworldly beings feature widely in the literature and folklore of medieval Scotland.
This course will explore the nature and significance of Gaelic Otherworld-traditions in their wider North Atlantic context.
We investigate how Germanic and Celtic beliefs merged in Gaelic Otherworld-lore, how these related to pre-Christian myth and religion, and why they continued to be significant in Scotland many centuries after Christianization.
All texts will be studied in translation.
This course uses selected texts from one of Europe's oldest secular literatures to introduce key moments in the history of Scottish Gaelic society.
It is taught using translated texts and originals for those whose Gaelic language is good enough.
Students will gain new perspectives on key areas such as Jacobitism, the Clearances, the Highland Land Wars, the Celtic Twilight Movement and the modern Gaelic renaissance.
It is suitable for anyone in Programme Year 2 or above with an interest in Scottish society.
Gaelic for Advanced Beginners 2A (GH2009) AND Gaelic for Advanced Beginners 2B (GH2509)
Gaelic Language 2A (GH2013) AND Gaelic Language 2B (GH2513)
This is the second year Gaelic language course for people who started learning in their first year.
It builds on the foundations already set in the first year and continues to develop vocabulary, grammatical structures and idioms in both writing and speech.
This course follows on from GH2009 and is for people who started learning in their first year.
It continues to develop a range of linguistic competencies in written and oral language.
This is the first half of the second year Gaelic language course for students who are relatively fluent in the language already and have studied it to at least Higher in school (Higher Gaelic or Gàidhlig) or similar level.
It follows on from GH1513.
It continues to develop accuracy in the language and increases usage across a wider variety of domains.
This is the second half of the second year Gaelic language course for students who are relatively fluent in the language already and have studied it to at least Higher in school (Higher Gaelic or Gàidhlig) or similar level.
It follows on from GH2013.
A level three Gaelic language course for students taking honours Gaelic.
The course runs over both semesters and is topic based, enabling students to develop their ability to deal with a large range of subjects in Gaelic.
The course also develops students' generic writing and oral skills.
One Term 2 level 3 Anthropology course from the Anthropology Annexe PLUS a further 30 credit points from level 3 course(s) in Gaelic to gain 60 credits in the discipline.
A level four Gaelic language course for students taking honours Gaelic.
EITHER
OR
One Term 1 level 4 Anthropology course from the Anthropology Annexe AND Dissertation in Gaelic Studies (GH4507) AND One Term 2 level 4 Anthropology course from the Anthropology Annexe
Plus further credit points from level 4 course(s) in Gaelic to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline.
The dissertation course for honours Gaelic students is student-led.
Students decide in consultation with academic staff what topic they would like to research and write about for their final dissertation.
Students can chose any topic from the broad field that is Gaelic studies, including topics related to: Gaelic literature (a writer or a theme), Gaelic sociolinguistics, language planning, Gaelic cultural practices, etc.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/427/LL67/anthropology-and-geography:
This degree brings together two closely linked and relevant subjects.
Through various course choices, you will build your understanding of human societies and develop a greater understanding of the earth in which they lived.
Anthropology is the study of human societies and cultural differences.
Responding to the challenges of our time, such as how to live sustainably on our planet, we need to know how people in different places live and give meaning to their existence.
We need to see the connections among all aspects of life – family, economic, political, religious, ecological – that are otherwise parcelled up between different disciplines for separate study.
Anthropology provides this approach.
It looks at social life ‘from the inside’, from the point of view of those living it.
Geography is a fantastic subject to study with anthropology as it focuses on the relationship between people and their environment.
Few other subjects cover such a diversity of phenomena, combining elements of the natural sciences, the social sciences and the humanities.
This course reflects upon the role humans have played in creating the Anthropocene (the epoch we are now living in), a time period during which human actions have become more significant than natural processes in shaping our world.
Drawing primarily upon perspectives from physical and human geography, the nature of the changes, “how did we get here?”, are considered, laying the foundations for GG1512, in which “what comes after?” – how contemporary society is attempting to tackle Anthropocene challenges – is debated.
This course interrogates the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals.
These encompass contemporary global challenges such as responsible consumption and production, no poverty, clean water and climate action (challenges whose emergence is introduced in GG1010 Creating the Anthropocene).
Drawing upon Human and Physical Geography perspectives, a ‘strong’ interpretation of sustainability, one where social and economic dimensions fundamentally rely on ecological foundations, underpins the course.
Plus 60 credit points from courses of choice.
GG2014 examines political, economic, social and cultural change from a geographical perspective.
The course consists of five distinct blocks, each of which introduces a specific sub-field of human geography – economic, urban, tourism, cultural and social geography.
As a team-taught course, it makes use of a range of concepts and uses case studies drawn from the staff’s own fields of research.
As well as geography, the course is designed to be accessible and relevant to students from other arts and social science disciplines such as anthropology, business, economics, history, international relations and sociology.
This course introduces students to a range of scientific and social scientific skills and techniques used in Geography.
The course content builds towards a residential field trip that takes place in the Easter vacation.
Past venues have included the Isles of Skye and Arran, the cities of Inverness and Stirling, and Aviemore in the Cairngorms National Park.
The trips enable students to put into practice the skills and techniques they have been taught through lectures and in workgroup sessions, and to conduct original research into geographical issues covered elsewhere on the programme.
Only available to students registered for programme year 2 of a Geography study aim or to students also taking at least 3 of GG2013, GG2014, GG2509 & GG2510
Plus two courses from the following:
This course provides an understanding of environmental processes and landscape change through time and space.
The course places Physical Geography as an integral component of Earth System Science.
The first half of the course explores physical environmental processes, whilst the second focuses on evidence of environmental change across a range of temporal and spatial scales.
Three themes of glaciology, hydrology and palaeoecology will be explored to illustrate the linkages and interactions between process and form over a range of temporal and spatial scales.
The course is team-taught by staff with an emphasis on using examples from recent research projects.
This course explores the complex and dynamic relationship between the environment and human societies.
It examines how social, economic, and political factors influence environmental policies and practices, and how environmental changes, in turn, affect human societies.
Through case studies such as using environmental ethics to think about tuna fishing and whale conservation, or engaging with the idea of putting a price on nature through natural capital approaches, students will gain a comprehensive understanding of key concepts, theories, and case studies on socio-environmental issues.
In a digital era of GPS navigators and many online map tools (e.g.
Google Maps), there is an increase demand for professionals able to understand and manipulate geographical data and use these to monitor processes at various scales.
The course provides a solid background in the acquisition of geographical data, both onshore and offshore with classic field-based and remote sensing techniques.
It covers the creation and interpretation of maps and looks at the history of remote sensing and its science as well as providing the essential basis to understanding what a Geographical Information System is.
This core course is designed to introduce Honours students to key debates on the nature and scope of academic geography.
Geographers past and present have studied a huge variety of phenomena using a variety of tools to investigate their subject.
This course will help you understand this diversity.
Topics include: the changing meaning of the 'environment'; the use and abuse of statistical analysis; the influence of left-wing and post-modern perspectives, and the role of technology.
Students may specialise in particular aspects, or mix-and-match across the breadth of the discipline, as you wish.
This core course builds on GG2508 to provide an introduction to the conduct of research in the Geosciences at an advanced level.
It is intended to familiarise students with the skills necessary to design, implement and write up effective research.
These skills will support work on undergraduate dissertations and other project work.
The course also introduces careers research skills, and explores how you can best make use of your degree in the 'real world' after graduation: workshops run in partnership with the University's Career Service provide practical advice and training on how best to develop your career.
Plus a further 30 credit points from level 3 or 4 courses in Geography.
One Term 2 level 3 Anthropology course from the following:
Joint Honours Dissertation in Anthropology (AT4047)
Geographical Issues (GG4537)
One Term 2 level 4 Anthropology course from the following:
Comparative Constitutional Systems (AT4557)
Emotions, Self and Society (AT4558)
Political Anthropology of Indigenous Rights (AT4559)
More Than Human (AT4560)
Geography Dissertation (AT4023)
One Term 1 level 4 Anthropology course from the following:
Roads, Mobility, Movement, Migration (AT3061)
Anthropology of the North (AT4062)
If you choose to take GG 4023 Geography Dissertation, you are not required to take GG 4537 Geographical Issues but may take both courses if you wish.
Plus further credit points from level 3 or 4 course(s) in Geography to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline.
This core, 'capstone' course is designed to develop further students' critical understanding of the contemporary intellectual and real-world contexts in which the academic discipline of geography - and its graduates!
- operates.
The course involves the preparation of seminar presentations and short papers on a series of issues pertinent to contemporary geography.
This work should showcase new philosophies and methodologies; and/or the relationships between geography and other academic disciplines; and/or applications of academic geography to real-world problems.
Students also consider how they can best make use of their degree after graduation, with preparation of a reflective, career-planning report.
Aberdeen is ranked in the top 5 in the UK for Positive Responses in Earth Sciences
Source: National Student Survey 2025

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/1854/RL62/anthropology-and-german:
Anthropology and German at Aberdeen is a great study combination, adding to an existing grounding in what it means to ‘be human’ with an in-depth study of a major modern European language and culture.
Aberdeen is ranked 1st in the UK for overall student satisfaction in Anthropology (National Student Survey 2024)
You will gain unique insight into behaviours, beliefs and attitudes all over the world and find connections between aspects of life such as family, economics, politics and religion.
Combining this study with a modern European language and culture is highly appealing to employers operating in an increasingly global environment.
You will gain a solid grounding in the German language whatever your level, taught by native speakers from Germany and Austria.
You will gain a broad understanding of culture in the German-speaking world, together with a deeper understanding of Germany’s complex history.
As an integral part of your 4-year programme, you will spend half of year three developing your language skills as a teaching assistant or visiting student in a German-speaking country.
The combination of skills you’ll graduate with, including critical thinking, communication and analysis in addition to your language and cultural skills, will have special appeal to employers in European and international business.
German Advanced - for post-Higher candidates and those who have studied German for more than 4 years
Select ONE OR BOTH of the options listed below plus, further credit points from courses of choice to reach 120 credit points.
Term 2 to be spent in a German Speaking Country
Select a further 30 credit points from level 3 course(s) in Anthropology (options below) and a further 45 credit points from level 3 courses in German.
Select one of the following dissertation course options:
Plus, select further credit points from level 4 course(s) in Anthropology (see options below) and German to gain a total of 60 credits in each discipline.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/429/LR62/anthropology-and-german-5-years:
Anthropology at Aberdeen is ranked 1st in the UK for overall student satisfaction (National Student Survey 2024)
As an integral part of your 5-year programme, you will spend the third year of your study taking your language skills to a high level as a Teaching Assistant or visiting student in a German-speaking country.
Beginner (for absolute beginners and those who have studied German for up to 3 years)
Advanced (for post-Higher candidates and those who have studied German for more than 4 years)
Plus, select further credit points from courses of choice to gain a total of 120 credits.
Advanced
Academic year spent in a German-speaking country
Select a further 30 credits from below level 3 courses in Anthropology, and 45 credits from level 3 courses in German
One Term 1 level 4 Anthropology course in Anthropology
And One Term 2 level 3 Anthropology course from the Anthropology Annexe (below)
Plus further credit points in level 4 course(s) in German to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/432/LV61/anthropology-and-history:
Anthropology and History at Aberdeen is a perfect subject match, combining a thorough grounding in what it means to ‘be human’ with a fascinating journey through human activity in the past.
The University of Aberdeen is steeped in 500 years of national and international history and has a strong local heritage and tradition.
Combined with strong northern identity, Aberdeen is the perfect place to give you a great breadth of skills likely to appeal to employers in all sectors.
Anthropology at Aberdeen is ranked 1st in the UK for Overall Student Satisfaction (National Student Survey 2024)
You will gain insights into behaviours, beliefs and attitudes all over the world, and find connections between aspects of life such as family, economics, politics and religions.
Combining this insight with detailed study of human activity and events through the centuries will give you unique insight and skills to apply to the challenges and opportunities of the modern day.
In History, you will learn in buildings centuries old, yet with the most modern teaching and technology.
You will be inspired by teachers who are leaders in their fields, with expertise as diverse as medieval Scandinavia, early-modern Poland and modern East Asia.
You will thrive among our historic treasures: manuscripts, books and museum exhibits collected by distinguished alumni, thinkers and explorers over 500 year, in collections accredited as nationally significant, and of international importance.
The skills you will gain from this subject combination will give you career options covering almost every field including business, politics, education, public sector, media, NGOs and arts and heritage.
This course will introduce students to the subject of university level history.
Team taught lectures will introduce students to approaches, sources, and the dilemmas facing academic historians.
Select a further 30 credit points from Level 1 courses in History or Art History.
Plus, select a further 60 credit points from courses of choice.
Select a further 60 credit points from available Level 2 courses in History.
This course looks at how history is written.
It considers the problems involved in studying and explaining the past, and the many dilemmas faced by historians in reconstructing it.
By examining the ways in which history has been written from the Ancient Greeks to Postmodernism, it considers the limits of historical study, asks whether history can ever be a science, and reveals the assumptions behind the various approaches to history that inform its writing.
It is designed to provide honours history students with an essential understanding of what they are doing when they study history.
One Term 2 level 3 Anthropology course from the Anthropology Annexe:
Plus 30 credit points from level 3 courses in History, or one of the following approved courses:
ONE Special Subject in History (options below)
PLUS one of two options (Anthropology or History Dissertation)
Joint Honours Dissertation in Anthropology (AT4047) AND History in Practice II (HI4518)
PLUS one of the following options:
One of the following options:
Dissertation in History (HI4516)
This course examines the emergence and the variations of Enlightenment thinking in Scotland and Central Europe (with particular emphasis on the German and East Central European Enlightenment, to which the Scottish Enlightenment had strong historical links).
It emphasises the varieties of the European Enlightenment, against the traditional assumption that the Enlightenment was exclusively 'located' in France.
This course explores Britain's relations with Russia during the early years of the Soviet regime.
It highlights a series of key developments in the relationship, especially major changes in British government policy that charted a course from military intervention to diplomatic recognition.
Most of the seminars trace an aspect of the relationship within a fairly short time-frame, but some seminars investigate a particular issue through the whole period 1917–24.
Several sessions will be used specifically for analysing gobbets.
Knowledge of the Russian language is not required.
Historians concur that ideas about the nature of children and the place of childhood have changed over time.
This course explores both how modern societies have understood childhood and the way in which this has shaped the treatment of young people.
It places a particular focus upon how ideas and understandings of childhood have spanned regional and national borders, as well as the ways in which the concept of youth has been adapted to suit new cultural contexts.
The courts of kings and other rulers in the later middle ages (c.
1300 – c.
1500), in which they and their households lived and hosted their subjects as well as visitors from other lands, have been characterised by scholars as both a grand stage for a dying chivalric culture and a creator of conditions for the modern state.
This course addresses this apparent paradox and examines the many facets of this phenomenon, using the Scottish royal court as its starting point but also making use of evidence from around Europe.
It draws on theories and methods from a range of academic disciplines including sociology, anthropology, art history and literature.
Topics include the household, the palace, the competition for status amongst elites at court and the court as a stage for presenting political messages.
Students taking the course will emerge with a detailed understanding of the court and the different forms it took and a view on how it shaped the broader history of Europe.
On the eve of the First World War Europe was a continent of monarchies.
A long 19th century of revolutions, wars, growing literacy, an expanding public sphere, changes in social, economic, intellectual and technological life and imperial expansion lay behind them, but the continent’s monarchical systems had survived in surprisingly rude health.
That monarchies had flourished throughout these profound transformations points to their suppleness and ingenuity.
This course offers new perspectives on the political cultures of the states and societies of 19th-century Europe.
The course examines the origins of the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict and its developments from multiple angles in order to provide a comprehensive understanding of the complex dynamic that constitutes ‘the conflict’.
The course will investigate the causes of the Palestinian refugee crisis and of the Arab-Israeli wars.
It will introduce students to the Arab-Israeli peace process and familiarise students with the polarised historiography surrounding the Arab-Israeli conflict.
This course critically evaluates representations and functions of Old Norse myth and legend in both medieval and modern contexts.
It will enable students to better understand the myths, beliefs and stories of Viking and medieval Scandinavia in their own historical contexts, and to analyse the political and cultural implications of their endurance, significance and popularity into the modern world.
History is not simply a dry, academic study of the past; it shapes a host of contemporary political, economic and cultural attitudes and is a central underpinning to the tourist and heritage industries - now one of the largest sectors of employment among mature western economies.
This course is designed to give a critical understanding of the theoretical and practical links (as well as clear distinctions) between the practice of 'academic' History and 'public' History.
This is done by having students assess how heritage and tourist businesses project a particular version of the past.
The undergraduate dissertation is the final-year major research undertaking, based on primary and secondary material and providing a critical analysis of a specific subject chosen by the student.
It is obligatory for Single Honours students, whereas Joint Honours students choose to write their dissertation in either of the two subjects.
After initial sessions about the nature of the dissertation and research approaches, students develop a topic with the help of a member of staff, who will also supervise their project throughout.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/433/LLP2/anthropology-and-international-relations:
Anthropology and International Relations at Aberdeen is a great partnership, exploring what it means to ‘be human’ within the context of understanding how organisations, states and governments interact in an ever-changing global and economic context.
You will gain the unique insights, perspective and skills to understand the issues, challenges and opportunities of the world today, opening up a range of very exciting career options.
You will gain insights into behaviours, beliefs and attitudes all over the world, exploring connections between aspects of life such as family, economics, politics and religion.
International Relations will set this in the context of our fast-moving world, as you study how organisations work, how states interact, the connection between global wealth and poverty, why and how we have inequality in our world and the ever-present concerns of conflict and peace.
You will be taught by internationally renowned academics with strong track records in publishing international papers and articles and who appear regularly in the media, analysing and explaining world events from the viewpoint of their own area of expertise and research.
You will gain the perfect foundation for a wide range of careers, including local and national government, politics, journalism, NGOs, global business and international development.
Politics and International Relations impacts on all parts of our lives, with more specifically it being the study of ideas, events, institutions and choice.
Studying these provides us with both knowledge of the world and also how it operates and functions.
It also changes our perception of our surroundings and makes us aware of an ever changing global context.
This course will introduce students to concepts and ideas that form the basis for the study of these disciplines while simultaneously also helping us understand our own place within a global context.
Politics is the study of multiple forms of power than impacts our lives and the world we live in.
It shapes how people and groups cooperate or clash with each other.
In this course, we will the ideas, institutions, complex histories, global dynamics, and systems that shape politics and international relations.
Students will learn key concepts and theories of the discipline, and develop their skills in understanding and analysing global politics.
Ideas and ideologies are core to teaching, learning and research in Politics and International Relations.
Theoretical developments are at the forefront of academic debates within the discipline, demonstrated by the appearance of a number of new approaches as more traditional theories have struggled to account for an ever changing world.
This course will introduce students to these with profound questions and struggles over identity, belonging, justice and rights underpinning these theoretical debates.
Equality and inequality are at the forefront of many debates within contemporary Politics and International Relations.
This course will examine the historical context, theoretical underpinnings, and also key concepts which continue to uphold equality and inequality on a global scale.
One Level 3 Anthropology course plus one Level 3 Politics & International Relations course in term 2.
This course involves students working together in a small group to undertake a consultancy-style project hosted by a micro-business, organisation, or charity.
It exposes students to real-world tasks, enabling them to apply their transferable skills, for example project management, problem-solving, communication and leadership, in different contexts.
The combination of on-campus employability workshops with project-based learning offers students an opportunity to engage with authentic, collaborative, and interdisciplinary learning to develop key workplace skills.
This course explores salient concepts of security and conflict, focusing on contemporary issues and problems.
It examines traditional, state-centred topics ie.
interstate and intrastate war, as well as the ‘new security agenda’  involving issues like terrorism, organized crime, environmental security, health security and population trends.
Students will gain knowledge of international security and its role in contemporary International Relations through  analysis of conceptual factors and case studies.
In addition, students will develop critical thinking skills, communication skills and analytical skills, including being able to formulate lucid, concise and rigorous accounts of international security affairs
The course involves a detailed examination of Britain’s party system and the individual political parties.
Through this course, students should acquire a knowledge and understanding of a number of inter-related themes, including the role and democratic function of political parties in Britain, the development of party philosophies and how these relate to the realities of party policy, the organisation and distribution of power within Britain’s political parties, and elections and party campaigns.
In this way, the course examines the contested and changing nature of political debate in British politics.
This course examines contemporary Russian Foreign Policy through the historical framework of Soviet foreign relations.
International, domestic, cultural and ideological factors will be examined throughout the course.
This will provide an understanding of a wide range of issues that have affected Moscow’s foreign policy decision making in both the recent past and their legacy in the contemporary situation.
International terrorism and counterterrorism are at the top of today’s agenda – of scholarly debates in International Relations (IR) as well as of policy discussions on international politics.
The course focuses on both the (individual and/or structural) causes and different manifestations of terrorism and reviews the debates on how to respond to terrorism not only effectively but also without violating humanitarian principles and international law.
The course is interdisciplinary and will provide both an overview on current research on international terrorism and counterterrorism in IR and also with in-depth knowledge of core aspects of the issue.
This course examines the ways in which societal understandings of the past shape political outcomes in the present.
Introducing students to the concept of ‘Collective Memory’, the course engages with key theoretical and empirical debates in this emerging field of Politics and IR.
It asks such questions as: How can narratives of the past reproduce or challenge contemporary power relations?
To what extent do political actors and institutions engineer particular historical narratives that serve their current interests?
To what extent are societal ideas of the past malleable?
What is the relationship between ‘remembering’, ‘forgetting’ and political power?
Human Rights have long been at the epicentre of heated debates in contemporary global politics.
This course will examine the theoretical and philosophical foundations of human rights within their historical context, along with the key controversies that shape current implementation and enforcement of the human rights regime in global politics.
This course is suitable for specialist and non-specialist alike.
No prior knowledge is required.
Scotland’s independence referendum encouraged many people to reflect on the process of state creation, sometimes called secession, for the first time.
This course examines the bigger picture of independence and secession processes in a broad sense.
We look comparatively at cases such as Kosovo, South Sudan, Chiapas, and Sri Lanka (as well as Scotland).
We study the development of secession as a process and political outcome.
Students are encouraged to reflect on how secessionist politics challenges or reinforces the role of the state and international organisations.
Option 1
Option 2:
This course will involve critical study of keypolitical, cultural and social changes in contemporary France, focusing on the ways in which the French political system has responded to phenomena such as postcolonial migration, religious pluralism, feminisms, regionalism and changing perceptions of the family and sexuality from the 1980s onwards.
This course investigates the international relations of science and technology, focusing on both the causes and effects of technology in terms of domestic and global governance.
It examines issues such as ‘big science’ projects, technology transfer, the regulation of technology, competition in technology, and state policies toward technology using examples such as the nuclear industry, biotechnology, the internet, and others.
This course will provide an in-depth analysis of a European party family which is growing in electoral support as well as political influence.
Individual countries and parties will be covered, as well as key concepts such as fascism, racism, xenophobia and populism.
Students will also be familiarised with different theoretical approaches explaining the growth of extreme right parties, and responses from the political environment.
The course will be beneficial to future study and work in a wide range of areas and contexts, and has relevance to social and political challenges such as integration, internationalisation, globalisation and social cohesion.
The course aims to provide students with an understanding of how conflict between ethno-national groups impacts on international politics.
It explores the responses of the international community to intra-state conflict.
Following an initial exploration of the relevant theories, the course focuses on a number of key conflicts in international politics.
What explains violent conflict between ethnic groups?
What role do external actors play in peace processes?
Should the international community intervene to stop violent conflict?
What kind of institutional frameworks do external actors promote in post-conflict states?
This course introduces maritime security as an essential element of national security.
It enables students to understand and analyse contemporary national and international security from the vantage point of the oceans, seas, and rivers.
It covers global maritime geography, seapower, maritime strategy, and contemporary national and international security threats in or from the maritime domain.
This course investigates issues at the intersection of psychology and international politics, studying both the psychological causes and consequences of international relations.
In addition to familiarising students with core concepts and methods of international political psychology, it develops their skills in analysing factors such as personality, beliefs, perception, emotions, trust, empathy, status, reputation, and social identity.
Taking a historical approach, the course will trace the key events that have led to current Political Islam (Islamism) concentrating on the ideology and practice of various movements and groups.
It will explore contemporary constructs of identity and political arrangements within Islamism and encourage critical analysis and independent thought in relation to the challenges Islamist poses to existing theoretical paradigms.
Areas to be explored will include: the political construct of early Islam, the Sunni/Shia divide, key ideologues, and contemporary movements such as the Muslim Brothers, Hamas and Hizbullah.
This course delves into Scottish politics with a focus on the post-devolution era.
We emphasize contemporary politics and trace the changes in Scottish political history, thinking and institutions over time.
Students will engage with ongoing political debates and build a strong fundamental understanding of the policy-making process in the multi-level institutions that govern Scotland today.
International Migration has recently gained increased academic and policy interest.
This course, while introducing the main analytical concepts concerning migration, addresses the policy dimension in the European context.
Additionally the course will assist students in becoming active citizens in an ever changing world.
This course introduces students to key ideas utilised in the analysis of gender and politics.
It engages students with scholarship from the fields of Political Science and International Relations, offering an in-depth analysis of cases ranging from the racial politics of the #MeToo campaign to discussion of gender quotas, the politics of gendered labour, body and emotions, the causes and implications of gendered violence, political apologies and peace.
This course investigates claims that the British state and its security forces, and Republican and Loyalist paramilitary organisations, were engaged in a ‘dirty war’ in Northern Ireland.
The theory and practice of dirty war is addressed via strategic and tactical evolution on the part of the British security forces and the IRA during the euphemistically termed ‘Troubles’.
This course investigates the politics of good governance and anti-corruption policies inside and beyond the borders of Europe.
It focuses on the concepts of corruption and good governance, explores major theoretical approaches regarding fight against corruption and addresses specific cases such as corruption in old patrimonial communist states, state capture in Southeast Europe, oligarchs in Europe’s near abroad and lords of poverty in Africa.
The President of the United States of America is commonly seen as the ‘Leader of the Free World’, US elections routinely capture the imagination of the rest of the world and the outcome influences politics far beyond the borders of the USA.
Only 45 men have held this position since 1789 – but who are they, what drove their ambition, what were their strengths and weaknesses, their achievements and failures?
This course analyses the impact of the individuals in the office of the president.
Anthropology
International Relations
International Relations at the University of Aberdeen is ranked 8th in the UK by the Guardian University Guide 2025
The programme offers a wide flexibility when choosing courses, so you will be able to explore many different topics and specialise in what you would like to do later on.
One important advantage is that career-wise, it offers many opportunities.
All staff are deeply dedicated to students.
Besides, academics are very approachable, always ready to help, and they care about their students beyond course content and assignments

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/1990/QL16/language-linguistics-and-anthropology:
You can study it with Language and Linguistics to give you a unique range of learning and opportunities and careers.
Language & Linguistics will introduce you to, among other things, how human language and speech may have evolved, the complex functions and structures of language in its role as a bridge between sound and meaning.
You will study the ways in which we acquire languages as children and adults, the ways in which languages vary and the mechanisms by which they change over time.
Plus two courses from the following LN courses, plus further courses of choice to make up 120 credit points.
How does the way we use language shape our lives, and how does the way we live shape the language we use?
Moving beyond strict notions of structure, this course explores communication in practice, examining how language works in various contexts and cultures.
It addresses contemporary social issues that are principally or partly communicative in nature, challenging common misconceptions and giving students an understanding of the contribution awareness of language can make to numerous fields.
How do we get from Beowulf to ‘bae’?
From Chaucer to ‘sashay away’?
This course will look at the development of English over the last millennium and beyond, examining language changes in sound, structure and meaning.
You will also be introduced to present-day study of English, its spread as a truly global language, and how all of this can add to our understanding of language in the modern world and in the past.
Language is central to our humanity.
Language and society are inextricably linked.
Language unites; language divides.
This course will develop your understanding of the social nature of language, providing insight into, among other things, the relationship between gender and language, language death and the issue of language policy and planning.
We perceive language as an integrated whole, but in fact it exists on many levels.
This course investigates these layers of structure through examination of speech sounds, word formation, and sentence construction.
We will consider the theory behind these areas of phonology, morphology, and syntax, looking at how they function independently and interact.
Students will gain skills to undertake analysis of language structure and think critically about structural elements fundamental to English.
Plus one Term 2 level 3 Anthropology course from the Anthropology Annexe and 60 credit points from level 3 course(s) in Language and Linguistics.
Either
AT2027 and one Term 2 level 4 Anthropology course from the Anthropology Annexe
LN4501 and one Term 1 level 4 Anthropology course from the Anthropology Annexe and One Term 2 level 4 Anthropology course from the Anthropology Annexe
Once you have successfully completed three years of university-level study of Linguistics, this course allows you to develop and carry out an independent piece of research on a topic of your choice.
It might be that a particular taught course has inspired you to explore a topic in more depth; your own reading might have prompted you to wonder about a particular question.
You will be supervised by a member of the department who will be happy to give advice and support as you complete your dissertation of 7000-8000 words.
Dissertations are completed in HS2 (spring), but students will be offered research training workshops in HS1 (autumn), and will be expected to submit a short research proposal for their dissertion in December.
We are in the Top 5 in the UK for Positive Responses in Linguistics.
We rank 1st in Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland for Overall Student Satisfaction in Linguistics.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/434/LV65/anthropology-and-philosophy:
Anthropology and Philosophy at Aberdeen is a great combination, adding to your existing grounding in what it means to ‘be human’ with a deeper exploration of the the big questions that we humans have, and how we try to find the answers.
The skills you will develop will put you in an excellent position to choose your career path in any area of business or other sector.
You will gain insights into human behaviours, beliefs and attitudes all over the world, exploring connections between aspects of life such as family, economics, politics and religion.
Philosophy attempts to answer questions such as ‘what is knowledge?’ and ‘what is truth?’ It looks at how we apply reasoning and argument to these and other questions of fundamental importance to humans.
What makes Philosophy at Aberdeen especially attractive is the breadth of courses, the user-friendly materials you will use and the experts who will teach you.
In your first year alone, you will study topics such as How Should One Live?
Controversial Questions, and Experience, Knowledge and Reality.
The skills you will develop through this combination are greatly sought by employers and can be applied in a range of fields.
How “real” is reality?
How does the mind relate to the world?
This course introduces two approaches to answering these questions: rationalism and empiricism.
By reading Rene Descartes’ Meditations on First Philosophy, we learn about Descartes’ rationalist approach to knowledge, reality, mind-body dualism, and God’s necessary existence.
Through David Hume’s Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding see how Hume grounds knowledge in experience.
We read Hume on impressions and ideas, induction, causality, miracles and critically compare and examine Descartes’ and Hume’s arguments by drawing on readers and critics.
Plus two of the following courses.
Plus further courses of choice to gain a total of 120 credits.
We examine questions such as: Is eating animals immoral?
Is being a good or bad person a matter of luck?
If so, are we justified in punishing bad people?
Should anyone be able to set limits on what you can do with your own  body, even if it's ‘for your own good’?
Should everyone be allowed to state their mind, even if their views are harmful or offensive?
Is censorship ever justifiable?
Do you have a moral obligation to help those worse-off?
Are you unknowingly biased against underprivileged groups?
What does it mean to live a good life?
How do we determine what is good or bad, right or wrong?
Are some ways of living better or worse for us?
In this course we will look at some central philosophical approaches to answering these questions.
Traditions we may engage with include virtue ethics, Chinese ethics, deontology, consequentialism, and feminist ethics.
Along the way, we will read the original work of some of the most important scholars in the history of moral philosophy.
Students will be encouraged to think deeply, and to explore their own views about what it means to live a (morally) good life.
What makes an argument a good argument?
What are the correct rules for reasoning?
How should we revise our beliefs in the light of new evidence?
What should we think about paradoxes?
This course provides an introduction to logic and tools for successfully evaluating arguments.
Some of the topics covered include validity, soundness, consistency, entailment, provability, belief revision and paradoxes.
The language of propositional logic and key ideas in Bayesian epistemology are introduced.
The course develops the ability to symbolise English sentences into formal languages and to construct truth tables, truth trees and natural deduction proofs.
Logical concepts are applied to everyday thinking as well as to philosophical puzzles and paradoxes.
We are living through an environmental crisis.
This is well recognised and widely discussed.
Most of this discussion focuses on what we should do to deal with the crisis, and rightly so.
But it is also well recognised that the current crisis is deeply rooted in how we think of nature and the natural world and why we value it.
Environmental Ethics helps us think about these foundational issues and get clear on why - and not just how - we should save the planet.
Select further courses of choice to make up 120 credits, of which 45 credits must be from level 2 Philosophy courses.
Select a further 30 credit points from Level 3 Anthropology course(s)(see list below) and 60 credit points from Level 3 Philosophy courses.
Plus further credit points from level 4 courses in Philosophy to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline.
The dissertation is on a topic in philosophy.
The specific topic will be chosen by the student with the approval of the supervisor.
The choice of topics is restricted insofar as it must fall within the teaching competence of the supervisor.
Another dissertation or Project course must not be undertaken alongside the Philosophy Dissertation
You can become an expert researcher, advisor and teacher upon further study, or you may like to pursue a range of careers in the civil service, sales, business and administration

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/435/LL62/anthropology-and-politics:
Anthropology and Politics at Aberdeen is a great partnership.
Human behaviour, culture, traditions, beliefs and attitudes are the foundations of politics and you will gain added perspective and understanding of the role that human culture and society plays in political thinking and activity at local, national, regional and global level.
You will gain the unique insight, perspective and skills to open up a world of very exciting career options.
You will gain insight into human behaviours, beliefs and attitudes all over the world, exploring connections between aspects of life such as family, economics, politics and religion.
Politics will provide you with insights at a national, European and global level, taught by international experts in a dynamic research environment and placing you at the forefront of contemporary debate and history.
You will study nationalism and concepts of democracy, voting behaviour, different political systems and how policy is made and implemented.
You will be taught by internationally renowned academics, regularly appearing as experts in the media on events unfolding in the world today, analysing and explaining from their own area of expertise and research.
You will gain the perfect foundation for a wide range of careers, including local and national government, politics and journalism, media, global business, NGOs and international development.
Research methods and techniques are fundamental to the study of Politics and International Relations.
In addition, they are highly desired by employers.
This course will introduce students to a number of different research techniques which they will use throughout their studies at Honours and in particular their Honours dissertation.
Moreover, they will also constitute a significant part of their graduate attributes.
For the Second-Half-Session:
Select one of the following Options:
level 4 Anthropology courses for first half-session:
This course affords students the opportunity to apply their knowledge and research skills in the broad field of Politics & International Relations to an individual piece of research, focusing on a topic selected by the student and approved by the Dissertation supervisor.
Over the course of the project, with guidance from a supervising member of staff, the student will conduct a literature review of relevant material, select appropriate research methods, gather data where necessary, analyse data, and write a final analysis in the form of the Dissertation.
Particular emphasis will be given to helping students develop their own skills.
Areas of special expertise include Comparative Political Parties and Elections; Cross National Surveys, Democracy and Democratisation; Energy Politics; European Integration and Regionalism; European Politics; Human Rights and Development Issues; Interest Groups; Modernity and Religion; International Political Economy; Regional IR (with specific focus on Japan, Latin America, and the Middle East); and Security Studies
Develop transferable skills that are sought after by employers across multiple sectors, including: research skills, organisation and structure, critical evaluation of sources and arguments, logic of argumentation, independent study and judgement and written and oral communication
Careers specialising in Anthropology and Politics can include teaching, researching and consulting upon studying a further degree.
Other careers can include working in the civil service, public sector, communications and HR and a range of administration roles.
The student-led Politics and International Relations Society is one of the largest societies on campus.
It's a place for students to come together and explore their curiosities with like-minded people, whilst having lots of fun!

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/subject-areas/334/accountancy:
We offer a range of Accountancy degrees which you can read more about below.
The University of Aberdeen International Study Centre offers preparation programmes for progression to undergraduate degree study at the university.
Accountancy will develop your intellectual skills through analysing and evaluating accounting information and how it is used in a modern economy.
Most of our students become chartered accountants, in professional practice, industry, or the public sector, or go into management, education, banking and finance.
Our courses are accredited by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland (ICAS), CIMA (Chartered Institute of Management Accountants) and ACCA (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants).
Your skills will develop in a dynamic learning and research environment, inspired by staff with a wide range of professional backgrounds and experience, leaders in accounting practice and theory, financial markets and corporate finance and organisations.
You will become proficient in reading and understanding financial reports and preparing financial statements, and broaden your study with courses in management, statistics, law and economics.
You will enjoy a special, warm welcome at Aberdeen, benefit from excellent teaching, research with international impact, and a global experience as part of our friendly and vibrant international community - with classmates from 45 different nationalities in our Business School.
You will love our beautiful campus and great facilities for learning, sports and leisure, and all the opportunities to gain the competitive advantage in whichever career path you choose.
You may also be interested in...

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/769/M1N4/law-with-options-in-accountancy:
Law with options in Accountancy at Aberdeen gives you all the benefits of our trademark quality at Aberdeen Law School, with the added advantage of skills in finance and accountancy, widening your already-bright career prospects.
Law at Aberdeen looks at the historical, social, political and economic forces that influence our legal systems and govern our societies.
You will learn to think like a lawyer rather than just 'learn' law.
A major factor in our quality is the calibre and enthusiasm of our staff, testing your mental agility with complex, realistic legal scenarios as you get to grips with criminal, public and private law, legal systems, contracts, human rights and explore family law, the law of property and legal aspects of the EU.
You will also add courses in finance, risk and investment, financial markets and regulation, alongside accounting and entrepreneurship – giving you useful specialist knowledge of the law as it applies to the business world.
You will have many opportunities to hone your developing legal skills in student-led initiatives such as mock legal debating, our highly active Law Society, the students’ journal in which your work may be published and our community law clinic – the Aberdeen Law Project.
Should you choose to practice law, you will have a wide variety of career options within the legal professions.
However, more than a third of Aberdeen law graduates now choose to use their law degree as a passport for entry into a wide range of careers including business, finance and banking for which you'll be a great candidate, also media, , teaching, governmental bodies and departments and the police force.
Graduates wishing to apply for an LLB must apply for the 2-year LLB Accelerated degree – Law Accelerated (M115) or Law with English Law Accelerated (M116).
Tuition fees for the Accelerated programmes are at a separate rate.
In the event that a Graduate undertakes a  4-year or 5-year LLB degree, please note that tuition fees are charged each year of study at the same rate as those set for the Accelerated programme.
This course examines the law of the European Union and its relationship with the legal systems of the United Kingdom.
Lecture topics include the composition and function of the EU Institutions, sources and effects of EU Law, state liability and judicial review.
Other topics covered include human rights in the EU, the fundamental freedoms, and competition law.
Each lecture topic includes consideration of the evolving relationship between the legal systems of the United Kingdom and the European Union.
Select 15 credit points from courses of choice.
This course deals with the rules of evidence as they apply in the courtroom.
The rules in both criminal and civil cases will be analysed.
The legal requirements for leading real evidence, documentary evidence and witness testimony are considered.
Topics include: relevancy, the corroboration rule, hearsay evidence, expert evidence, confession evidence and search evidence.
The subject is highly topical and practically important to all lawyers
This course examines, through a series of lectures and tutorials, a number of important areas of Scots commercial and consumer law, including the sale and supply of goods and services, consumer protection,  cautionary obligations, insurance, and  consumer credit and It also, through lectures,  and a presentation, introduces students to the skills and techniques of advocacy in the context of a commercial and/or consumer dispute.
Non-honours
Honours
25 Credit Points
This course, taken over both half sessions by final year honours students, and available only to those students, allows you to write a 10,000 word piece on an aspect of law that you choose with the help of a consultee.
Select a further 100 credit points from Honours courses in Law.
Year 1 entry: Satisfactory completion of HNC Legal Services (120 SCQF credit points).
A in Graded Unit 1.
Standard: AAAA or AAABB
Applicants who have achieved AAAA are encouraged to apply and will be considered.
Good performance in additional Highers / Advanced may be required.
Nat 5 English at C or better is required.
Minimum: BBBB
Applicants who have achieved ABBB/BBBBB at Higher and meet one of the widening participation criteria above are encouraged to apply and are guaranteed a conditional offer for LLB degrees.
Adjusted: BBB
Applicants who have achieved BBB at Higher after S5, and who meet one of the widening participation criteria are encouraged to apply and will be considered for an adjusted offer for LLB degrees.
We would expect to issue a conditional offer asking for one additional A grade at Higher or alternatively two additional Highers at B grades.
An HND in Legal Services may be considered for applying to Year 1 of some LLB programmes.
Standard Offer: AAB
NOTE: English is highly desirable.
GCSE in English or English Language at C or better, or equivalent, is required.
34 points overall, including average of 5 at HL.
5 subjects at Higher minimum required at H2, obtained in one sitting.
Standard: Applicants that present with ABBB will usually receive an unconditional offer.
Widening Access : Applicants who meet one or more of our widening access metrics and present with BBB, are guaranteed an unconditional offer.
National 5 in English at Grade C or above is also required.
Higher English is highly desirable (Higher ESOL is recognised in lieu where English is not the native language).
A LEVEL
Standard: Three A Levels at BBB.
English is highly desirable.
Widening Access: Three A Levels at BBC, for applicants who meet one or more widening access criteria.
GCSE English or English Literature at Grade C/4 is also required.
The BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma is not normally sufficient on its own for entry into any LLB degree programmes although those with a relevant BTEC (Law-related) at a minimum of DDD may be considered.
Five subjects at Higher, with two at H2 and three at H3.
34 points with 6, 6, 5 at HL including the degree subject(s).
SL English is required.
For more information, or for full entry requirements for Law degrees, see our detailed entry requirements section .
There are many opportunities at the University of Aberdeen to develop your knowledge, gain experience and build a competitive set of skills to enhance your employability.
This is essential for your future career success.
The Careers and Employability Service can help you to plan your career and support your choices throughout your time with us, from first to final year – and beyond.
We've been ranked 3rd in Scotland for Law by the Guardian University Guide 2025.
Guardian Guide 2025
We are ranked Top 15 in the UK for Law by the Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/subject-areas/336/anthropology:
We offer a range of Anthropology degrees which you can read more about below.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/431/LR64/anthropology-and-hispanic-studies-5-years:
Anthropology and Spanish & Latin American Studies at Aberdeen is a great study combination, adding to a thorough grounding in what it means to ‘be human’, with an in-depth study of a major modern European language and culture.
You will have the flexibility of a five or four-year degree and the language, perspective and skills you will develop will open up a wide range of career options including with an international flavour.
You will gain a unique insight into behaviours, beliefs and attitudes all over the world, and find connections between aspects of life such as family, economics, politics and religion.
Combining this study with a language spoken by 350 million native Spanish speakers in 19 Latin American states, the Spanish Peninsula, and increasingly in the US, is highly appealing to employers operating in increasingly global markets .
Spanish & Latin American Studies at Aberdeen has an outstanding reputation, with the highest possible rating of ‘Excellent’ in the last national Teaching Quality Assessment.
You will be equipped to communicate in a global language and widen your studies with Spanish-language literature, films and visual culture.
As an integral part of your 5-year programme, you will spend the third year of your study taking your language skills to a high level as a Teaching Assistant or visiting student in a Spanish-speaking country.
The combination of skills you will graduate with will have special appeal to employers in European and international business – including the energy sector which is of growing importance to Latin American economies – and in many other fields where people, cultures, and international outlook feature strongly, including NGOs and international development.
Select ONE of the following options:
Intermediate
All options will also select:
Plus select further credit points from courses of choice to reach 120 credit points.
Both options will select:
Plus select further credit points to a total of 120 credits.
Plus select one further term 2 level 3 Anthropology course:
PLUS 45 credits from level 3 Spanish and Latin American Studies courses
One Term 1 level 4 Anthropology course:
Plus further credit points from level 4 courses in Spanish and Latin American Studies to gain a total of 60 credits the each discipline.
Spanish & Latin American Studies is located in one of the oldest language departments in the UK, open to learners of all levels.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/436/LC68/anthropology-and-psychology:
Anthropology and Psychology at Aberdeen is a great partnership, adding to your thorough grounding in what it means to ‘be human’ with a closer look at how humans think and behave, including language, perception, personality and intelligence.
You will gain the unique insight, perspective and skills to open up a world of exciting career options.
You will gain insight into differing human behaviours, beliefs and attitudes all over the world, exploring connections between aspects of life such as family, economics, politics and religion.
Psychology will deepen your understanding of the processes involved in thinking and behaviour, taught by internationally leading teachers and researchers who are experts in developmental, social and industrial psychology, neuroscience, memory, language and cognition.
You will learn in a supportive and stimulating teaching environment that gives you a hands-on approach to gaining the skills and grounding to succeed in any career involving ‘people’.
Aberdeen is the oldest school of psychology in the UK and our facilities are state-of-the-art, including specialised laboratories for brain imaging analysis, eye movement recording, movement analysis and visual neuroscience.
You will have many employment opportunities, including those that relate directly to psychology, such as clinical and occupational psychology, the human mind and behaviour such as teaching, marketing and advertising, or the application of your wide skills in a business role.
This course will help you learn the skills you need as a researcher in Psychology, including how to design a research project, how to treat participants ethically, how to present your data in visual format and how to write it all up in a report.
The skills you learn will also be transferable to other domains so this course is a valuable addition to any degree.
This course builds on from PS1511.
It will help you hone the skills you need as a researcher in Psychology, including how to design a research project, how to treat participants ethically, how to present your data in visual format and how to write it all up in a report.
In addition, you will learn how to analyse your data with a statistical test – which is where this course builds on from PS1011.
Plus 30 credit points from courses of choice.
This course builds on the material covered in the 1st-year courses, expanding on psychology’s concepts and theories.
The course covers three core areas of psychology: language and cognition, perception, and individual differences.
This course introduces students to fundamental concepts and methods in psychological research and data analysis.
Lectures cover distributions and probability, null hypothesis significance testing, t-tests, chi-square tests, and correlations.
Practical classes involve the application of these methods to research examples from different areas of psychology, using the statistical software package SPSS.
The course covers four core areas of psychology: social psychology, behavioural neuroscience and developmental psychology.
This course covers a broad range of data collection and analysis methods used in psychological research.
Lectures cover survey and observational methods, regression analysis, ANOVA, and qualitative research methods.
Practical classes involve the application of these methods to research examples from different areas of psychology.
Psychological assessment is used by chartered
psychologists in a number of areas, including clinical, occupational and
forensic applications.
The aim of this
course is to introduce students to psychometric theory, real life applications
of psychological assessment and the legal and ethical issues surrounding test
administration.
Topics covered on this lecture based course
include: IQ and mood assessment; clinical neuropsychological tests of cognitive
dysfunction and memory; assessment of dementia and forensic aspects of
assessment (legal malingering).
An ideal course for students intending to secure
a career in applied psychology.
The main aim of this course is to help students prepare, evaluate and run their own Psychological research.
As such this is a ‘hands-on’ course, where students will have the opportunity to conduct a small qualitative research project and practice using SPSS for a variety of statistical analyses.
The course provides a thorough grounding in qualitative and quantitative research methods through a lecture series.
Specific topics covered in this course include: verification and falsification of results; ANOVA and qualitative research strategies.
The aim of this course is to consolidate and extend students’ knowledge of a number of core areas of developmental psychology, focusing on the age range of young children (3 years) to adolescence.
This course will examine both historical and contemporary issues and findings in (1) cognitive development and (2) social-emotional development.
In one half of the course students will evaluate how some main types of memory undergo developmental changes, and how cognitive plasticity develops.
In the other half students will evaluate the development of aggression and its risk factors, and gain a deeper understanding of the role of play in typical and atypical development of social interaction with a focus on autism.
There will also be opportunity to learn about some intervention programmes aimed at improving cognitive and socio-emotional skills in childhood.
The broad range of developmental topics makes this an ideal course for anyone with interest in working with children.
Social Psychologists explore the psychological factors that influence individual behaviours within social situations.
As such, the aim of this course is to provide students with an introduction to the range of topics within experimental social psychology, with a defined focus on social cognition.
Topics covered within this lecture based course include: Stereotypes; social perception and action; self-control; consciousness and mimicry.
This course provides a scientific explanation for social phenomena, making it ideal for students with an interest in individual and group behaviour.
One Term 2 level 3 Anthropology course.
This course aims to provide students with a good understanding of the biological basis of behaviour and cognition.
The course is split into two sections, each featuring 5 lectures.
Section 1 focuses on psychopharmacology, which is the investigation of the effect of medication on normal and abnormal brain function.
Section 2 focuses on neuropsychology, examining what can be learnt about psychological processes from studying patients with brain damage.
Specific topics that will be covered include: neurotransmitters; drug effects; psychedelic drugs; impaired object and face recognition; amnesia; and disorders of motor control.
Interaction with the world around us
involves perceptual processing using our three main senses: visual (seeing),
auditory (hearing) and haptic (touch).
The aim of this course is to consider a range of approaches to human
perception, from historical beginnings to recent innovative research.
Topics covered include: colour
perception; face recognition; perception of pain and age related changes in
perception.
Students will also engage in
guided debate with their peers regarding media portrayal of recent research
findings.
This course is intended for students completing joint honours
degrees in Behavioural Studies or Psychology.
The memory component of this course aims to introduce students to the main theoretical components of memory (working and autobiographical memory).
Psychological theories of forgetting and eyewitness memory will also be discussed.
The second component of the course, language, will introduce students to the key issues in psycholinguistics.
This will include assessment of sentence processing, analysis of the processes underlying language production and factors that influence communication in different settings.
This course is intended for students completing joint honours degrees in Behavioural Studies or Psychology.
One Term 1 level 4 Anthropology course.
One Term 2 level 4 Anthropology course.
Apart from careers specialising in Anthropology and/or Psychology areas which may require further study you can apply for a wide range of general careers in the civil service, graduate recruitment employers and other professional areas.
Overall 94% of our Psychology research ranks as world leading or internationally excellent

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/438/LL63/anthropology-and-sociology:
Anthropology and Sociology at Aberdeen is a great partnership, adding to your thorough grounding in what it means to ‘be human’ with a ‘sociological imagination’ exploring how society shapes us as individuals.
This programme explores how we can understand ourselves, our relationships with others and the challenges we face in a changing world.
Anthropology  will give you a thorough grounding in humanity, the differences in human cultures and communities, and how they have developed.
In Sociology, you will deepen this knowledge through studying topics as wide-ranging as sociology of the family, work-life balance, religion and society.
You will become skilled in the social research methods used to gather evidence to better understand aspects of society.
You will be taught by academic staff with international reputations for their research in conflict and peace, religion and secularisation, social movements, and global political sociology.
You will develop unique insights and critical thinking skills that have tremendous value to employers in all sectors.
Recent Aberdeen graduates are working in business, journalism, management, marketing and advertising, local and national government, social and market research, teaching, health services, social work, charities and human resources.
Sociology is the study of human social groups.
It particularly focuses on modern societies, analysing how they work and how the major social institutions in them (such as religion, the media, government and the economy) operate.
The course provides students with a general introduction to the unique manner in which sociologists seek to understand contemporary societies.
Students are presented with current and classical approaches to understanding the social processes that underlie self-construction, group formation and social interaction, within urbanizing and globalizing social contexts.
This course is an introduction to macro-sociology, which analyses the ways that people’s lives are shaped by large-scale forces, structures, and institutions.
Students are introduced to the particular ways in which classical and contemporary sociologists understand social forces in the modern domestic and global environment and learn to think critically about those social forces that impact their everyday lives using the sociological imagination.
Substantive topics likely to be covered in this course include the media, politics, religion, surveillance, education, class stratification, international inequalities, and the relationship between humans and other animals.
This follows on from level-one sociology.
It is designed to highlight the ways that sociological theory informs the research endeavour, not only the questions sociologists raise, but also the particular modes through which we go about investigating them.
The module examines these points in relation to a range of micro-level topics – the body, food and feeding, health and illness, the emotions, group behaviour, sex and gender, the life course and death and dying – all of which emphasise the nature of human interaction and sociological efforts to understand it.
This macro-sociology course extends students’ understanding of large-scale social, as well as political and economic, processes and institutions.
Particular focus is on the sociological analysis of global issues and socio-political controversies, many of which are subject to topical and, at times, contentious debate at the beginning of the 21st century.
The substantive topics include areas of social and political concern such as globalisation; the changing nature of economy, work and leisure; risk and insecurity; multiculturalism; food production and security; social movements; nationalism and identities.
Plus further credit points from courses of choice to gain a total of 120 credits.
Choose one of the following courses:
First Half-Session
Second Half-Session
NOTE: If you intend to enrol on the Sociology research project at level 4, you must pass SO 3524 Social Research Methods at level 3.
This course provides students with an introduction to the sociological imagination as applied to the topic of religion.
While the focus is on religion, it uses religion as means of thinking about core sociological concepts and key social processes, as well as the challenges to studying the world sociologically.
We will discuss the key dimensions of religious belief, practice and institutions, and what we can learn from these that can be adapted and applied to other kinds of beliefs, practices and institutions.
Thinking Sociologically is the department's core sociological theory module.
The course offers our students an introduction to a range of key sociological thinkers and bodies of thought, both classical and contemporary, that inform sociological analysis of social life and social institutions.
As such, this course is intended to provide our honours students with a conceptual 'toolkit', that can be applied to facilitate understanding, insight and informed critique with respect to a broad range of historical and contemporary social, political and economic phenomena.
Sociologists use a range of methods and techniques to explore and test sociological theory.
This module introduces many of these methods and techniques.
It aims to ground students’ theoretical understanding of society through the practical analysis of a variety of data.
It starts by introducing the varying philosophical starting points of research and goes on to provide foundation level critical analysis skills in the key quantitative and qualitative methods that sociologists have deployed to understand and ‘capture’ the social world.
This course bridges the theoretical emphasis of SO3066 and the methodological elements of SO3524.
It presents sociology as a social science by having students examine and discuss in detail ten reports of sociological research.
The goal of the course is to highlight the different ways sociological research combines theory and methods to examine and explain specific phenomena, events, or experiences of the world.
Each of the ten studies will be chosen by one of the Sociology staff and present theoretical and methodological ideas and approaches that staff members use in their own work or believe to be pivotal to sociological research.
Students will be required to read all ten of the chosen publications in preparation for the course each week.
Plus a further 30 credit points from one of the semester 1 Level 4 Anthropology courses (AT40XX) and the semester 2 Level 4 Anthropology courses (AT45XX)
Plus select further credit points from level 4 courses in Anthropology and Sociology to gain a total of 60 credits in each discipline.
This course is the first of two courses that comprise the Dissertation in Sociology.
This first course affords students an opportunity to apply their sociological knowledge and research skills to an individual piece of research, focusing on a topic selected by the student and ethically approved by their Supervisor.
Over the course of SO4068, with guidance from a member of staff, the project student will formulate an appropriate research question(s), conduct a critical literature review of relevant material, select appropriate research methods and prepare appropriate data collection tool(s) in order to commence their (online) research by the end of this course.
Students will also get the opportunity to reflect on their presentation skills and prepare a 5-minute Panopto video on their project design for peer review.
Particular emphasis will be given to helping students develop time management skills, a key transferable skill.
In this course, project students, guided by regular staff supervision, build on the foundations developed in SO4068 to conduct their original research and deliver their conclusions in two formats.
All students will present their developing work to peers in a multi-day student conference early in the semester and submit a final report of their work (i.e.
project dissertation) at the end of the course.
You can choose from a specialist career in Anthropology upon studying a further degree or you can choose a range of careers in sociology which could include health, counselling, business and marketing, writing and publishing and more.
Together these subjects may offer a strong knowledge combination to work in a wide range of careers.
The Sociology department at Aberdeen is internationally renowned for its research.
Aberdeen is ranked 5th in the UK for Sociology and Social Policy by the Guardian University Guide 2025

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/1838/LR46/anthropology-and-spanish-latin-american-studies:
As an integral part of your 4-year programme, you will spend half of year three developing your language skills as a teaching assistant or visiting student in a Spanish-speaking country.
Plus 30 or 45 credit points from courses of choice.
Term 2 to be spent in Spain or Latin America.
Comparative Constitutional Systems (AT3557)
Emotions, Self and Society (AT3558)
Political Anthropology of Indigenous Rights (AT3559)
More than Human (AT3560)
Roads, Mobility, Movement, Migration (AT4061)
Emotion, Self and Society (AT4558)
The Political Anthropology of Indigenous Rights (AT4559)
One Term 2 level 4 Anthropology course from the table below

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/437/LV66/anthropology-and-theology-religious-studies:
Anthropology, Theology and Religious Studies at Aberdeen is a great partnership, adding to your thorough grounding in what it means to ‘be human’ with deeper study of the origin, function, and meaning of religion.
You will compare the major and local religious traditions of the world, with a special focus on Christian faith, life and doctrine in its historical and present day context.
This programme will open up a wide range of career options, in addition to ministry.
Anthropology will give you a thorough grounding in humanity, the differences in human cultures and communities, and how they have developed.
Theology and Religious Studies deepens your study of the religious elements of anthropology, whether you are specifically interested in the Christian faith or want to explore the historical, social and political development of the world’s religions.
Your courses will include biblical languages, the history of the church in the west, the Reformation in Scotland, the role of religion in ethical and political debates, religious aspects of disability, religious rituals and religions of the world.
As a graduate, your skills will make you highly employable in a wide range of roles, including ministry, media and journalism, public service and administration, NGOs, business, government, publishing, education, and research.
Anthropology is the comparative study of human ways of life through the study of societies and cultures around the world.
In this course we introduce some of the key topics of contemporary anthropological inquiry: What is Anthropology?
What do anthropologists do?
What is ethnography?
How can we see the diverse world of societies and cultures around us, not by looking from the outside, but by looking at how people themselves make their own lives and meanings?
Select at least 60 credit points from level 1 courses in Divinity or one of the following approved courses.
Plus, select further courses of choice to make up 120 credit points.
Latin 1 is an introductory, intensive course for those with little or no previous exposure to Latin.
Students completing this course should have a Latin vocabulary of about 400 words and a basic understanding of Latin grammar and syntax.
Students successfully completing this course will be adequately prepared to attend Latin 2.
Students will very likely discover that their knowledge of English vocabulary and grammar/syntax is improved by their study of Latin.
The etymological roots of many English words can be traced to the Latin language.
Latin 2 picks up where Latin 1 finished in first term.
By the end of this course students should have a more or less comprehensive understanding of Latin syntax and grammar, a Latin vocabulary of 700-800 words, and should be capable of translating simple Latin texts into idiomatic English.
This course explores some of the key questions that anthropologists have debated: what it is to be human, the nature of human interaction with other humans, with non-humans, and with the environment, and the different ways that people perceive the world and act within it.
Themes that will be discussed in this course include the category of the person, morality and ethics, art and aesthetics, what is power, how to engage with Otherness, and how anthropologists engage actively, outside academia, in development, health, or business.
Plus further 60 credits from level 2 courses in Divinity.
Plus select a further 30 credit points from Level 3 Anthropology courses and 60 credit points from Level 3 courses in Divinity.
Through a series of lectures and a mix of tutor and student led tutorials, this course will interrogate the division between society and nature.
We will examine where the division came from, how it informs many understandings of humans and the environment, and whether we would be better off disposing of it altogether.
Examples of the impact of this construction will be provided but students will be encouraged and expected to seek out their own and to do their own research which will then be brought back to the course through lively tutorial discussions resulting in peer and tutor feedback.
What is religion?
What does ritual do?
Does ritual have effects, in the persons performing them, in society, or the world?
How might ritual be a means or medium for political action?
This course is an ethnographically grounded discussion of how anthropologists have addressed the concept of religion, the interface of religion and power, and is a critical interrogation of the concept of belief.
Choose ONE of the following options:
Plus further credits from level 4 courses in Anthropology and Divinity to gain 60 credits in each discipline.
This course involves the writing of a dissertation in one of the sub-disciplines in Divinity and Religious Studies.
Independent Research work is done under the supervision of a member of staff.
The dissertation is an extended essay, of no more than 10,000 words inclusive of references.
Please note the 10,000 words does not include the bibliography
Anthropology and art have much to offer each other.
Taking historical and contemporary perspectives, students in this course will debate the cultural significance of art and the nature of creativity.
We will focus particularly on questions of place, landscape and materials through a combined art-anthropology approach.
The course will use the University of Aberdeen’s own art and ethnographic collections, and we will also work with Peacock Visual Arts in Aberdeen.
You have a wide range of career options from studying Anthropology and Theology and Religious Studies.
You may want to specialist in Anthropology after further study to enable you to teach, research or consult or you may decide to deepen your knowledge in Theology.
There are wide ranging professional careers you can consider ranging from civil service to other professional specialisms and counselling.
The University has a tradition of theological study and excellence dating back to 1495.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/subject-areas/901/archaeology:
We offer a range of Archaeology degrees which you can read more about below.
Archaeology is a subject that actively shapes our understanding of human development through fieldwork and discovery, and a degree at Aberdeen will provide you with the skills to work in archaeology or a range of other professions.
Aberdeen is set amongst some of the richest archaeological remains in the UK and opportunities will be available to experience and get involved in discovering more about this resource and our shared human past.
In your first year, archaeology will occupy one quarter of your curriculum, and in second year it will occupy one half.
You can then choose to specialise in archaeology in your third and fourth years undertaking a Single Honours degree or you can continue studying archaeology and another subject in a Joint Honours degree.
You can either take an MA, focusing on the humanities and social science side of archaeology, or a BSc, focusing on the science side of archaeology.
The University of Aberdeen offers a range of STEM-related degrees, STEM being the collective of subjects covering
         science, technology, engineering and maths.
With world-class academics and cutting-edge facilities like our
         Science Teaching Hub, we can give you access to some of the best STEM teaching and research in Scotland,
         maximising your learning potential and preparing you for industry.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/441/F420/archaeology:
Archaeology is the only discipline that studies the human past in its entirety; from the origins of our species to the events of yesterday.
Archaeology at Aberdeen has a special northern focus that is unique in the UK.
Through lectures, field and laboratory work you will engage with the archaeology of Scotland, Scandinavia, northern Europe, the North Atlantic and northern latitudes of Asia and North America.
You will be taught by internationally acclaimed researchers.
Ranked 4th in the UK for Archaeology and Anthropology, Guardian 2024
The BSc route focuses on the science side of archaeology.
Courses will cover subjects such as the origins of modern humans, ancient environments, bioarchaeology, Scottish archaeology and excavation and research skills.
In seeking to understand how ancient people lived their lives, structured their world, and engaged with their environment, archaeologists ask the big questions that can provide us with the tools to tackle modern day issues such the effects of climate change, designing the ‘perfect’ diet, or investigating the spread of epidemics.
You will develop the practical and research skills required to work as a professional archaeologist or heritage specialist, taught and inspired by experts who are internationally recognised leaders in their fields, with many links and projects in areas of special interest overseas, such as Alaska.
Accredited Degrees
The University of Aberdeen has joined the prestigious list of institutions to have its archaeology programmes accredited by the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CIfA) and University Archaeology UK (UAUK).
It is also the first Archaeology department in Scotland to be recognised in this way.
Accreditation is awarded to those degrees programmes that are deemed to provide the relevant professional skills needed for a career in the historic environment.
Choosing an accredited degree, therefore, gives you the best possible springboard to develop a career in archaeology.
In year 1, Archaeology will occupy one quarter of your curriculum, and in year 2 it will occupy one half.
Plus 90 credit points from courses of choice.
During the summer after your second year of archaeology single honours students will go on a minimum of a two week long excavation.
This course follows on from your field experience to help maximize the experiences and skills developed on these projects.
Working with materials collected during the field project this course will develop key skills in communicating the results of field projects and the presentation of archaeological data.
Plus 30 credit points from Level 3 Archaeology options.
This course is portioned into three intensive short-courses, each focusing on one core biological approach used in archaeology.
Topics offered will vary year to year, but may include isotope analysis; ancient DNA analysis; the study of animal and human remains; plant remains; and invertebrate, etc.
Selected topics will be explored through lectures, seminars and practical/workshop sessions, providing an overview of each research area, its relevance to archaeology, scope, potential and limitations.
Plus 30 credits from Honours Archaeology (at least 15 of which must be from Level 4).
Plus 15 credit points from courses of choice.
Choosing Archaeology at Aberdeen has been one of the best decisions I’ve ever made.
I've gained many skills in research, excavation, technology, and leadership, and I really feel like Aberdeen has given me an edge over others in the job market.
If you have any interest in archaeology, this is the programme for you.
Archaeology at Aberdeen has great research areas, a variety of different courses, and trains their students to have the skills to become an archaeologist and beyond.
The curriculum is designed to equip graduates with the practical and research skills required to work as professional archaeologists.
The broad-based nature of the discipline enables graduates to compete strongly in the market place.
The analytical and communications skills acquired by Archaeology graduates make them sought-after in a wide variety of fields including commerce, research and a range of professions.
Whatever stage you are at from first year to final year and beyond, the Careers and Employability Service can help you with career planning and offer you guidance on the way.
There are many opportunities within the University of Aberdeen to gain experience and build a competitive set of skills.
Enhancing your employability during your time with us is essential for your future career success.
Staff and students from the School of Geosciences discuss how their teaching and research is helping us understand contemporary global challenges, including sustainability and climate change.
Listen Now
I ultimately settled on Aberdeen because it offered a course that seemed to fit exactly what I was looking for.
A four year programme in Archaeology that had numerous opportunities to be hands-on and in the field.
Leading Pictish Archaeology in the news.
We encourage all of our students to participate in a University field project, although opportunities to work on approved digs and surveys outside of the University are also supported.
A group for all those studying Archaeology at the University of Aberdeen or for anyone who has an interest in the past.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/442/F421/archaeology:
This MA degree focuses on the humanities and social science side of archaeology.
Courses will cover subjects such as the origins of modern humans, colonisation of the north, history and theory of archaeology, Scottish archaeology and excavation and research skills.
You will develop the practical and research skills required to work as a professional archaeologist, taught and inspired by experts who are internationally recognised leaders in their fields, with many links and projects in areas of special interest overseas, such as Alaska.
You can then choose to specialise in archaeology in years 3 and 4, undertaking a Single Honours degree or you can continue studying Archaeology and another subject in a Joint Honours degree.
Plus 60 credit points from courses of choice, of which at least 30 credits must be from level 3 Archaeology courses.
Plus 60 credit points from courses of choice, of which at least 30 credits must be from level 4 Archaeology courses.
All students attend lectures, seminars, tutorials and laboratory-based practicals, and make a number of excursions to ancient monuments and museums in Scotland.
In the Honours years there is an emphasis on field and research skills, with a required fieldwork component.
A dissertation provides students with the opportunity to tackle an original piece of research.
Assessment is by means of written exams and different types of continuous assessment, depending on the course.
In the first year continuous assessment takes the form of essays, but in upper years it also includes critical reviews, posters, laboratory assignments, field notebooks and oral presentations.
Archaeology at Aberdeen has a northern focus unique in the UK, covering the heritage of Scotland, Scandinavia, northern Europe, the North Atlantic and the northern latitudes of Asia and North America.
Aberdeen is at the heart of a region that is among the richest in the UK in terms of sites of outstanding archaeological interest and is in close proximity to the World Heritage sites in Orkney.
Opportunities to participate in outstanding national and international department-led field research projects, from Aberdeenshire to Alaska, and receive practical training in survey, excavation and documentation methods.
Field-based teaching and study visits to local archaeological sites, monuments and museums.
The broad- based nature of the discipline enables graduates to compete strongly in the market place.
The analytical and communications skills acquired by Archaeology graduates make them sought- after in a wide variety of fields including commerce, research and a range of professions.
Our staff are prominent researchers and fieldworkers in Northern Europe, Scandinavia, the North Atlantic and the circumpolar region from Siberia to the Canadian arctic.
Closer to home, the archaeology of Scotland is a natural priority.
Spanning the humanities and physical sciences, our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes offer a complete archaeological education with a distinctive northern flavour.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/2028/FQ44/archaeology-and-gaelic-studies:
By combining the study of archaeology with Gaelic, you will have the opportunity to explore the culture, history and language of Scotland through a unique and interdisciplinary lens.
Gaelic is an integral part of Scotland's cultural heritage, with a rich history that spans centuries.
This joint program not only provides students with a deeper understanding of Gaelic history, but also equips them with the relevant professional and theoretical skills needed for their future research paths and careers, including archaeology and heritage but also as educators and contributors to living Gaelic culture.
You will explore the richness of the archaeological record in historically Gaelic cultural regions by combining the study of Gaelic with archaeology.
You will have the opportunity to explore the language and culture of Gaelic Scotland through a unique and interdisciplinary lens, while your Archaeology courses will actively shape your understanding of human development through fieldwork and discovery.
This joint programme not only provides you with a deeper understanding of Gaelic history but also equips you with the relevant professional and theoretical skills needed for a career in a range of areas, including archaeology and heritage but also as educators and contributors to living Gaelic culture.
You will also be well-prepared for further studies and research.
Plus select one of the following options:
Gaelic Beginner
Gaelic Intermediate/Advanced
Plus 45 credits from Level 1 courses of choice for a total of 120 credits.
Plus further credit points from Level 3 course(s) in Archaeology to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline.
If you intend to take your dissertation in Archaeology you must take Archaeological Research Project Part I (AY3512) in Level 3.
Plus a further 30 credit points from Level 3 course(s) in Gaelic to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline.
Select one of the following dissertation options:
Plus further credit points from Level 4 course(s) in Archaeology and Gaelic to gain a total of 60 credits in each discipline
Your studies will include field-based teaching and visits to local archaeological sites, monuments, and museums.
You will have the opportunity to participate in outstanding national and international department-led field research projects, from Aberdeenshire to Alaska, and receive practical training in survey, excavation and documentation methods.
A warm welcome for students whatever your level of Gaelic, and long-standing experience in teaching this fascinating language to complete beginners.
SQA:
Higher English and N5 Mathematics or Applications of Mathematics required as part of the entry requirements.
See detailed entry requirements for more information.
Standard : BBBB from S4 and S5.
Those seeking to qualify over S5 and S6 will be expected to exceed this minimum.
Adjusted : BBBC by the end of S6 those who meet one or more Widening Access criteria.
NOTE : We require a minimum of 4 separate SCQF Level 6 subjects.
A Levels:
A Levels: BBC   English and Mathematics as below.
International Baccalaureate:
Minimum of 32 points including at least 5, 5, 5 at HL.
SL in Maths/Maths Studies at 4 or above.
HL in English at 5 or above.
IRISH LEAVING CERTIFICATE/ARDTEISTIMEIREACHT
Four subjects at Higher, with one at H2 and three at H3.
Must have English at H3 minimum and Maths at O4 minimum.
English and Mathematics Entry Requirements
All students are required to fulfil the English and Mathematics entry requirements for entry to our MA Primary Education degree, in addition to those mentioned above.
These can be accessed here .
UNIVERSITY GRADUATES:
Aberdeen is ranked 3rd in the UK for Anthropology and Archaeology (Guardian University Guide 2025) and in the Global Top 100 for Archaeology (QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025)
There were 1,397 Gaelic speakers in Aberdeenshire (2011 Census) with earliest written example from monastery of Deer circa 12th century.
Gaelic was widely spoken across the British Isles at one time.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/443/FV41/archaeology-and-history:
Archaeology and History are perfectly matched subjects and ideal for students who have an interest in the past.
Combining the subjects allows you to develop a far stronger understanding key areas that interest you specifically.
Aberdeen historians have expertise in areas as diverse as medieval Scandinavia, early-modern Poland and modern East Asia.
The department fosters individual and collaborative scholarly endeavour, and the work of its members forms four concentrations of research activity:
Select 30 credit points from Level 1 History/Art History courses
Plus 45 credit points from courses of choice.
Select a further 60 credit points from Level 2 courses in History.
Plus further credit points from level 3 course(s) in Archaeology to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline.
Architecture can be a synonym for power.
Castles that loom over the landscape, the country house and its links with the British Empire and the Victorian prisons designed to incarcerate and extinguish hope.
This course takes a thematic approach to the history of architecture to examine the institutions that define our landscapes and cities.
Far from being neutral blocks of stone, brick and wood, the architecture of power is designed to define the ways we navigate the world, to intimidate and to reinforce institutions and power structures.
The course will involve each student working individually on a historical project of his or her own choice, under the supervision of the course co-ordinator.
This course examines the use of art as a tool for propaganda, diplomacy and education in England between 1520 and 1640.
It explores how paintings were commissioned, created and consumed in a world of changing religious and political circumstances, and considers the role of art in both consolidating and challenging power.
Case studies range from Queen Elizabeth I’s construction of a distinct visual identity as a female monarch, and Peter Paul Rubens’ creation of a grand mural scheme for King Charles I, to the function of jewel-like portrait miniatures, and the recording through pictures of the first encounters between English colonialists and Indigenous American peoples.
Also, select ONE special subject (HI40XX) listed below.
Plus select further credit points from level 4 course(s) in Archaeology to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline.
You can enter a career in archaeology or history or a combination of both sets of knowledge to specialise in teaching, research and consultancy work globally.
Equally you may work in the heritage sector, charities, or a wide range of essential professions in all sectors.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/444/FV43/archaeology-and-history-of-art:
Do you love looking at artefacts, museums and world heritage sites, or your local folk museum?
Are you intrigued by how we lived and designed homes, and the decorative and functional items in them, throughout ages, countries and cultures to survive and flourish?
Combine the study of Archaeology with Art History to understand in detail artefacts and art history throughout major ages.
Aberdeen is ranked 3rd in the UK for Archaeology and Anthropology (Guardian University Guide 2025)
The MA Archaeology route focuses on the humanities and social science side of archaeology.
Courses in Archaeology will cover subjects such as the origins of modern humans, colonisation of the north, history and theory of archaeology, Scottish archaeology and excavation and research skills.
Research-led teaching situates European art in its global connectedness and its full complexities, while practical engagement with artworks beyond the classroom develops and enhances both vocational and transferable skills.
You could work globally in galleries and archaeology sites, teaching and communicating knowledge globally.
This course discusses key works and movements in the history of art from c.
1800 to today.
It serves as an introduction to one of the most dynamic and multifaceted chapters in art history.
Topics to be discussed may range from the Pre-Raphaelites and the rise of abstraction to contemporary performance art.
The course will also consider the global intersections of Western art, aiming to de-centre our understanding of what counts as 'modern'
This course provides an introduction to the history and theory of fashion, one of the most dynamic, intriguing and influential artforms.
From premodern tailoring to contemporary pret-a-porter, costume design and creative subcultures: the course surveys a wide range of ever-changing fashion trends, and asks what they tell us about identities, aesthetics, and popular culture.
This course explores art history in the Western world from antiquity to the nineteenth century.
We examine the artistic production of distinct historical periods, with reference to their social, religious, political and cultural contexts, and consider art history’s use of specific labels and chronologies, from Classical and Medieval, to Renaissance, Baroque, and Romantic art.
Collecting, like art-making, is a universal human activity.
This introductory course takes you on a journey through the history of collecting, from early modern cabinets of curiosities, over the origins of the modern art museum, to questions of curation in the digital age.
We will explore how changing modes of display affect our perception and understanding of artworks.
The course also addresses key debates on the practice and ethics of museums, on restitution and decolonisation.
‘Art’ is a controversial category.
In museums, you might see urinals and cardboard boxes exhibited – but what earns them this accolade?
Is it about skill?
Creativity?
Beauty?
Who decides what counts as ‘good’ art?
And why are museums full of stuff made by white men?
This course discusses these and related questions.
It will introduce you to a wide range of historical definitions of art, and discuss key works, from antiquity to Instagram - many of which challenged the boundaries of ‘art’.
This course focuses on how artworks are made.
Students will be introduced to a wide range of materials, techniques and processes over the centuries relating to paintings, prints, drawings, sculpture, photography and more.
Each method and material will be examined using case-study examples, with discussion opening out to issues of the agency of materials and media and their cultural logics.
In doing so, students will learn how artistic intentions are shaped and determined by material qualities.
Plus one of the following:
AH 3501 Curation: Theory and Practice
AH 3515  Women Writing Art History, c.
1850-1970
AH 3517  Painting in Tudor and Early Stuart England
AH 3012 Surrealism and its Legacies in Contemporary Art
AH 3014 Architecture and Power
NOTE: If you intend to take your dissertation in Archaeology you must take AY 3512 Archaeological Research Project Part I in level 3.
This course focuses on the theory and practice of curation, making use of the internationally renowned University Museums and Special collections, which include artworks and material culture from the earliest times to the present day.
The course comprises a series of seminars covering topics, including museum and exhibition history, object selection, exhibition texts and education, which prepare the ground for student curatorial teams to design an exhibition proposal.
The course is assessed by portfolio work, a presentation and a position paper.
It is co-taught by Art History and Museums and Special Collections.
The history of art history is often presented as a story of 'great men' and 'great ideas'.
However, since the nineteenth century, the discipline was shaped decisively by female professionals who researched, published, and curated in various capacities.
The course aims to uncover their contribution to the development of the discipline, with a special focus on the history of art history in Britain.
Surrealism was one of the most significant international avant-garde movements of the twentieth century (1924-1968) and has interdisciplinary reach as a theory of knowledge and mode of political activism making it pertinent to study today.
This course introduces the core themes and activities of this vibrant art and literary history.
Through study of key examples, students hone understandings of Surrealism’s enduring impact on, and practical manifestation in, early twenty-first century culture, from contemporary art to social justice campaigns #MeToo and Black Lives Matter.
One of the following:
AH 4011 Art and the City
AH 4012 Surrealism and its Legacies in Contemporary Art
AH 4014 Architecture and Power
AY 4510 Current Issues in Archaeology
AND:
AH 4518 History of Art Dissertation
AY 4002 Archaeological Research Project Part II (with AY3512 as pre-requisite)
Plus further credit points from level 4 course(s) in Archaeology and History of Art to gain a total of 60 credits in each discipline.
This course focuses on the physical and social contexts for the production and consumption of works of art and architecture.
At the core of this course is a subsidised fieldtrip to a European city, allowing for an in-depth study of the urban contexts of art across time.
Seminars and the fieldtrip will discuss themes such as urbanism, the specificities of public and private, sacred and profane spaces, and histories of collecting.
Your dissertation is intended to give you the opportunity to carry out a piece of sustained research on a topic of your own choice and to demonstrate to the examiners your ability to present the results of such research in a proper, scholarly manner.
Your research may be of various kinds.
It may address works of art (or a single work of art) directly, through first-hand study in galleries, museums, or private collections, or it may be of a more literary kind, addressing critical or theoretical problems.
Or it might involve both.
Students are assessed by a combination of assessment methods including:
In addition, all Honours students submit a dissertation.
There are many career options open to you within Archaeology and Art History.
An archaeology degree could lead you to work for the civil service globally, specific heritage attractions or teach and provide research.
By working in partnership with local collections and cultural institutions, Art History students at Aberdeen gain desirable vocational skills preparing them for future careers.
Our Art History alumni have gone on to work in museums and galleries, the art trade and auction houses, fine art and building conservation, publishing, journalism, libraries and universities.
There are many opportunities at the University of Aberdeen to develop your knowledge, gain experience and build a competitive set of degree-specific and transferable skills to enhance your employability.
The Careers and Employability Service can help you to plan your career and support your choices throughout your time with us, from first to final year and beyond.
1st in the UK for Positive Responses in Art History* *as part of History of Art, Architecture and Design

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/1059/archaeology:
The Certificate in Archaeology combines elements of the humanities, social sciences and sciences.
Courses will cover subjects such as the origins of modern humans, the prehistory of Britain, lifeways and culture changes in the northern world as well as Scottish archaeology.
What is more, through the university’s online platform, the Certificate offers flexibility for students who have other day-time commitments or who live away from Aberdeen.
More information about archaeology at Aberdeen can be found through the Department of Archaeology website .
Select EITHER:
Here in Scotland we have a world-class record of past human society.
From the spectacularly preserved Neolithic settlement of Skara Brae to 19th century clearance villages, this course explores the broad sweep of Scottish prehistoric and historic archaeology.
In lectures and a day long study trip students will get an in-depth insight into the archaeology of Scotland and will explore some of the major issues in human history: the origins of agriculture and monumentality, worldview and belief in the north, settlement and social structure, urbanism and the emergence of the modern world.
Plus EITHER:
Landscapes may
be quantitative or qualitative; they can be explored with scientific
instruments, using our bodies or in our imagination.
This course investigates
the key concept of landscape and its relationship to archaeological research
across a broad range of cultural and historical contexts.
The course is
organized around thematic lectures and culminates in an interactive 3-day study
trip to the Orkney Isles.
What can archaeology tell us about the lives of people who lived in times and places dominated by written records?
Contrary to popular perception 'history' is not all in the books!
Historical Archaeology provides us with an alternative means of studying historical people, periods and places through the things that people left behind.
If historians study historic documents to shed light on the past, historical archaeologists use artefacts and information from the natural environment to do this.
Students who take this course will not only learn the methods of historical archaeology but how they can be applied to some of the most significant issues to have shaped the medieval and modern periods; from diet and disease to social status and gender; and from the rise of nations and nationalism to capitalism and globalisation.
However, these may be subject to change - see our Amendments to Programmes and Courses document .
Please note: Final examinations must be taken either on-campus or at an approved location off-campus at the same time.
Applicants applying within 5 years of leaving school will normally be expected to produce evidence of at least four Higher passes at grade B or better, BBB at A Level, an HNC with at least a B in the graded unit, or equivalent qualifications.
Applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis by the University Admissions team.
Should your programme necessitate a visit to the University you may find the following information helpful.
Immigration and Student Visas .
UK Government visa advice pages .
90% of Archaeology research at Aberdeen was ranked as world-leading or internationally excellent by REF 2021.
Staff changes will occur from time to time.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/498/5V6Q/archaeology-and-celtic-anglo-saxon-studies:
Celtic & Anglo-Saxon Studies and Archaeology at Aberdeen adds to your exploration of the lives and legacy of the Celtic, Anglo-Saxon, and Scandinavian peoples within a broad study of human activity.
Aberdeen has been a centre for Celtic studies for more than a century, and leads research in all aspects of the northern polar regions including its peoples.
You will study literature, culture, history and languages, inspired by leading specialists in the history and literature of Britain, Ireland and Scandinavia in the Middle Ages, in medieval Celtic and Scandinavian literature, and the cultural history of Ireland and Anglo-Saxon England.
Celtic & Anglo-Saxon Studies focuses on the history, culture and literature of the Celtic and Anglo-Saxon worlds.
The programme also includes several language options and courses on Celtic literature in the modern age.
Taught by leading inter-disciplinary research staff, you will benefit from being taught by world-leading experts in the Celtic and Anglo-Saxon fields.
Songs, Myths and Hero-tales of the Old North: an Introduction to Early Celtic and Anglo-saxon Literature (CE1037)
Select at least two of the following courses:
Plus select further credit points from courses of choice to a total of 120 credits.
This course gives you an exciting introduction to the Celtic and Germanic worlds.
In lectures and small-group tutorials, we will explore the peoples who inhabited western and central Europe in Antiquity.
We will discuss their cultures and their interactions with Greece and Rome.
The course also covers the fates of these cultures in the post-Roman world.
Change over time will provide a major driver of the course: for instance, empire and its effect; the history and impact of the "barbarian"; the successive impacts of Roman religion and of Christianity, and how they were represented in mediaeval "heroic" literature.
This course gives students an introduction to the modern Irish language.
It covers basic conversation skills, and the structures of the language, through the use of songs, videos and speaking practice in class.
It is open to those with little or no knowledge of the language.
This course provides an introduction to Gaelic Ireland from the eighteenth century to the present, a period of great historical trauma but also of unrivalled literary expression across many genres, from courtly poetry to the folk song, the autobiography and the novel.
Reference will be made throughout to the political upheavals in which Gaelic Ireland was refashioned, alongside other key themes including the changing status of the Irish language, and Ireland's relationship with the rest of Europe.
Though much Gaelic writing of this period closely reflect the bleakness of history, it has also been a vehicle for joyful affirmation, comedy, and tragic grandeur and resilience.
The year 793: a surprise viking attack on the peaceful monastic island of Lindisfarne.
This raid is often considered to mark the beginning of the so-called Viking Age, a time of turbulence and transformation with repercussions throughout Europe and beyond.
This period saw violence and warfare, cultural contact and religious conversion, political overhaul, and literary and artistic creativity.
As well as critically interrogating the concepts of the ‘viking’ and the ‘Viking Age’, this course provides an introduction to key themes and topics in the study of early Scandinavia, c.
800-1200.
This survey course is an introduction to Scottish Gaelic literature from the 17th century to the modern day.
Scottish Gaelic has one of Europe's oldest secular literatures and this is an exciting choice for anyone with an interest in Scotland's history, literature and culture: it is taught using translated texts and originals for those whose Gaelic language is good enough.
Students will gain new perspectives on key areas of Scottish society such as Jacobitism, the Clearances, the Highland Land Wars, the Celtic Twilight Movement and the Gaelic renaissance in the modern period.
This course is suitable for anyone in Programme Year 2 with an interest in Scottish society.
NOTE: If you intend to take your dissertation in Archaeology you must take  Archaeological Research Project Part I (AY3512) in level 3.
Plus select further credit points from level 3 courses in Archaeology to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline.
Plus 60 credit points of level 3 Celtic & Anglo-Saxon courses.
*Duplicate versions of these courses are available in levels 3 and 4 but only one version may be taken.
This course will provide an introduction to the language of the Anglo-Saxons.
It will focus on grammatical study of the language, and translating basic Anglo-Saxon passages into modern English.
It will be based on a new version of the Old English course designed by Dr Duncan Macrae-Gibson, an eminent Anglo-Saxonist and inspirational lecturer at Aberdeen.
This 21st-century version of the course (published by Aberdeen University Press) will include traditional and online elements.
The course will give students the opportunity to begin learning the language in which 'Beowulf' and many other fascinating poems and prose texts were composed.
This course introduces students to the Gaelic language and society of the early modern period c1200-c1700.
Students will learn to read short texts in the original language (with help); students will also read translated texts and scholarly materials about historical and cultural topics of that period.
This course will provide the opportunity for self-motivated students to pursue in-depth exploration of a specific topic in Celtic and/or Anglo-Saxon Studies.
It gives students an opportunity for intensive engagement in a specific area within the research field of an individual staff member, and can be arranged as preparatory work towards a dissertation.
The content of this course varies depending on the topic chosen, but the course focuses on enhancing the student's knowledge and research skills in the specified topic.
Students interested in taking the course MUST discuss their specific interest before the course begins with a possible supervisor and with the Programme Co-ordinator (Aideen O'Leary).
Are heroes always a good thing?
Medieval Gaelic legendary narrative offers no simple answers.
Its rich and hugely entertaining body of heroic sagas dramatizes the feuds, loves and fatal flaws of great men and women of medieval Ireland and Scotland, to reflect on urgent questions about royal and aristocratic conduct.
Storylines studied will include cattle-raids, fights with saints, beheading competitions, family breakdowns, love-triangles, and people uprooting trees for no apparent reason.
This course will explore developments in religious beliefs and practices in the Celtic and Anglo-Saxon worlds (especially Scotland and Ireland) from 400 to 1200.
Topics included will include some or all of the following: conversion to Christianity, saints and monasteries, the production of saints’ Lives and other texts, heresies real and alleged, Culdee works and teachings, apocryphal texts and prophecies, the influence of canon law, effects brought about by Vikings, and the wide-ranging reforms of the twelfth century.
Plus further credit points from level 4 course(s) in Archaeology to gain a total of 60 credits in the discipline.
Plus further course(s) at Level 4 in Celtic & Anglo-Saxon Studies from the table below to gain 60 credit points in the discipline.
The Dissertation in Celtic & Anglo-Saxon Studies is for Senior Honours students registered in the Celtic & Anglo-Saxon Studies degree programme.
It will consist of approximately 3 one-hour tutorials, to provide students with guidance on selecting a suitable academic topic and developing a methodology for tackling this topic.
This 21st-century version of the course (published by Aberdeen University Press)  will include traditional and online elements.
The course provides a basic introduction to Old Gaelic, and is an exciting option for students who are interested in exploring the history of modern Scottish Gaelic, and/or curious about Celtic grammatical structures.
We will read some basic texts in the original language.
Any previous language study will be an advantage.
Old Gaelic is the earliest form of a Celtic language which we can reconstruct with some certainty.
It holds the key to the earliest vernacular literature north of the Alps, and is the earliest attested form of both Irish and Scottish Gaelic.
This course will provide the opportunity for students to pursue in-depth exploration of a specific topic in Celtic and/or Anglo-Saxon Studies.
The content of this course may vary, but the course focuses on enhancing the student's knowledge and research skills in the specified topic.
Students interested in taking the course should discuss their specific interest in advance, where possible, with the Programme Co-ordinator and a possible supervisor.
Graduates gain essential skills, which include critical thinking, oral and written communication, task management, and organised and disciplined working practices.
These skills are among the Graduate Attributes which students are encouraged to develop during their time at the University, and are crucial in a wide range of professional careers.
Our graduates work in a wide variety of areas in the arts and elsewhere, including heritage management, teaching, research, librarianship, enterprise and broadcasting.
Our courses in Celtic & Anglo-Saxon Studies and Archaeology are taught by experts in their field.
Your teachers will include, among others:
Aberdeen has the largest concentration of experts on early Scandinavia in the British Isles.
One of the oldest, most famous and liveliest student societies in the University.
The Society organises social and cultural events, including Welsh and Irish themed evenings and traditional music sessions.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/1991/QV43/language-linguistics-and-archaeology:
By studying Archaeology alongside Language and Linguistics, you will have a unique, wider range of learning and career opportunities.
This MA degree focuses on the humanities and social science side of Archaeology.
This course opens up new ways for students to think about language by introducing them to the fundamentals of English linguistics.
Students will learn how to identify and analyse the major "building blocks" of language in phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, and pragmatics.
Examples for illustration and discussion will be drawn from varieties of English spoken in the British Isles and worldwide, with lectures and tutorials geared to providing students with an active vocabulary with which to discuss language, and essential tools with which to analyse its structure and function.
Plus two courses from the following LN courses (see note 3 below):
Plus further courses of choice to make up 120 credit points
NOTE: If you intend to take your dissertation in Archaeology you must take  AY 3512 Archaeological Research Project Part I in level 3.
Plus 60 credit points from level 3 courses in Language and Linguistics.
Plus further credit points from level 4 course(s) in Archaeology and Language & Linguistics to gain a total of 60 credits in each discipline

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/subject-areas/377/history-of-art:
We offer a range of Art History degrees which you can read more about below.
Art History at Aberdeen achieves regular plaudits for its high rates of student satisfaction.
Join us for an outstanding student experience at our beautiful historic campus in Old Aberdeen, inspired by academics whose specialisms include environmental and political art, exhibition history and curation, theory and historiography, from the medieval period to the present day.
We believe strongly in the benefits of first-hand engagement with artworks and architecture, with fieldtrips to galleries, museums and heritage collections taking place at every level of study.
Students on our third-year course ‘Curation: Theory and Practice’ work in groups to pitch exhibition proposals to museum professionals using materials from University Collections, while our fourth-year students have the opportunity to study, and then visit, a major European city, with recent destinations including Florence and Berlin.
Complementing your studies, you can get involved with the student-led Art History society and undertake paid internships and volunteering opportunities within our nationally significant University Collections, and local arts organisations including Aberdeen Art Gallery, Grampian Hospitals Art Trust and Peacock Visual Arts.
And as a graduate, you will be ideally placed to pursue a career in the art gallery and museum sectors, arts education, auction houses, publishing and journalism, fine art conservation, or postgraduate study.
Our alumni work for employers including the National Galleries of Scotland, Craft Northern Ireland, University of St Andrews Museums & Special Collections, Historic Environment Scotland, and Lyon & Turnbull and Christie’s auction houses.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/743/V350/history-of-art:
The Art History programme at the University of Aberdeen encompasses the study of art, architecture, and curation, covering various media and techniques.
Beyond the classroom, you can get involved with the student-led Art History society and undertake paid internships and volunteering opportunities within our nationally significant University Collections, and local arts organisations including Aberdeen Art Gallery, Grampian Hospitals Art Trust and Peacock Visual Arts.
As a graduate, you will be ideally placed to pursue a career in the art gallery and museum sectors, arts education, auction houses, publishing and journalism, fine art conservation, or postgraduate study.
Art History at Aberdeen explores the artistic disciplines in Europe within its global networks.
The programme offers a research-led introduction to the analysis of artworks and architecture up until the present day, with an emphasis on comparative thinking and theoretical reflection.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of artworks and their historical contexts and will develop cutting-edge analytical skills by studying topics such as Classical Greek art, Renaissance altarpieces, modern and contemporary photography, and British and Scottish painting.
By focusing on work with local collections we also aim to teach students relevant vocational skills, in order to train and educate the next generation of art history professionals.
Select further courses of choice to make up 120 credit points.
Plus further courses of choice to make up 120 credit points.
Two of the following:
Case studies range from Queen Elizabeth I's construction of a distinct visual identity as a female monarch, and Peter Paul Rubens' creation of a grand mural scheme for King Charles I, to the function of jewel-like portrait miniatures, and the recording through pictures of the first encounters between English colonialists and Indigenous American peoples.
In first year, students attend lectures and tutorials and may undertake tutor-led visits.
In second year, students attend lectures, and tutorials and work in small groups to give group presentations.
Honours courses are generally taught in seminars held twice a week.
A dedicated fieldwork course includes independent and tutor-led field trips.
In first year, students attend lectures and tutorials, as well as tutor-led visits, and undertake a combination of essays, reflective reports and visual-based assessments.
In second year, students attend lectures and tutorials and engage in collections-based learning.
Assessments include posters, source analyses, essays and presentations.
At Honours level, students are assessed by essays, book reviews, reflective reports and presentations.
In addition, all students submit a dissertation.
The Art History programme at Aberdeen examines art, architecture and visual and material cultures, including fashion, in Europe and its wider global networks.
Our research-led teaching emphasises critical thinking, theoretical engagement and reflection, enabling you to develop key analytical skills across your degree programme.
By working in partnership with local collections and cultural institutions, our students gain desirable vocational skills preparing them for future careers in relevant sectors.
Our alumni have gone on to work in museums and galleries, the art trade and auction houses, fine art and building conservation, publishing, journalism, libraries and universities.
We rank 1st in Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland for Overall Satisfaction in Art History.
Aberdeen is the ideal location to study Art History.
You will have access to both the city's galleries and museums, and the University’s nationally significant collections of art and cultural artefacts.
Based at the heart of our historic King’s College campus, the department is recognised for its high levels of student satisfaction, and its commitment to object-based learning and experiences beyond the classroom.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/1869/RV34/history-of-art-and-spanish-latin-american-studies:
Art History and Spanish & Latin American Studies at Aberdeen bring together a thorough grounding in a modern European language and culture with the study of art, architecture, and curation, covering a wide range of media and techniques, at a top-rated university for student satisfaction in Art History.
You will gain great specialist and transferable skills to add to your language and open up a range of exciting career options.
Aberdeen is one of the most dynamic places to study the Spanish language and the cultural frameworks in countries where it is spoken.
We’ll equip you with the skills to communicate in a global language, spoken by 350 million native Spanish speakers in 19 Latin American states, the Spanish Peninsula, and increasingly in the US.
You’ll also study historical, anthropological, literary and cultural texts, films and visual culture of Spain and the Latin American countries.
You’ll complement this with research-led teaching situating European art in its global connectedness and its full complexities, while practical engagement with artworks beyond the classroom will develop and enhance both vocational and transferable skills.
Join us for an outstanding experience in an Art History department recognised for its high levels of student satisfaction, inspired by academics whose specialisms include environmental and political art, exhibition history and curation, theory and historiography, from the medieval period to the present day.
Plus select:
Plus further credit points from courses of choice to reach 120 credit points.
Second half-session to be spent in Spain or Latin America
Select ONE of the following:
Select 45 credits of Level 3 Spanish and Latin American Studies courses
Choose ONE dissertation course option:
Also, select ONE of the following:
Also, select further courses of Level 4 Spanish and Latin American Studies to gain 60 credits in the discipline.
Plus select 30 credit points in Level 4 Art History if required.
Students are assessed by a combination of assessment methods, including:
Why Art History
Our graduates gain essential skills, including critical thinking, oral and written communication, task management and organised and disciplined working practices, which are crucial in a wide range of professional careers.
By working in partnership with local collections and cultural institutions, Art History students at Aberdeen develop desirable vocational awareness, preparing them for future careers.
There are many opportunities at the University of Aberdeen to develop your knowledge, gain experience and build a competitive set of both degree-specific and transferable skills to enhance your employability.
The Careers and Employability Service can help you to plan your career and support your choices throughout your time with us, from first to final year, and beyond.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/744/VVH6/history-of-art-and-theology-religious-studies:
Art History and Theology & Religion at Aberdeen enable you to study art, architecture, and curation, situating European art in its global connectedness and its full complexities, together with the fascinating exploration of the origin, function, and meaning of religion, examining and comparing the major religions across the world, with special focus on Christian faith in historic and contemporary contexts.
The undergraduate programme in Art History at Aberdeen achieves regular plaudits for its student satisfaction rates.
Studying Theology & Religion, you’ll gain a sound understanding of the major religious traditions of the world, including their historical development and contemporary importance, with a special focus on Christian faith, life and doctrine in its historical, institutional and contemporary context.
You’ll study biblical languages, the history of the church in the West, the Reformation in Scotland, the role of religion in ethical and political debates, and religious aspects of disability.
As a graduate, you’ll have the specialist and the transferable academic skills to be highly employable in a wide range of roles, whether you choose to specialise in church ministry and related roles, art gallery and museum sectors, or many other careers for which your skills will be invaluable.
Select at least 60 credit points from level 1 in Divinity or the following approved courses:
Also, select further courses of choice to make up 120 credit points.
Select ONE course from the options below, plus a further 60 credit points from level 2 courses in Divinity.
This course focuses on ten art objects, mapping the wealth and diversity of art historical research: from iconic 'masterpieces' to popular imagery, votive objects and craft.
Works discussed may range from the Parthenon marbles and Velazquez' 'Las Meninas' to wax penises and pub signs.
Each case study introduces different questions and approaches for discussing art objects: a series of lessons in critical interpretation.
Plus, select ONE of the following:
Plus, select 60 credit points from course(s) from level 3 courses in Divinity.
Throughout the 19th century, countless artists travelled to Greece in search for the splendours of antiquity.
Many were disappointed by the rugged and mountainous country -
but for many Scottish travellers Greece proved surprisingly similar to their homeland.
We will focus on these Scottish artists and antiquaries travelling to Greece, and their experiences.
The course is based on the study of material in Aberdeen collections, serving also as hands-on training in work with primary sources.
This module develops students' knowledge and understanding of early modern European painting, providing a chronological overview of elite portraiture and diplomatic commissions in England between 1530 and 1650.
Artists studied in their English contexts include Hans Holbein, Nicholas Hilliard, Peter Paul Rubens and Anthony Van Dyck.
Furthermore, this module asks important questions about the persuasive and diplomatic possibilities of the visual arts, the relationship between painter and patron, and the impact and legacy of foreign artists on British painting and visual culture through the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries and beyond.
Select ONE of the following dissertation options:
Plus, select further credit points from level 4 Divinity courses to gain 60 credits in the discipline.
Select 30 credit points from level 4 Art History courses if required to gain 60 credits in the discpline.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/1993/VW33/art-history-and-music:
You can study this degree programme with Music to give you a unique range of learning experiences and career opportunities.
You will benefit from first-class facilities and instruments and unrivalled opportunities to grow as a musician and performer, be part of the vibrant musical scene in north-east Scotland and have options to specialise in teaching music or working with music in community settings.
This course will examine key ideas and methodologies in music studies, incorporating approaches from a range of ‘disciplines’ such as musicology, ethnomusicology, performance studies, music education and community music.
We will discuss a diverse range of topics including: cross cultural definitions of music; the role of music in society; different methodological approaches to the study of music history; how music is learnt in different places and times; and the relationship between music, economics and technology.
The course will draw on case studies from musics both within the ‘western’ canon (such as European art music and popular music), as well as musical traditions from across the globe.
Select TWO from the courses listed below plus, additional credits to make up a total of 120 credit points.
This course will engage students in practical music making, developing skills in performing and composing.
Students will receive 10 hours of tuition with a specialist instrumental / vocal tutor, and attend lectures on genre, performance style, composing / arranging techniques, rehearsal etiquette, and stagecraft.
In groups of 5-8 performers, students attend a series of rehearsal sessions, where they will plan and manage a group creative project, culminating in a 10-minute performance as part of a mini festival in December.
Students will be expected to attend concerts, join an ensemble, and participate in occasional workshops.
Combining key components in digital technology and musicianship, Digital Musicianship encourages music students to acquire basic digital skills that will help them explore a wide range of music making in the 21st century, through skill building in the applications of technology to the discipline of Music.
This hands-on, project-based course introduces basic knowledge in digital music technology, and key issues related to the music making in the 21st century.
Building on “Performing and Composing 1”, this course will guide students to developing their own range of interests in creative musical practice.
Students will work towards a portfolio of creative outputs, which can include a range of compositions and musical arrangements, and recordings of solo / ensemble performances.
Students receive 10 hours of one-to-one tuition on their chosen instrument / voice, and attend lectures and tutorials focussing variously on issues related to performance, composition, and music technology.
In this course, basic concepts of Western tonal music such as primary triads, cadences, idiomatic chord progressions, and voice leading are taught using exercises in harmonic analysis, figured bass, and part writing.
More advanced concepts such as secondary dominants and chromatically-altered chords are also introduced.
In parallel to lectures and seminars, students will work with software designed to reinforce key concepts such as clefs, intervals, key signatures, and scale structures.
In this course you will explore ways of writing and talking about music.
Lectures will focus on recent work in music studies, showcasing the kind of scholarship you will encounter later in your degree.
Tutorials will provide opportunities for experimenting in a range of formal and informal styles, working both individually and in small groups.
By the end of the course you will gain a deeper understanding of both established writing conventions and emerging forms of multi-media communication.
Plus, select 45 credits in level 2 Music courses, including AT LEAST ONE from the following:
The following course is an approved option that may be taken as credit towards the Music component:
Select additional credits to make up a total of 120 credit points.
This course introduces students to the principal aspects of Scottish oral traditions from historical times to the present.
It should appeal to both international and local students who are interested in learning more about traditional culture in Scotland, as well as the disciplines of Ethnology, Folklore, and Ethnomusicology.
Students will develop a critical awareness of form and structure in music by studying various approaches to musical analysis.
The course will draw on a range of analytical methods and musical genres, such as functional harmony and classical form, pitch-class set theory, rhetoric in music, and computer-aided analysis.
This course offers students an introduction to the field of ethnomusicology, including the historical development of the field, how to conduct fieldwork and some of the field’s key theoretical perspectives.
The course will introduce students to a range of musical traditions from around the world through case studies that demonstrate the close relationship between music, society and culture (topics include nationalism, colonialism, identity, race and globalisation).
Teaching will take the form of lecture-seminars, reading group sessions and tutorials.
The course also has a strong practical element where students will have the opportunity to conduct ethnomusicological fieldwork including ethnographic interviews.
Ranging widely across space and time, this course introduces some of the reasons and methods for studying the musical past in a global context.
Students will encounter case studies from across world history, with lectures summarising key topics and tutorials allowing for deeper discussion.
Students will also consider how historical knowledge about music is itself the product of a global past and will be encouraged to question how we tell the stories of those who made music before us.
One of the following 30 credit courses:
As well as one of the following 30 credit courses:
Select 60 credit points from level 3 Music courses, which may include the following approved options:
This course will explore practices and research from the fields of music, therapy, public health and medicine, to rigorously explore the relationship between music, health and wellbeing.
The course differs from its 15 credit counterpart through its extended work in conjunction with NHS Grampians Public Engagement team in the design and implementation of music, health and wellbeing interventions.
Music has been fundamental to the way that cinema tells stories.
Whether through a specially-composed soundtrack or through the careful selection of existing pieces, music cues characters, evokes a sense of place or atmosphere, be it suspense, horror, nostalgia, or romance.
This course will offer students the opportunity to critically engage with some of the most emblematic film soundtracks in the history of cinema.
This interdisciplinary course is suitable for students of Film & Visual Culture or Music.
You do not need to be experienced in the study of both subjects to take this course.
Eurovision is the largest musical event in the world, followed by 70 million people every year.
Since its beginnings in 1956, the concept of Eurovision has been changing over the years and through different historical periods, especially with regard to conflicts and European identity and sense of belonging.
The popularity of the event makes it globally recognized by the general public, but what is hidden behind the festival?
what meanings do the performances and visual representations have?
how are countries, different cultures and folklore represented?
Is Eurovision political?
How does Eurovision represent national identity?
The purpose of this course is to study the different representation methods offered by the Eurovision Song Contest through not only its history, but also analysing the most recent examples of the festival, focusing especially on the new millennium, with the arrival of new countries into the contest.
Select further credits in Art History and Music to gain a total of 60 credit points in each discipline.
The following courses are approved options that may be taken as credit towards the Music component:
Please note that a minimum of 90 credits must be taken at level 4.
This course will entail research work which will contribute to musicological understanding (at undergraduate level).
Students will research a topic of their own choice (subject to approval), demonstrating knowledge and understanding of their chosen subject matter in the form of a 10,000 word dissertation.
This course, taught jointly by staff in English and Music, explores the connections between literature and music.
How have these art forms informed or overlapped with one another?
What sorts of collaboration have taken place?
How might literary and musical studies work across disciplinary boundaries?
While the focus will be on the British nineteenth century, with case studies addressing different aspects of literary-musical interaction, there will be opportunities for students to address trans-historical theoretical issues and to research topics from other places and periods.
Why Music
Please Note: Candidates for a joint MA degree with Music are required to demonstrate a strong interest in the study of music in one or more of a range of disciplines including performance, composition, music technology, musicology, and community engagement.
G raded qualifications on instrument or voice are welcome but are not essential.
Performance studies will require audition on arrival.
We rank second in Scotland for Music.
Source: The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024.
We rank first in the UK for Overall Student Satisfaction in Art History*.
*as part of History of Art, Architecture and Design

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/511/7QV2/celtic-anglo-saxon-studies-and-history-of-art:
Art History and Celtic & Anglo-Saxon Studies add to your exploration of the lives and legacy of the Celtic, Anglo-Saxon and Scandinavian peoples and their art and visual culture, tracing artistic development forward to the present day.
Art History at Aberdeen has been rated first in the UK for positive responses, and first in Scotland for overall satisfaction, in the National Student Surveys for 2024, 2023 and 2022.
It is the perfect choice to gain specialist and transferable skills to open up a wide spectrum of exciting career opportunities.
Aberdeen has been a centre for Celtic studies for more than a century and leads research in all aspects of the northern polar regions including its peoples and the art they left behind.
You will study literature, culture, history and languages, inspired by leading specialists in the history and literature of Britain, Ireland and Scandinavia in the Middle Ages, in medieval Celtic and Scandinavian literature and the cultural history of Ireland and Anglo-Saxon England.
A degree in Celtic and Anglo-Saxon Studies and Art History is taught via a selection of compulsory and optional courses to enhance your learning and prepare you for a future career or further study.
In each year you will take courses adding up to 120 credits.
Depending on the number of compulsory and optional courses offered by your degree, you can also choose other eligible courses which fit your timetable.
This course will explore the rise and fall of Empires from the ancient world and beyond; examining to what extent religion, power struggles, conflict and politics impacted the shaping of an ancient Empire and the world today.
At least one of the following:
CE 1036 Modern Irish Language for Beginners
GH 1007 Gaelic for Beginners 1A
GH 1015 Gaelic Scotland
LT 1009 Latin 1
CE 1536 Modern Irish Language for Beginners 2
GH 1507 Gaelic for Beginners 1B
LT 1507 Latin 2
At least two of the following:
CE 2034 Arthur in Medieval Celtic and Scandinavian Literature
GH 2010 Otherworld: Lost Gods and Hidden Monsters of Medieval Scotland
AH 2001 What is Art?
CE 2536 The Celts, their Neighbours and the Classical World
DR 250A Ancient Empires: Religion, Power and Politics
EF 2501 Scottish Folklore and Oral Traditions
GH 2515 Triumph and Tragedy: A Literary and Historic Tour of Gaelic Scotland
HI 2526 Vikings: An Introduction
AH 2503  Art Matters: Materials and Techniques
Greek and Roman interactions with, and perceptions of, Celtic and Germanic peoples will form the central theme of this course.
We will analyse individual Classical authors' motives and judgments in relation to Celts and Germani, and how these perceptions evolved against the background of the emerging Roman Empire.
The course also involves discussion of broader themes and questions posed by the sources, e.g.
the portrayals of Celtic and Germanic peoples in Greek and Roman art, and the possible uses by Celtic and Anglo-Saxon literatures of Classical texts.
AH 3515 Women Writing Art History, c.
1850-1970 The Twelfth-Century Renaissance
60 credit points of level 3 Celtic & Anglo-Saxon courses:
AY 3009 Scottish Archaeology
CE 301E Celtic Scotland: Gaelic Cultural Moments Middle Ages to Present
CE 3047 Introduction to Old English Language
CE 3099 Independent Study in Celtic & Anglo-Saxon Studies A
GH 3028 Myths, Legends and Poetry of the Mediaeval Gales
CE 351D Decolonial England: Languages and Identities from 450 to the Present
CE 3599 Independent Study in Celtic & Anglo-Saxon Studies A
Students are asked to discuss their ideas with a possible supervisor in the first week of term.
In Autumn 2023 Dr Aideen O'Leary will teach Old English language under this course title, based on her new multimedia edition (with Dr Zhangfeng Xu) of the Aberdeen course Learning Old English by Dr Duncan Macrae-Gibson, available from Aberdeen University Press.
Europe’s earliest surviving body of vernacular literature was written by the Gaels of Ireland and Scotland, in their shared Old Gaelic language.
Recasting oral traditions in new literary forms, these stories and poems dramatize the passions, conflicts and convictions of mythological and legendary men and women.
They entertained and inspired mediaeval audiences and continue to enthral readers today.
We explore selected works in translation to uncover their purposes, meanings and artistry.
CE 4598 Dissertation in Celtic & Anglo Saxon Studies
OR: ** AH 4518 Dissertation in History of Art
** A candidate for whom “No Paper” is returned for AH 4518 Dissertation in History of Art will not normally be awarded an Honours degree.
Plus further course(s) of Level 4 Celtic & Anglo-Saxon Studies.
60 credits in the discipline:
CE 401E Celtic Scotland: Gaelic Cultural Moments Middle Ages to Present
CE 4047 Introduction to Old English Language
CE 4099 Independent Study in Celtic & Anglo-Saxon Studies B
GH 4028 Myths, Legends and Poetry of the Mediaeval Gales
CE 451D Decolonial England: Languages and Identities from 450 to the Present
CE 4599 Independent Study in Celtic & Anglo-Saxon Studies B
Plus 30 credit points in Level 4 Art History if required.
Our staff have a wealth of teaching experience gained from universities across the world.
We use a range of teaching styles, including introductory lectures, small-group tutorial discussions, student seminar presentations and intensive language classes.
A unique archive with over 45,000 original glass plate negatives made by this pioneer Victorian photographer.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/587/QV33/english-and-history-of-art:
English and Art History at Aberdeen combine all the advantages of the UK’s second most highly-rated research hub for English literature, language and creative writing, with an Art History department recognised for its high levels of student satisfaction.
You will study art, architecture, and curation, covering a wide range of media and techniques, and gain the skills to  explore a range of exciting career options.
Aberdeen is a leading centre for the study of literature, language and creative writing, rated second in the UK for its research output.
You will study poetry and prose through the dynamic relationship between author, reader, and literary text, covering every period from Chaucer to contemporary English, Scottish, Irish, European, and American writing, as well as the cultural and critical impact of powerful and controversial modern works.
You will be inspired by enthusiastic teachers and researchers, themselves acclaimed authors and poets and be encouraged to develop your creative writing skills.
Select ONE OR BOTH of the following:
Select one of the following from each:
Term 1:
AH3012: Surrealism and Its Legacies in Contemporary Art
AH3014: Architecture and Power
Term 2:
AH3501:  Curation: Theory and Practice
AH3515: Women Writing Art History, C.
AH3517: Painting in Tudor and Early Stuart England
Plus two courses chosen from two of the groups below:
Medieval/Renaissance Literature
Romantic/Victorian Literature
Contemporary/Modern Literature
Select further credit points from level 4 courses in English to gain 60 credits in the discipline.
Plus, select 30 credit points in level 4 Art History if required.
The exact mix of these methods differs between subject areas, year of study and individual
courses.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/612/WV63/film-visual-culture-and-history-of-art:
Art History and Film & Visual Culture at Aberdeen adds another dimension to your rigorous training in the history and theory of the moving image in the 21st century.
You will study art, architecture, and curation, covering a wide range of media and techniques, at a top-rated university for student satisfaction in Art History.
You will gain the skills to open up a range of exciting career options.
Our unique Film and Visual Culture programme combines close analysis of visual objects and artefacts – analogue and digital, moving and still, underground and mainstream – with theories of visual representation, production and circulation.
You will gain specialist knowledge and skills in the academic study of cinema, with an emphasis on building analytical skills in research and critical writing.
You will also have the opportunity to develop skills in digital video production and web design.
Select further credit points from courses of choice to reach 120 credit points.
Select further credit points from available level 4 course(s) in Film and Visual Culture to make up 60 credit points in the discipline.
Also, select 30 credit points in Level 4 Art History if required.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/633/VR31/french-and-history-of-art:
French and Art History at Aberdeen offers a thorough grounding in a modern European language and culture with the study of art, architecture, and curation, covering a wide range of media and techniques, at a top-rated university for student satisfaction in Art History.
Join us for an outstanding student experience at our beautiful historic campus in Old Aberdeen, inspired by academics whose specialisms include environmental and political art, exhibition history and curation, theory and historiography, from the medieval period to the twenty-first century.
FR 1031 French Culture and Society: From Occupation to Decolonisation
FR 1028 Beginners French Language 1
AH 1005 Introduction to Art History
AH 1002 Encountering Art: Museums through History
LA 1501 The Global City
FR 1528 Beginners French Language 2
AH 1503 Introduction to Modern and Contemporary Art
AH 1504 Fashion: History and Theory
FR 1029 Qualified French Language 1
FR 1529 Qualified French Language 2
PLUS ( FRENCH EX-BEGINNER AND FRENCH QUALIFIED):
FR 2016 Revolution and Revolt in Modern and Contemporary France
FR 2517 Decentering France: Social Movements and Cultural Transformation
AH 2503 Art Matters: Materials and Techniques
Term 2 is spent in a French speaking country.
FR 35ST Term 2 to be spent in a French Speaking Country - Studying
Term 2 to be spent in a French Speaking Country - Working
FR 3597 Work Experience: Employability Skills Development
FR 3596 Junior Honours Project 1
Plus 30 credit points of level 3 History of Art courses to be taken in half session 1.
FR 4097 Dissertation in French
AH 4518 Dissertation in History of Art
Plus 30 credits of level 4 Art History courses to make up 60 credits in the discipline if required.
Plus further credits of level 4 French courses to make up 60 credits in the discipline
Additionally, all Honours students are required to submit a dissertation.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/634/RV13/french-and-history-of-art-5-years:
Plus select further credit points from courses of choice to gain a total of 120 credits.
This course offers students who are registered for the Beginners' course in French language an introduction to twentieth and twenty-first century French culture and society through the study of films, short prose texts and poetry.
The course is organised around the broad themes of childhood and adolescence, gender, sexuality and love and marginalisation in contemporary France.
The texts will be studied in translation or with subtitles.
This course offers students with intermediate or good knowledge French language an introduction to twentieth and twenty-first century French culture and society through the study of films, short prose texts and poetry.
This course offers students who are registered for the beginners' course in French language an advanced introduction to twentieth and twenty-first century French and Francophone culture and society, focusing on the occupation of France during World War II and the experience of colonialism and post-colonialism.
Written texts will be studied in translation or with vocabulary help and films will be studied with subtitles.
This course offers students with intermediate or good knowledge French language an advanced introduction to twentieth and twenty-first century French and Francophone culture and society, focusing on the occupation of France during World War II and the experience of colonialism and post-colonialism.
Ex-beginner
Academic session spent in French-speaking country.
Plus, select further courses of level 3 French to make up 60 credit points.
Plus, select further credit points from level 4 French courses to make up 60 credits in the discipline.
Select 30 credits in level 4 Art History if required.
Candidates will write a dissertation of 8,000 words on a subject to be decided in consultation with the Course Co-ordinator, to be researched and written (under supervision by a member of staff) in the second half session of Junior Honours, and submitted at the beginning of Senior Honours.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/715/RV43/hispanic-studies-and-history-of-art-5-years:
As an integral part of your 5-year programme, you will spend the whole of year three taking your language and cultural skills to a very high level as a teaching assistant or visiting student in a Spanish-speaking country.
Also, select:
Also, select further courses of choice to gain a total of 120 credit points.
Plus select 45 credit points in Level 3 Spanish & Latin American Studies courses
Plus, select further courses in Level 4 Spanish & Latin American Studies to gain 60 credits in the discipline.
Also, select 30 credit points in Level 4 History if required.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/736/VV13/history-and-history-of-art:
Art History and History at Aberdeen is the perfect combination to immerse yourself in all aspects of human activity in the past, together with the study of art, architecture, and curation, covering a wide range of media and techniques and situating European art in its global connectedness and its full complexities.
You will gain valuable specialist and transferable skills to open up a range of exciting career options.
You will be enthused and inspired by teachers who are leaders in their fields, with expertise as diverse as medieval Scandinavia, early modern Poland and modern East Asia and enthralled by our wonderful collections of historic treasures collected by distinguished alumni over the centuries.
You will complement this with research-led teaching in Art History, emphasising critical thinking and theoretical engagement and reflection, delivered by academics whose specialisms include environmental and political art, exhibition history and curation, theory and historiography, from the medieval period to the present day.
Your specialist skills make you ideally placed to enter the art gallery and museum sectors, arts education, publishing and journalism, or fine art conservation.
Your language skills will open international opportunities, and your transferable skills, including teamwork, time management, and highly developed enquiry, analytical and presentational skills, will appeal to employers in all fields.
Plus 30 credit points from Level 1 History or Art History courses.
Plus 60 credit points from available Level 2 History courses
ONE of the following:
And ONE of the following
PLUS 30 credit points from Level 3 History courses OR History of Medicine (ME33HM)
Select one Special Subject course (listed below), worth 30 credits and starting HI 40XX
Plus 30 credit points of Level 4 Art History courses if dissertation taken in History.
Select a Special Subject course, plus 30 credit points of Level 4 Art History courses if the dissertation is taken in History.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/subject-areas/340/biochemistry:
We offer a range of Biochemistry degrees which you can read more about below.
Biochemistry lies at the interface between biology and medicine.
Whether it be single-celled bacteria or the trillions of cells found in humans, all of the fundamental processes of the cell happen at the biochemical level.
Understanding these processes can provide insights in to subjects ranging from the evolution of life to developing treatments for common conditions such as diabetes, cancer and obesity.
On any given day people who graduated with an Aberdeen biochemistry degree will be analysing water samples for pollution, designing new life saving medicines, producing new nanotechnologies, examining nutrient content in food and drink, helping people conceive in IVF clinics or selling scientific equipment to labs around the world.
This degree programme covers many areas of biochemistry at the molecular, cellular and organ system levels.
Additionally, you will gain an in depth understanding of selected aspects of biochemistry which will reflect the research expertise and strengths within the University.
5 year MSci degree
You have the opportunity to undertake a year's placement in an industrial, commercial or research environment and graduate after five years with an MSci (an undergraduate Masters degree) instead of a BSc.

New sentences found on https://abdn.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/degree-programmes/456/C700/biochemistry:
Understanding these processes can provide insights into subjects ranging from the evolution of life to developing treatments for common conditions such as diabetes, cancer and obesity.
On any given day people who graduated with an Aberdeen Biochemistry degree will be analysing water samples for pollution, designing new life-saving medicines, producing new nanotechnologies, examining nutrient content in food and drink, helping people conceive in IVF clinics or selling scientific equipment to labs around the world.
There is also the opportunity to complement this degree by undertaking a year's placement in an industrial, commercial or research environment and therefore graduating after five years with an MSci (an undergraduate Masters degree) instead of a BSc.
A degree in Biochemistry is taught via a selection of compulsory and optional courses to enhance your learning and prepare you for a future career or further study.
In year 1 you will take a mix of compulsory courses and courses of your choosing to gain a total of 120 credit points.
This course covers the foundations of chemistry that underpin the life sciences at a molecular level and is suitable for students with different backgrounds including little or no previous study of chemistry.
The basic concepts of quantitative chemistry will be covered, along with the different types of organic molecules, acids and bases, and the principles of kinetics and thermodynamics.
The relevance of the course materials to life science is emphasised throughout.
Laboratory classes introduce important practical techniques, with experiments that reinforce and complement the taught material.
The course will allow students to continue with other chemistry courses as part of their enhanced study by providing discipline breadth.
Chemistry plays a vital role in the life sciences, explaining the properties of biomolecules and how biological processes work at a molecular level.
Organic reaction mechanisms give insight into how different types of molecules can be synthesised and methods of chemical analysis introduce other important topics linking the chemical and life sciences.
The relationship between energy, entropy and equilibrium in driving reactions will be covered and the course concludes with a survey of the molecules of life – proteins, enzymes and sugars.
Laboratory classes complement lectures by consolidating learning and developing problem-solving and hands-on practical skills.
Select a further 60 credit points from available courses.
In year 2 you will take a mix of compulsory courses and courses of your choosing to gain a total of 120 credit points.
The Physiology of Human Organ Systems course aims to develop and integrated understanding of human organ structure and function through:
• innovative teaching approaches covering the digestive, cardiovascular, respiratory, renal and reproductive systems
• participation in practical classes where students act as subjects and investigators.
These will reinforce lecture material, develop scientific acumen and build team working skills
• focussed and interactive problem solving sessions applying knowledge to clinical scenarios, and developing fundamental skills critically required in the final years of the degree;
• informal teaching sessions where one-to-one staff-student interactions encourage discussion in a non-threatening environment
Select a further 15 credit points from available courses.
In Year 3 you will undertake four compulsory course and one elective course.
This Biochemistry course focuses on the role of proteins in cells, tissues and organisms.
It covers topics such as the role of proteins in catalysis of enzymatic reactions, in cell signalling, cell-cell interaction and cell shape and movement, and touches on the critical roles of selected proteins in human health.
Teaching is delivered by a combination of lectures, workshops and practicals.
Select one of the following courses:
Optional course:
5 Credit Points
The Honours year explores in depth, specific aspects of biochemistry.
An important feature is the ten-week research project, carried out in research laboratories.
In addition to compulsory courses, Honours candidates also take a general essay exam and problem-solving exam at the end of the year.
This course covers four main areas of advanced research-led molecular biology:
• Genome Organisation and Analysis• Proteins: Structure, Function and Engineering• Control of Gene Expression• Advanced Molecular Techniques
The course also teaches you about the scientific methods and discoveries that lie behind the above topics and covers detailed examples from the current scientific literature.
60 Credit Points
Data Analysis examination paper exclusively for students taking Medical Science degree programmes.
General Essay examination paper exclusively for students taking Medical Science degree programmes.
You will be taught using a variety of methods and styles and we continually seek to make the teaching engaging, exciting and responsive to the latest research in your subject area.
The research we carry out in the School directly informs and guides our teaching, particularly in the final Honours year.
Our commitment to teaching is recognised by the range of University of Aberdeen Student-led Teaching Awards given to staff from our School.
As a student, your learning is supported by MyAberdeen, our virtual learning environment from which you can access the lecture PowerPoint slides, online practice tests, links to related reading, and tutorial support material.
We make innovative use of 'educational voting' handsets in class, remote control 'clickers' that allow each and every student to electronically respond in class by anonymous vote to questions posed by the lecturer.
Your academic development is supported from year 1 through to year 4 by an assigned personal tutor, who acts as adviser and mentor throughout your University career.
Year 2 entry: Satisfactory completion of HNC Applied Sciences (120 SCQF credit points).
B in Graded Unit.
Year 3 entry: Satisfactory completion of HND Applied Sciences (240 SCQF credit points).
Curriculum to include Human Metabolism (H92D 35).
Satisfactory completion of HND Applied Biological Sciences (240 SCQF credit points).
Graduates today will likely be employed in a variety of sectors and careers over their lifetime.
A degree in biochemistry provides you with opportunities to be broadly educated as well as gain specific skills in problem solving and independent thinking – all of which set you up for a future in which science and technology, as well as the career landscape, are undergoing rapid change.
Our degree programmes are built to enhance your employability and three flagship options give our degrees a distinctively different flavour from many others.
All our degrees offer:
You will also have opportunities for work experience, summer placements (both scientific and non-scientific) and access to many professional societies and subject-specific seminars and symposia.
Biochemistry in the UK is promoted and advanced through the work of the Biochemical Society .
Undergraduate students can join for a small membership fee, which provides access to various forms of financial support, careers advice and discounts on journals or textbooks related to the discipline.
The University of Aberdeen is ranked 12th in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2025 and 15th in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
My degree in Biochemistry at Aberdeen helped me gain an understanding of how the body works at a molecular level.
This has been hugely advantageous when going into the technicalities of the products and services I promote in my job.
Focused on developing future effective therapies, the Institute of Medical Sciences houses nearly 400 researchers and support staff working on cutting-edge biomedical subjects aimed at understanding the human body's response to infection and disease.
A dedicated Medical Library on the Foresterhill Health Campus and the fantastic facilities in the Sir Duncan Rice Library at King’s College, are complemented by online access to the key medical and health sciences journals and textbooks.