# Site: https://www.aub.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 500
# --------

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk:
You are using an outdated browser.
Most of this website should still work, but after upgrading your browser it will look and perform better.
When you apply to AUB through Clearing, you can expect guaranteed accommodation, a free annual bus pass, plus free access to a cinema and gym*.
Also, did we mention we're right by the beach?
The Complete University Guide 2026 named AUB one of the top five universities in the South West.
We're the only one of those five to specialise in art, design, media and performance.
Nurturing creativity.
Engaging communities.
Collaborating with industry.
Making a difference.
Discover what goes on within and beyond our creative campus.
Making the best possible difference in the world starts with making your best possible self.
We enable this through creative learning, supported by state-of-the-art studios and equipment and engaged, passionate staff.
More than 12% of AUB’s research has now been classed as ‘world-leading’ with a further 42% being classed ‘internationally excellent’, according to REF 2021.
Creative people see the world differently.
We learn differently.
Which is why we've remained creative specialists since 1883.
Explore the incredible work of our freshly graduated 'Class of 2024' in our online AUB Showcase.
Browse work by course, student or theme.
We recognise our responsibilities and are committed to continuous environmental, sustainable and social justice improvement in both our curriculum and day-to-day operations.
Our campus has also been awarded EcoCampus Platinum – the highest level of university accreditation.
We believe your university subject shouldn't confine you.
Whatever level of study you choose, you’ll have the opportunity to collaborate across disciplines in industry-level projects and productions.
From those first steps at Saturday Art School right through to gaining your PhD, we've got a level of study to suit you.
All our courses are designed to equip you with the skills and knowledge to succeed in today's changing economy.
Our student ambassadors are here to answer any questions you might have on university life, our courses and all things AUB.
We mirror the creative industries, right down to having the proper tools for the job.
We're always investing in the tech and spaces to help you thrive on your course.
Above all, AUB is a community of artists.
Just as you’re all studying different courses, we know our students like different styles of places to live.
We have a range of halls of residence, each offering something unique – there's a home away from home for everyone.
We've also got a team of Student Ambassadors to help you settle into university life.
Collaboration with business, research, high skills development, prototyping, entrepreneurship, Knowledge Exchange and an Innovation Studio designed by Sir Peter Cook, sit at the heart of AUB.
The Innovation Studio operates as a lab for creative technologies and a hub for start-ups, regional enterprises and industry engagement.
Check out some of our collaborative projects with external partners to get an idea of how the Innovation Studio and AUB support various industries.
Together we seek innovative solutions to the problems of tomorrow.
The Innovation Studio is part of AUB's Lab 4 Creative Technologies.
Featuring state-of-the-art equipment and digital resources, plus the latest in digital and physical manufacturing technology.
AUB creates and enriches communities in our region and beyond.
We're home to some incredible resources.
We boast the biggest creative specialist library outside of London; the Museum of Design in Plastics (MoDiP), with its unique Designated Outstanding Collection; two theatres, one on campus, the other in the heart of Bournemouth; TheGallery and multiple collections, like The Thorp Archive.
In the summer months we turn into the largest gallery in the southwest, with our graduate shows.
Our staff and students are passionate about supporting the community.
From creating opportunities to widen access to creative education, broadening horizons with cutting-edge research or working together to make a difference with civic engagement, we've got some incredible stories to tell.
We're proud of the communities we're a part of, and rightly so.
Our students, alumni, staff and the companies we partner with are all dedicated to making a difference, whether that's large or small, local or global.
We love our location, so we've curated a guide to some of the best hotspots in the area.
Whether you enjoy nature or nightlife, food festivals or air festivals, there's always something to draw creative inspiration from, right on our doorstep.
Every effort is taken to ensure the accuracy of information, and that it’s true and correct at the time of publishing on aub.ac.uk
Applies the Open Dyslexic font, designed to improve readability for individuals with dyslexia.
Applies a more readable font throughout the website, improving readability.
Underlines links throughout the website, making them easier to distinguish.
Adjusts the font size for improved readability.
Reduces animations and disables autoplaying videos across the website, reducing distractions and improving focus.
Reduces the colour saturation throughout the website to create a more soothing visual experience.
Increases the contrast of elements on the website, making text and interface elements easier to distinguish.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/clearing:
Talk to us about Clearing!
Call our team on 0 1202 363225 or 01202 363228 (lines are open 09.00-16.30, Monday-Friday).
Your journey begins right here, right now!
We’re a community of artists.
We champion the individual.
We celebrate those that want to take risks and innovate.
We welcome diversity, and offer a space for you to become your creative self.
Our courses are taught on our award-winning campus.
If you haven't visited us yet, you can explore AUB using our 360 tour .
If you apply to Arts University Bournemouth through Clearing, you can also take advantage of:
*Offer applies to our Home Park Halls of Residence only.
Terms and conditions apply.
Before you get in touch, we recommend having your qualifications to hand, as we're only able to consider applicants who've received them.
If you need to, take a look at our entry requirements and English Language requirements .
We've also got some handy Clearing top tips – so you're ready when the time comes for you to apply.
Study Acting at Arts University Bournemouth.
Find out about the course, fees, how to apply, and open days.
This course explores the whole production process, and techniques from traditional 2D drawn animation to stop-motion
Study Architecture at Arts University Bournemouth.
Find out about the course, fees, how to apply, and open days
Study Commercial Photography at Arts University Bournemouth.
Study Communication Design and Strategy at Arts University Bournemouth.
Find out about the course, fees, how to apply, and open days...
Study Content Creation with Marketing at Arts University Bournemouth.
Master the skills you need to become a professional maker, tailor and costume supervisor for the film, theatre and events industries
Study Creative Direction at Arts University Bournemouth.
Study Creative Writing at Arts University Bournemouth.
Discover how to create whole new worlds on this exciting course – design costumes and sets for plays, films and events.
Study Events Management at Arts University Bournemouth.
Study Fashion at Arts University Bournemouth.
Study Fashion Communication at Arts University Bournemouth.
Study Film Production at Arts University Bournemouth.
Be part of an exciting, multi-discipline fine art course, set within our dynamic culture of making in our purpose-built studios
Study Games Art and Design at Arts University Bournemouth.
Study Graphic Design at Arts University Bournemouth.
Study Illustration at Arts University Bournemouth.
Study Interior Architecture and Design at Arts University Bournemouth.
Study Make-up for Media and Performance at Arts University Bournemouth.
Study Media, Marketing and Advertising at Arts University Bournemouth.
Study Modelmaking at Arts University Bournemouth.
Some of the world's leading photographers such as Wolfgang Tillmans and Nick Knight started their careers on this photographic course
Study Textiles Design at Arts University Bournemouth.
Study Fashion Management and Strategy at Arts University Bournemouth.
Rooms in our Home Park residence are currently available for new students at AUB — you can begin the booking process once you've firmly accepted your place.
This year, we're also offering a free annual bus pass, plus £150 cashback*.
Once you've arrived, our residential life programme, AUB ResLife , offers a programme of events to make your first few weeks with us memorable.
Check out our handy guide for living in the local area .
* Offer applies to our Home Park Halls of Residence only.
After a change of mind about a gap year, Barney Bell joined our BA (Hons) Creative Writing course through Clearing in 2024.
"I couldn’t just sit around, find a small local job in a café or on the beach.
I wanted to study.
I wanted to learn, engage myself with academics, create art and enjoy the whole university experience.
That’s where Clearing stepped in."
There are several positives to entering university via Clearing.
But the process might seem a little daunting.
Don't worry – we've got you covered!
Our Admissions team offers their advice for making a university application through Clearing.
Eligible applicants are able to add one Clearing choice to their UCAS application.
Applicants should make contact with the universities that they are interested in to secure an informal offer of a place before adding that institution as their clearing choice.
More information can be found on the UCAS website .
Clearing is for anyone who's not holding an offer through their UCAS application .
This may be because they haven’t yet applied, or they've applied but declined the offers that they've been given.
You’ll need to apply through UCAS, but please register your interest with Admissions .
Absolutely!
We’d love to see you, and we have multiple options if you would like to come and visit our campus.
We have Open Days on Saturday 12 July and Saturday 16 August – explore our Open Days page for more on our upcoming events.
If you’re unable to attend one of our Open Days, you can book an organised Campus Tour instead!
If you have a question about a Clearing application that you’ve made, you can call us on +441202363225.
Alternatively, please email us at clearing@aub.ac.uk and provide your AUB Student ID number.
You don’t need to have had your results to contact us and make a Clearing application.
Please fill out our form to show your interest .
Applicants who are made an offer through Clearing are given three working days to accept it.
If you aren't in a position to accept the offer before the end of this deadline, due to extenuating circumstances, please contact us and we can extend this deadline for you.
Yes.
We're happy to defer your place if you wish to do so.
After you've secured your place in Clearing, you'll be sent a Welcome Guide by email that details the information you’ll need to start preparing for life as a student at AUB.
We’ll also invite you to complete the online part of your Enrolment process, so please keep an eye on your emails!
AUB guarantees accommodation at our fabulous Home Park Halls of Residence for all undergraduate students who accept a place through Clearing.
If you'd like to discuss applying for a place in Clearing, we've got three simple ways to get in touch, depending on what you prefer!
We're proud of our alumni, and rightfully so.
Read more about their career successes and their one piece of advice.
Double Olivier Award nominee Ryan Calais Cameron cuts an unassuming figure, sat alone on stage at Lewisham’s historic...
Make-up alum Amelia Gaughan may have found their feet in prosthetics at AUB, but it’s also the birthplace of their alter ego...
Since graduating from BA (Hons) Commercial Photography at AUB, Frankie Turner has become an Association of Photographers (AOP) Gold award...
Arriving at Lydia’s studio, we were met with the façade of an old workshop in the heart of an industrial estate...
‘Craft Forward’ knitting workshops are popping up all around London.
They’re free, they’re fun, and you don’t have to have any prior...
Elliott Trent graduated in 2011 from BA (Hons) Digital Media Production at AUB.
After a career in the media industry...
Chloe Davenport graduated from BA (Hons) Photography two years ago.
Now she’s working in aerospace...
For his final major project as an undergraduate studying Animation at AUB, Tom Massey made a rotoscope film of his elderly grandfather...
AUB's Senior Graphic Designer, Lauren Bowling, sits down with freelance illustrator and BA (Hons) Graphic Design alum Tegan Price to chat...
Delving into his graduate film, Jacob tells me that the title, Our Gypsy Blood, was taken from a poem that was anonymously left...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/apply:
Found a course that you'd like to apply for?
Here are the next steps:
Once you've explored our creative courses, attended an open day and discussed your options with family and friends, you're ready to start your application to join us in 2025.
To make your application journey as stress-free as possible, we've created some helpful steps to guide you through the process.
Depending on your fee status, there might be more than one application route available to you.
Select from the options below to find out how to apply for each of our course levels and for advice on entry requirements.
If you have any questions about our courses, entry requirements or how to apply to us, contact our admissions team by email admissions@aub.ac.uk or call +441202 363228 / +441202 363225 .
Here's everything you need to know to apply to one of AUB's foundation courses
Here's everything you need to know to apply to one of our Undergraduate courses
Here's everything you need to know to apply to one of AUB's postgraduate courses
Here's everything you need to know about applying for an MPhil or PhD
If you’ve found a short course that you’d like to study, you can find out how to apply here.
Here's everything you need to know about applying to transfer onto to one of AUB's BA (Hons) courses...
Find out what English Language support AUB can offer to International students, both in preparation for and during their time with us
We're here to help you on your way to joining our creative community with a new programme of online information sessions.
When we get your application we will send you two emails.
These emails will normally be sent during working hours, so please wait for at least one working day for them to come through.
The first email will acknowledge you application and the second will contain your initial login details for the AUB applicant portal.
Many email providers will try to block these emails because they contain login details.
We recommend that applicants don't use a school or college email address on their application.
We find that school spam filters often block your login details emails completely.
It's also important to use your own personal email so that you don't lose access to our emails to you during the Summer!
On your personal email account it's a good idea to add admissions@aub.ac.uk to your contacts or safe senders list as well as checking your junk or spam folders regularly.
If it's been longer than one working day since you applied and you haven't got our emails and they're not in your junk/spam folders then please just let us know – if you include your full name, date of birth and the course you've applied to in the email then we'll be able to find your application and help you log in to the portal.
When you log in for the first time, you'll be asked to change you password to something more memorable.
If you're using an Apple device then it's best not to allow the device to "remember" your password.
Unfortunately Apple devices tend to save the temporary password instead of the new one, so you can end up locked out of the portal.
Please ensure you're trying to log in to the correct portal .
Make sure you've closed down any browsers/tabs on other devices that might be trying to access the portal.
The login and password reset process will often fail if you try to log in on more than one tab.
This is the most common cause of errors.
You can then try to reset your password by following these steps:
If you're logging in using an iPhone or iPad, you'll need to follow a slightly different process :
If you still experience problems, just let us know .
If possible, try to send us screenshots showing the problem so that we can help.
If you try to reset your password and get the error message – "Account details incorrect - forgotten password could not be reset" – this might mean that we have an error in your data on our application system.
Please email admissions@aub.ac.uk with the AUB ID, Last Name and Date of Birth entered onto the form and we'll check them against the details on our system and correct any errors.
We'll also manually reset your password so that you're able to log in again.
If you're logging in using an iPhone/iPad you'll need to follow a slightly different process :
If you still experience problems just let us know .
If you get an 'invalid ISS message', your browser has cached the old password.
Sometimes entering the correct login details a second time will resolve this, but if that doesn't work, then the browser cache needs to be cleared:
Clear cache to wipe old passwords stored:
Yes, that’s absolutely fine and something a lot of our applicants actually choose to do.
You'll need to apply for the Foundation Diploma directly to us (not through UCAS), which means you don't have to use up an extra UCAS choice.
If you accept an offer from us for both the Foundation Diploma and BA (Hons) course, we’ll contact you in August to ask you which place you plan to take up.
If you’d like to apply for the Foundation Diploma and we’ve already got a UCAS application from you, simply email us at admissions@aub.ac.uk with your AUB ID or UCAS ID and let us know.
We can create a new Foundation Diploma application for you using the information on your UCAS form, so there’s no need to fill out our direct application form yourself!
If you’ve applied through UCAS, you can only reply to your offers when all of your five choices have made a decision on your application.
Please see the UCAS website for help with this .
If you’ve applied to us directly (for example for our Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media or our Master's degrees) then you can reply to your offer by logging into the AUB applicant portal.
There should be a message in your in-tray that you can click on to accept or decline or to request to defer your place.
If you can’t see this message then please email us admissions@aub.ac.uk with your AUB ID, course name and what you'd like to do and we can reply to your offer on your behalf.
Once you accept an offer from us, new tiles will be available in the AUB applicant portal:
Join the AUB Applicants Facebook group .
When you request to join, you'll be asked to provide your AUB ID or your UCAS ID and the course that you've applied for.
This is so we can verify that every member of the group is a genuine AUB applicant, so you can be confident that you're meeting your future course mates.
We'll try to approve you to join as soon as possible – usually within a few hours.
AUB welcomes applications from students who are from under-represented backgrounds in Higher Education.
Further information can be found on our Contextual Offers page and in section 6 of our Admissions Policy .
There are lots of opportunities to visit AUB:
To book a room, please note the following information:
For more information, please contact one of our Student Advisors on studentservices@aub.ac.uk or by calling 01202 363780 .
Applicants who are under 18 at the start of their course will be considered in the normal way.
However, the university does require an under-18 consent form to be completed and returned before we're able to confirm a student's place on the course.
This'll be sent to you by email at the point of any offer being made.
For more information, please view our AUB Under-18 Policy Statement , or contact the Admissions team on admissions@aub.ac.uk or by calling 01202 363225 .
When enquiring about a course or applying for a place at AUB, we'll process personal, and sometimes special category, data about you.
This data will be submitted by you, if you submit a request for further information about what we do, or if you submit a direct application to study with us.
If you apply for a place on a course at AUB via UCAS, we'll get your data from them.
Our Privacy Notice for enquirers and applicants explains how we'll use your data before you become a student at AUB.
Most of our courses will ask for a portfolio.
However, there are some exceptions.
The following courses do not require a portfolio as part of the application process:
For undergraduate courses, we don't expect you to submit a digital portfolio at the same time as your UCAS application.
If we require a link to your online portfolio we'll contact you by email and through the AUB applicant portal to request the URL.
So you only need to provide us with your portfolio when we request it.
To understand what our course teams expect to see please see our portfolio guidelines .
We normally ask that your portfolio is provided within 30 days of us requesting it.
If you're unable to provide us with your portfolio within 30 days, please just let us know so we can make a note on your application and extend your deadline.
It's worth knowing that the sooner we receive your portfolio the sooner the course team can make a decision on your application.
For undergraduate courses, we need to make a decision on your application before a deadline set by UCAS and this will determine the latest date that we will be able to accept a portfolio – we may have to reduce the deadlines from April onwards.
We’ll ask you to submit a single link to your online portfolio.
This can be a link to a public portfolio on a website like wix.com, Instagram, Behance or similar or it can be a private link to a copy of your portfolio hosted on an online file sharing site like Google Drive.
For showreels and auditions we also ask for a single link to a video or playlist hosted on YouTube or Vimeo or similar (either public or unlisted).
There are a number of platforms well suited to submitting your portfolio.
We recommend you take into consideration what type of file you are generally using and how you wish it to be viewed.
The most important thing you can do is ensure you adhere as closely to the AUB portfolio guidelines as you can.
Regardless of which platform you choose, please just ensure your portfolio is available to view publicly and isn't password protected or require a login to access it.
You can produce your portfolio using YouTube, Vimeo, Behance, Wix, Flickr, Drop Box, Google Drive or another suitable platform for your work.
We need you to collate everything in one place and have available a single link that you can share with us.
It's also very important that there is no password or login required to access the link.
You need to submit your portfolio link via the AUB applicant portal.
This will ensure your portfolio is properly recorded on your application.
You can do this following the instructions below:
Once this is done the link will be automatically added to your application, and we'll receive a notification to send your full application to the course team for further review.
Once you submit your link the admissions team will test the link to make sure it’s working and available without logging in.
If that’s fine then we’ll pass your application and portfolio on to the course team to review.
If there are any problems then we’ll get in touch by email and through the applicant portal to explain the issue and reopen the option to submit a new link on the applicant portal.
Portfolios should show examples of your work – both finished and work in progress – that demonstrate your interests and skills

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase:
BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design
BA (Hons) Acting
BA (Hons) Fashion Communication
BA (Hons) Fine Art
BA (Hons) Animation Production
BA (Hons) Illustration
BA (Hons) Textiles Design
BA (Hons) Modelmaking
BA (Hons) Visual Communication
MA Illustration
BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance
MA Photography
BA (Hons) Photography

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/open-days:
Our open days are a fantastic opportunity for you to get a feel for studying at AUB.
Our Open Days are a fantastic opportunity for you to get a feel for studying with us, whether you attend an on-campus Open Day or watch a virtual talk from the comfort of your own home – we've got you covered.
Our Open Days run from 09.00 until 15.00.
At these events, you’ll have the chance to hear from our students and lecturers, ask all your burning questions and find out what life is like as an #AUBMAKER.
If you have any questions about Open Days please call us on 01202 363368 or email opendays@aub.ac.uk
If you'd like to be notified when booking opens for our Open Days, please register below.
We'll drop you an email when it's time to book!
Join AUB on campus for our Foundation and Undergraduate Open Day on 20 September 2025.
Join AUB on campus for our Foundation and Undergraduate Open Day on 11 October 2025.
Join AUB on campus for our Foundation and Undergraduate Open Day on 8 November 2025.
Join AUB on campus for our Foundation and Undergraduate Open Day on 6 December 2025.
AUB is a single campus university based in Poole, Dorset (BH12 5HH).
We've put together a handy guide with directions on how to find us, including what buses to take and our nearest train station if you're taking public transport.
It's worth noting that we're next door to Bournemouth University, so you might like to use our what3words code ( what3words: ///claims.fetch.driver ) to find our entrance.
To help out with the ongoing cost-of-living situation, you can now get 34% discount on train fares if you travel with South Western Railway (SWR) to an AUB Open Day.
For holders of a 16-25 Railcard, this discount is bumped up to 40%.
Please note: Discounted fares (indicated by asterisks) are limited and are subject to availability.
This discounted offer is limited to SWR services only.
Other rail service providers are available and you may wish to review all platform provisions to find the best/most accessible route for you.
If travelling from or within a region of the country that isn't part of the SWR network, you may need to purchase separate tickets to the chosen destination.
Below are a number of questions frequently asked by visitors planning to attend our Open Days.
Yes, you do need to book to attend our online and on campus Open Days.
Bookings can be made online using the links above in our ‘Open Day dates’ section.
The day starts at 09.00 and ends at 15.00.
Breakfast and lunch options are available at various hospitality points across campus.
You don’t need to attend all day – you’re welcome to arrive and leave when you wish.
We repeat the majority of course talks (at 10.10, 11.30 and 12.50) and informative talks throughout the day, allowing you to build the day around your requirements.
We have many activities and tours to get involved with during the event, so if you wish to make the most of these, we recommend arriving at 09.00 and staying for the length of the event.
Please note: a few specific courses only host one talk that isn’t repeated – this will be easily identifiable when you make a booking.
Please make a note of this when booking and be aware if you choose one of these talks.
Please also note: These timings will differ on our Clearing Open Day.
If you're attending this event, please refer to the timetable in the Clearing Open Day Guide .
The day runs from 09.00-15.00, and there's lots to do.
Our course talks are repeated three times (10.10, 11.30 and 12.50) throughout the day, you'll meet course leaders and have your questions answered, learn more about practical details such as entry requirements and funding options, chat with student ambassadors, tour the campus, check out our halls of residence, and maybe even try your hand at a creative activity or two.
Once you've booked on to an Open Day, make sure to check your emails for your ticket and further information.
If you'd like to get ahead with planning, you can download the Open Day guide in advance.
Please note: These timings will differ on our Clearing Open Day.
You can cancel/amend via links in the booking confirmation email.
You're more than welcome to bring along extra family members and friends but for busier talks we may ask that only one student and one guest attend.
There are lots of other activities and hospitality points across campus for additional guests to enjoy.
Dogs are also welcome to join you on campus, however, they won't be able to accompany you to the talks.
Please ensure they're kept on a short lead and with the owner at all times.
Please email opendays@aub.ac.uk to make any access arrangements (e.g.
blue badge parking, a sign language interpreter, audio loops or any other support or assistance).
Together, with our Senior Disability Advisor, we'll provide advice and support for the day.
We have limited car parking on campus.
Once this car park is full, we have an overflow car park around the corner, just a short five-minute walk to ensure we can accommodate all our visitors.
Please always arrive at the main AUB entrance, as our security team will be on hand to help direct you on arrival.
Please email opendays@aub.ac.uk to reserve a parking space on campus.
We have a great group of student ambassadors representing various courses – they'll be pleased to have a chat with you on the day and share their experiences as AUB students.
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is a completely separate university to Bournemouth University (BU).
That said, the AUB campus is located directly next to BU.
On arrival, you’ll see the BU campus first, and the AUB campus just behind this – please follow the AA signs and other road signs on arrival to direct you.
Yes, although capacities in some rooms can be limited, so entry is on a first-come first-served basis.
For particularly busy talks, we may limit entry to one student and one guest just to make sure as many people as possible can attend.
Our general Open Days cover our Foundation course and our undergraduate degrees.
We have separate events for postgraduate and PhD/Research courses .
We’ll give you a printed programme of the day on arrival when you come to the registration point.
We’ll send an email with the joining information the day before the event.
Please check your junk/spam folder and if it can’t be found please contact us on opendays@aub.ac.uk .
The Open Day Hub is for all our levels – Foundation, Undergraduate (BA) and Postgraduate (MA).
Dogs are welcome to join you on campus, however, they won't be able to accompany you to the talks.
If we spot a dog, our Social Media team will likely come and ask your dog for an interview .
Eat, drink, shop, or just enjoy Bournemouth's famous expanse of beaches.
Or explore the neighbouring towns of Poole and Christchurch, or even further beyond.
There's so much to do.
Not sure where to begin?
We've put together a little list of ideas .
Our Postgraduate events range from in-person information evenings on campus to online course talks, where you can book onto sessions with one of our MA course leaders.
In these sessions, you’ll find out more about studying for your Master’s at AUB and you’ll have the opportunity to ask any burning questions.
While you won’t be able to view our campus and facilities during the online sessions, you can view these at any time via our AUB:360 tour.
If you can't make an Open Day, pop along to one of our campus tours, which run on Fridays, unless stated otherwise.
These tours allow you to explore our creative campus and its general facilities with one of our student ambassadors, so that you can get a feel for the AUB vibe.
However, as campus tours run on teaching days, they won't allow you access into individual studios, halls of residence, or to speak to academic teams.
To do this, book onto one of our Open Days, which'll offer you the complete experience of visiting AUB.
Once you've applied and received an offer, you'll get the chance to explore the campus on an offer holder day.
These events are invite-only and give you an opportunity to meet prospective course teams, your future classmates and take part in group activities.
We also offer an online alternative if you can't make it to campus – you'll still get the chance to talk to staff and current students with others starting the course.
We attend UCAS events throughout the year and we’d love to see you.
To find out where we’ll be and when, see our UCAS Events page.
You can register for UCAS events online on the UCAS website .
No matter where you are in your application journey, we're here to help you on your way.
Take one step closer to joining our creative community with this programme of online information sessions.
We know that not everyone can make it to an Open Day, so we've created a virtual hub that brings together all the information you need to know, whenever you need it.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses:
Be the storyteller.
Shape the narrative.
Have a voice.
Create work that informs, inspires, entertains and provokes.
BFS makes up the largest film school outside of London.
You'll work on on-stage spectacles to out-of-this-world special effects.
See the world differently.
Be part of a community of designers.
Question the world and invent solutions to society’s greatest challenges.
You'll become a leader, a storyteller, a project manager, a curator, a problem solver.
Ready to shape brands across industries.
Interested in AUB?
Come explore our campus and our creative courses in person on one of our Open Days.
We know our students like different styles of places to live – we have a great range of halls of residence for first-years to choose from

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses:
Stand out from the crowd with a Master’s degree from AUB
At AUB, we celebrate, support and enable research within the arts.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/foundation-courses/foundation-diploma:
Currently viewing:
This one-year foundation course gives you the chance to explore different creative areas before choosing the subject you want to take a degree in.
It's the perfect way to find your creative voice and to boost your existing skills and portfolio if they’re not quite up to degree standard – or you might just like to enjoy a year of being creative before moving on to something else.
After successful completion of this course, students are awarded the widely recognised UAL Foundation Diploma in Art and Design (Level 3).
Guaranteed place on a BA degree at AUB upon successful completion (except the Acting and Creative Writing courses, which require auditions or written submissions).
This course is geared towards the preparation of a portfolio of work to support your application to a Higher Education course.
Throughout the course, your practical studio work will be supported by a programme of contextual studies in art and design.
You can view the full specification from awarding body UAL.
Please note that fees and funding, including the availability of maintenance loans for the Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media are different from our Undergraduate courses.
Please visit our Fees and Financial Support page for more information.
The Foundation Diploma sets out to help students discover a preferred area of practice.
You'll develop core learning skills and extend your understanding of creative processes in preparation for undergraduate study or employment.
This is an intensive course that provides high level insight into contemporary creative practices and the potential to focus studies into specialist areas.
Students will develop sound understanding of the creative process and skills that prepare students fully for progression in our purpose build Foundation buildings with state-of-the-art studios.
Course Duration
1 year (full-time)
Fees
Read more about fees
Apply
Find out how to apply
Stage one
During stage one, students will explore broad core principles and working practices in Art, Design and Media which will lead students to discover their preferred area of study.
Simultaneously, students will increate their critical comprehension and creative skill sets.
The course provides insight into the range of options available for stage two study.
Stage two
The course offers multiple 'specialisms', and you'll choose to study these from mid-November.
The specialism for stage two are:
Each specialism has a range of expert tutors, and support from visiting tutors and technical staff.
During stage two, you'll engage with several projects over 12 weeks and begin to focus your portfolio towards your specialist areas.
You'll also make your Higher Education application through UCAS.
Stage three
Stage three consists of a self-initiated project, which is negotiated with your tutor and managed more independently.
In this stage, you can put into practice all of the skills that you've learned from the first two stages.
The final outcomes are exhibited in TheGallery and studios.
A Foundation diploma is the perfect way to begin your creative pathway.
Take a look at the gallery below to find out more about the work that our Foundation students have been making.
"Foundation is the heart of the creative industries, we encourage students to push their boundaries, take risks and experiment with new exciting ways of creating.
Through a mix of specialisms, students can take control of their journey and use the course as a springboard into the wide range of undergraduate courses we have to offer.
At the same time, students are able to explore the interplay of the disciplines to support the building of their portfolio."
You’ll be taught by specialist lecturers and technicians on the Foundation course.
You can find out more about staff by browsing their profiles below.
Course Leader - Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media
Lecturer - Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media
Pathway Leader (Graphics) - Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media
Lecturer - Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media
Senior Technician - Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media
Technician Demonstrator - Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media
Technician Demonstrator...
Rob Amey is a photographer and filmmaker whose work explores the multifaceted relationship between spirituality, technology...
FAD and IFD Technician Demonstrator
Our Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media was delighted to achieve an ‘Outstanding’ rating in its 2023 Ofsted inspection.
Find out more in our news, and also read the full report .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/modelmaking-for-industry-degree-apprenticeship:
Modelmakers work in a very wide range of industries including architectural and building, product design, engineering, museums and exhibitions, film, TV, video games and digital media, props and costumes, advertising and sculpture.
Employers vary in size from micro to large.
The broad purpose of the occupation is to design, fabricate and assemble models of all scales, styles and complexities – from prototypes to finished products.
Bournemouth is home to one of the leading established and experienced multi-disciplined modelmaking courses in the UK.
We have a 30-year record of quality education in the field, enabling our graduates to be leading figures in the industry.
*The degree apprenticeship is currently subject to validation.
The Degree Apprenticeship values the development of graduates who are effective and responsible practitioners.
The development of ethical practice is embedded in a varied, yet relevant curriculum.
You'll gain knowledge of sustainable materials and practices, develop skills that are transferable across different areas of the modelmaking industry, and exhibit behaviours that demonstrate how
The Degree Apprenticeship will introduce apprentices to all avenues of the modelmaking disciplines.
Core skills will be learned through your specialisms, and digital skills of CAD, CAM, image manipulation, document creation etc., are embedded throughout the course.
Learning packages and the residential weeks will provide awareness of specialisms not experienced in the workplace.
The course will introduce the industry disciplines outside your specialism.
Through discussion between employer and education provider, learning can be made relevant to any workplace while underpinning ‘on-the-job’ training with critical theory and background understanding of techniques, materials and the context for modelmaking in the 21 st century.
The Modelmaking for Industry course is delivered to the apprenticeship standard of ST1371 Model Maker.
Apprentices and employers are supported in training to meet this standard through three years of study, each consisting of three units of study.
Fundamentals are introduced and practised at the start of the course and, as apprentices develop their abilities in the real-life context of an employer's modelmaking workshop, underpinning theories and ideas about making, business and the creative industries are introduced.
Course content follows a validated structure, but evidence of the apprentices’ learning is collected through real-world experience and a series of assignments that build a portfolio of work over time.
Regular meetings between apprentices, employers and tutors record progress and encourage effective progression and planning of studies.
All apprentices, from all employer workshops, will come together for ‘residentials’ to learn together at the AUB campus in Dorset.
Here, they'll benefit from sharing experiences with peers, access to AUB’s world-leading facilities, and a wider perspective on the industries in which they are working.
Innovative ‘Learning Boxes’ will be used to support online training.
These packages of core materials will be shipped to apprentices in advance of "off-the-job" training sessions and will include sketching tools, design thinking aids, moulding/casting basics, and other resources needed to introductions to fundamental modelmaking processes.
Course duration
3 years (36 months)
Delivery
1 day per week (online); 4 days per week (in workplace)
Residentials
3x 5-day Residentials per year
End Point Assessment period
2 months
Apprenticeship Standard Reference
ST1371 Model Maker
LARS Code
770
EQA Provider
Office for Students
First-year units support the apprentice’s introduction to professional modelmaking, and enable the development of the fundamental skills needed for effective study.
Critical knowledge of health and safety, project management, and the fundamental skills of communicating through sketching and drawing will be introduced and embedded.
The breadth of the modelmaking industry will be explored, giving apprentices a solid understanding of their employer’s position in the creative industries.
Finally, knowledge of project planning principles and technical design skills will be developed ready for Level 5.
Units:
Second-year units expand apprentices’ knowledge of research methods, innovation, and the commercial implications for the work that they do.
Apprentices are challenged to consider the "journey" of a model from initial discussion with a client, through to completion.
As skills are refined, techniques for pitching and presenting are studied, the idea of critical discourse explored.
In preparation for Level 6, apprentices apply their abilities to communicate in a professional context.
Final year units will enhance apprentices’ research and communication skills, while enabling them to establish a critical position on contemporary issues within their discipline.
The use of modelmaking in unfamiliar areas of the creative industries is experienced, and apprentices will make good use of opportunities to learn from their peers and AUB’s making community.
Finally, as they work towards the End Point Assessment that marks completion of the course, apprentices are tested to demonstrate their identity as an effective, professional and experienced practitioner.
It’s important to note how you can apply for a place on an apprenticeship as the route is different from a traditional route into higher education.
To start a Degree Apprenticeship, you must apply for a relevant job with an employer offering the programme.
It’s a competitive recruitment process.
In contrast, an undergraduate course is accessed through UCAS, allowing students to apply directly to any available university course without needing a specific job offer.
A Degree Apprenticeship combines full-time paid employment with part-time university study, leading to a degree without tuition fees or student debt.
It’s ideal for gaining practical experience, earning while learning, and building a career from day one.
However, apprentices have less campus life and limited flexibility in choosing modules.
An undergraduate degree, by contrast, offers a more traditional university experience with greater academic focus and flexibility, including extracurricular opportunities and broader networking.
But it typically involves full-time study and student loans.
Both routes lead to a degree, but the learning style, lifestyle, and career paths differ significantly.
Each apprentice works
on the job for 80% of the week, and 20% off the job in lessons.
This is
normally one day per week, but there'll also be blocks of time spent away from
the workplace.
Lessons will take place
online and in person, so the apprentice will need access to a computer to do
their degree work.
AUB will collaborate with you to ensure that the educational
workload is balanced with your needs.
Apprentices will need
to balance degree lectures, employment responsibilities, communication, and
documentation – not an easy combination.
It's important for you to ensure that
pinch points are anticipated and reduced during throughout the apprenticeship.
Your apprentice will be a member of your team, learning through ‘on-the-job’ training while contributing to your company from day one.
The Degree Apprenticeship at AUB has the flexibility to align with your peak workflow when needed, enabling you to rely on your team.
The curriculum is tightly aligned to you and your workflow, ensuring that you can control the work load and organisation of your workplace.
There's no age limit for apprentices applying, though other restrictions apply, and funding will vary depending on age and previous experience.
Apprenticeships suit a range of organisations, from those with 100+ employees to small businesses with only a few staff.
The Modelmaking for Industry Degree Apprenticeship programme at AUB is designed with the creative industries in mind, and the knowledge that individuals or small numbers will represent this apprenticeship.
As the employer, you'll need to support an apprentice in prioritising one day to learn online and to attend three short residential annually.
You'll also need to support an apprentice for eight weeks, for them to produce work independently for their End Point Assessment.
Working with apprentices and AUB, puts your company at the heart of the development of new modelmaking talent, boosting opportunities for your company’s future, and that of the apprentices that you employ.
By employing an apprentice, you'll nurture talent that wouldn't otherwise enter a creative industry, and positively impact the early career of a young person who may not have had access to a typical education route.
Having an eager apprentice in the workshop, keen to learn the ropes from industry professionals while also gaining their degree gives you the opportunity to integrate an employee into your way of working right from the start.
MA, Cert Ed, HND, FHEA
BA (Hons)
PhD, BA (Hons), FHEA, FRHistS
MA, BA, HND, PGCE, FHEA.
“Apprenticeships offer a new way for employers to recruit just the right staff, and for individuals to gain valuable qualifications while earning a wage.
The Modelmaking for Industry apprenticeship is a solid support for any blossoming career in professional modelmaking.”
Course Developer
Contact us at apprenticeships@aub.ac.uk for more information about how you might apply for our Modelmaking for Industry Degree Apprenticeship, or to arrange a meeting to discuss any questions you may have.
You can also find out about the apprenticeships that we offer at our Open Days, on campus and online.
Discover more information on the UK government website:

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/about-aub-academy:
At AUB Academy, we empower our learners and equip them with the tools and confidence to succeed in their creative journey – be it personal or professional.
We inspire and believe in lifelong learning for all and provide an inclusive and accessible space for creativity to grow, regardless of age or circumstance.
As part of AUB Academy you’ll learn in a friendly and encouraging environment where there’s no right or wrong way to be creative, and uniqueness is celebrated.
At whatever point you are in your creative journey – whether you’re an experienced creative or are just starting out – and whatever your reasons for wanting to study, we’ve got the perfect course for you.
Explore the courses AUB Academy has to offer below, or get in touch with us via email or call 01202 363222 to find out more.
Our creative short courses for adults aged 18+ of all abilities run in the evenings or at the weekend.
We offer 50+ courses in a vast range of creative subjects; from hobby courses to creative business courses, there’s something for everyone.
We offer a range of level 1 and level 2 qualifications accredited by Skills Education Group (SEG).
One of these qualifications will equip you with the necessary skills and tools that'll enable you to further your career or undertake future creative arts studies.
Saturday Art School gives young artists aged 7-18 the chance to explore their creativity outside regular school art classes.
No experience is necessary; all we ask is students come with plenty of enthusiasm to learn new creative skills and have fun doing so!
There’s plenty on offer to stay creative in the summer holidays.
We run two-week summer courses for students aged 15-18 looking to experiment, learn new skills, and add to their art portfolio, as well as our Creative Arts Summer School for younger artists aged 7-15.
We’re a first-choice summer course destination for government offices, universities, colleges, schools and port-prep centres from around the world, seeking high-quality and immersive creative learning experiences that are tailored specifically to their needs.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses:
On a short course at AUB, you’ll learn in a friendly, and encouraging environment where there’s no right or wrong way to be creative, and uniqueness is celebrated.
Our courses use AUB’s industry-standard software, studios, and equipment, and our tutors are industry professionals and experts in their relevant fields, so you’ll be learning from the best.
Our 50+ creative short courses are suitable for anyone aged 18+ and we cater to all abilities.
With a wide range of subject areas, there’s something for everyone.
For regular updates, sign up to our monthly newsletter.
Our summer courses are a great way to polish your portfolio, experiment and learn new skills or simply have fun with your creativity.
We're proud to offer the largest number of creative short courses locally in a wide range of disciplines – there's something for everyone!
One-year course gives you the chance to explore different creative areas before choosing the subject you want to take a degree in

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school:
This content can't be displayed, please accept marketing, statistics cookies to view
Our courses for aspiring young artists allow budding makers, designers and artists aged 7-18 to explore creativity outside regular school art classes, guided by our expert tutors.
Courses run either in the autumn or spring term.
Explore our complete course offering below, or browse by age range at the bottom of the page.
Get in touch by email at saturdayartschool@aub.ac.uk or call 01202 363222 if you have any questions and sign-up to our newsletter to receive regular updates.
In this hands-on course budding animators aged 12-15 will let their imaginations free as they learn the fundamentals of animation.
This exciting stage two course gives budding animators aged 12-16 the chance to develop more advanced and technical animation skills.
In this experimental course young artists aged 12-15 will explore a range of different mediums and discover new ways to create.
On this exciting course, young artists aged 11-14 have the chance to unleash their imaginations and master digital creation using Photoshop.
This fun, hands-on course is perfect for aspiring artists specifically aged 10-12 years to experiment and explore their creativity.
On this advanced course, artists aged 11-15 have the chance to advance their digital photography skills and explore the creative possibilities using post-production.
This practical course has been specially designed for young artists aged 14-17 to prepare their artwork and portfolio for applying to study a Foundation Diploma .
On this course, young artists aged 10-12 have the chance to develop digital drawing skills and explore iconic styles such as Disney.
On this creative course young filmmakers aged 12-15 will gain hands-on experience in writing, filming and editing their own material.
On this cutting-edge course young artists aged 12-15 have the chance to learn digital design skills used by creative game designers, product designers and animators.
Our digital photography course teaches aspiring photographers aged 11-15 fundamental photography skills in a fun and inspirational way.
This hands-on course gives budding fashion designers aged 12-15 the chance to learn the fundamental skills of fashion design and styling.
On this course, young artists aged 12-15 will expand their fashion design skills by exploring and practising eco-fashion and sustainable practices.
On this exciting fine art course students aged 12-15 will experiment and explore a wide range of creative techniques, plus learn new skills.
On this advanced, unique course young artists aged 12-15 have the chance to develop their 2D fine art skills and progress to create 3D art forms.
This dynamic course has been specially designed for budding artists aged 12-15 to take their first steps into the world of graphic design.
On this fun and imaginative course students aged 12-15 will learn a variety of new skills in modelmaking and create unique 3D designs.
On this eight-week course, young artists aged 11-14 will have the chance to simply learn how to draw, developing their skills and artistic ability.
This highly creative course is for budding make-up artists aged 12-15, to provide an insight into special effects make-up for media.
On this hands-on course young artists aged 12-15 will let their imaginations free as they explore make-up special effects for performance, fashion, film, and TV.
On this course young artists aged 7-9 have the chance to experiment and explore their creativity whilst having fun at the same time.
This futuristic course will introduce artists aged 12-15 to the world of virtual reality (VR), augmented reality (AR), and artificial intelligence (AI).
Explore creativity from a young age
Our courses for blossoming artists as young as 7 years old will help them explore their creativity, harness their imaginations, and gain confidence in creating and sharing their work.
No art and design experience is necessary; all we ask is students come with buckets of enthusiasm (and old clothes you don’t mind getting messy!).
Learn new skills and develop existing ones
We offer a range of courses to enable budding makers, designers, and artists aged 12-15 to develop skills in a range of different creative disciplines either to find their creative calling or simply enjoy learning new skills.
Your young artists don’t need to already be experts in their chosen subject, all we ask is that they come with enthusiasm for learning new things, creative ideas, and some old clothes they don’t mind getting messy in!
Preparing for future creative studies
For any budding artist, it's important to have a well presented and varied portfolio to help them take the next step in their creative journey.
Especially if the next step is applying to study at foundation or undergraduate level.
We’ve two portfolio preparation courses specifically designed for older students to help them succeed.
Students don’t need to already be applying for creative courses, we just ask that students come with lots of enthusiasm and ideas!

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/summer-courses:
Each year we're proud to welcome students from around the world to join our vibrant and inclusive summer community.
If you’re looking to add value to your art portfolio, experiment and learn new skills or simply have fun with your creativity over the summer months, then we've got the course for you!
Sign up to our newsletter for updates.
We offer over 50 part-time courses that are delivered on-campus in the evenings and/or Saturdays – great for learning a new hobby.
Our Saturday Art School courses are designed to inspire and enable the creators of tomorrow – take a look at our full list of courses here.
Choosing a bespoke summer programme at AUB will provide a unique, inspirational and memorable learning experience.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/summer-courses/bespoke:
Contact us today to discuss your requirements – email bespoke@aub.ac.uk or call +44 1202 363222.
Alternatively, complete our ' Register Your Interest ' form with details of your requirements and we'll get back to you with more information.
Our multi-disciplinary curriculums are designed to encourage learning at the highest standard and our specialist university tutors encourage curiosity and risk-taking.
This allows students to explore, expand and push their creativity.
You'll receive an experience like no other.
Plus, we'll assign you a dedicated coordinator to personally support you before coming to the UK, as well as during the programme to make your time with us as smooth as possible.
AUB has a strong reputation, both nationally and globally, and our size and location caters perfectly for exclusive groups; providing students and teachers with the highest confidence when selecting a university for tailored summer programmes.
Our academic teams are made up of people who have successful careers in the creative sectors and industries, and in many cases continue to practise alongside their teaching.
We also have working industries on campus, for example, Framestore, Lush, and Sunseeker.
We’re a creative international community with a unique, collaborative atmosphere and enviable specialist resources to match.
It’s not just our students who win awards – we invest heavily in technology and spaces to best equip our students during their time with us.
We want students to get used to the facilities they’ll find in the creative industries and have the confidence to express themselves with industry-standard resources.
All our facilities are on one campus, which makes it a very friendly and welcoming creative community.
We have 4,500 students from over 60 different countries, creating a vibrant and stimulating community.
In order to fully benefit and gain confidence when developing a second language, we recognise the importance of integrating technical language in the structure of class workshops and seminars.
Our approach to multi-disciplinary pro-active learning provides the perfect platform, which is both different and rewarding.
We have a strong reputation globally for delivering exceptional bespoke courses, and are proud to have welcomed thousands of people to our campus over the years for tailored courses.
We welcome students from all sectors and walks of life.
We can cater to the educational needs of schools, colleges and universities, as well as businesses and industry professionals looking to upskill.
Plus, we can offer English language classes as part of your package.
Whatever your needs, we've got you covered.
We provide immersive cultural experiences for students across the globe, to prepare them for their future studies.
Our specialist programmes for businesses and industry enable you to upskill, enhance your existing professional skills and develop new ones.
Our bespoke 'Plus English' courses are for students who want to improve their English language skills as well as explore their creativity.
Your bespoke course will be designed to your exact specifications, and can be as varied as you choose.
See below the services that can be included in the cost of your bespoke programme.
Our campus is a living, breathing, academic environment for creativity.
It’s where you’ll make amazing things happen.
With a backdrop of head-turning architecture, you’ll be in a community of like-minded makers and thinkers.
AUB is a microcosm of the creative industries, right down to having the best tools for the job.
We invest heavily in the technology and spaces that equip you for life in your chosen field, and we want you to get used to the equipment and facilities you’ll find in the real world.
You'll find everything you need to thrive in the arts right here on campus.
Our campus is a living, breathing, academic environment for creativity – it's where you'll make amazing things happen
The Innovation Studio operates as a lab for creative technologies, a nucleus for start-ups and enterprises and an industry engagement hub.
Our iconic blue Drawing Studio is used by student from all courses and was designed by alumnus Sir Peter Cook​...
Our in-house gallery, TheGallery, is a major resource for contemporary art and design in the South of England
MoDiP is the UK's leading resource for the study and interpretation of design in plastics and specialist research resource
The Library at AUB holds an excellent range of print and online collections
Our purpose-built Theatre and Dance studios allow creativity to flourish, student collaborations
Explore AUB's creative campus with our new 360° virtual tour
We’re situated in a safe coastal location with award-winning beaches, a lively social scene and lots of cultural attractions and events throughout the year.
Our small size means we’re a tight-knit community that’s friendly as well as accessible.
Bournemouth is one of the top destinations for tourists and as a town with three universities and many language schools, it attracts a diverse mixture of international students.
The best of England is on our doorstep too – we’re just a two-hour train ride from London with other popular locations such as Dorset’s Jurassic Coast (World Heritage Site) and the New Forest National Park nearby.
AUB is set in one of the most beautiful town on the south coast, find out about our award-winning beaches, nightlife and thriving arts scene
While studying with us, you’ll have easy access the UK’s most outstanding coastal landscapes.
We run a range of on-campus activities so that your students can experience life at an arts university first-hand.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/international:
Here you'll find all you need to know about applying to AUB as an international student.
With students and staff from over 60 different countries, our creative community thrives upon innovative thinking and global-minded individuals.
Explore the range of study opportunities, find out about information specific to your country and how to connect with our International team.
If you haven’t applied for a course yet, we recommend applying as soon as you can.
Some of our popular undergraduate courses are already closed for new applicants, but you can contact admissions@aub.ac.uk to find out what courses are still open and accepting applicants.
If you’ve already started an application, you should try to provide all the information we’ve requested by the given dates.
I've been so incredibly happy with my course so far.
My course tutors are so knowledgeable and supportive in every way possible.
AUB not only helps in building your practical skills and artistry, but there is a focus on setting each student up for their future success.
Studying in the UK has been such an amazing experience that I won’t ever forget.
BA (Hons) Costume and Performance Design
Read through some of the stories from our international students and their experiences studying at AUB.
I had an idea when I arrived at AUB that I wanted to be political and provocative...
I distinctly remember a moment during my second unit when I realised why I make art...
To anyone out there thinking about studying abroad: AUB is such a wonderful place for international students...
Theatre is often a second home for those looking to find an escape from their reality...
I still remember the day I decided to apply to the MA Fine Art course at AUB...
In my second year on the BA (Hons) Fashion Communication course here at AUB, we were given an industry...
I chose to study MA Fine Art because I love art, and I really like Arts University Bournemouth’s creative style...
While studying in my home country is also a privilege, many students believe that...
I came to AUB as a Fulbright scholar in order to pursue my interdisciplinary interests in...
Reflecting on my journey as an MA Animation Production student specialising in...
My first impression of AUB was that it was a warm and welcoming community...
Our goal was to highlight how the use of skin-lightening products negatively impacts the perception of darker skin, while also...
Before starting my studies at AUB, I scouted universities across the country and made my way there to get a feel for the...
When I first discovered the MA Digital Fashion Innovation course at AUB, I wasn’t just searching for another academic...
For me, it's important that any project that I do has a particularly strong narrative or a...
In my Master’s project, I explore the applications of real-time cloth simulation in the gaming space, and the idea of...
As part of the British Council’s Fellowship programme, I was given the opportunity to live and work in Venice for the month...
My creative process begins with curiosity sparked by observations.
Through theoretical research, I develop...
My ﻿journey into video editing began with simple slideshows on Windows Movie Maker and ﻿evolved to using...
Foundation was divided into two parts across three trimesters: Art, Media and Design, and a specialism...
My life in AUB thus far has been unprecedented, as I have never been to an art school in my life before...
Coming to AUB was actually quite an unexpected decision.
I went to a careers fair with my college, already set on a...
25 frames per second (fps) doesn’t sound like a lot in a world where we have half our games run on 60 fps, but any animator...
The world is full of chaos and uncertainties, and we just co-exist in such a place...
As an MA Graphic Design course ambassador at AUB, I had the privilege of leading the organisation of our recent Eid El-Fitr Celebration.
Normally, when I approach a problem, brief...
From the beginning of my studying journey at AUB, I have taken advantage of various...
I have always loved storytelling from a young age.
It started out with me watching...
Coming to AUB from an international country can be confusing, but our country representatives are here to give you a helping hand
We have several scholarships available that can be awarded for every year of studies.
We offer a range of English Language support for international students, both in preparation for and during their time at AUB
If you are coming to study at AUB and need to apply for a student visa, here's everything you need to know
We're running course webinar lead course leaders talking about their relevant course, include our foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate
Are you an International agent or counselors interested in becoming a representative of AUB?
We'd like to hear from you, here's how
If you're an American student looking to study at AUB and require a loan, find out everything you need to know about US Federal Loans here
Please contact the International team if you have any concerns about studying in the UK

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/fees:
Find out everything you need to know to plan your student finances including tuition fees and living costs
The thought of university-related finances can be daunting, but we want to make it as simple and hassle-free as possible for our students.
From tuition fees to living costs, we'll help you get a picture of what to expect in terms of finances when you start studying with us.
Find out what kind of financial support is on offer, how to pay tuition fees, what your fees go towards, and more.
The UK Government has introduced higher tuition fees to replace government funding for higher education.
We're committed to providing high quality, studio-based teaching and learning with strong rates of professional progression by our students.
To continue to provide all our students with the highest-quality experience, support students in financial hardship, and continue to develop wider access to the University, we'll need to charge £9,535, which in effect replaces the loss in state funding.
EU students starting in the 2023/24 academic year onwards, will be charged Overseas rates unless their fee assessment indicates that they can pay the Home rate.
EU students along with other Overseas students may be eligible for scholarships, bursaries and fee waivers which may be deducted from the Overseas fee payable.
Further information can be found on our website under Foundation fees , Undergraduate fees and Postgraduate fees .
Having a degree does improve your chance of getting a job and research shows that over the long term, graduates earn more than non-graduates.
Research also shows that graduates are considerably more likely to be in a job than people with lower qualifications.
There's far more to higher education than financial benefit.
It can transform people’s lives for the better as their intellectual horizons are broadened.
A higher education qualification means that you have more choice, a chance to find a job you really love now and in the future, and you can gain skills you need to progress in your career.
Your fees go towards your university experience.
Most importantly, we spend the money on teaching, as well as other areas such as administration, maintenance, catering and residencies.
We also try and keep a surplus to invest in things like curriculum development, facilities and equipment.
To find out more, take a look at our infographic on how we spend your fees .
You can find a detailed breakdown of what money we spend and where it goes in our annual accounts .
We're one of only 15 higher education institutions in the UK devoted solely to the study of art, design and media.
We've been providing specialist education for over a century and enjoy a strong reputation, both nationally and internationally.
AUB is a compact institution with over 3,000 students based on one campus.
We're a creative community where both staff and students share a commitment to the disciplines of art, design, media and performance.
Studying with us presents many opportunities to engage with the creative spirit that characterises life at the University.
Students and staff work in partnership on an innovative programme of professional practice and research, with different disciplines, encouraged to work together.
The industry experience and engagement of our academics, and the advice and guidance of our impartial careers service, mean that our students are provided with a wide range of subject-specific and generic advice on employability.
There are likely to be some additional costs.
For example, you'll need to pay for photocopying and printing, materials that you may wish to purchase for your creative activity, and educational visits which are designed to enhance the student experience and support much of the project work undertaken during the academic year.
(The cost of the trip may vary from year to year and is relative to the chosen destination).
For some courses, a resource kit is essential.
Further information on possible additional costs is available from your course.
If you're a UK undergraduate student, you won't have to pay your tuition fees up front.
The Government will provide students with a tuition fee loan to cover the full cost of the fee and you'll only start to repay after you've left your course and once you're earning over a set amount.
There are no up-front costs for your undergraduate course.
You can get a loan to cover the costs of your tuition, which you only start to pay back when you're earning over a set amount a year.
However, some course kits are essential, the costs of which vary.
These can be sourced through the University and must be paid for during induction week.
More information is available from your course.
Any previous study is taken into consideration when making an assessment for student financial support.
If you already hold an honours degree, you don't usually qualify for any further support.
There are some exceptions to this.
Those students who choose to study a degree after a below-honours qualification, e.g.
a Foundation Degree or HND, may qualify for some financial support.
You'll need to talk to us about this.
Students who are studying for an award which is equivalent to (or lower than) a qualification they already hold won't be entitled to any government support and will be required to pay the full fee.
Disabled Students’ Allowances (DSAs) are available to help if you're at university and will incur extra costs because of a disability (including a long-term health condition, mental health condition or specific learning difficulty such as dyslexia).
DSAs can provide you with equipment such as a computer, and personal support, but don't provide any cash.
DSAs can be received in addition to the standard student finance package and are available if you're studying on a course either full-time or part-time.
They're not dependent on income and don't have to be repaid.
If you're eligible, we have a range of bursaries and other additional support avenues that you can explore.
Depending on your precise, individual circumstances, you could be entitled to receive bursaries relating to travel costs, accommodation costs, or opportunities linked to graduate employment, among other things.
You can find more information, including eligibility requirements, on our Undergraduate Fees page .
Furthermore, there are a variety of scholarships available to EU and International students.
Take a look at our International Scholarships page to explore further.
We strongly encourage you to visit our campus and come to one of our Open Days, which are published on the website.
Please contact our Admissions office for further advice on specific course information on admissions@aub.ac.uk .
For more information about the financial support available and the benefits of going to university visit gov.uk/studentfinance or contact our team of Student Advisors .
If you're applying to a Foundation course, here are all the fees you need to be aware of as a Home or International student
If you're applying to an Undergraduate course, here are all the fees you need to be aware of as a Home or International student
Applying to an AUB Postgraduate course?
Here are all the fees you need to be aware of as a Home or International student...
Applying to an online AUB Postgraduate course?
Applying to an AUB Research degree?
Here are all the fees you need to be aware of as a Home or International student

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/study-abroad-exchange:
AUB offers students the opportunity to explore their creative practice while broadening their horizons.
We are excited to provide students with the opportunity to enhance their creative practice, develop professional networks, and gain a more global perspective.
Studying abroad will allow you to develop highly valued skills such as intercultural communication, foreign languages, adaptability, and problem-solving.
Our Study Abroad courses are suitable for international students and professionals who wish to develop new skills or continue their creative practice discipline abroad.
Exchange opportunities are suitable for both AUB students looking for an opportunity to study overseas, and students from AUB’s partner universities who wish to spend a term at AUB.
If you study at one of our partner institutions and would like to join us at AUB in the UK to enhance your creative skills, you can find more information under Incoming Opportunities.
If you are a current AUB student studying in Bournemouth, you can find more information under Outgoing Opportunities.
This course helps you develop your creative understanding or increase your English language skills before apply for a MA course.
Find out more about studying at AUB, either as a Study Abroad student or an exchange student from one of AUB’s partner institutions.
Exchange programmes offer the opportunity for current AUB students to study part of their degree with one of our partner universities.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus:
This is AUB.
A place to shape and build your work; to learn, share, provoke and collaborate.
We offer a range of dynamic spaces and rooms for hire, all equipped with essential IT equipment.
Some of our spaces are more than unique such as our Drawing Studio, designed by Alumni Sir Peter Cook and our creative Gallery.
The Palace Court Theatre is a 1930s Art Deco theatre building, situated in Bournemouth town centre.
Our goal is to ensure a sustainable future for the University as a specialist provider of arts, design, media and performance education
With a history spanning over 50 years, BFS sits at the heart of AUB, setting the standard for turning creativity into careers
We’ve got plenty of food and drink choices all over AUB campus.
We know that you need delicious, healthy and well-priced food when...
University Music is a joint AUB and BU department that offers a wide range of musical opportunities to students and staff...
Uniprint is here for all your printing needs, offering services from dissertation printing and binding to business cards and banners.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/guide-to-bournemouth:
Bournemouth and Poole offer plenty to do, from nightlife to sport, and from the countryside to the beach
We’ve got award-winning beaches, a famous nightlife, a thriving arts scene, and outstanding natural beauty.
On campus, you’ll find lots of great resources and facilities too.
We have an unrivalled library that’s totally dedicated to the creative arts, plus a gallery where we exhibit inspiring works from renowned artists.
Take a look at our Students’ Union for lots of useful information about what’s happening on and off campus.
There’s a canteen, bar and café on campus and plenty more to choose from at the neighbouring Bournemouth University, which you’re welcome to make use of.
While you’re over at BU, you’ll also find fitness facilities at SportBU, the student union shop, a bookshop and a Santander Bank.
There's so much to explore in our local area, and getting around is a walk in the park – here are some helpful travel tips
From local events, to independent shops and restaurants, there's so much to do in Bournemouth – discover your new hometown

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/accommodation:
We're here to help you get settled quickly in the accommodation that's right for you.
We have accommodation available for first-year students in our great range of halls of residence located on AUB Campus and in the Lansdowne area of Bournemouth town centre.
Just as you’re not all studying the same course, we know our students like different styles of places to live.
We have a range of halls of residence, each offering something unique – with everything from modern self-contained studio flats to more traditional en-suite rooms in cluster flats, there's something for everyone.
Our accommodation was a finalist for Best University Housing at the Global Student Living Awards 2023.
If you have additional queries please contact one of our Accommodation Advisors on accommodation@aub.ac.uk or by calling 01202 363 392 .
The first wave of room release opened on Monday 3 March 2025 .
The second wave of room release opened on Wednesday 18 June 2025 .
What could be better than living just minutes from the beach, with a gym and cinema included in your rent?
How about free travel?
For 2025/26, we're offering a free annual bus pass for all bookings at Home Park Halls of Residence, plus £150 cashback.
Book now so you don’t miss out!
(*Terms and conditions apply)
Our halls are located on campus or in the Lansdowne area of Bournemouth and have excellent bus and public transport links
Welcome to AUB Community, AUB’s residential life programme for students living in AUB Halls of Residence.
We want all students to live life to the full, on and off campus, to engage with the local community and have a rewarding time at AUB
Bournemouth is a welcoming place and we want you to enjoy life here, but it should never be at the expense of other residents

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/student-union:
Led by students, for the students.
Led by the President, Vice President and the Executive Officer Team, the Students’ Union exists to make sure that all students have the best possible experience whilst studying with us.
All of our students automatically become members of the Union when they enrol on their course.
As a Student’s Union at a creative university, AUBSU aims to provide platforms where students can showcase their talents and works within the university but also help you engage with the surrounding community.
The Students’ Union exists to make sure that you have the best possible experience whilst studying at AUB.
AUBSU is made up of:
University is the perfect time to meet like-minded people, start a new hobby or re-try something old.
AUBSU Clubs and Societies are groups run by students for students and there are plenty to choose from to get involved with.
Whether you’re a cinephile, cheese lover, or want to try Tae Kwon Do, you are sure to find something you’ll enjoy.
And if you can’t find a pre-made group that you love, you can always start your own.
Networks are led by AUBSU Executive Officers who represent each group on the Executive Committee and are supported by Union staff.
AUBSU's TheBUG network provides a dedicated platform for showcasing AUB student and alumni talent.
It encapsulates everything the Students' Union does which works towards the representation of student talent.
TheBUG oversees opportunities for students to showcase their talent to both the outside world and the creative community in and around campus.
At AUBSU, we have our very own student gallery space(s), operated by the students themselves!
Throughout the year the space(s) are open for students to curate their own exhibitions and host events with the help of TheBUG and the AUBSU team.
University Music offers a wide range of musical opportunities to students, staff and members of the local community and we cater to all levels of ability and musical interests.
AUB students have the same access as BU students.
You can also use the sports facilities at Bournemouth University, just across the road.
AUB students pay the same rates as BU students.
There’s a gym, and plenty of classes to join – see it at SportBU .
Please note that you can't join BU sports teams who compete in BUCS.
AUBSU is in the back corner of the campus, next to the Student Services building.
If you’re looking at it from the bike sheds, they're on the left.
You can also get in touch with the Students' Union via email: studentunion@aub.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/support:
No matter how big or small the problem, we're here to help
Coming to university doesn’t just involve learning about your degree, it involves learning about yourself.
Whilst your lecturers are here to help you with academic studies, Student Services are here to take care of all those life aspects that you will continue to learn about during your time at AUB.
We offer extra help to anyone who needs it.
We provide a range of specialist services to make managing your studies easier.
Whatever your needs, speak to us and we’ll try to help.
Our Student Advisors are available to support you through your time studying with us, helping you to live life to the full, on campus and off.
Student Services provide advice and guidance relating to funding, bursaries and hardship funds available for students at AUB, as well as help with all your enquiries in relation to living in the community, e.g.: local travel and transport, local amenities and general information.
With specialist training, AUB Student Services can also offer advice and guidance on any practical accommodation issue, including:
You can find a comprehensive guide to AUB halls of residence on our website .
We also have guidance on accommodation within the private rented sector .
You can contact Student Services via: Email: studentservices@aub.ac.uk Telephone: 01202 363780
Whether you have a problem, or just need someone to talk to, our team is here to help
AUB is committed to promoting and maintaining a culture in which incidents of harassment or sexual misconduct will not be tolerated...
Our online Report and Support tool enables anyone to report concerns anonymously, make a formal complaint, and receive support
The Conflict Resolution Service is a non-judgmental, confidential and voluntary service which can help you resolve any conflict...
We’re geared up to ensure you reach your full potential, providing practical support, guidance and information about extra allowances
We work in partnership with the local Village Surgery to provide a dedicated medical surgery each week
For people of all faiths – or none
Take a look at the average monthly spend for a student in private rented accommodation
The Study Skills and EAP team can offer support with academic work, personal organisation and study skills
You may be a fellow student, a member of staff, a concerned parent, friend, family member, or a medical professional wishing to make a...
The University Retreat is a new mental health drop-in service for students from Arts University Bournemouth and Bournemouth University...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/careers-and-enterprise:
AUB Futures supports students at every stage of their professional development – during their time at AUB and after they've graduated.
Through a varied programme of one-to-one coaching, events, workshops and talks, students gain insight from AUB alumni, creative professionals and enterprise experts.
These opportunities help them build the skills, confidence and knowledge needed to succeed in the creative industries.
The service also works closely with industry partners to run networking events, offer real-world experience, and connect employers with talented students and graduates from across AUB’s range of creative courses.
Whether you're preparing for employment, freelancing, or launching your own business, AUB Futures provides the guidance and support to help you take the next step.
If you're a current AUB student, you can book one-to-one career coaching with us, and also access events, job opportunities and resources .
For AUB Alumni, you can access resources on AUB& and book one-to-one coaching by emailing futures@aub.ac.uk .
The future starts now — and every experience at Arts University Bournemouth helps shape it.
Work with the next generation of creative talent.
At AUB Futures, we connect industry with emerging creatives from AUB.
We've organised a series of events online to support you in developing your career
Our new mentorship programme offers the chance for students from underrepresented groups to forge human connections with industry...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/news:
Curated by AUB
A lot goes on within our creative campus.
Even more goes on beyond.
Browse our latest stories or filter by category if you're after something in particular.
A lot goes on in our creative community – browse our events and venues to find out more about what's going on at AUB
Our students work on some amazing things while they study with us, and after.
Discover our student and alumni stories.
We offer over 20 undergraduate degrees, giving you the opportunity to study an arts subject you love in a creative community

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/events:
Take a look at what we've got coming up in our creative community, or browse our past events to see what we've been up to.
Summer Shows
Opening 11/06/2025
AUB Library
Opening 10/07/2025
MoDiP
TheGallery
Opening 15/08/2025
B.A.D.
(Boscombe Arts Depot)
Opening 18/09/2025, 05:30
Opening 19/09/2025
AUB Campus
Opening 20/09/2025, 09:00
Opening 01/10/2025, 13:15
Ended 18/08/2025
Ended 16/08/2025
Ended 14/08/2025
Online
Ended 12/08/2025

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/our-stories:
A look into the stories that make AUB what it is...
A lot goes on in our creative community – browse our news stories to find out more about AUB

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/postgraduate-events:
Discover what makes the postgraduate community at Arts University Bournemouth a hub of creative and innovative excellence.
Throughout the year at Arts University Bournemouth, we host a number of in-person and online events centring around our postgraduate courses.
At these events, you'll meet members of our postgraduate course teams, allowing you to ask them any burning questions and get a sense of how you can take the next step on your creative journey.
If you can't make one of our postgraduate events, or simply can't wait until then, you can book a one-to-one call with a member of the team from your course(s) of interest.
New postgraduate events will be announced soon.
Parking is available on our campus for the in-person events.
On arrival, you’ll be directed to a space by our security team located at the barrier by our on-campus Halls of Residence.
If you require blue badge parking, please inform us at least two days in advance by emailing us at opendays@aub.ac.uk .
Once you've booked to attend one of our online postgraduate events, you'll be sent a link with how to join.
Our online events will take place on Microsoft Teams.
Once you've joined, please have your camera on if possible and mute your microphone during the talks to avoid any disruption.
There'll be an opportunity for you to unmute yourself for any questions you may have.
If you're unable to make one of our listed events, there's the opportunity for you to request a one-to-one appointment with the course leader for your postgraduate course(s) of interest.
At the time of booking, you can specify your preferred method of contact for your appointment – including telephone call, Microsoft Teams call or in person – along with your preferred time of day (morning, afternoon or evening).
Upon receiving your request, the course leader will reach out to you to confirm and arrange your appointment.
If you're unable to attend one of our in-person events but would like the opportunity to view our campus, this can be done with a self-guided tour on a day of your choice (Monday to Friday) between the hours of 09.00 and 16.30.
You can collect a campus map from Reception, located in our University House building, to help you navigate your way around.
Please note that course specific spaces and studios won't be accessible due to teaching, but you’ll have the opportunity to view our more general facilities including the library, hospitality outlets including The Refectory and Arts Bar, along with the Student Union and Student Services.
If you require parking for your self-guided visit, please notify us at least two days in advance by emailing opendays@aub.ac.uk .
You can also explore our campus online at any time via AUB:360 .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus-tours:
Explore our creative campus and its general facilities with one of our student ambassadors, so that you can get a feel for the AUB vibe.
If you didn't manage to visit us on one of our Open Days, don't worry.
With our Campus Tours, the chance to discover Arts University Bournemouth up close isn't over!
Campus Tours run on Fridays, starting at 11.00 and lasting approximately one hour.
We're running Campus Tours on the following dates.
If you didn't manage to visit us on an Open Day, the chance to discover AUB up close isn't over!
Unlike Open Days, Campus Tours run on teaching days, so they won't allow you access into individual studios, halls of residence, or the opportunity to speak to academic teams.
If you're more interested in these opportunities, book onto one of our Open Days , which'll offer you the complete experience of visiting AUB.
You can, however, visit services such as Admissions, Student Support and our Students' Union during the tours.
Here are a few frequently asked questions from visitors to our Campus Tours.
Our Campus Tours start at 11.00 and usually last an hour.
Make sure you arrive at our Reception in University House for around 10.45 so our Ambassadors can sign you in before the tour begins.
Our campus tours are hosted by our Student Ambassadors – they'll give you a guided tour of campus and our general facilities.
You'll also have the opportunity to ask they about their experiences of being a student at AUB.
Unless for service and support, dogs aren't allowed indoors.
Otherwise, dogs are welcome to all outdoor areas of our campus.
Following the campus tour, you can meet our Student Services, Wellbeing, Admissions and Finance teams if you have any queries (subject to staff availability on the day).
If you'd like to meet our Disability Support team, we recommend letting us know in advance so we can arrange a one-to-one slot for you.
Our security team set aside car parking spaces for our campus tour visits.
When you arrive, let them know you're here for the tour and they'll direct you on where you can park.
Our campus tours are a separate experience to Open Days.
Due to taking place during teaching, they won't provide access to our dedicated spaces, studios or accommodation.
We'd recommend booking an Open Day if you haven't already, as these offer the full AUB experience.
Open Days feature course-specific talks and workshops, along with more general talks on finance, accommodation, admissions and overall information about AUB.
There's also the opportunity to view our studio spaces and on-site and nearby accommodation – campus tours are available too.
Our academics won't be available to speak with during campus tours due to teaching hours.
Feel free to reach out to our current Student Ambassadors via our Unibuddy scheme if you have any questions about your course or student life at AUB.
Our campus tours take place at fixed times.
If you're not able to make it, feel free to collect a campus map from Reception and explore AUB for yourself.
Like the campus tours, our dedicated spaces, studios and accommodation will be restricted.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/apply/undergraduate/offer-holder-days:
Our Offer Holder Day events will give you a more in-depth opportunity to experience AUB, focusing on the specific course you have applied for.
These events are invite-only, so once you've received your offer (and if your course is taking part), you'll receive an Offer Holder Day invitation.
These events take place during the week, either on our bustling, creative campus, where you'll be able to see what it's really like to study here, or online.
Even if you can't make it to campus in person, you'll still get the chance to talk to staff and current students with others starting your chosen course.
Our 2025 Offer Holder Days have now all taken place.
However, we're also running a programme of online information sessions to support offer holders (and their parents, carers, or supporters) with any queries or concerns they may have about starting university in September.
If you want to pay us a visit, check out our upcoming Open Day and Campus Tour dates.
Find out more about each of our Offer Holder Day events below.
We also have a handy guide for Offer Holder Days for parents, carers and supporters.
At our on-campus Offer Holder Days, you'll meet your prospective course teams and take part in group activities, whether...
If you can't make it to one of our on-campus Offer Holder Days, don't worry!
Our online Offer Holder Days have got you covered...
These exclusive online information sessions are taking place from March – July 2025, giving you deeper insights into everything...
Supporters are very welcome as guests at our Offer Holder Day events – in fact...
Whether you're applying for a Foundation, Undergraduate or Postgraduate degree, we're here to help

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/ucas-events:
We attend UCAS events throughout the year and we'd love to see you!
Bournemouth
Bournemouth University (Talbot Campus)
30 June 2025
Nottingham
National Ice Centre and Motorpoint Arena
2 July 2025
Please check back again soon for our list of 2026/27 UCAS Events.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/your-journey-to-aub:
Begin your journey to AUB this autumn!
This session will include UCAS Application Process – Made Simple, How to write a personal statement to stand out from the crowd, and how to create a strong portfolio.
In this session, we'll explore our range of accommodation, how the booking process works and cover those all-important questions: Is there a deposit?
When can I move in?
What support is there for me in halls and what should I bring with me?
This session is your opportunity to hear more about same day mental health support, disability and neurodiversity service provision and more.
There'll also be chance to arrange individual one-to-one follow-ups with the team after this session, if you want to continue the conversion on an individual basis.
An informal session giving you the opportunity to ask any burning questions on admissions, the UCAS process and points, personal statements, portfolio and auditions, clearing and more!
Our helpful and knowledgeable team will be happy to help.
This informal session hosted by our Student Services team to answer any burning questions on accommodation, student finance and bursaries, wellbeing and disability support.
This session will be a combination of a short presentation and Q+A for international students applying to AUB.
It will touch on applications, admission requirements, English proficiency requirements, international scholarships, and international student support.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/summer-shows:
Every year, our campus transforms into the most extensive gallery in the southwest of England as we host our Summer Shows.
Thousands of visitors come to marvel at the creative work of our extraordinary students, from our Foundation Diploma, our undergraduate courses and our postgraduate programmes.
The stellar work on display gives the public a unique glimpse inside the dream factory that is AUB.
We'll be opening up our campus again this summer as our 2025 graduating students from Foundation, Undergraduate and Postgraduate courses prepare to showcase their outstanding projects.
The Foundation Summer Show celebrates the achievements of our students, providing an exciting platform to showcase their final project...
This summer, AUB Campus will be transformed into the most extensive gallery space in the southwest of England...
AUB’s Summer Shows are a celebration of the achievements of our 2025 graduating students, with the Postgraduate Summer Shows ending the...
Arts University Bournemouth is bringing its showcases to London once again this year, ﻿with exhibitions and events taking place...
Trash to Treasure traces the enduring role of reuse, repair, and recycling in shaping sustainable fashion, revealing how these...
The Art of Community: Summer Shows 2025 documents our collaborative and community approach by celebrating...
Summer Show-time at AUB is one of the most energising and exciting experiences of our year.
Join us throughout the summer months to be energised by the creative work of our fabulous students from all over the world, including those studying on our Foundation Diploma, our BA (Hons) programmes and postgraduate courses.
We open our doors and welcome students and their families, alumni and industry, and thousands of visitors to share the magic and be part of the dream factory that is AUB.
Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive Officer
Around our on-campus Summer Shows, students graduating from our BA (Hons) programmes also take their work to exhibitions and events in London throughout June, July and August, offering them the chance to gain industry contacts and recognition, awards and work placement opportunities.
Graduate Fashion Week (GFW) is the largest showcase of undergraduate fashion in the world.
With the most influential and inspiring UK and international universities and colleges on show, Graduate Fashion Week provides a fantastic opportunity to see the freshest talent from 26 different fashion disciplines, including our BA (Hons) Fashion and BA (Hons) Fashion Communication courses.
GFW attracts thousands of guests with a packed schedule of catwalk shows, university exhibitions, talks, masterclasses and workshops from leading names in the fashion and retail industry.
It represents the future of creative design talent and showcases the work of over 3,500 of the very best fashion graduates each year.
The event attracts a wide array of top industry professionals, press and recruiters from UK and abroad who use this opportunity to discover talent, as well as offer exciting graduate employment and placements opportunities.
For more information, explore the GFW website .
New Designers is an annual London showcase of the UK’s most innovative emerging art and design talent.
Since its inception 40 years ago, New Designers has provided a platform for over 2,500 graduates every year to present their visionary ideas to industry professionals and the public.
The event takes place over two weeks, with different disciplines highlighted between Week One and Week Two, spanning fashion, textiles, furniture, product design, illustration and more.
This year, our BA (Hons) Textiles Design students will be exhibiting in Week One, while our BA (Hons) Illustration and BA (Hons) Design students will exhibit in Week Two.
You can explore the New Designers website for more information.
The annual D&AD New Blood Festival is a magnet for creative industry movers and shakers.
BA (Hons) Graphic Design and BA (Hons) Visual Communication will be there to take advantage of the networking, mentoring, internships, and employment opportunities.
The event culminates in the New Blood Awards Ceremony, where winners of the New Blood Awards are honoured.
D&AD judges award the coveted New Blood pencils for winning work across a range of set briefs, and numerous individual portfolio awards are made during the event.
Explore the briefs in more detail on the D&AD website.
New Blades is annual event, now in its 31st year, organised by 4Dmodelshop and sponsored by a host of industry employers including Foster + Partners, Amalgam, M.A.D Models, Merlin Magic Making, Atom, and others.
Hundreds of industry guests visit the show each year.
This year, graduating modelmakers from five universities across the UK will be exhibited in June, including our own BA (Hons) Modelmaking students.
The exhibition and event acts as recruitment fair for modelmakers, it attracts industry heavyweights from sectors including entertainment, product development and architectural.
The 20 awards include Best Use of Creative Materials, Best Architectural Model and Best Product Model, as well as the Best of Show, which will be voted for by industry professionals who attend.
“Modelmaking is such a diverse industry with a range of opportunities for the right people to display their creativity and attention to detail.
We’re really keen to encourage the next generation into what is an amazing industry.”
Read more on the 4D Modelshop website.
Introspection is the 2025 graduate showcase from the BA (Hons) Commercial Photography course at Arts University Bournemouth.
Hosted at Hoxton Arches in East London – a location chosen for its proximity to the UK’s creative industries – this exhibition presents a collective body of work with clear commercial intent.
Spanning fashion, documentary/editorial, and advertising photography, the exhibition reflects the professional focus of the course and the industry-readiness of its graduates.
The work exhibited demonstrates an understanding of visual communication, commercial intent, and narrative – skills essential to the creative commercial landscape.
Attended by a wide network of industry professionals, from art directors to picture editors, as well as alumni with over 20 years of success in the field, Introspection offers a unique opportunity to engage with the next generation of commercial image-makers.
This show is a celebration of creativity, professionalism, and ambition – marking the launch of bold new voices into the world of contemporary photography.
For more information, visit the exhibition's website .
Aberrations is the 2025 graduate showcase from our BA (Hons) Photography course.
Presented by the Aberrations Collective, this year’s graduating cohort, the exhibition takes place at Copeland Gallery in the heart of Peckham’s creative quarter.
The exhibition presents a bold and diverse range of photographic practices, reflecting a shared commitment to critical enquiry, creative risk-taking, and engagement with expanded photographic forms.
The private view welcomes guests to explore the work and connect with the artists, with drinks available from Social, an independent bar located adjacent to the gallery.
If you didn't manage to visit our Summer Shows in person on campus, there's still time!
We also exhibit the amazing work of our graduating students in our online AUB Showcase.
The projects of our 'Class of 2024' is now ready for you to explore.
Each year, our Schools and Colleges team helps to deliver guided and self-guided tours for school groups (Years 9–13) interested in visiting our Summer Shows.
If you want to bring your school group this year, please email us at schools@aub.ac.uk to express your interest.
For more information on our schools and colleges activity, please explore our School's Hub .
We spoke with the Summer Shows team for the run-down on AUB’s Summer Show experience...
Two BA (Hons) Fashion graduates from Arts University Bournemouth excelled at this year’s Graduate Fashion Week (GFW) with...
It’s been another successful run at the annual modelmaking expo, New Blades, as several graduating BA (Hons) Modelmaking students from...
Summer awards season is underway at AUB, kicking off with huge recognition of our BA (Hons) Fashion and BA (Hons) Fashion Communication...
MA Painting students from AUB enjoyed a successful show at Lighthouse, Poole as part of AUB's 2024 Postgraduate Summer Shows...
AUB opened its doors to the public for its much-anticipated annual Postgraduate Summer Shows event.
The annual event showcases...
BA (Hons) Modelmaking students from AUB stole the show at this year’s New Blades show in London winning 14 awards out of 21.
The annual...
BA (Hons) Graphic Design and BA (Hons) Visual Communication students from AUB are celebrating wins across the board following this...
BA (Hons) Textiles graduates from AUB exhibited at the prestigious New Designers show at the Business Design Centre in London...
AUB will open its doors to the public and transform into the largest gallery in the south of England for its much-anticipated annual...
AUB is celebrating another successful Graduate Fashion Week with five awards for its undergraduates from the BA (Hons) Fashion and...
The Art of Collaboration: Summer Shows 2024 documents our collaborative community by celebrating the diverse creative specialisms...
This year’s New Blades recruitment fair ended with a major triumph for AUB as seven of its BA (Hons) Modelmaking students came away with...
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is gearing up for the much-anticipated annual Undergraduate Summer Shows, a celebration of creativity...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/contact-us:
Find out how to contact us and who you need to speak to depending on the nature of your enquiry.
If you've got a general enquiry, or you're not quite sure who you need to reach, get in touch with our reception team:
Email: hello@aub.ac.uk Call: +44 1202 533011
For any questions about our courses, qualifications and entry requirements, how to apply or about your application to AUB, contact our admissions team:
Email: admissions@aub.ac.uk Call: +441202 363228 or +441202 363225
For any queries about AUB& and our alumni community:
Email: alumni@aub.ac.uk
For any questions about graduation day, what's involved and how to prepare for it:
Email: graduation@aub.ac.uk
Looking to join AUB from further afield?
Are you a current international student?
Contact AUB International if you have any queries:
Tel: +441202 363233 Email: international@aub.ac.uk Skype ID: AUBInternational (Email international@aub.ac.uk to make an appointment)
For queries about tech issues and IT support, contact ServiceDesk:
Email: servicedesk@aub.ac.uk IT Portal: https://my.aub.ac.uk/dashboard/subdash-it
If you'd like to arrange an interview with any of our academics or students, film on campus or have any other press-related enquiries, contact our Marketing team:
Email: marketing@aub.ac.uk Call: +441202 363812
For any queries about AUB's Open Days:
Email: opendays@aub.ac.uk
If you're staff from a secondary school or college institution and have an enquiry, contact our schools team:
Email: schools@aub.ac.uk
For questions about Evening and Weekend courses, Saturday Art School and Summer Courses, contact our Short Courses team:
Email: shortcourses@aub.ac.uk Call: +44 1202 363222
For students with any queries about assessment marks and final award​s:
Email: studentrecords@aub.ac.uk Call: +44 1202 363383
For all funding, fees and accommodation queries, contact our student services team:
Email: studentservices@aub.ac.uk Call: +441202 363780
For any queries relating to studying abroad:
Email: studyabroad@aub.ac.uk Call: +441202 853624 Skype: AUB-Studyabroad
For any queries about our website, aub.ac.uk , contact the web team:
Email: web@aub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/find-us:
Here's how to find Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) and our opening times.
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is a single campus University based in Poole, Dorset.
Bournemouth and Poole are well-connected with cycle lanes and Beryl Bikes, too.
It's worth noting that we're next door to Bournemouth University, so you might like to use our what3words code to find our entrance.
Arts University Bournemouth Wallisdown, Poole Dorset BH12 5HH United Kingdom
Find us using what3words: ///claims.fetch.driver
Monday
08.00-18.00
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
09.00-16.00
Sunday and Bank Holidays
Closed
Please check separate opening times for the Library and MoDiP as timings may differ to other campus buildings.
09.00-17.00
09.00-13.00 (Gallery Office closed)
Arts Bar and Costa
08.30-15.30
TheGallery Café
Reopens in September
The Refectory – hot lunch service
The Shop
Please visit the Library's website for opening hours.
Please visit MoDiP's website for opening hours.
From the East and North
From the West
Bournemouth Train Station is served by a fast inter-city rail link from London Waterloo.
There are also regular trains from Poole, Southampton and other major cities.
You can purchase tickets at the station or via South Western Railway or Trainline .
The Wallisdown Campus is about 1.5 miles from the train station and a 5-10 minute journey by taxi.
To help out with the ongoing cost-of-living situation, you can now get 34% discount on train fares if you travel with South Western Railway (SWR) to an AUB Open Day .
Terms and conditions
FAQs
Bournemouth is well-connected by coach.
It takes about 2.5 hours to get here from London.
The Bournemouth Train and Coach Stations (known as the Travel Interchange) are next to the railway station.
The Morebus services 17, 6, and 36 will take you from Bournemouth Train/Coach Station (Travel Interchange) to the University campus.
The journey will last around 10–15 minutes.
The Unibus U1 will take you to campus from Holdenhurst Road.
A taxi takes about 5-10 minutes.
Local taxi companies include:
Parking on the AUB Campus is limited to permit holders only.
This is to encourage those coming to campus to use more sustainable and environmentally friendly modes of transport as we work towards our net zero goals.
Please note that parking permits are not available to students, but Blue Badge holders may use our car park.
Please email hello@aub.ac.uk or call 01202 533011 if you have any parking related queries.
Further details regarding parking for specific events can be found below:
AUB staff members can book parking for visitors by emailing hello@aub.ac.uk or call 01202 533011.
All visitor parking must be booked by 12.00 the day before.
Parking on campus is available for people who are visiting TheGallery and MoDiP, as well as campus-based events such as our Summer Shows, Open Days and Campus Tours.
Pre-booking isn't required.
You’ll be welcomed onto campus by our team or directed to an alternative, nearby car park.
If you have any special requirements or require a blue badge space, please let us know by emailing opendays@aub.ac.uk .
Parking on campus is available for interview, auditions and applicant days.
You'll be pre-booked a space by your AUB contact.
Please inform Security on arrival that you're in attendance for an interview, audition or applicant day and they'll issue you a permit for that day.
If the applicant isn't the driver, you can still park on campus, providing a space has been pre-booked.
You’re welcome to stay and enjoy our facilities.
Alternatively, you can follow the signs to the town centre, where there are plenty of places to eat, drink and visit.
There are nearer parking options in Winton, some within walking distance and others on bus routes.
Winton parking is on a smaller scale and often involving a more complex route to campus.
We recommend planning your route before you travel.
Here are some external websites that give information about hotels in Bournemouth and the surrounding area.
Please be aware when booking your hotel that the University campus is a two-mile drive from the town centre.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/about-us:
We're set in one the UK’s most beautiful award-winning natural locations; boasting spectacular gardens, beaches, forests and a Jurassic coastline classified by UNESCO as a world heritage site.
But it isn’t just beauty, peace and tranquillity that students can take advantage of during their studies at AUB; as Bournemouth itself is also home to one of the fastest growing creative and digital hubs in Europe, with its digital sector supporting more than 7,500 digital jobs and contributing over £340million to the UK economy*.
And at AUB, it’s not just a thriving digital and creative environment you’ll graduate into.
You’ll be immersed into a richly artistic community right from the start.
Our award-winning campus is located between the towns of Bournemouth and Poole, with all of our accommodation being located very close by, so it’s easy to reach us by cycling or walking, as well as through great travel links spanning across the country.
There are major rail and bus stations nearby and Bournemouth's international airport is less than 20 minutes away.
We’re a gateway to the creative industries – a sector which is growing at a faster rate than the whole of the UK economy!
Our exceptional teaching staff are leading professionals from across the creative industries - they’ll work with you to sharpen the skills you need to succeed; from developing industry contacts to placements, to nurturing a specialist insight that transforms creativity into careers.
Want to find out what it's really like studying at AUB?
Chat with one of our student ambassadors.
They’re here to answer any questions you may have on university life, clubs and societies and living and studying in Bournemouth.
We've been voted #18 in 'Best UK universities 2021' by students in the Student Crowd awards.
"Such a lovely uni with such lovely spaces.
They've always been so supportive of their students." - StudentCrowd Reviewer
"I felt like I could be myself because everyone else was themselves."
BA (Hons) Acting, featured in BBC's Our Girl

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/prospectus:
We've made the world's first Instagram prospectus.
Now, we've made the biggest physical prospectus too – our giant House of Cards.
At Arts University Bournemouth, we do things a little differently.
We don't have a traditional prospectus, instead you can explore our courses and discover university life on our Instagram prospectus – built entirely for the platform.
Or if you like to have something you can hold, order our House of Cards — a simplified prospectus you can build yourself.
We unveiled the world's largest prospectus at Arts by the Sea Festival – designed in collaboration with year 12 Queen Elizabeth's School (QE) students and Morally Made.
The sculpture is based on our House of Cards prospectus, which you can order a (much smaller) version of.
You can also check out our giant prospectus on campus at an Open Day.
I felt like I could be myself because everyone else was themselves.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/our-research:
Our flourishing research and scholarship culture celebrates and enables original investigation; extending knowledge fields and developing new understanding within the arts.
Arts University Bournemouth's research impacts positively on society, industry and our
stakeholders.
AUB’s outstanding results gained from REF 2021 demonstrate our continued desire to grow our research output, showcasing how work from across the creative sectors can have a huge impact on the world; from works of cultural and industrial significance, to that of work protecting and raising awareness for minority and under-represented groups in society.
More than 12 percent of the AUB’s research has now been classed as ‘world-leading’ with a further 42 per cent being classed ‘internationally excellent’, according to REF 2021.
The University’s research activity includes online and digital work, as well as exhibitions, photography, museum curation and published work, and represents research across areas of art and design, performing arts, and film and screen studies.
Through our Research and Knowledge Exchange Plan AUB will expand and deepen research with relevant aligned professions and industries in the UK and overseas.
Our international renown in the application of specialist technical knowledge in modelmaking, future fashion technologies and diverse modern materials will be developed through adventurous schemes of knowledge transfer and exchange.
Drawing on our unique archives and collections in materials such as plastics we will accelerate interaction with material scientists, environmentalists and industrial designers.
Drawing on our unique assets as a Maker Culture underpinned by high-end, high-impact infrastructure and equipment, and informed by the disruptive possibilities of Industry 4.0, we will create a Lab 4 Creative Technologies (L4CT) that physically and conceptually fuses our workshop expertise and other spatial assets with the ERDF Innovation Studio to create a Creative Technologies House, which will aim to accelerate our collaborative works across design, innovation and technology.
Discover AUB’s Impact Case Studies submitted to REF 2021
Our Research Network brings together a range of researchers, staff, postdoctoral and graduate students develop their common interests...
Our Research Ethics Policy and Procedure document sets out the guiding principles for the development and conduct of research
If you aspire to know your subject in greater depth or make a significant academic contribution, a research degree could be the answer
AUBREI – Arts University Bournemouth Research Excellence and Impact repository
AUB is home to special collections which support our research and teaching and are accessible to the public
AUB has a thriving and exciting research environment.
Through prioritised research projects AUB is committed to creating deep collaborations, networks and partnerships and to engaging with diverse communities.
Our Research Plan which supports AUB’s Strategy 2030 aims to expand and deepen research with aligned professions and industries.
It aims to:
The university hosts a number of Research Groups which support areas of research and innovation strengths.
The university also runs a regular series of research and knowledge exchange seminars alongside an annual research conference.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/schools-hub:
No creative journey is the same but we know that inspiring your students, whatever their ambition, is at the heart of what we do in creative education.
As part of a community of creative educators, we're united in our passion for the arts and our shared goal to broaden students' perspectives on where a creative pathway could lead them.
Whether you have students that know who they want to be or students that are still working it out, we have a route to the creative industries to suit everyone's personal journey.
Our dedicated Schools and Colleges team are here to support teachers and advisors to create more opportunities for young people to engage with creative arts and experience valuable insights into higher education and beyond.
Our unique range of activities for schools and colleges has been designed to support you in meeting your Gatsby benchmarks and empower your students to make decisions about their future.
From delivering informative presentations, to attending Careers Fairs, to arranging visits to our inspiring campus, we have a diverse range of outreach activities both on and off campus.
Our activities are always completely free and can be adapted for most year groups and student areas of interest.
We also host exciting events for schools and colleges throughout the year, including Portfolio Days, art workshops and theatre and dance performances.
Our free careers guidance tool is available to all schools and colleges to bring a new dimension to exploring creative pathways.
Scroll through 1000s of images, create a collection of images tailored to you and browse creative matches and generated study and career resources.
We believe that every individual should be able to access creative activities and explore new opportunities, no matter their background.
That's where our post-16 access scheme, ‘All Access AUB’ comes in.
We offer a range of tailored provisions to support students in making a well-informed, successful application to a creative degree programme.
Join our community of creative educators and make sure you’re in the loop about all our upcoming events and opportunities.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/innovation-studio:
Industry-engagement and our strong maker culture puts collaboration at the heart of everything we do.
The Innovation Studio operates as a lab for creative technologies, a space for start-ups and regional enterprises, and a hub for industry engagement, with a focus on collaboration, entrepreneurship, research, and prototyping.
The studio combines flexible workspaces with access to state-of-the-art digital and physical equipment for creative design and manufacturing, as well as expertise and a wealth of knowledge from AUB’s professional and technical staff and academic practitioners.
Through this exceptional space we're proud to offer:
Explore how the Innovation Studio can help you and your business, or get in touch with our Innovation experts to discuss your needs.
We're the creative innovation specialists, and our professional and technical staff have a wealth of knowledge to assist you during your time with us.
Find out more about our team below.
If you'd like to meet the Innovation Studio team online, join us for a live information session or book onto one of our Studio Tours .
MBA, MEng
PGCert, BMus (Hons)
MA, PGCE-FE, BA
PhD, MA, BA, PGCE (HE), CTPD
EngD, B.Sc.
PhD, MSc, BA, AFHEA
Stay up to date with the Innovation Studio
The Business Incubator is ideal for individuals or small teams in the very early stages of their entrepreneurial journey...
A Residency at AUB's Innovation Studio gives you and your business the chance to connect and collaborate in our co-working space.
Our Associate Programme offers membership of our Innovation Studio to regional businesses seeking research and development support.
The Innovation Studio features state-of-the-art equipment and digital resources, and the latest manufacturing technology.
A series of workshops and lectures for industry professionals to develop innovation and creative capabilities.
Take a look at some of our recent collaborative projects with external partners and businesses
Whether you’re hiring, mentoring, or collaborating on a project, we make it easy to access new ideas, fresh thinking and practical skills.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/arts-university-bournemouth-ranked-one-of-the-top-five-universities-in-south-west:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) has been announced as a ‘major advancer’ in this year’s Complete University Guide.
The 2026 guide, which was released on 10 June, ranks AUB up 32 places from last year to 61st, making it one of the few ‘newer universities’ that are challenging older universities for a spot in the top 70.
The new high ranking also places AUB in the top five universities in South West England, alongside University of Bath, University of Exeter, University of Bristol, and Bristol UWE.
Of those five, AUB is the only art and design specialist institution.
“We’re thrilled to have gained 32 places, it’s an incredible achievement in just one year," comments Lisa Mann, Vice-Chancellor and CEO at AUB, "and to now be in the top five universities in South West England is something we’re all very proud of.
“These guides and league tables are vital for prospective students when they’re deciding where and what to study, and in a challenging and competitive market, it will make a big difference to the University to be so highly ranked, and is testament to the hard work of all AUB staff and their commitment to providing an excellent student experience.”
The good news is very welcome for AUB following recent announcements of unavoidable redundancies due to the challenging economic environment.
The local creative and business community have stepped forward in support of AUB during this difficult time and offer congratulations for gaining 32 places in this year’s Complete University Guide and becoming one of the top five universities in South West England.
Elspeth McBain, Chief Executive at Lighthouse Poole, says, “Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) plays a vital national role in nurturing talent across the performing and digital arts.
Through hands-on, industry-focused training, AUB equips its students with the practical skills and experience needed to thrive in the creative industries.
“In recent years, creative education has faced significant challenges – from the erosion of arts subjects in the national curriculum, the disproportionately rising costs across all aspects of running a university, to government policies that are limiting income generation.
These pressures have made it increasingly difficult for institutions like AUB to offer the broad, high-quality training that the sector demands and it’s a very tough landscape to navigate.
“Against this backdrop, AUB’s sharp rise in the rankings is a remarkable and richly deserved achievement.
It reflects the University’s unwavering commitment to excellence in creative education.
Congratulations to Lisa Mann and her outstanding team on this success.”
The annual independent university league tables and rankings from the Complete University Guide are designed to give prospective university students all the key information they need for university research by ranking the best universities in the UK.
Professor Amanda Chetwynd, Chair of the Complete University Guide Advisory Board, says, “This year, we’ve seen considerable movement in the subject tables, underlining their importance as a resource for students who know what they want to study, but are still weighing up where to apply.
"Whether making early choices or preparing for Clearing, our university and subject league tables, along with regional insights, are here to help students navigate one of the most important decisions of their lives.”
Something to think about
If you liked this post you might be interested in our Undergraduate courses.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aub-graduate-secures-bafta-television-craft-award-for-work-on-rivals:
The Rivals Make-Up and Hair Design team, led by Jill Sweeney, and consisting of AUB alumna Natalie Allan, along with colleagues Abi Brotherton, Tiffany Pierre, Franziska Roesslhuber, and Martine Watkins, won the BAFTA Television Craft Award for Make-Up and Hair Design.
The BAFTA Television Craft Awards celebrate the behind-the-scenes talent in British television.
The ceremony, hosted by Stacey Dooley, honoured achievements from the 2024 television year.
Rivals , a period comedy-drama television series adapted from the 1988 novel by Dame Jilly Cooper, stars an ensemble cast including David Tennant, Aidan Turner, Katherine Parkinson, Victoria Smurfit, Alex Hassell, Nafessa Williams, Bella Maclean, Emily Atack and Danny Dyer.
We caught up with BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance graduate Natalie on all things Rivals and her incredible journey from AUB to the BAFTAs…
“Honestly, I still can’t believe it!
Even the news of us being nominated was extremely exciting and emotional, never mind us winning it!
We’re still on cloud nine!
It’s very rewarding seeing our names as award-winners; and the goosebumps I get from having the BAFTA on the mantelpiece every day is something I could’ve only dreamed of!
“The timing of winning the BAFTA while prepping for Rivals Series Two was both a confidence boost and an adrenaline kick knowing that all our hard work had paid off and it drove us even more for the new series ahead!”
“When you’re nominated for a BAFTA, you get invited to a nominee party, which is a separate event with all the BAFTA nominees, including the actors!
This was very glam, with press and interviews and fancy drinks, it was an exciting and glamorous experience to be a part of, especially when we always say there’s no glamour in filming!
“The Craft Awards were similarly set up but with nominated creatives only, which was really lovely and made for a more chilled environment with us all dressed up to the nines; it was like going to prom!
It was amazing and exciting to be standing alongside inspirational make-up artists and designers whose work I have been following for years.
“The ceremony was ambient and theatrical – full of round tables laid for dinner.
Rivals had three tables due to three nominations, which was so cool to be a part of.
Watching so many of the award-winners before us was a surreal experience and we were just so glad to be there – we never thought we would actually win!
“When they announced the nominations for Make-up, all six of us held hands and just took in the whole moment with butterflies.
When we heard our Make-up Designer’s name called, followed by our own, the emotion got the better of me and I cried – with happy tears, of course!
It was an honour standing on the stage behind Jill as she did her speech.
Once we left the stage, we jumped up and down like we’d won a cheerleading competition!
“The press then escorted us into the lift to collect our awards while we were being videoed for reactions and emotions.
At the trophy table, we signed our name for our own BAFTA and had photographs as a group and also by ourselves; we all felt like celebrities!”
“ Rivals is my favourite show to date.
The '80s glamour and the magnificent cast make this a dream job for me.
When I told my mum I was doing a period production, she was absolutely shocked that I was associating the '80s as period!
“One thing I do love about the show is the vast number of skills we use, including eyelash tinting, perming, barbering, hair cutting, spray tanning, plenty of wigs and challenging back pieces and of course the wonderful '80s colour palette for the make-up.
I’m very fortunate to look after Rupert Campbell-Black (Alex Hassell) and Sarah Stratton (Emily Atack) on both Series One and Two.
Both are a dream to look after – we do have a giggle!
“The show is very fast-paced with long hours and big cast numbers.
The principal make-up team this year consists of nine make-up artists, along with a separate crowd team.
We do have fun with all the outrageous hair and costumes and the raunchy sex scenes!"
“When I graduated from AUB, I had such an extensive portfolio from all the collaborations I’d been involved in, it was really beneficial in presenting myself and my work in interviews.
“I first started out on Coronation Street for a one-year contract.
Corrie is such a well-oiled machine and turns out scenes and filming very quickly, so it was great for getting up to speed and for my confidence as I was working on different ages, skin types and diversities.
“After Corrie , I worked on a couple of real-life dramas, which were rewarding in recreating real people’s stories and looks, and delivering their story through authenticity.
“At AUB, I specialised in theatre, and since I’d already got into TV, I decided theatre was something I also had a passion for.
I was lucky enough to start on La Cage aux Folles where I worked on more than 60 wigs and carried onto the next production with the same company where I was the Head of Department on Cabaret , and then as an assistant on Joseph the musical in the West End.
“I would recommend this experience for anyone starting out and who has a passion for wigs and theatre.
The skills learnt in the theatre are very transferable back into TV and film.
And make-up designers and crowd supervisor’s love theatre people for their speed and high attention to detail with wigs and working with high-profile actors.
“After theatre, I ended up challenging myself on several gritty shows with lots of blood, gore, and character breakdowns.
Apple TV’s Liaison , BBC’s The Outlaws and Casualty were all fantastic shows for me to push my skill level in applying tattoos, injuries, and prosthetics.
“Working on Apple TV’s Napoleon for six weeks was a real ‘wow’ opportunity for me – it really is a dream come true seeing the fantastic sets, 10 cameras, hundreds of horses, the huge amount of supporting actors and the huge marquee filled with such talent.
I really hope I get to do more films one day, especially a Disney one!”
“The advice I’d give to students starting out in the industry is to be proactive in contacting people in the area of expertise you’d like to go for, dropping a CV at the stage door, or sending an email asking to shadow for work experience is an old-fashioned but useful tip.
“I would do your research and find out who you should address the cover letter.
Also, I’d say to not give up hope.
Everyone in the industry is so busy and sometimes not hearing anything is normal, but it only takes one person to take a chance and get you in the door.
Luck and timing are sometimes the key but keep trying.
It will happen if you keep persisting.
“I’d also suggest looking into ScreenSkills Trainee Finder as this has been very beneficial for our trainees and also to keep up to date with social media sites, following @makeupdeptjobs on Instagram is also great for updates on jobs.
“Working in the industry for 15 years already has been a truly magical journey.
The industry has its challenges but the rewards far outweigh the long hours, lengthy journeys, extended time away from home and lack of sleep.
“The most important thing about working on the team is being honest, looking after yourself and supporting colleagues, being creative and having fun!
Cherish every job as a special memory on your make-up artist journey.
If mistakes are made, learn from them; it happens to us all and further your knowledge on the next job.”
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/costume-society-recognises-postgraduate-student-innovation:
The prestigious Costume Society announced its finalists for the Patterns of Fashion Awards and for the Patterns for Performance Awards with an impressive 50% of all finalists coming from Arts University Bournemouth (AUB).
The Costume Society is well-known in the industry for promoting the study and preservation of historic and contemporary dress, making a finalist spot in its awards much coveted.
The final results were announced on 5 July, with MA Historical Costume student Verity Joy receiving Highly Commended for her work in the Patterns of Fashion Awards.
Meanwhile her classmate Parker Spear also received Highly Commended in the Patterns for Performance Awards.
In the same award, PhD student Sophie Fretwell was named Runner-Up for her innovative costume for Prospero.
“My whole PhD is about the fact that to create something novel and new," Sophie explains.
"You're going to have to remediate, taking past things and mashing them up with the kind of technology we have now to create something new, and that’s what I did with Prospero.
“Before my PhD at AUB, I did a Master's in Animation and before that a BA in Costume and Performance , all here at AUB.
The costume for Prospero feels like the perfect amalgamation of everything I’ve learned here as well as a whole host of new technologies and techniques.
“For this competition, you had to base the design on an historical pattern to begin with.
The Costume Society have these Janet Arnold books for historical patterns they want you to use.
I chose a 17th century loose gown, which was Jacobean in style.
“From there, I abstracted it by adding all this digital tech and craft and mashing it all together.
There were some techniques that I really wanted to use like the thermochromic ink around the mouth with kinetics on the staff and techniques with the fabric to give the illusion of rippling water.
Sophie worked with the team in AUB’s Innovation Studio to learn fabrication techniques and to problem-solve the more complex aspects of the build.
Sophie then applied those skills to produce elements like the kinetic staff mechanism.
“Anatol and Jon showed me how to use the machines and if something didn't work, they advised me on how to fix it," says Sophie.
"They were so keen to help and were really great.
We worked so well together that we're working together again now and entering as a team for the World of WearableArt competition in New Zealand.
Anatol Just, Senior Technician at AUB, who supported Sophie on the prototypes for Prospero’s staff, says of the process, “When the staff switches on, it creates a ripple effect as if a water drop has hit the water surface.
To make this, we 3D printed a prototype that we experimented with in various ways to work out how the gears could work in the best way.
“We created the acrylic framework for it in the look and style that that Sophie wanted and used 3D printing for connecting the different structures.
We used metal pins to move the rings at various speeds in a series of cycles that gradually grew bigger and then each one could move up and down independently in a wavy motion.
The little pins roll over a set of wheels that that are slightly offset and sometimes have different spacings as they roll around.
It looks a bit like a piano mechanic when you look inside.”
“It was really difficult,” Sophie reflects, “especially because I chose to make it transparent.
I wanted the structure and the tendrils to be a kind of ice light.
I was inspired by when lightning hits sand and it makes it into glass and these weird tendril-like forms.
“Housing all the circuitry, the batteries, and the server and trying to turn it transparent was a bit of a nightmare, but we managed it and I coded it!
Before the PhD, I'd never known how to code, but I managed to code the movement and the server and do a little board and wire it up.
“I was amazed to be a finalist in the competition, I thought it would be too mad for them, a bit too abstract because they're quite historical.
There's a whole lot of competition about historical accuracy and recreating something exactly how they would have made it.
And this was very much non-traditional, definitely forward thinking and used digital technologies, so completely different!
“This was a fascinating project to work on, I’ve aimed it at the film world because as well as all the I work I do as a theatre designer and outdoor artist, I also work for film.
I’ve already worked for Marvel and Star Wars.
I’ve had a book published on the costumes I’ve created for Deadpool & Wolverine , which you can see in the AUB Library, and I’m keen to do more.
“I want to show that costume designs made using CGI can actually be made in real life instead.
I've yet to see costumes, especially in films, that incorporate kinetics.
The idea that in these big blockbuster films, spectacular costumes are often replaced with CGI, just so that they can perform magical things like transform, move or glow.
I want to show that you can do all that practically with the kind of technology we have now.”
The recognition for Sophie, as well as Verity and Parker, extends a lasting legacy of success for AUB students at the Costume Society awards.
Students have won the Patterns of Fashion Award five times since 2007; most recently BA (Hons) Costume's Beth Lacey took home the award in 2023 , while her classmate Remi Gene Lever was Highly Commended.
If you liked this post you might be interested in studying a Research degree at AUB.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/innovation-studio-partners-with-the-national-oceanography-centre-innovation-hub:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB)'s Innovation Studio has announced a new partnership with the National Oceanography Centre (NOC).
The NOC is funded by UK Research and Innovation to work on National Capability programmes, and manages on its behalf, the National Marine Equipment Pool – Europe’s largest fleet of autonomous and robotic vehicles, and two state-of-the-art research ships RRS Discovery and RRS James Cook .
Rob Fanner, Innovation and Business Development Manager of AUB Innovation Studio, says, "We are excited to announce a new partnership between the NOC Innovation Hub and AUB Innovation Studio.
“This collaboration brings together NOC's world-leading expertise in ocean science and marine technology with AUB's cutting-edge creative and design-led innovation.
"Through this collaboration, we have the potential to uncover new possibilities in sustainable marine technology, foster creative solutions to global ocean challenges, and empower a new generation of innovators to build a thriving blue economy."
The new partnership between the two innovation hubs saw the AUB Innovation Studio team visit the NOC in June with a view to making them a new, full-scale replica of one of their underwater Gliders for the NOC to use for display purposes at events and shows.
Gliders are a type of robotic underwater vehicle used for measuring oceanographic parameters such as chlorophyll levels, temperature and salinity, which are then transmitted back to the shore.
They're very effective tools for gathering data from the ocean and carry a great variety of instruments.
If you liked this post you might be interested in our Innovation Studio.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/ba-hons-fashion-graduate-wins-place-on-innovation-studio-business-incubator:
Jason Jiang, a BA (Hons) Fashion graduate from Arts University Bournemouth (AUB), has won a free place on a six-month incubator programme at AUB’s Innovation Studio .
Designed to support the growth of early-stage creative projects, the Business Incubator offers desk space in the Innovation Studio; regular one-to-one coaching and support; access to the Innovation Studio team, which provides ongoing feedback and strategic guidance; participation in the monthly Innovation Exchange; opportunities to present progress to potential investors, partners and customers; and access to low-cost prototyping facilities with technical support.
The opportunity to win a free place on the Incubator opened to the entrepreneurial public in May.
When applying, Jason was just coming to the end of his BA (Hons) Fashion studies, and had been working on a business proposal for an app to assist with digital pattern making and calculating fabric needs.
“When I saw this competition to win a free place, I knew I had to apply” says Jason.
“What the Incubator programme offered was exactly what I was looking for to take my idea to the next level.”
Originally from China, Jason came to the UK in 2018 for his GCSEs and A-Levels.
“I went to a school in Kent and studied Business Studies, Fine Art, and Textiles," he explains.
"I’ve always loved fashion.
It started with shoes and sneakers – Kanye West’s range especially – I was fascinated with the concept of creating desire with a limited drop and great designs.
“During my studies at AUB, I got into AI and digital fashion.
At the moment, fashion designers have to use three different platforms to transfer real patterns into the digital world.
This makes for outdated, inefficient, and fragmented workflows.
My idea is to make that process streamlined and quicker with a human-centred artificial intelligence agent that creates a collaborative ecosystem where anyone can design, earn, and produce responsibly and without limits.”
Jason intends to lead the transformation of fashion's global infrastructure by building the world's first intelligent operating system for design and production.
At the intersection of AI, CAD, and 3D prototyping, his platform replaces slow, wasteful processes with real-time, scalable creation tools.
“I reached out to my school friend, Stanley Chen, who I knew was an expert when it came to AI.
I explained my idea; he was on board immediately and together we co-founded TechThread.AI ."
Ahead of starting the Business Incubator, Jason and Stanley registered their company, hired two interns (Charlie Pike and Robert Ng) to work on the back end of the app, which they hope to launch in its beta stage this September, and are already pitching to potential investors.
“My vision is to democratise fashion design at a global scale – empowering anyone, anywhere, to turn ideas into garments instantly.
By reengineering the foundations of the industry, I want to lay the groundwork for a faster, more sustainable, and radically accessible future of fashion.”
Clare Trevanion, Programme Lead for the Incubator, comments, “We are thrilled to welcome Jason to the Incubator.
His unwavering dedication to his venture, coupled with a contagious enthusiasm, consistently inspires those around him.”
If you liked this post you might be interested in Innovation Studio

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/ma-creative-writing-course-leader-announces-latest-book-release:
Dr Kevan Manwaring, Course Leader on MA Creative Writing and Senior Lecturer on BA (Hons) Creative Writing at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB), has announced the launch of his latest book, The Ecological Imaginary in Literature and Other Media: The Nature of Fantasy , published by Routledge.
Due for release on 23 September, the book explores the relationship between fantasy as a genre and the natural world.
“From Gilgamesh to Gawain and the Green Knight, the Brothers Grimm to Grimdark, the natural world has provided the backdrop for Fantasy since its earliest iterations," Kevan explains.
“The playgrounds of childhood are often a writer’s first fantasy landscape and can develop into fully fledged story worlds.
And in a time of climate emergency, is the nature of fantasy changing to reflect the challenges it presents?
Can the blue-sky thinking of the fantastic provide us with a useful tool for addressing what the United Nations has called ‘the defining crisis of our time’?”
The Ecological Imaginary in Literature and Other Media is Kevan's latest release, following the launch of his textbook Writing Ecofiction: Navigating the Challenges of Environmental Narrative last year .
Pre-order your copy of The Ecological Imaginary in Literature and Other Media: The Nature of Fantasy directly from Routledge for a discount.
If you liked this post you might be interested in MA Creative Writing (Online)

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/menswear-at-centre-of-aub-students-gfw-2025-success:
Two BA (Hons) Fashion graduates from Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) excelled at this year’s Graduate Fashion Week (GFW) with head-turning menswear collections.
Amaani Chowdhary and Ethan Hopkins, both of whom graduated from AUB in July, were among the 17 students from both BA (Hons) Fashion and BA (Hons) Fashion Communication who received nominations, interviews, selections and project pitches at GFW this year.
“My final major project was originally inspired by my love for festivals,” explains Amaani.
“This is rooted from my struggles with seasonal affective disorder (SAD), and festivals being one of my holy grails that gets me through the winter months.
“I researched how anxiety and depression can prompt us to form connections with inanimate objects, and this was pivotal in my design process.
For me, my bed and my SAD lamp are the main things that help me in winter - my bed being my place of protection, and my SAD lamp providing me with the vitamins the sun should.
With these two objects I began experimenting with my light and bedding.
“My clothing is designed to purposely oversized, warm and provide comfort to bring back that connection between myself and my inanimate object.
The garments were made out durable fabrics such as denim and ripstop, whilst also implementing waterproofs, Lycra and puff.
The design and the materials worked together in this collection to protect the mind and the body from the outside world.
This is how my collection, Clothing as Comfort , was born.”
In addition to the AUB catwalk show, Both Amaani and Ethan’s collections were selected as part of the GFW Menswear Showcase.
After winning the University catwalk show, Ethan’s work was additionally recognised in the GFW Best of Gala Show.
Meanwhile, Amaani’s collection received further commendations on multiple online fashion platforms, including 10 Magazine .
“The support I’ve had at and since GFW has been incredibly overwhelming and surreal in the best way possible,” Amaani says.
“There were countless times where I felt like I wasn't enough, and at this point I was completely doubting my abilities – I would not have got through this without all my amazing friends, family and lecturers’ support.
“To have this feeling at the beginning of the year and come out of my degree with a collection I am super proud of and the opportunity to showcase my final collection on two runway shows at GFW has given me so much motivation to continue fulfilling my dreams.
“I also had the opportunity to present my portfolio to ASOS, a brand I am a massive fan of.
It all felt like a fever dream!”
The GFW successes were not reserved for BA (Hons) Fashion students, as Emma Avent, a graduate of our BA (Hons) Fashion Communication course, came away with the Moving Image Award for a film as part of her Final Major Project, Land Made.
Emma was also one of five students shortlisted for the Terry Mansfield Fashion Publication Award.
Graduate Fashion Week brings together students from fashion courses across the country, as well as industry professionals and alumni, including AUB’s own graduates, with several in attendance who are now fashion professionals in their own right.
They included BA (Hons) Fashion Branding and Communication alumnus Brandon Bolland (graduated 2024), now Associate Lecturer at the Fashion Retail Academy; GFW 2024 award-winners Nicole Singleton and Holly Evans (BA (Hons) Fashion, graduated 2024), who work for Next and PVH Corp.
respectively; Polina Oleynikova (graduated 2018), who’s running her own label and taking part in the GFW Accelerator programme for start-up fashion businesses; and Hayley Carter (graduated 2016), who’s currently a pattern cutter at COS.
Now an alumna herself, Amaani says she’s already had some amazing opportunities since graduating.
“I recently had one of my favourite artists wear my clothes from my final collection at Dour Festival in Belgium and Boardmasters Festival,” she says.
“Having my stuff worn at festivals feels like a full circle moment, it is so surreal.
“I think my next steps are to continue this exposure and get my work out there.
I am looking to find a job within fashion, working as a menswear designer.
Eventually, one day, my goal is to have my own streetwear brand, this is something I aim to do within the next few years after I’ve gained some more industry experience – so watch this space!”
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Fashion

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/environment-aub:
Our Campus
We're a creative community that's committed to and shares a passion for the disciplines of art, design, media and performance.
We recognise that our activities impact upon the environment of students, staff and visitors as well as the wider community through our infrastructure development, and day to day operations.
In providing a specialist high-quality education experience in art, design, media and performance, we're committed to focusing on embedding continuous environmental, sustainable, and social justice improvement.
We aim to be a centre of excellence in environmental management through engagement with the higher education sector and wider community to promote environmental best practice.
AUB has pledged to be net zero by 2030 and is a signatory of the EAUC Race to Zero.
The Sustainability and Net Zero (SNZ) programme of works (published in 2021) will enable AUB to meet its signatory net zero pledge; set non-emission targets; establish targets in relation to wider sustainability issues (such as supporting biodiversity); and will align with the University’s strategic vision and values.
The SNZ will need to be considered and reflected throughout all AUB policies and procedures.
A Net Zero Task Force is established with the aim to set the initial programme, report on performance to Environment Committee, and make any necessary adjustments during the lifespan of the programme (and likely beyond).
At AUB, we aim to make sure we're as environmentally sustainable as possible from campus building to student and staff training
Find out how you can get involved with AUB's Green Team and be a little greener
To help the earth, AUB encourage students and staff to commute by sustainable means and provide incentives to travel sustainability
As a member of the Fairtrade scheme, AUB's committed to ensuring that healthy and sustainable food is available to students and staff
We’re committed to recognising and promoting the brilliant work which students do in responding to the importance of sustainability
Ensuring learners are informed of and responsible for their actions and consequences within the three pillars of sustainable development...
Although we have limited green space on campus, we’re committed to maximising our potential, increasing biodiversity

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/study-at-aub:
Creative risk-taking is at the heart of what we do.
As one of the UK’s leading specialist universities, our purpose-built, industry-standard studios exist for one reason; making creative ambitions reality.
Wherever you are on your creative journey, we've got a level of study to suit you.
From starting out at Saturday Art School, right through to gaining your PhD, there's something designed to suit you.
Whatever you want to create, we have the space and technology to make it happen.
You’ll never be stuck for inspiration or equipment, helping you graduate with the skills and confidence to step into the creative industries.
With a strong emphasis on collaboration and innovation, we equip you with more than just a degree.
We help you develop the skills and experience to pursue your dream career, and go on to be part of our network of award-winning industry alumni.
Our undergraduate degrees offer you the opportunity to study an arts subject you love in a creative community, on a specialist campus.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/register-your-interest:
To register your interest in our courses, please complete the form below.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/futurecourses:
Arts University Bournemouth will be launching the following courses for 2026/27.
Please note, all courses listed below are subject to validation.
Undergraduate:
— BA/BSc (Hons) Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management With a strong focus on innovation, and international collaboration, this course will equip you to be agile and business-savvy, ready to take on leadership roles within the creative industries.
— BA (Hons) Business of Games Looking beyond the coding and character design, this course will equip you with the knowledge of the complex business environment, the marketing and the monetisation behind the games industry.
— BA (Hons) Ceramics On this course, you'll explore clay as a contemporary and expressive material, developing your own creative voice through experimental making and material-led design
— BA (Hons) Fashion Technology Whether you're a born designer or a digital specialist, you'll develop your expertise on the role of tech within fashion at every stage – from conception to promotion and distribution.
More information coming soon.
— BA (Hons) Future Media Production Discover how film, animation, and VFX production blend with interactive media and technologies such as generative AI, placing yourself at the forefront of this ever-evolving media landscape, with the creative freedom to investigate and experiment across disciplines.
— BA (Hons) Games Narrative Get stuck into the storytelling side of video games.
On this course, you’ll learn how to craft narratives for games and interactive media and give your ideas endless replay value.
— BA (Hons) Movement, Dance and Creative Practice This course embraces born performers and producers, dancers and designers, and encourages pushing boundaries across a variety of disciplines.
— BA (Hons) Sustainable Luxury: Fashion and Interiors The need for sustainable solutions across luxury fashion, textiles, lifestyle and interior design has never been greater.
On this multifaceted course, you'll learn how to develop innovative, sustainable and socially conscious practices.
Postgraduate:
— MA User Experience (UX/UI) On this brand-new postgraduate course, you'll advance your skills in user-centred design, engaging with emerging technologies to create meaningful digital experiences.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/unibuddy:
Chat with one of our student ambassadors!

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/accommodation/aub-reslife:
Accommodation
AUB’s residential life programme is for students living in AUB Halls of Residence.
Through this programme we aim to create an inclusive and supportive environment where students have a sense of belonging, feel supported to be curious, creative and build the confidence to live and study independently.
Whether you're after support with your finances, study skills or health and welfare, or perhaps you're looking for careers advice or chances to be social?
AUB ResLife will help you find the best opportunities to get the most from your time with us.
We want to make your first weeks as memorable as possible.
From your very first day in halls, we’ve got a variety of activities lined up to help you meet new friends, explore Bournemouth, and set a strong foundation for living happily and healthily at AUB .
Whether it's relaxing walks along the beach, discovering historic landmarks, or sampling delicious local eateries, there's something for everyone.
You'll also have the chance to learn practical skills like cooking, find the best shopping spots, and get to know the bus routes to campus.
We've mixed in the essentials with a few fun luxuries, and we hope you enjoy every moment!
Friday 19 September, 12.00–15.00
This event sees our campus come alive as we welcome you all to AUB.
With vibrant market stalls, live music, and a selection of tasty treats, there's plenty to enjoy and explore.
Plus, we’ve lined up lots of free, creative activities for you to get involved in.
It’s a fantastic way to kickstart your university experience and meet new people along the way!
Tuesday 9 September – IKEA, Southampton
Want to make your new room feel like home?
Join us on a visit to IKEA, where you’ll be able to find all sorts of wonderful bits and bobs.
Friday 12 September – Hengistbury Head, Christchurch
Jump on the bus and head over to this Local Nature Reserve, where there's plenty of wildlife: over 300 species of birds, 500 types of plant, not to mention reptiles and more!
With panoramic views of Christchurch harbour and Mudeford sandbank, it’s a wonderful place to breathe in the fresh air and appreciate nature at its best.
Tuesday 16 September – Swanage and Corfe Castle , Dorset
Fancy a day out sampling local art, nature and history?
This is the trip for you, as we visit the coastal town of Swanage, with its Seen Art Trail and eclectic shops, before heading to the Norman fortress Corfe Castle, site of the fabulous Disney classic Bedknobs and Broomsticks !
Tuesday 23 September – London V&A Museum , London
Want to discover a world of “extraordinary creativity”?
Then hop on board for this visit to the London V&A.
Friday 26 September – Poole Quay and Old Town
Just a short bus or train journey away is the historic town of Poole, with Europe’s largest natural harbour, and beautiful parks from which the famous Brownsea Island can be seen.
Browse the local shops, quaint quayside and sip a coffee at one of the delicious cafés.
Games afternoons – 13.00–16.00
Find fellow Minecrafters, grab a Ticket to Ride with new flatmates or just try to avoid Exploding Kittens!
Be the first to shout UNO!
Pit your wits against a new friend in chess, or will you take on the challenge of the mighty Mario Kart track?
Movie nights – 19.00 onwards
Grab some popcorn and watch a movie – will it be a classic, a feel-good, a horror, or some action-adventure?
You choose!
Bournemouth Beach walks – 13.00–16.00
Take a stroll along Bournemouth promenade between the piers, enjoy the golden sands, gently crashing waves and maybe sample an ice cream or two along the way.
Bingo!
– 19.00 onwards
Can you make it a full house?
Free fun and games, with prizes galore!
Mondays and Thursdays – 10.00–12.00
Take a guided tour led by our friendly Ambassadors, where you’ll not only discover the campus but also take part in a fun scavenger hunt/challenge.
Teams or individuals can submit their entries to win a fantastic prize!
Mondays – 13.00–16.00
From scrapbooking and journaling to bracelet making and learning the skill of single-line drawing, relax, and make new friends over a cuppa while you unleash your creativity!
Wednesdays – 10.00–12.00
"Who, What, Where, When, Why?"
Everything you need to know about AUB support services.
Come and find out about applying for financial support, help with access needs, support for mental health, study skills and much more!
Meet the AUB staff who'll be helping you through your time at AUB.
Wellness Wednesdays – 13.00–16.00
Wednesday's the day when we pause to find some peace in this noisy world.
Each week a different activity will be held at each halls, for you to try and hopefully find your inner calm: yoga, guided meditation and creative drawing.
As a special treat on Wednesday 10 September, there'll be an extra visit from the gorgeous Helpful Hounds at Home Park Halls.
Thursdays – 13.00–16.00
Each week, learn two easy-to-cook meals from the AUBSU Cookbook under the tutorage of a professional chef.
Also learn the basics:
Wednesdays – 09.00–11.00
Nibble on a croissant, wallow in a porridge bowl or snack on a breakfast bar and wash it down with a drink of juice or a nice morning cuppa.
Friday 12 September, Friday 26 September – 09.00–16.00
Scrummy apples and pears, delish bananas and plums – grab one of your five a day and get Friday off to a healthy start!
Monday – Friday – 19.00–21.00
Allow yourself a treat at the end of the day.
Hot chocolate and snacks available in your halls common room.
AUB ResLife has an exciting calendar of events throughout the year.
Each halls of residence runs weekly events from bingo, movie nights and crafting activities, to check in and chats, hot chocolate mornings and our Unplugged cafés.
We also have events which run across all the halls each term.
We believe people learn best in a vibrant, caring environment, and we want to help you thrive while you’re here

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/innovation-studio/associate-programme:
Innovation Studio
Associate membership is suitable for established businesses looking to test prototypes and develop new products.
We'll provide you with the space to foster creativity and nurture your ideas, and ultimately support your business growth.
Benefits of Associate membership:
Get in touch with us at innovationstudio@aub.ac.uk for more information and to see if your business is eligible to take out membership.
As fellow makers, British luxury yacht manufacturer Sunseeker shares AUB’s vision of developing solutions through collaboration.
As fellow innovators, Lush shares AUB’s vision of ﻿discovering new ways to create new products and push the boundaries of design...
Tricuro is an Associate Partner, combining innovation and technology to enhance its service offer to provide personalised care and support.
As fellow designers, Aetha Design Studio shares AUB’s vision of developing solutions through innovation and challenging 'normal' approaches.
As fellow designers, Shore Architecture shares AUB’s ethos of design-led, innovative ideas to explore all possible solutions.
Andy and Paul joined our Residency Programme to expand the prototypes and components offered by their design company, Element Creative Ltd.
As fellow collaborators, Etch challenges the status quo and actively seeks to find innovative and smarter ways of working together.
Baseline membership fees vary depending on the size of your business and whether you choose to pay for three, six or 12 months at a time.
Other membership durations may be considered, get in touch with us to discuss your requirements.
All prices are exclusive of VAT.
Included in your baseline membership:
Please note, prototyping costs are charged separately to membership fees.
3 months
£399 (+VAT)
£599 (+VAT)
£999 (+VAT)
6 months
£1,499 (+VAT)
12 months
£2,499 (+VAT)
In addition to your baseline monthly membership fee, you can add any of the following bolt-ons.
Some are payable monthly, alongside your monthly fee, and others are available on a pay-as-you-go basis.
Associate members to the Innovation Studio can add our design consultancy bolt-on to their monthly baseline membership fee.
Associate members to the Innovation Studio can add our boardroom hire bolt-on to their baseline membership fee.
Associate members to the Innovation Studio can add our 3D scanning services bolt-on to their baseline membership fee.
Associate members to the Innovation Studio can add our IP support bolt-on to their baseline membership fee.
The Innovation Studio features the state-of-the-art equipmen t , including Virtual Reality (VR), Body scanning, 3D printing and machining, cutting and engraving, fabric and hard surface printing.
We also have an extensive and regularly updated materials library, as well as testing machines, including a climate chamber and spectrometer.
Associate members have the opportunity to take part in a wide range of Up-skilling sessions and Workshops to:
Explore the opportunities below, led by our expert practitioners and academics.
Topic areas include:
We champion i ndustry-led learning; AUB's courses are designed with input from industry, ensuring they are relevant and actionable.
We ensure students gain hands-on experience through industry placements, live briefs, and guest lectures.
We provide networking opportunities for students to engage with potential employers and industry leaders through a range of collaborations and activities.
That's why each of our courses has a dedicated Industry Patron.
Together, patrons and AUB academics collaborate across the curriculum to create courses that prepare students and equip them with the vital skills needed to enter the job market and succeed in the creative industries.
Contact us at innovationstudio@aub.ac.uk for more details.
"The Innovation Studio’s collaborative approach to work has been refreshing and educational, providing access to equipment and expertise that would otherwise be inaccessible.
The Innovation Research Team has provided much appreciated expertise and guidance on not only how to run helpful tests, but also wider insights on how research can fit into a wider product development process in the industry.”
“The Innovation Studio have been a great resource for our designers to explore, ideate and validate design concepts in an impartial way.
Being able to experiment with different materials and 3D printing machines has helped us understand what works for us in terms of quality and cost, which helped inform our decision on who we should partner with commercially.
What we have learnt from working with the Innovation Studio Team has resulted in a completely new manufacturing supply chain at Sunseeker, supporting our capability to customise solutions and to drive more sustainable practices.”
“We had no idea when relocating from London in 2017 that AUB would become such a strong local innovation partner for us.
They're always on hand to support us in our product development processes and dedicated to better serving local innovation in the future.”
“The support given by the Innovation Studio has been immeasurably helpful; together they’ve been able to sketch out designs, seem them digitally modelled and then realised into 3D printed prototypes.
On a control level such as this it’s essential to get the ergonomics right, which is nearly impossible when working from drawings alone.”
“The past experience with the Innovation Studio team and now the larger studio has made me aware of the possibilities and resources the Innovation Studio can offer us as an architectural studio.
We use the studio to test and prototype details of construction"
“The vast amount of software, equipment, and resources the Innovation Studio has is impressive, and the opportunity to make products is one of the key reasons why we’re here.
The Innovation Studio also has a great creative network, which helps us frequently consider and evolve our own design process as well as keeping on top of technology trends.”
"Throughout our journey, we have received invaluable support from AUB, particularly with prototype manufacture.
We have extensively utilised the SLS 3D printer as well as 5-axis CNC machine to bring our products to life."
“As a small, highly iterative design business the AUB's associate program is invaluable.
The staff are extremely knowledgeable, helpful and the quality of prototypes I've had made is top notch too.”

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/careers-and-enterprise/recruit-aub-talent:
AUB Futures – Careers and Enterprise
At AUB Futures, we connect industry with emerging creatives from Arts University Bournemouth.
Our students bring a diverse set of transferable skills that can add real value to your business.
Whether you're looking to engage a creative student or graduate, or want to explore how partnering with AUB could support your goals, we'd love to hear from you.
We collaborate with a wide range of organisations – from large corporations and creative studios to charities and independent commissioners – creating meaningful partnerships that benefit everyone involved.
Get in touch to explore what’s possible by emailing futures@aub.ac.uk .
We offer flexible ways for you to connect with AUB students and graduates.
Whether you're looking to hire, collaborate or give back.
Our students are enthusiastic, capable and keen to gain experience.
You can engage through live briefs, internships, placements, mentoring, guest talks or portfolio reviews.
Events like Creative Meets and Creative Futures Fest offer practical ways to spot talent and build meaningful links with the university.
Here are some of the ways you can get involved:
Advertise paid jobs, freelance briefs, internships and placements through our dedicated Jobs and Opportunities platform.
We’ll make sure your opportunity reaches the right creative audience.
You can upload your opportunities directly to our Jobs and Opportunities Board .
If you need more guidance, check out our resources below or email us at futures@aub.ac.uk .
Looking for photography, design, illustration or other creative outputs?
We’ll help you connect with emerging talent from across our courses .
This is a great chance to support our students' professional growth while gaining a high-quality standard of work.
Our Working with Students guide covers what to expect – including payment guidance, safety, and the types of projects suitable for student involvement.
Join us for talks, panels, skills sessions or portfolio reviews.
Whether you speak solo or as part of an event, your perspective helps students understand the real-world industry landscape.
To get involved, email futures@aub.ac.uk with a bit about your work, your interests, and what you'd like to share with our students.
We’re keen to create mutually valuable experiences – tell us what you’d like to gain too.
Throughout the year, we run several networking events such as Creative Meets and Creative Networking Nights.
These events are a great chance to meet emerging creative talent and build connections with students and other creatives for further collaboration.
Collaborate with students on a real-world challenge or project.
Live briefs bring fresh thinking to your ideas and give our students invaluable hands-on experience.
These projects might include a games jam, rebrand, competitions, or events.
We can determine if your project will be better placed into the curriculum or offered as an extracurricular activity.
For larger projects that might involve academic staff, research or require funding, it may be better co-ordinated by the Research Knowledge Exchange or Innovation Studio .
Contact us to discuss options at futures@aub.ac.uk .
Access Industry is an employability and enterprise scheme that connects current students with industry professionals from the creative industries.
It aims to break down barriers for students from under-represented groups.
Mentors and mentees meet between four and six times over six months and work on building, skills, knowledge and confidence while widening their professional network.
If you are interested in getting involved, contact futures@aub.ac.uk .
We are providing a wealth of support, advice and guidance to help your career take off in the right direction

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/innovation-studio/projects:
Check out some of our recent collaborative projects with external partners to get an idea of how AUB supports the creative and digital, manufacturing, health, and leisure industries.
With AUB's state-of-the-art facilities we're proud to be able to support a wide range of projects.
From helping kick-start creative careers and businesses, to developing prototypes in both digital and physical mediums, our links with Industry have never been stronger.
Fiona McTaggart is a freelance illustrator and art educator.
Her practice encompasses surface ﻿pattern design and editorial illustration.
Ryan Elder's Talus Project began during his BA (Hons) studies, and has transformed into a mountable component for prosthetists.
Salwa specialises in interior design and creates lighting installations with shadow reflections to give a calm atmosphere to an interior...
Designed Healthcare Ltd., has a critical and analytical approach to the redesigning and rethinking of healthcare environments and equipment.
Sarah L.
Goy's area of interest is how art and science can come together and be used to benefit health and wellbeing.
How The Bridge Theatre brought to life the daemons from Philip Pulman’s iconoclastic fantasy "The Book of Dust – La Belle Sauvage".
TerraPen’s mission is to make large format artwork easy to produce from a reliable quality product, supported by an open source community.
Salmon Power Sports make dynamic ballast systems for high-speed craft, enabling them to be driven more safely in adverse conditions.
Graduate start-up Earthly Biochar has developed an innovative burner for producing biochar.
Sunseeker is always looking to innovate, develop, and test new concepts to remain best in class.
That's where AUB's comes in.
LUSH collaborated with AUB to deliver another unique R&D challenge, this time exploring the future of packaging.
Pongoose is a Dorset climbing brand and specialist supplier of climbing equipment.
IoT Solutions is a start-up business based in Dorset, providing end-to-end solutions for the digital Internet of Things sector.
The Syrup Room is a creative design studio partnering with top brands and agencies worldwide.
Design in VR is an international provider of educational tutorials and classes to up-skill talent in VR design.
Exploring integrating multiple emerging softwares and creating a virtual environment to display digital garments created within CLO3D.
aIDyl is an immersive online interior design service, providing clients with affordable 3D immersive design solutions.
Penelope Norman﻿ is a pioneer in using digital technology and virtual prototyping to improve sustainable practice in the fashion industry.
This project is a collaboration between AUB and the NHS to create a medical explainer video for a urological procedure.
Using 3D printing to create immersive experiences in digitally augmented spaces.
Supported by European Regional Development Funding (ERDF).
Developing a short horror film, ‘Treaters'.
Tricuro combines innovation and technology to enhance its service offer to provide personalised care and support.
Welly Walks is the first in a series of creative research experiences, which aim to engage people in new narratives about British weather
LUSH approached AUB seeking a better understanding how fabrics behave to help in the decision-making process to develop new accessories.
Founded in 2020, Element Creative Ltd.
has become one of the leading specialist product design consultancies in Dorset.
Founded by Tom Parsons, Aetha Design is a product design consultancy, combining engineering and industrial design.
Studio Wood creates intelligently designed, purposeful products that solve real-world problems.
Tom's Studio is a Dorset business run by craftsman, Tom Gry.
Tom makes and sells handmade, high-end calligraphy pens to a global audience.
Shore Architecture seeks out design-led solutions, favouring ongoing academic research and current innovative ideas to explore solutions.
The Place Bureau is a strategic studio that defines and articulates place identity.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/innovation-studio/industry-standard-resources:
The Innovation Studio operates as a lab for creative industries, featuring state-of-the-art digital and physical manufacturing technologies.
Explore the facilities and manufacturing tools that the Innovation Studio has to offer below.
We've a range of advanced manufacturing machines, including a CNC router and both 3-axis and 5-axis milling machines.
We've equipment to 3D print both rapid and functional prototypes in a variety of materials, including nylon, carbon fibre, Kevlar, and more.
We have a ﻿FARO Focus Premium Laser Scanner available for 3D scanning, ﻿producing fast and accurate 3D renders.
We've a range of digital fabrication equipment, including laser and waterjet cutters for cutting, marking, and engraving.
In our digital textiles and fashion suite we've a range of printers for both synthetic and natural fabrics, a digital loom and body scanner.
We have an extensive and regularly updated materials library, including plastics, wood, metals, and ceramics, as well as testing machines.
We've a range of resources for Virtual Reality, including VR headsets and cameras, and equipment for projection mapping and lighting.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/aub-and-community:
AUB Campus is home to an award-winning and internationally recognised gallery, established in 1998; as well as our state-of-the-art Innovation Studio.
We also have the largest creative arts specialist library outside London, which houses the Museum of Design in Plastics (MoDiP), awarded Designated Outstanding Collection status by Arts Council England in 2023.
In addition, we acquired the Palace Court Theatre, one of the last remaining Art Deco theatres in Bournemouth, situated in town centre.
The University also has several bespoke art collections and sculptures on display across campus.
This includes AUB's own art collection, plus work on loan from the John and Barbara Weeks Private Collection, and sculptures by Tim Harrison Studio and Tony Cragg.
We also have buildings designed by renowned architect and AUB alumnus Professor Sir Peter Cook RA, such as our Drawing Studio.
Our External Engagement team oversees TheGallery, MoDiP, the Library, Palace Court Theatre, Innovation Studio, archives and special collections, and research.
Collaborating with these outlets and national and international creatives, AUB puts together performances, talks, exhibitions and more for the wider public, enriching our civic communities and beyond.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/thegallery:
TheGallery is a major resource for contemporary art and design in the South of England with exhibitions that have received both national and international recognition.
It hosts a number of artist talks, panel discussions and other events to support the exhibition programme.
Our on-site gallery is open to the public and welcomes local and international visitors.
Since opening in 1998, TheGallery has delivered an exciting and cultivated portfolio of exhibitions, including those that have toured internationally, as well as events and panel discussions.
It has commissioned projects building upon the creative collaboration between Arts University Bournemouth and industry.
We seek to enhance the cultural capital of the students, staff and alumni whilst providing a public platform for the arts within the region.
In 2016, we were presented with the Award for Innovation in Design Education by the Sir Misha Black Awards Committee for our innovative approach to design teaching.
We received special recognition for TheGallery and for commissioning the first purpose-built Drawing Studio in the UK for over 100 years.
TheGallery comprises four exhibition spaces located in our North Building, plus an additional space off-site in Bournemouth:
On Campus Main Gallery (Upper and Lower Gallery) Northwest Gallery Live Project Space
Off-site WestBeach, Pier Approach, Bournemouth
In addition to our permanent spaces, we host a number of projects and events, collaborating with different creative organisations like Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra, Pavilion Dance, The Trinity Buoy Wharf Trust and Bournemouth Arts by the Sea Festival.
TheGallery's creative projects have included hosting national competitions and exhibitions inside our Drawing Studio and other collaborations with students, staff, alumni and external partners.
TheGallery integrated into the local community by bringing the art to Bournemouth via its partnership with WestBeach as a platform to showcase exhibitions and student work.
“Experience the perfect blend of coffee and creativity.”
TheGallery Café is a curated space that celebrates the emerging artists and fresh perspectives of AUB’s vibrant community.
In January 2025, AUB commissioned BA (Hons) Illustration student Amelie Rose Holford to create a mural to reflect the café rebrand and place it at the heart of the University's vibrant community.
The piece shows a group of cats exploring an art gallery, representing art students and their habits of looking, learning, and imagining.
Amelie's cats remind us that curiosity and play are often at the heart of making art.
TheGallery was originally established in 1998, with the appointment of a part-time Exhibitions Officer under the management of The School of Art.
It was then reopened in 2003 under the concept of text+work, as created by TheGallery Committee.
Its first exhibition presented under text+work was Four Quartet Series by Ian McKeever and David Miller.
It has since hosted around 96 major exhibitions (November 2003 – February 2019), including three Suddenly Last Summer exhibitions, a curated version of AUB's summer shows.
Since October 2008, TheGallery has added Music to its repertoire of exhibitions, including the Goldberg Variations performed by David Wright; From Experimentalism to Minimalism performed by Kokoro; and The Firebird, Diaghilev and the Ballets Russes in collaboration with the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra.
A collaboration with ArtSway, a contemporary art gallery in the New Forest, resulted in a presence from text+work at the international art exhibition, the Venice Biennale (2007 and 2009).
Text+work hosted the seminar Word Matters, which explored the relationship between the written word and contemporary art.
In 2007, TheGallery worked in partnership with the Russell-Cotes Art Gallery and Museum in Bournemouth on the exhibition Meeting Place: Contemporary Art and the Museum.
TheGallery Re-opening
Sir Mark Jones, FRSE, reopened TheGallery on the 3 December 2010 during the Crab by the Sea exhibition by Sir Peter Cook.
Sir Mark Jones is an art historian, numismatist and museum director.
He has been director of the National Museums of Scotland (1992-2001), director of the V&A (2001-2011) and he is currently Master of Saint Cross College, Oxford.
In 2010, he was awarded a knighthood for services to the arts.
25 Year Celebration
On 2 November 2023, we celebrated the momentous milestone of TheGallery's 25ᵗʰ anniversary with a special event and reception for all staff and students at AUB, alumni, and visitors.
This also featured the formal opening and private view of Ian McKeever's Against Architecture exhibition.
AUB's then-Principal and Vice-Chancellor Professor Paul Gough commented:
"One of our many strengths is our excellent gallery, which celebrates 25 years of innovative exhibitions, as well as commissions, site-specific works and other opportunities for emerging and established talent.
"I'm delighted to play my part in recognising all that it's achieved, and celebrating its success, now and far into the future."
Violet M.
McClean is TheGallery’s Curator at Arts University Bournemouth.
Her research specialism is the contemporary...
William has over 20 years of experience working in Performing Arts and is currently the key technician at TheGallery...
Arts University Bournemouth Wallisdown, Poole Dorset BH12 5HH
Find TheGallery: what3words: ///spared.verse.hosts
TheGallery is open to the public at the following times:
Monday – Thursday
09.00–17.00
09.00–13.00
Sunday/Bank Holiday
Admission to TheGallery is free.
Please note: TheGallery is closed during exhibition installations and builds, and during university closures.
AUB Campus' car park is open to the public throughout the week.
However, please note that parking reservations are required prior to your visit.
Disabled parking is also available.
Please get in touch via email at reception@aub.ac.uk if you'd like to find out more.
You can also find full directions and public transport information on our Find Us page .
Across our campus, we have a series of art collections on display.
Our portfolio includes artwork on long-term loan from the Arts Council Collection and private collections, as well as our own art collection.
The text+work publication series promote a forum for challenging dialogue between innovative contemporary art, design and media practice, and their theoretical context.
Text+work is the concept which underpins our exhibition programme, creative events and commissioned projects within the University.
Developed in 2003, text+work invites artists to develop exhibitions and events in partnership with writers and critics, who provide a supportive narrative in the form of published text to accompany the exhibitions.
The publications and essays produced by our text+work concept are commissioned writings and interviews from some of today’s most prominent curators, critics, artists, designers, filmmakers and writers.
To view our full range of publications, please visit the AUB Online Store .
Subject to availability, orders will be dispatched upon receipt of payment.
Postage and packaging are part of the price.
There are 300 catalogued pieces in the AUB Private Collection which is looked after by TheGallery.
There's currently no public access to this collection as it's a research collection only.
An online catalogue of the work will be available to view soon.
The Arts Council Collection is the most widely circulated national loan collection of modern and contemporary British art in the world and includes important works by the UK’s most prominent artists.
The Collection reaches the broadest possible audience through long loans to public institutions, exhibition loan and touring exhibitions, as well as digital and print publications.
We currently have 35 pieces on loan from the Arts Council displayed across the campus in University House, the North Building and The Library, with many of the pieces accessible for public viewing.
In 2019, we acquired two sculptures by the British sculptor Tim Harrisson.
Harrisson studied at Hammersmith College of Art, Norwich Art School and Byam Shaw School of Fine Art.
He has exhibited widely in group and solo exhibitions, with recent exhibitions including the Messums Wiltshire and the British Museum London Design Fair in 2018.
His sculptures, Due and End Piece, are on permanent loan from the artist.
In 2018, a Tony Cragg sculpture on loan from the FE College and Fine Family Foundation was installed on our campus.
The sculpture was originally commissioned by Sibyl Fine King of the Fine Family Foundation.
As a young artist, Cragg became known for his sculptures that utilised found materials and simple making techniques such as stacking, splitting and crushing.
At a time when minimalism and conceptualism were ascendant, Cragg began using mundane materials, which were tested to new limits.
For a complete list of past exhibitions, photographs and news stories, please like TheGallery on Facebook.
10 December 2018 – 27 September 2019
TheGallery is delighted to work with WestBeach to feature the work of Megan Staple, BA (Hons) Photography Alumni, 2018.
Our Off-Site Arts Programme in association with WestBeach, showcases the work of staff, students and graduates from the Arts University Bournemouth.
We have worked with WestBeach Restaurant since the inaugural Bournemouth Arts by the Sea Festival in September 2011.
Since then, Westbeach has participated in showcasing our Off-Site Arts Programme to the local Bournemouth community.
Megan Staple Pushing the boundaries of concrete abstraction, still life photographer Megan Staple uses her hand-crafted studio sets to form geometric vibrant images that appear fictional.
Born and raised in Somerset, Megan has delved into various corners of abstract photography with her interest in perspective manipulation starting in 2015.
This practice finalises her BA (Hons) Photography Degree from the Arts University Bournemouth.
Through the exhibition, the illustrators explored and celebrated flatness, colour, pattern and form.
They considered the motifs and the subject matter that are fundamental to their own illustration practice and related these to the ‘paper cut-outs’ of Matisse.
This is a selection of work from the original exhibition that was staged in TheGallery in 2017.
Staple’s recent body of work, Non-Fiction Fantasy uses analogue and medium format digital photography to capture the fragmented and distorted realities constructed in a studio.
She pushes the boundaries of concrete abstraction, relying on the set and props to form geometric vibrant images that appear fictional.
The work is related to the Neo-Modernist movement in still life photography that privileges form over meaning, with additional emphasis on Staple’s rejection of post-production.
Her inspiration derives from studying the history of abstract art including Cubism, Vorticism, and Constructivism, with later influences from Neo Geo, Kitsch, and Memphis Design.
Prominent influential figures for Staple have been Barbara Kasten, Bahar Yurukoglu, and Daniel Gordon.
See more of Megan’s work .
8 January –­ 19 February 2015
Art from the British Antarctic Survey Artists and Writers Programme 2001–09, curated by Liz Wells
Ten visual artists, one musician and three writers undertook residencies in the Antarctic between 2001 and 2009, under the auspices of the British Antarctic Survey, supported by Arts Council England.
This exhibition brings together the artists’ work resulting from their various investigations, offering an opportunity to reflect upon the very different subject matter, media and responses evident in the range of work produced.
Curated by Liz Wells, this exhibition foregrounds the role of contemporary art in examining Antarctica.
What perspectives can art offer on this terra incognita , a forbidding environment where the temperature rarely rises above freezing, yet one which for scientists offers a wealth of geological and glaciological data including indicators of climate change?
Liz Wells is the Professor in Photographic Culture at Plymouth University.
This exhibition was first shown at Peninsula Arts, Plymouth, in 2012.
20 November – 18 December 2014
Curated by Aaron Schuman
Supporting essay written by Paul Allen
A text + work exhibition
The Dark Highway is the culmination of 10 years of work by Paul Wenham-Clarke, featuring excerpts from four photographic projects; When Lives Collide, The Westway, Hard Times and Sacrifice the Birdsong.
Paul has had a successful and varied career, this creative journey has included work in advertising, documentary photography and he is currently working as a photographic artist.
29 September – 6 November
The Bathing Beauties is a selection of miniature beach huts re-imagined by 240 architects, artists and designers.
The exhibition evolved from a competition led by artist Michael Trainor, and presents over 100 selected models and one full-scale beach hut, ‘Oyster Pleasance’.
‘Oyster Pleasance’ is based on an oyster shell, an innovative structure designed by The Beach Hut Salon (a collaboration between A-Models and architect Will Alsop).
The beautiful Oyster with its unique design can be seen as an interactive piece of art, that proposes a beach hut for the 21st Century.
The designers’ philosophy is that the hut is a place to dream and to just ‘be’.
As part of the Arts by the Sea Festival, TheGallery AUB installed Oyster Pleasance on the beachfront, where a mermaid will interact with it.
18 – 19 September 2014 The symposium seeks to explore ways in which illustrators, interpret, re-interpret and misinterpret information through illustration practice.
This event aims to celebrate and investigate the potential exciting creative strategies and possibilities for practitioners to move minds, challenge norms and influence the ways in which we see the world and connect with it.
7 – 30 July 2014 TheGallery is delighted to present Music Architecture Poole at the University for the second time, after the first iteration was held in 2013.
MAP is an exhibition of second-year BA (Hons) Architecture student work from Arts University Bournemouth that combines structural engineering, acoustics and issues relating people and buildings to cities and towns.
13 March – 24 April 2014
TheGallery showcased the retrospective exhibition of internationally recognised photographer Karen Fuchs.
Related events: Exhibition Talk, Formal Opening and Publication Launch Thursday 13 March 2014 Schools Workshop – Flashlight on Photography Thursday 3 April 2014 Film Night Thursday 24 April 2014
31 January – 27 February 2014
A national touring exhibition took place in Newcastle, Bournemouth, Lincoln and Norwich and concluding at Transition Gallery, London in October 2014.
Related Events:
5 December 2013 – 24 January 2014
Curated by Lucy Orta.
A Crafts Council touring exhibition.
24 April – 30 November 2013
Off-site art programme in partnership with The Print Room, Bournemouth
7 September – 7 November 2013
Curated by Simon Beeson.
Programmed in association with artSOUTH
08 – 24 July 2013
Music Architecture Poole (MAP) is an interactive exhibition by second-year BA (Hons) Architecture students from AUB that combine structural engineering and acoustics.
22 March – 26 April 2013
Celebrating the diversity, excellence and range of drawing in the UK.
22 February – 7 March 2013
Video Art Touring Exhibition from China.
Related Events: Curator’s Talk Lunchtime Talk: An Art in Context Session on Digital Installations and the Audience
11 January – 15 February 2013
A text + work event A solo exhibition by Jane Wilbraham – VALUES brings together selected works from the past with an emphasis on recent watercolours and carved works made from Sycamore wood.
7 – 13 December 2012
A Students’ Union exhibition TheGallery.
Shifting/over/between/around/through is a group show of four fine art students in their final year here at Arts University Bournemouth.
Sculpture engages body directly with space, allowing the artists to circle themes of bodily engagement through our relationship with space.
As we move through our environment we learn to understand how to guide ourselves around.
Each artist takes their own concepts of our body, through their own journeys of space.
19 October – 30 November 2012
An exhibition of work by Richard William Wheater.
Richard William Wheater is a British artist who uses performance and installation to discuss our relationship with the natural environment.
Wheater’s exhibition at TheGallery presented two significant bodies of work Them and Us (2009) and Land to Sea (2012).
A solo exhibition by Laura Eldret.
Power Plays presented two new film works, Muster and Fought , by artist Laura Eldret.
The films explore issues of artistic authorship, personal empowerment, choice, obligation and how powers constantly shift.
The exhibition courts the seductive power of the spectacle, exploring how individuals create, record and retell their individual and collective identities.
23 July – 7 September 2012
London 2012: Olympic and Paralympic Poster Exhibition, University House, AUB.
A number of posters for the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, designed by some of the UK’s leading artists, including Bridget Riley, Tracey Emin, Martin Creed, Rachel Whiteread, and Bob and Roberta Smith have gone on display at Arts University Bournemouth.
9 July – 3 August 2012
ExLab is a ground-breaking arts programme along the Jurassic Coast, where earth scientists and artists collaborate to reveal hidden landscapes through the lenses of art, geology and technology.
TheGallery is free to everyone – check our opening times before planning your visit.
Please note that opening times change during Term Time and Out of Term.
We welcome educational groups, art clubs, companies, businesses and interested parties of all ages.
We offer tours, discussions and activities.
To discuss your requirements contact TheGallery Office on 01202 363272 or email us at thegallery@aub.ac.uk .
For schools interested in visit and workshops, please visit our Schools page for more information.
Groups will need to reserve parking.
Please contact reception@aub.ac.uk regarding parking reservations.
TheGallery offer a diverse program of activities for schools that offer young people the unique opportunity to engage with AUB's TheGallery
TheGallery delivers an exciting portfolio of events and commissioned projects with the AUB and external venues.
TheGallery showcases work from contemporary artists and designers, including collections on loan from major galleries and museums.
To see behind-the-scenes, and sneak peeks of our upcoming event and exhibitions, check out our social media and give us a like and follow.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/modip:
MoDiP is the only accredited museum in the UK with a focus on plastics.
It is the UK's leading resource for the study and interpretation of design in plastics and a specialist research resource at AUB
MoDiP is grateful to Research England for its support in recognition of MoDiP’s unique and significant contribution to national and international research and scholarship.
MoDiP works collaboratively with AUB staff and partner organisations, including schools and museums, to maximise opportunities for people to be inspired by the collection and become more informed about plastics in design.
Key learning techniques practiced at MoDiP, including object-based learning and primary research, encourage students to be curious about museum objects and ask questions to further their understanding of the collection.
Inspiration from museum objects can be found in their design and shape, or their original context and setting.
Ideas can be sparked to inform pattern, purpose or colour for designers and makers as well as narrative, poems and compositions for writers and artists.
MoDiP houses three distinct collections to increase understanding and appreciation of the use and significance of plastics in design.
The Plastics Historical Society, which was formed in 1986, is an independent society affiliated to the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining.
The PHS exists ‘to promote the collection, preservation and study of all material (artefacts, equipment, processes and documentation) relating to the history of plastics and other polymers; to facilitate the interpretation and sharing of such knowledge; and to encourage the recording of current developments in plastics and polymers considered to be of value to future generations.’
The Society has a collection of manufactured plastics artefacts and samples some of which date back to the 19th century, including examples of the very first man-made plastics.
In 2009, the PHS collection was put into the care of MoDiP for an initial period of seven years, when it was documented and photographed.
It's available for reference and can be viewed via the online catalogue .
The PHS collection complements the MoDiP collection of artefacts which is predominantly post 1945.
Together, these two collections offer a broad representation of the use of plastics in design.
The PHS website contains a wealth of information about plastics, the history of their discovery and processing, relevant museums and galleries of collections and items on the care of plastics.
The Society also has its own library which is housed at the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining in London and comprises many hundreds of books and documents relevant to the history of plastics.
The Worshipful Company of Horners is both an ancient craft guild and a modern City of London Institution promoting the interests of the polymer industry.
Horn has been used since prehistoric times as a cheap, readily available, easily worked material from which essential tools, as well as decorative items, were made.
The first historic reference to the Company was recorded in 1284, although the craft of the Horner dates from centuries earlier.
In 1476 the Bottlemakers, whose trade was being eroded by glass bottles, joined the Horners.
The Company operates under a Charter received from Charles 1 in 1638, although it is known that there were earlier charters.
As the craft of working with horn declined, in 1943 the Company adopted the emerging plastics industry, many of whose production techniques were familiar to the practising horner.
The Company has charitable funds which are used to support activities in youth education and industrial design, as well as support for the City of London.
The Company has an extensive collection of items made from horn and the early synthetic plastics which replaced horn.
They range from simple agricultural tools such as drenches for use with cattle to sophisticated pressed and pierced horn combs from the 17th century.
In addition to these items, there is a collection of horn-working tools that demonstrate how the comb makers gradually mechanised their trade.
In 2010, the collection of artefacts was relocated to MoDiP, initially for a period of seven years.
The collection of over 400 items provides a comprehensive insight into the use of one of nature’s plastics.
This hitherto little seen collection has been photographed and documented and is available for reference and can be viewed via the online catalogue .
For more information about The Worshipful Company of Horners please visit www.horners.org.uk .
All objects in the MoDiP collection relate in some way to our plastics focus.
In addition, they conform to one of three other criteria:
The collection comprises objects that describe a variety of uses and activities.
These take into account the clothes we wear, the games we play, and the environments in which we live.
Objects include, but are not limited to; furniture, sports equipment and technical clothing, medical devices, materials for building and construction, as well as those made from sustainable resources or designed to protect the environment.
They aid in the understanding of the materials and manufacturing methods of the plastics industry and are supported in this by a growing collection of archival material and a reference library, all of which can be viewed online and in the museum by request.
MoDiP welcomes visits from schools and other groups of all ages where the collection can be used as creative inspiration, for object-based learning, or to inform about design in plastics.
Visits to the museum can also be combined with a session at TheGallery.
More information about bringing a group to the museum can be found on the MoDiP website .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aub-academy-students-feature-new-photography-exhibition-at-christchurch-library:
A new photography exhibition at Christchurch Library, organised by a group of six local photographers who took part in a short course from AUB Academy , will be open to the public to view for free until 12 July.
The exhibition includes a series of photographs from each contributor curated by Christchurch-based David Perkins.
Recently retired, David explains how the exhibition came about:
“I’ve been taking photos for a long time, and now I’m retired, I’ve had the time to go on a photography course at AUB, where I met the other five photographers in this exhibition.
“I wanted to learn about the technicalities of photography and finesse my hobby into something more than that.
So, in the autumn of 2024, a group came together to study Digital Photography – Essential Techniques , a 10-week course designed to introduce the key features of Digital Single Lens Reflex (SLR) and Mirrorless Cameras, and the essential techniques needed to enable students to develop and improve their standard of photography.
“We were a group from a wide range of backgrounds, of all ages and with a broad range of experience from beginner to more experienced users.
The course was brilliant fun, and an unexpected happy outcome was meeting everyone and becoming good friends.”
The course culminated in a final project, with each student capturing 10 images using the techniques learned on the course.
“In the last session, after we’d shown our final projects to each other, our course tutor, Kat Carlin, suggested that we go on to exhibit our work to the public.
The idea took hold; we all kept in touch after the course and decided that we would organise a collaborative exhibition to showcase our work.”
The photography exhibition features 60 photos – ten from each photographer – demonstrating their own unique approaches and styles.
David adds: “The amount of work involved in pulling it all together exceeded what any of us had expected” “I led the process and produced an introduction for each section and an overall introduction to the exhibition with the help of Kat who proof-read and made suggestions on content.
“Gary took on the task of preparing the photos for printing and then we met at AUB to get the photos mounted.
The AUB technician staff were very helpful in getting us on the road and guiding with the mounting process.
“Aside from conveying a story, photographs can evoke powerful emotions as can be seen from some well-known images.
Whoever you are, whatever you want to take pictures of and no matter your camera, good photographs show something, great photographs say something.”
The Photography Exhibition is open now and runs until Saturday 12 July.
David is also organising a solo exhibition, 'In Motion', at Hatch Gallery in Christchurch from Saturday 9 August to Thursday 14 August.
The group are also actively looking for more places to exhibit.
If you have a suitable space, please get in touch with David .
If you liked this post you might be interested in Adult learning and short courses

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/selection-of-books-brought-to-life-by-ba-hons-illustration-students:
BA (Hons) Illustration students from Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) have been creating illustrations for four stories, all winners and runners-up of the ISEB and IAPS Time to Write 2025 creative writing competition.
Time to Write 2025 is a competition organised by ISEB, the Independent Schools Examinations Board, and IAPS, the Independent Association of Prep Schools.
This is open to all schools, with four different categories for pupils aged 7–16.
This year, writers were asked to produce stories based on the prompt ‘light’.
The competition was judged in two parts, completed via the RM Compare online platform.
This allowed a pool of judges, including students from AUB's BA (Hons) Creative Writing course, to take part in the shortlisting process.
The final top 10 in each category reviewed by a panel of judges in person at St Swithun’s School in Winchester, including children’s authors and editors, senior university lecturers and English teachers.
The eight runners-up have had their stories brought to life by talented third-year students at AUB, creating illustrated concept pages alongside words, characters and settings transformed into stunning visuals.
The four winning stories – Arcade Lights in the Years 5 and 6 category, illustrated by Sezen Munir, as well as Her Current Light , Hero and Mooncussers – are now fully illustrated books.
Hero , written by Harry Spence in the Years 3 and 4 category, was illustrated by Rachel Ng, who comments: “I really loved illustrating the story as I felt the curiosity of the child writer, a nine-year-old boy, and his imaginative world in Hero with strong moral values.
My favourite line is ‘the blazing sun shining down upon him like a fire cooking a steak back home.’
“My drawings were created digitally with Adobe Photoshop, with texture brushes.
It was challenging to decide which adventurous scene to visualise in the story, while delivering the plot and the most exciting scene.
I’m looking forward to creating more imaginative children's books in the future while collaborating with local schools and charities.”
Mooncussers , written by Florence Hayman in the Years 7, 8 and 9 category, was illustrated by Libby Hyde.
“Florence's story was so easy to feel inspired by, to the point that it was difficult to narrow down the moments to illustrate," says Libby.
"In the end, I could tell that the moments of bold lighting were important to the narrative, so I chose to illustrate the glow of a bedside candle, the luminous flames from the torch and the shimmer of the sunrise on the beach and the treasures washed up on the shore.
On the creative process behind her work, Libby adds: “I used Procreate and Photoshop to draw these images and add text to the title cover.
My practice is usually tailored for visual development for animation, so I always aim to capture a lot of dynamism and movement into my images; in this case, I used a blur effect on the flames of the fire to illustrate the storminess of the night.
“I'm so happy with the result of the images and I hope Florence feels they suit what she had in mind when she wrote her beautiful story!”
Juno Frenzel, who illustrated Her Current Light , written by Kei-Lisa Botes in the Years 10 and 11 category, also comments: “Working with ISEB was a great experience.
It was good practice working with a client and art director, but also really nice to know that at the end of the project a kid would get an illustrated book of a story they'd written.
Her Current Light is a beautiful story and Kei-Lisa's descriptive writing made it super easy for me to illustrate.”
The complete illustrations for each book can be found on the ISEB website .
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Illustration

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aub-graduate-named-artist-in-residence-for-arts-by-the-sea-2025:
Gabrielle Parker, current AUBSU president and AUB graduate, has been named Artist in Residence for this year’s Arts by the Sea festival.
Since graduating from BA (Hons) Illustration in 2023, Gabrielle has been championing student voices, platforming talent, and leading with creativity in her role as the President for AUB’s Students' Union, AUBSU .
Inspired by drag and icons like Leigh Bowery, Gabrielle’s work blends playfulness and power with eccentric, colourful 3D characters.
She’s now bringing her surreal, digital illustration style to Arts by the Sea, the South West’s biggest celebration of arts and culture.
Gabrielle comments, “Being named the 2025 Artist in Residence for Arts by the Sea is a huge honour.
"Having lived, studied and grown as an artist in Bournemouth, it feels incredibly special to be part of a festival that celebrates everything I love about this community; its vibrancy, its creativity and its spirit of self-expression.
I can't wait to bring my world of strange, surreal characters to life and invite audiences to immerse themselves in playful, vivid spaces where everyone can revel in who they are."
Gabrielle will be responsible for curating this year’s visual identity for the festival, teaming up with 2024 Artist in Residence Rebecca Strickson to bring the theme of ‘We Are Here’ to life.
Arts by the Sea takes place from Friday 26 – Sunday 28 September.
Information about performances and events taking place can be found on their website .
More of Gabrielle’s work can be found on Instagram .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/poole-pride-celebrates-emerging-talent-among-the-lgbtqia-students-at-aub:
As part of this year’s Poole Pride 2025 celebrations, Lighthouse Poole is showcasing the emerging talent among the LGBTQIA+ students at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB), as well as hosting a button badge-making workshop to celebrate the spirit of Pride.
Students from the BA (Hons) Illustration degree at AUB are exhibiting work that builds upon existing projects and highlights the diverse range of interests and identities among the students who are actively encouraged to express their individuality.
The exhibition is curated by Sarah Cliff, a queer Welsh illustrator who teaches on MA Illustration (Online) degree at AUB and has guest lectured at universities across the UK.
“As a proud lesbian, participating in Poole Pride alongside these very talented students has been amazing," comments Sarah.
“We explore how LGBTQIA+ identities can be expressed within rural settings and the natural environment, as well as in urban environments beyond a London-centric perspective.
I really value how queer students in 2025 are seeking greater freedom and openness in expressing their identities, especially considering that in living memory communities have been silenced by laws such as Section 28.
“While recognising that progress is not always linear, the aim was to create a show that provides space for this expression.”
The badge-making workshop is open to the public from 14.00 – 17.30 on Saturday 7 June.
Historically, button badges have been used throughout Pride events as an affordable means for individuals to protest, demonstrate solidarity, or identify with various groups.
This year, students from the BA (Hons) Illustration degree have combined their creative skills with the vibrant and grainy qualities of the risograph printing process to present a selection of Pride badge designs for Poole Pride.
Sarah adds, “In a world that continues to become more polarised, this tradition serves as a reminder that Pride is a space where diverse voices come together – both in celebration and in protest.”
One of this year’s exhibiting students, Juno Frenzel, was also involved with last year’s Poole Pride , and comments: “It's great to see Poole Pride returning again this year and being asked to come back and exhibit some more personal illustrations.
“I was involved in last year's John Chesterman exhibition, where I illustrated a print and knot wrap in collaboration with LUSH based on queer joy.
This year, I'll be more actively involved by providing badge designs and helping out with the arts and crafts community stalls.
I'm excited to see everyone and show up for my community, especially with the recent developments in this country.”
Another student who’s returning for a second year is Beck O’Hara, who says, “I got involved this year through an open call from our course leader and was excited to get the opportunity to exhibit again.
“Queer history is very important to me, and it was great for Lighthouse Poole to display so many different interpretations of stories related to the UK origins of pride.
And to reflect on our vibrant and recent history.
“I think it's also a lovely idea this year to platform queer students work more generally as it reminds us that our interests and our art can exist in many realms other than the queer aspects of our identities without disregarding them.”
New to Poole Pride this year, Aster Sakalauskaite got involved after seeing that the exhibition was looking for LGBTQIA+ representation.
“I am a queer, non-binary illustrator and it is so wonderful to have an opportunity to have my work displayed in an important exhibition," Aster explains.
“I created the artwork forget-me-not , inspired by themes of freedom.
I love creating paper-cut collages as it allows me to slow down and think of the intentional compositions of my pieces.
The artwork often grows naturally, much like a flower.
“I think it is so vital to be involved in events such as this as a queer person.
I often stumbled upon documented pieces of LGBT+ history, seeing photography and artworks makes it all seem so real.
We have always been here.
And we will never be alone.”
The AUB exhibition will run at Lighthouse in Poole from Saturday 7 June throughout the month.
The button badge-making workshop will be open to the public from 14.00 – 17.30 on Saturday 7 June.
For more information on Poole Pride, visit Lighthouse's website .
If you liked this post you might be interested in this

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aub-graduates-new-ghost-story-comes-to-palace-court-theatre-for-pride-2025:
Still Here , an innovative new work by acclaimed playwright and Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) graduate Pete MacHale is coming to Bournemouth’s Palace Court Theatre .
Directed by Stephanie Kempson ( Until the Sun Goes Down, Breathless ) and mentored by award-winning Stephanie Dale ( Salt ), Still Here is a ghost story set in Bournemouth during three different eras: 2019, 1966, and 978 AD.
The production, which will run from 5–7 June, sheds a new light on the Palace Court Theatre and the land it stands on in a poignant evocation of Bournemouth, its stories and its people.
In 2019, four teenagers break into the Palace Court Theatre, ready for one last game of ghost-hunt before they leave Bournemouth and childhood behind.
Meanwhile, in 1966, tempers rise as a local amateur company puts on a play that they hope will save the theatre from closure.
And in 978, King Edward and his sister Edith look towards Corfe Castle, wondering what the future holds for England.
Pete MacHale is a transmasculine actor and writer from Bristol, whose acting credits include playing Gothic Paul in Doctor Who , as well as notable series such as Gangs of London .
His writing credits include Dear Young Monster and Shake My Bones .
He's also an alumni of the Royal Courts Queer writers' group, currently developing a number of projects for both stage and screen.
Still Here is a story about love, resistance and wanting to stay where you are, or wanting to stay who you are.
Pete explains, “From being conceptualised as a story about and for people who live in Bournemouth, developing the script with students and workshop attendees last year at Poole Pride, and reminiscing on my own experiences during my years of AUB, Still Here takes and blends those things together in a story that centres identity and place and how those two themes intersect.
“Everyone in this story, in some way, is figuring out themselves out.
Who they are, to themselves, to one and other, where they want to go or stay, and why.
I feel all of these questions are as relevant now as they were in 2019 and in 1966, and tie in perfectly with Pride.
“As a queer writer, it’s fantastic that the script’s debut performance has landed full circle to happen during this year’s Poole Pride, and to be the first fully staged piece of new writing at the Palace Court Theatre under AUB's ownership is such an exciting honour!"
The play will be performed and produced as part of AUB Productions, a collaborative effort between students on BA (Hons) Acting , Costume , Design for Costume and Performance , and Make-up for Media and Performance courses.
Still Here will run at the Palace Court Theatre on Hinton Road in Bournemouth from Thursday 5 June until Saturday 7 June.
Standard tickets are £12 with a Pay What You Can performance on 7 June at 14.30.
For more information and to book tickets, visit the event on our website .
If you liked this post you might be interested in AUB Productions

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/fin-tastic-aub-students-designs-feature-in-the-great-tail-trail:
Three third-year BA (Hons) Illustration students from at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) have had their designs selected by local businesses to appear on mermaid tail sculptures as part of The Great Tail Trail unveiled this month.
Lily Skip, I'Eisha Haywood and Beck O'Hara impressed the selection panel comprising representatives from LV=, AFC Bournemouth, BH Live, and trail organiser Julia's House Children's Hospice.
Their original designs are now featured on three of the giant sculptures sponsored by these businesses in key locations across Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole.
Vincent Larkin, Course Leader on BA (Hons) Illustration, says, “Receiving and responding to a live brief from these local businesses and having their designs chosen has given Lily, I'Eisha and Beck a wonderful opportunity to put their work in an audience-facing context as part of a major public art event.
"In the process, they’ve also learnt how to work with a client and about how community art projects are commissioned and run.
It's invaluable experience for them.
They've all done really well and I'm incredibly impressed with their work.”
Lily Skip's design, entitled Bubble Buddies, reflects the green colours of leading UK life and pensions mutual insurer, LV=, who also sponsor The Great Tail Trail's learning programme for schools and youth groups.
“I'm painting an under-the-sea theme with sea creatures and divers in LV='s colours to reflect the seaside location of their sculpture,” Lily explains.
“It's been really fun to do.
I've not done anything like this before, so it's a great opportunity to do something a bit different.
I'm really looking forward to bringing my friends and family to see my design on the trail."
Samantha Lowman, senior brand executive for LV= says, “It’s been really great to work with the University and its students.
The level of artwork from all the students was really high but Lily’s design stood out for its representation of LV=, for its sense of community and for being something that will really catch the eye of people exploring the trail.”
Meanwhile, I'Eisha Haywood's vibrant and fruit-filled design for AFC Bournemouth is called Growing Together.
"AFC Bournemouth are known as the Cherries, so I wanted to do a design that reflected their nickname,” says I'Eisha.
“This project is very different to what I am used to doing – it's really helping me to push myself and develop myself as an illustrator.
It enables me get my work seen in a way I could never have imagined.”
Beck O'Hara created How do you go?
– a fun and dynamic design depicting movement and community spirit to represent the various aspects of leisure operator, BH Live.
“Public art really interests me and having this project in my portfolio will demonstrate that I can work with a client and create artwork on a really big scale,” says Beck.
“I've really enjoyed working at The Great Tail Trail's dedicated painting space at Castlepoint alongside other, more established artists – it's nice to be seen as an artist rather than just a student.”
“We’re really happy with Beck’s design and we can’t wait to see her finished sculpture on the trail,” says Daisy Saunders from BH Live.
“It’s fun, colourful and family-friendly – really in keeping with everything BH Live represents."
The Great Tail Trail hasn't only featured the work of current AUB students, but also alumni.
Yveline Burton's design, Hands Across the Universe, is based at Canford Cliffs Beach, combining the artist's love of space and science fiction with the handprints (plus a sneaky pawprint) of several of her family members.
"The whole thing has been a wonderful experience for me as a fairly new artist who only graduated AUB in 2023," says Yveline.
"Working in the shared painting space was a brilliant experience, getting to watch all the other tails slowly build up over time and meeting other artists to swap techniques and tips.
"A lot of the other people involved have done multiple trails before and had a wealth of knowledge about the materials and techniques that work best!
It was like getting to recapture a bit of the atmosphere of working in the studios at AUB, which was lovely."
Another featured graduate was Pia Elliott, who says, "I’ve loved being a part of this project, being surrounded by a wonderful community of artists whilst supporting such a fantastic locally charity has been a pleasure.
"It was so much fun adjusting my pen and ink style to fit such a large scale sculpture and I enjoyed the tactility of working with paint.
I’ve gained the confidence to take on more project out of my comfort zone in the future."
Julia’s House cares for seriously ill children across Dorset and provides practical and emotional support to their families.
The Great Tail Trail will enable the charity to raise vital funds for its life-changing service during uncertain financial times.
The cost of providing care has significantly risen in line with inflation and yet the charity only receives eight per cent of its funding from the Government – one of the lowest amounts for hospices in this country.
The rise in employer National Insurance contributions will cost Julia’s House an additional £242,000 a year, meaning donation and public fundraising events like The Great Tail Trail are more important than ever.
“The Great Tail Trail is a project by the community, for the community,” explains Laura Maidment, Public Fundraising Manager for Julia's House.
“It brings together local businesses, artists, schools, youth groups and the general public for an event that will bring a splash of colour and fun to BCP, while benefiting the local children and families who reply on Julia’s House just to get through each day.
“It’s so exciting to see the students from AUB having this incredible and unique opportunity to work with local businesses on a project with huge significance for the community.
Their sculptures are going to look brilliant on the trail and it will give these young artists a wonderful platform to showcase their work.”
The Great Tail Trail opens to the public for eight weeks from 5 April 2025.
40 unique, colourful giant mermaid tail sculptures will be on display across the BCP region alongside smaller versions painted by schools and community groups as part of the trail’s learning programme..
As Community Partner to the Great Tail Trail, BH Live will also host a Farewell Weekend, where all the sculptures can be viewed under one roof at the Bournemouth International Centre on the 14 and 15 June, before they become available to buy at auction.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/term-dates:
Find our term dates for the 2024/25 and 2025/26 academic years below.
You can find term dates for the 2024/25 and 2025/26 academic years below, including any University closure days.
Term dates for the 2024/25 academic year.
University closure
23 December 2024 – 3 January 2025
Easter Bank Holidays
18 April – 21 April 2025
Early May Bank Holiday
5 May 2025
Spring Bank Holiday
26 May 2025
Summer Bank Holiday
25 August 2025
Spring Term
13 January – 2 May 2025
14 April – 21 April 2025
Summer Term
6 May – 15 August 2025
18 August – 5 September 2025
Autumn Term
8 September – 19 December 2025
Term dates for the 2025/26 academic year.
24 December 2025 – 2 January 2026
3-6 April 2026
4 May 2026
25 May 2026
31 August 2026
8 September – 12 December 2025
15 December 2025 – 9 January 2026
12 January – 20 March 2026
23 March – 10 April 2026
13 April – 12 June 2026
Induction Week*
29 September – 3 October 2025
Autumn Term**
6 October – 12 December 2025
13 April – 19 June 2026
* Induction Week applies to all new students only:
** All students start.
22 September 2025 – 9 January 2026
24 December 2025 – 1 January 2026
12 January – 1 May 2026
2-8 April 2026
5 May – 14 August 2026
17 August – 4 September 2026
7 September – 18 December 2026

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduation:
Celebrating your achievements
The graduation ceremonies for 2025 took place on Thursday 24 and Friday 25 July.
Please refer to the Graduation Timetable for the exact schedule of course and ceremony times.
Congratulations to our Class of 2025!
Please view our 2025 Graduation highlight video below.
You can also watch the 2025 ceremonies on our website .
This content can't be displayed, please accept marketing cookies to view
We'll have our in-house photographers circling throughout the event capturing those special moments...
We've collected photos and videos of the AUB graduation ceremonies from over the years, which are free...
AUB& is a dedicated platform that brings together all our Alumni, to share exciting news, features, careers...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/alumni:
Whether you graduated last year or decades ago, we're here to help you stay connected!
We're proud of our alumni and rightfully so.
Many of you have gone on to do incredible things.
Our alumni community is a continuation of our campus — a home and a network for all of our wonderful graduates.
It’s a place to find out what everyone’s been up to and generally stay a part of our creative community – with some exclusive benefits to be had, too.
Our alumni community is open to students who graduated from any of our previous titles (The Arts University College at Bournemouth, The Arts Institute at Bournemouth, and Bournemouth and Poole College of Art and Design) and, of course, our current one.
To guarantee you don’t miss out on the Alumni benefits and communications sign up to AUB& .
From award-winning screenwriters to Turner Prize-worthy photographers, AUB has been the backdrop for plenty of creative careers.
Molly Manning Walker is a BAFTA-nominated filmmaker and cinematographer.
Her directorial debut, ﻿How to Have Sex...
Ryan Calais Cameron is an award-winning actor, director and writer.
His first play, TIMBUKTU, was part of the Bush Theatre’s...
Simon is an Oscar-winning screenwriter who studied Film and Television at the AUB in the late 1980s/early 1990s.
Edgar Wright has directed critically acclaimed films such as Hot Fuzz, Shaun of the Dead and Baby Driver.
BA (Hons) Fashion Alumna Twinks Burnett is a fashion stylist, creative director and accessories designer.
Wolfgang Tillmans is a critically acclaimed photographer who has been published in magazines such as i-d and Vogue.
Peter Cook received an Honorary fellowship in 2008.
He originally studied architecture at the Bournemouth College of Art (now AUB)...
Jon Cleave, alumnus and founder of Newyonder, speaks to AUB Alumni about his role as Macebearer at Graduation .
"My advice to future students is you’ve got to be extremely tenacious, and not give up.
And when you find people you like working with, keep working with them, be loyal."
Sometimes your dream creative career can develop from small, unsuspecting threads of inspiration and passion...
When Burberry visited BA (Hons) Fashion at AUB, Jessica thought it would be a regular chance to network and showcase...
As a person, I find myself creatively drawn to a vague mix of goofy, surreal and whimsical pieces I definitely found this to be the case...
Following graduation only this summer, there’ve been no lulls in business for BA (Hons) Commercial Photography alumnus Ethan Parker...
Since early 2022, Jacob Perlmutter has been working on his feature film debut – Two Strangers Trying Not To Kill Each...
For BA (Hons) Fashion graduate Jazmine Mitchener, taking a collection to Graduate Fashion Week had been a goal since...
Earlier this year, Kajri Babbar, a graduate of AUB's MA Film Practice course, celebrated a win at the British Council Study UK Alumni...
When Francesca Griffiths began studying Graphic Design at AUB, she was learning industry-standard print techniques that were...
Of the many elements of bringing...
It was 2019 when BA (Hons) Acting graduate Elliot Warren collected a...
Over the last five years, Jack has built his landscape photography career into a professional business with stunning results...
Have a question?
We’ve included the answers to some common questions…
Any student who has studied a course or graduated from AUB (or under any of its previous names) automatically becomes a member of our AUB Alumni Community.
You’ll just need to provide us with your personal details if these have changed after graduating.
You can also join our new Alumni platform, AUB& .
If you graduated before 2001, we won’t have your details on our system.
You can add your contact information by filling out the form on our Update Your Details page.
If you graduated in or after 2001, you’ll need to log in to reset your password here .
The form will ask you to enter your AUB email address, or student number, along with the surname you had while at AUB and your date of birth.
If you are still unable to log in, it may be we have an alternative email logged on our system.
If you email alumni@aub.ac.uk , we’ll help you reset your password.
Once you have reset your password, please click here to log in.
Becoming part of our AUB Alumni Community allows you to stay in touch with us.
We can keep you up to date with all the latest news and events from AUB and your fellow alumni.
Remember, we want to hear all about your achievements!
As AUB Alumni, there is also the opportunity to get involved with the university and support new students through mentoring, talks and passing on your One Piece of Advice .
Keep an eye out for invitations to Alumni events taking place throughout the year, a great opportunity to meet up with your old friends.
You can also access the AUB Futures Hub allowing you to view job opportunities and post your own recruitment adverts for other Alumni to view.
Contact our Alumni team at alumni@aub.ac.uk
Some of the brightest AUB Alumni, Honorary Fellows and community have offered up their ‘One Piece of Advice’ to those starting out...
AUB& is a dedicated platform that brings together all our Alumni, to share exciting news, features, careers in the creative arts and more.
If you have a story you’d like to feature on our website or could talk to our current students about your career, we’d love to hear from you
The Graduate Outcomes Survey is the biggest annual survey in the UK and is a mandatory process for all HE providers.
If you need proof that you studied at Arts University Bournemouth or to replace any original documents, this information will help you

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/become-an-aub-ambassador:
Represent Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) by joining our Ambassadors scheme in a number of varied roles.
Our Ambassadors are at the heart of the University.
They’re able to share first-hand experiences of AUB, university life, offer support and encouragement and are role models for prospective students – but most importantly they’re able to share their passion and motivations to help inspire the next generation of learners.
Becoming an ambassador offers you the opportunity to gain practical and useful experience in a number of ways, learning a variety of new skills such as public speaking, teamwork, customer service, how to behave in a working environment, networking with industry professionals at certain events, and adapting to different work environments.
We offer several options for opportunities to represent AUB as an Ambassador.
AUB has several dedicated teams that are employed specifically to encourage learners to consider taking the next steps in their educational journey by applying to university.
These teams work in a range of departments across AUB including Future Students (events), Digital Marketing, Schools, Access and Participation and International.
Our teams are dedicated to encouraging students with a passion for creativity in all its forms to consider applying to university, specifically AUB, where our mantra is to turn creativity into careers.
We do this through a range of activity that takes place not only on campus at AUB, but off campus around the UK and internationally.
We visit schools and colleges to host talks and workshops, speak at assemblies and also attend their careers fairs.
We host Open Days, Campus Tours and Offer Holders Days to allow prospective students to experience AUB first hand.
We also host Summer Shows, summer schools, and this is just a small taste of all the exciting activity that’s happening at AUB to help inspire future students to want to pursue a creative degree.
We want these encounters to be as authentic and impactful as possible, and our Ambassadors are an integral part of these experiences that we offer.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/parents-and-supporters-hub:
Making change starts with you.
We want you to feel confident in supporting your young person, so they can follow their passion, pursue creativity and make change to the world around them.
At Arts University Bournemouth, we're proud to be a creative, collaborative community of artists, designers, performers and makers.
This year, we even ranked as the top art and design specialist university in the South West*.
As your young person thinks about joining us, we've provided you a guide to everything before and during our application process, life as a student, and beyond!
*Complete University Guide 2026
Your young person may only be thinking about studying at university at this point, or maybe they're already partway through their application journey.
Either way, you can find out more about applying to AUB, fees and financial support, student services, and our accommodation options below.
It all begins with an application.
But what exactly does this involve?
This handy section offers answers and guidance to everything from entry requirements to what to do after receiving an offer.
If your young person is moving away from home for the first time, you'll want to be assured of their accommodation.
We guarantee accommodation for all students in their first year of study.
You can explore our Halls of Residence, as well as our AUB ResLife programme, below.
If your young person is already well on their way to joining our creative community, your mind may now be on other things, such as how they'll be supported while studying, and after!
To find out everything from wellbeing to careers support at AUB, explore our Student Services.
The financial side of university life is always a massive consideration, both for your young person and yourselves as parents and supporters.
Find out exactly how much they'll be paying, how they'll pay it, and what financial support is available.
You may have questions about your young person's course(s) of interest, or about AUB as a whole.
We hold events – both on campus and online – throughout the year, which you can attend to find out about our courses, our facilities, and the University itself.
Explore when you can join us in person or check out an online information session.
If you didn't manage to visit us on an Open Day, don't worry.
With our Campus Tours, you can still discover AUB in person.
AUB attends UCAS events all over the country.
Come see us and find out more about studying with us.
You can discover more about the student support offerings as well as the social side of things, run by our Students' Union.
If you're more interested in where a creative degree can take your young person, whether during or following their studies, explore our collection of student and alumni stories.
And discover what they'll be working towards at the end of their degree – our Summer Shows.
Our Students’ Union exists to make sure that all students have the best possible experience whilst studying at AUB.
Every year, our campus transforms into the most extensive gallery in the southwest of England as we host our Summer Shows...
The community here is truly special.
Everyone is so passionate and energised by their craft, and that energy inspires you to push your own work further.
I’m so thankful to the lecturers and technicians on the course.
Their endless support and encouragement allow you to authentically explore your creative interests.
Connecting with others is probably the heart of my creativity.
And that’s one of the biggest reasons I chose AUB.
Before studying Film Production at AUB, I couldn’t have imagined knowing enough to even begin collaborating with others on audiovisual productions.
Now, I am assured that I can enter the film or television industry and contribute practical value at a professional standard.
BA (Hons) Film Production
I’ve been lucky that my course tutors have worked so closely with us, so that we get our highest standards of work.
BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance
My time at AUB taught me the importance of the meaning behind my work, and the process I need to go through to make the best work possible.
BA (Hons) Graphic Design

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/working-at-aub:
Explore Arts University Bournemouth and discover your new career
To meet our vision of being a world-class arts, design, performance and media university working with professional partners to create excellence, relevance and impact we need to keep recruiting talented people to join our innovative and passionate community.
That's where you come in!
Whether you're looking for an academic role, a technical role or to join our professional services, we welcome people who'll contribute to our vision and share our values.
Awarded the Inclusive Employers Standard Silver Accreditation 2024, we value and celebrate the diversity of our students and staff; and strive to develop an inclusive environment where everyone's identities and talents are recognised and understood.
Based in a lively coastal town, our campus is a hub of creativity, surrounded by some of the UK’s most breath-taking landscapes.
We work with world-leading partners like Framestore, Burberry, Aardman Animation, and the National Theatre – so whatever your field, you’ll be in great company.
Join us and be part of something extraordinary.
Before you apply, explore our benefits to discover a generous holiday entitlement and a fantastic pension scheme designed with your future in mind.
Here, you'll have everything you need to nurture your creative, academic, technical, and professional growth – all within a vibrant community that's committed to enhancing our students' experience.
Discover AUB's visions, values and goals
We value our staff, doing all we can to help you develop and adjust in our creative environment.
Take a look at our staff benefits
There's no reason to stop learning – we're firm supporters of enabling you to develop your artistic and professional skills
Read how AUB is committed to creating an inclusive place to study, practise and work
Meet our academic and professional services staff
Investing in staff wellbeing is important – find out how AUB supports staff through partnerships and initiatives
Before you start an application, read through our handy guide below.
It outlines what to expect from the application process and the interview, too.
We've made applying for jobs easier than ever.
You just need to register on our secure application system – it saves your details, so you don’t have to enter them again if applying for future vacancies.
Whether you're applying for an academic, technical or professional services role, we’ve made the process as easy as possible.
If you need reasonable adjustments made at any stage of our recruitment process, please contact our recruitment team at recruitment@aub.ac.uk who'll be happy to discuss options with you.
You'll need to upload a covering letter and CV with your application.
In your covering letter, you’ll explain how you meet the requirements of the person specification of the role.
Covering letters are an important part of the shortlisting process, so take your time on yours and make sure it's detailed enough to give us the best picture of your knowledge, skills, experience and qualifications possible.
After you've applied, we'll email you to confirm we've received your application.
Once we’ve completed the shortlisting for the job, we’ll email you to let you know if you’ve been successful in reaching the interview stage.
Interview:
To apply, you just need to register on our secure application system, which saves your details, so you don’t have to enter them again.
When you apply, we’ll ask you to answer some questions within the application, which are based on the person specification for the role.
Your answers will be an important part of the shortlisting process, so make sure you consider them carefully.
After you've applied, we’ll email you to confirm that we’ve received your application.
We’ve made applying for jobs easier than ever.
You just need to register on our secure application system, which saves your details, so you don’t have to enter them again.
After you’ve applied, we’ll email you to confirm we’ve received your application.
Nearer to your start date you'll be contacted by one of our HR Partners, who'll email you about your first day, the induction process and your tour of the campus.
Before you start your job with AUB, the HR team will be in touch with you to arrange for you to provide us with the following documents:
Before you start, take a look at our staff profiles to meet some of your new colleagues.
One of them might be your new buddy who can help you settle into AUB life and answer any questions you might have during those early days of starting a new role.
Between now and your first day, if you have any questions, please email us at recruitment@aub.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/honorary-fellows:
We've awarded Honorary Fellowships to staff, alumni and people who've made a significant contribution to the fields of arts, design, media and performance
An Honorary Fellowship is a highly prestigious award which we can bestow to persons who have connected with Arts University Bournemouth and made a significant contribution to the field of arts, design, media or performance in a professional capacity or an educational role.
You can see our Honorary Fellows below.
Roma Agrawal is an engineer, author and presenter who's best known for working on the design of The Shard...
Sophie Deen is an entrepreneur, children’s author, and dedicated advocate for the ethical use of AI.
As the CEO and founder of...
Grace Gorman is professional hair and make-up artist for stage and screen.
From a young age, Grace loved special effects make-up...
Ilishio Lovejoy has built a career deeply committed to advancing labour-centred industry transitions and fostering...
Elspeth has been the CEO of the South West’s largest arts centre since 2009, successfully steering the organisation...
Clary Salandy is a London-based carnival and theatre designer renowned for her innovative large-scale body sculptures...
His first play, TIMBUKTU, was part of the Bush...
Claire Collins is a British costume designer, who after graduating from AUB in 2003, won the BBC Vision Design Prize...
Richard Strachan is the CEO of 3 Sided Cube, a global Tech for Good agency.
Their mission is to change a million lives for...
Kirill Karabits has been celebrated worldwide as Chief Conductor of the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra for...
Shawn Naphtali Sobers is Professor of Cultural Interdisciplinary Practice at the University of the West of England...
Frankie Turner is an award-winning photographer shooting campaigns for household names.
Glyn’s work has won acclaim and recognition across a range of national theatre, poetry and literary awards, including the E.M.
Forster...
Adjoa Andoh is known for playing Nenneke in series two of The Witcher (also for Netflix), as well as playing major roles in...
Her graduation film as cinematographer, November 1st, was shortlisted for a BAFTA and awarded Bronze at the Student Academy Awards, with...
Wallace completed his Master of Architecture with Distinction from Arts University Bournemouth, after a prosperous odyssey that commenced...
Michael has created lighting works for iconic brands including Lush, Guinness, and London’s V&A Museum, amassing a portfolio of...
Perhaps most well-known for his food illustration work, Tom has created animated illustrations for the multi-award winning TV show...
Internationally renowned for his visually captivating, ﻿intricate and prominent large-scale stained-glass ﻿art installations...
Working to build both corporate and private ﻿collections, in 1989 Zelda opened the Zelda ﻿Cheatle Gallery in Covent Garden before...
Caroline Norbury is a producer, trustee and the founding chief executive of Creative England and Creative Industries Federation...
Professor Stuart Bartholomew is an educator, fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and former Principal and Vice-Chancellor of AUB...
Dame Vivienne Westwood is a British fashion designer, best known for her work in bringing punk and new wave fashion to the wider public.
Peter Lord is co-owner and Creative Director of Aardman Animations where he pioneered techniques in motion animation using clay puppets.
Mike Davies is an architect who was awarded a CBE in 2000 by Her Majesty The Queen and has been an architect for some of the country’s mo...
Dougie Scarfe became Chief Executive of the highly acclaimed Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra (BSO) in 2012, after pursuing a lifelong...
Edgar Wright is a Poole-born director, screenwriter and producer now working in Hollywood.
In 1994 he received a National Diploma in...
Dame Darcey Bussell is the most famous British ballet dancer of her generation.
She trained at The Royal Ballet School before...
Jenny Beavan is an English costume designer and two-time Oscar winner.
After being a pupil at Putney High School in the late 1960s...
Margaret Calvert is a graphic designer and typographer best known for designing Britain’s road signing system.
Architect and Founder and Executive Chairman of Foster + Partners
Fashion Designer
Chief Executive of Arts Council England
Designer for Conran & Partners
Costume Cutter and Designer
Chief Creative Officer at Burberry
Executive Director of the Crafts Council
Director of Operations, Industrial Light and Magic
Actress
Director of the Victoria and Albert Museum
Designer, Researcher and Educator
Artist and Designer
Artist and monster creator
Chief Design Officer, Design Council
Cinematographer, Aardman Animations
Special Make–up Effects artist
Contemporary Visual Artist
Graphic Designer
Theatre Producer and ‘King of Pantomime’
Screenwriter, film director, novelist and actor
Multimedia Theatre Company
Writer and presenter
Photographer
Contemporary British artist
Prosthetics artist
Professor of Semiotics
Animator and illustrator
Illustrator and designer
Costume designer
Architect
AUB Chairman
Production designer
Cabinet maker and designer
Fashion designer
Film producer and director
Artist
Photographer, author and AUB Governor
Design specialist
Designer and academic
Artist and sculptor
Furniture designer
Film producer
Creative director
Animator
Design historian
Sculptor
Animation producer and AUB Governor
Designer (1923-2004)
Filmmaker and AUB Governor
Typographer and AUB Governor
Cinematographer
Artist, photographer and AUB alumnus
AUB Governor
Photographer and AUB Governor
Museum curator and director
Scriptwriter (1935-2010)
Modelmaker (1955-2005)
Illustrator
Costume Designer (1930-2003)
Film cameraman
Fashion designer and AUB Governor
Photographer and AUB alumnus
Filmmaker and AUB alumnus

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/schools-hub/widening-access-to-aub:
Schools' Hub
All those with the potential to benefit from higher education, no matter their background, deserve the opportunity to do so.
At Arts University Bournemouth, we’re committed to making that happen.
We value our strong relationships with schools, colleges, and the community in delivering activity to widen access to opportunities in creative education and employment.
At AUB we believe that every individual should be able to access creative activities and explore new opportunities, no matter their...
Pre-16 flagship programme exploring the themes of masculinity and identity...
Here at AUB, we offer support for care-experienced and estranged students, as well as young adult carers.
For students in this position...
As part of the application process, we receive information through UCAS for our undergraduate courses, which include contextual...
We're ﻿committed to equal access to creative education and offer a limited number of funded places on our Saturday Art School courses.
AUB Academy are delighted to offer a discount on 2-Week Summer Courses and Creative Arts Summer School for young people who meet...
As an institution, Arts University Bournemouth is a member of the Southern Universities Network (SUN)
As you approach graduation, you may feel some apprehension about the journey ahead of you.
It’s understandable to feel overwhelmed...
The Dorset branch of Boys' Impact is the first in a series of regional networks with the aim of closing the gap in GCSE outcomes for boys.
Join the incredible young men from the 2025 Being a Boy workshop series and their supporters as we celebrate their creative achievements.
Find out more about our CPD opportunities for staff, teachers and advisors...
To meet the ambitious targets Arts University Bournemouth have set out in our Access and Participation Plan , we work closely with schools and colleges to provide an extensive programme of outreach activities with groups who are currently underrepresented in Higher Education.
This includes students living in neighbourhoods with historically low participation in Higher Education, those encountering barriers related to their socio-economic position, and those navigating a range of other challenges which have been linked with inequality of access to university.
If you'd like to discuss how the Access and Participation team can support your learners, email Kate Venables , Access and Participation Operations Manager.
We’re committed to making that happen.
Take a look the reports below and see how we're making an impact through our recent projects and initiatives.
All Access AUB is our flagship post-16 access programme, specifically designed to support entry to creative Higher Education.
Take a look at the report from our first cohort of students in 2022 and the following 2023 cohort to learn what impact this scheme has had on the participants and recommendations for future All Access AUB activity.
Our Being a Boy project provides space for young men to creatively engage with the role of masculinity in their day-to-day lives.
Read about our key findings from the Being a Boy 2022 and Being a Boy 2023 activity and recommendations for future iterations of the project.
Becoming an Outreach Ambassador for AUB means working with the Access and Participation team on events and projects which seek to make Creative Higher Education more accessible.
You'll support students who are from groups which are currently underrepresented in higher education, such as young people who have experience of being in care, are young carers, and/or are the first in their family to attend university.
As an Outreach Ambassador, you'll be a relatable role model for young people who may be facing a range of challenges stemming from their background or economic circumstances.
If you feel you can be that role model, apply to be an outreach student ambassador with the Access and Participation team.
If you're interested in becoming an Outreach Ambassador, follow the link below for further details and how to apply.
PhD
PhD, MA, BA, FHEA, FRSA
PGCert, BA (Hons)
We know that inspiring your students, whatever their ambition, is at the heart of what we do in creative education.
Our in-school activities have been designed to support your students in discovering more about Higher Education and creative pathways
We have a range of learning resources at AUB that can support your teaching either in the classroom or online.
We appreciate that navigating the process of applying to university can be a daunting time for students – we're here to help.
AUB offers workshops, talks and presentations to global schools.
Get in touch with our team to find out more

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/partner-institutions:
Arts University Bournemouth achieved taught degree awarding powers in 2008.
Using these powers, AUB is permitted to award degrees that are delivered and assessed at another provider.
In most cases, awards are made under a validation arrangement with AUB.
This means that the University has reviewed the educational values of the provider, and its approach to learning, teaching and assessment, and has put in place the necessary mechanisms to provide assurance that the qualifications being awarded are in line with national standards and meet the expectations of AUB awards.
Students apply to, enrol with and are registered to and study at the partner institution.
Upon successful completion of the course, students receive an award of AUB.
Details of partner institutions that have a formal validation agreement with AUB are listed below.
Under a franchise arrangement, a course owned by AUB is delivered by a partner.
AUB currently has a franchise agreement with Bournemouth and Poole College ; details of the courses available can be found on our website .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/legal-and-governance:
In this section you'll be able to find all our information regarding governance.
You can also find our policies for Freedom of Information, Equality and Diversity and Safeguarding.
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is a higher education corporation, established under the Education Reform Act 1988.
As an institution, we've existed since 1887, and were granted status as a higher education institution in 2000 as the Arts Institute at Bournemouth (AIB) in accordance with the Further and Higher Education Act 1992.
Following the award of our own taught degree awarding powers by the Privy Council in 2008, we formally adopted the status of The Arts University College at Bournemouth (AUCB) on the 1 July 2009.
On 7 December 2012, with a change to legislation, the Privy Council awarded AUCB full university status and the institution adopted the title Arts University Bournemouth.
The Board of Governors is the University’s governing body, established in accordance with the University’s Instrument and Articles of Government and from which the Board derives its powers.
The majority of its members are drawn from outside the University and are referred to as independent members, although staff and student members are also elected to the Board as co-opted members.
The Board comprises 17 members including the Principal and Vice-Chancellor.
The current Board of Governors – including term of office
MA
MA, PGCLTHE, BA (Hons), FRSA
BSc, MSc, PhD
PhD, MA, BA, FHEA
In order to discharge its obligation to be unambiguously and collectively accountable for institutional activities and make all final decisions on matters of fundamental concern within its remit, the Board has established the following committees: Audit and Risk Committee, Finance and Resources Committee, Human Resources Committee, Remuneration Committee and Search and Governance Committee.
The Board of Governors has established a Remuneration Committee to consider the pay and total emoluments of the University’s senior post holders.
The Remuneration Committee determines the conditions of service and remuneration of the Principal and Vice Chancellor; and assures itself that the University’s employment policies in relation to other senior post holders are appropriate.
Remuneration Documents:
Minutes of Remuneration Committee:
The Principal and Vice-Chancellor, through the University Leadership Team, is responsible for the executive management of the University, supported by a number of executive committees.
The Academic Board is the University’s principal academic authority.
Subject to the responsibilities of the Board of Governors and the Principal and Vice-Chancellor, the Academic Board has oversight of academic activities, including: assessment, learning and teaching; and research/knowledge transfer and scholarly activity.
The Faculty Boards are responsible to the Academic Board for overseeing academic activities in each faculty.
The University’s governing documents – equivalent to the Memorandum and Articles of Association of a registered company or the Charter and Statutes of a chartered institution – are the Instrument and Articles of Government.
Instrument and Articles of Government
In addition, the Board of Governors of the University has adopted the following statement of its primary responsibilities:
Statement of Primary Responsibilities
Financial Information
Information about the University’s finances and its audited financial statements can be found on the Annual Report and Accounts page.
The emoluments of the Vice-Chancellor are disclosed in Note 6 of the Financial Statements.
Arts University Bournemouth is a values-led organisation.
We are committed to the highest ethical standards in all our activities.
We endorse the Nolan Principles for conduct in public life (Selflessness, Integrity, Objectivity, Accountability, Openness, Honesty and Leadership), and expect all staff, students, Governors and external visitors to act in accordance with these principles.
Adherence to the Code of Ethics is fundamental to the reputation of the University, as well as its organisational behaviours, and its success.
All staff and students are expected to abide by the Code, and its implications, at all times.
This Code sets out our key ethical principles across all aspects of university life, and the policies and guidance which put these values into practice in the running of the University.
AUB is dedicated to promoting positive mental health among staff and students, aligning with our values, and enhancing the sense of belonging and connection within our creative community.
This commitment, developed collaboratively by staff, students, and AUBSU, includes the perspectives of individuals with lived experience of mental health challenges.
It outlines AUB’s pledge to creating a supportive and inclusive environment for all.
We're committed to providing a working and learning environment founded on dignity, respect and equity
AUB is a member of the Dorset Suicide Prevention Alliance and has signed up to the Pan-Dorset Suicide Prevention Strategy.
Overview of our legal policies
We have a legal duty to ensure the health, safety and welfare of students, including those who are young and vulnerable at AUB
Vice-Chancellor pay is a matter of public record and is published each year as required by the Office for Students.
You can find this...
Our plans, strategies, rules, regulations and policies are all available for download in the Freedom of Information section
We're committed to improving our practices to combat slavery and human trafficking – read how

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/student-charter:
We offer foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate awards in the fields of art, design, media and performance.
These awards are characterised by an emphasis on studio practice, delivered within a community of creative professionals.
Courses have a strong focus on developing the technical and professional skills of students, which leads to highly employable graduates both within their specialist fields and beyond.
Collaboration between courses, and between students, is designed to reflect the demands of professional practice; the ways in which courses work together to provide this professional environment is a key feature of the educational environment at the institution.
This charter sets out our commitment to provide you with a service of the highest quality.
It is important that you respond in a positive way to this partnership to take full advantage of the educational opportunities available to you, and realise your full potential.
Throughout the course you may expect to:
Throughout the course you can expect AUB's Student Union to:
Throughout the course you will be expected to:
Students are reminded that their responsibilities relate to all methods of communication, including electronic and social networking.
This Student Charter summarises the University’s aspirations and expectations.
It is not intended as a legally binding contract, or to define or limit the legal rights and responsibilities of the University, the AUB Students’ Union (AUBSU) and each student.
All students should ensure that they are aware of all policies, procedures, regulations and guidelines published by the University and AUB Students’ Union.
Copies of all documents are available on the intranet or from AUBSU .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/regulations:
Applicants and enquirers
When enquiring about a course or applying for a place at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB), we'll process personal, and sometimes special category, data about you.
Current students
In becoming a student of Arts University Bournemouth (AUB), you agree to the various terms and conditions of enrolment at the university.
This includes accepting the regulations of the University, and you'll be required to confirm this when you formally enrol with us.
Below, we list the main regulations; and we highlight some of the most important points, to ensure that they're clear to you.
We also explain the circumstances in which the regulations might change, and how you'll be notified of this.
You're strongly encouraged to review these regulations, so that you're clear about the offer you're accepting.
You're strongly encouraged to read our Student Protection Plan , which sets out how we manage any risks to your continued study on a course once you've enrolled.
We've also published details of how we consider claims for refunds of fees, or compensation for identifiable loss, in our Refund and Compensation Policy .
A summary of the key regulations and policies, which will apply to you as a student at AUB are:
The Student Enrolment Policy sets out the requirements of enrolment, including noting the documents you're required to bring to prove your identity and nationality, including your right to study in the UK.
The student attendance and engagement policy applies to students on all courses leading to an award of the University.
There's a dedicated policy for students on the Foundation Diploma .
The University expects all students to demonstrate attendance consistent with full engagement with their course.
In particular, the development of effective skills in collaborative working is key to successful engagement; team working forms an essential element within many units, whereby students are dependent on the input from their fellow team members.
In addition, a number of units introduce new material which requires students’ involvement and engagement and even those units which can be developed off-site or use independent learning nonetheless have integral elements of tutorial monitoring, feedback and development.
Similarly, the University has a duty of care to its students, and has a responsibility to ensure their wellbeing.
Patterns of attendance which may indicate causes for concern will always be investigated in line with this policy.
It should also be noted that overseas students who require a Student Route Visa to study in the UK may be required to leave the country if they don't meet the attendance requirements of the University.
It should further be noted that Overseas students on Foundation Degree courses are required to be timetabled for a minimum of 15 hours per week.
There are no attendance requirements for short courses, although we do encourage you to attend all the sessions which are offered.
The University has a Student Charter , which sets out the respective responsibilities of the University, students and the Students’ Union in creating the kind of learning community we wish to be.
Students are also expected to follow and adhere to the University's Student Code of Conduct .
If you're unhappy about some aspect of your experience at AUB, or you feel that you've been treated unfairly, you have the right to make a formal complaint.
The best thing to do is to speak to the person involved – most situations can be resolved quickly and easily.
If you have been unable to resolve an issue, there is a formal way of pursuing your complaint through the University’s complaints procedure .
This is distinct from the Appeals Policy , which deals with academic issues.
There is also a separate Appeals Policy for students on the Foundation course.
As part of day to day business we handle and collect student data.
Find out what data we collect, how we use it and your rights in our student privacy policy.
All members of the University’s community including staff, students, visitors and contractors have a responsibility to treat others fairly and respectfully regardless of the characteristics which may define their identity.
These include the legally protected characteristics which are: Age, Disability, Gender reassignment, Marriage and Civil partnership, Pregnancy and Maternity, Race, Religion or Belief (including lack of belief), Sex and Sexual Orientation.
The University has committed to provide a working and learning environment founded on dignity, respect and equality where discrimination of any kind is treated with the utmost seriousness.
The Fitness to study policy is intended to provide a supportive process where a student’s welfare or behaviour is giving cause for concern, where the range of supportive measures that the university may reasonably be expected to provide have been employed but have not satisfactorily resolved concerns, and/or where the use of the Student Disciplinary Procedure would be inappropriate or counter-productive.
Fitness to study means a student’s fitness to start, continue or return to a course of academic study, and their ability to meet the reasonable academic, social and behavioural requirements of the university without having an unacceptably detrimental effect on the health, safety, welfare or educational experience of other students, or the reputation and good order of the university.
The University has a number of health and safety policies, relating to the use of specific pieces of equipment.
You'll require an induction before you're permitted to use some items.
We're not listing all of these policies here; they'll be introduced to you as relevant through the course.
The Intellectual Property Policy explains that, as a student, you retain the intellectual property rights over any work that you produce at the University, and also sets out how the University may support you in exploiting these rights where appropriate.
You should note that the University is entitled to use, reproduce, modify and distribute student work for the purposes of marketing, publicity and otherwise enhancing the reputation of the University, without commercial gain.
We may also retain work to support the learning and teaching process, which may include being used as an example for future students.
In these cases, your work will be anonymised.
The policy also includes some notes on the retention of student work, and your responsibility to ensure that work is collected.
Please note that the University is currently reviewing its IP Policy, but the terms above are very unlikely to change.
If we do make any changes, we'll notify you individually.
You'll be given an account on enrolment, which provides both an email address, and a login to the student portal.
It's important that you abide by the Acceptable Use Policy , key provisions of which include:
The Acceptable Use Policy summary gives further details.
Please treat the Library staff, Library resources and your fellow students with respect and comply with the following:
The Student Disciplinary Policy explains that the University reserves the right to take disciplinary action against you if you breach any of its regulations.
There is a range of possible sanctions; in the most serious cases, your studies at the University may be terminated, especially if we consider that you have brought the University into disrepute, or if there is a risk of harm to other members of the University community.
The academic regulations include the regulations on late submission of work; what happens if you fail a unit; the conditions of progression to the next level of the course; and the way in which your final award will be determined.
You have to pass all the units in each year to be permitted to progress to the next year of the course.
If you fail a unit, you'll be given one attempt to retrieve it.
If you fail at the second attempt, you may be given a third opportunity, but this will depend on your overall profile of achievement.
You may be required to undertake some retakes during the summer vacation period.
The Fees and Charges Payment policy can be viewed here.
The University publishes its fees for all its courses on its website.
This includes research degrees, postgraduate taught degrees, undergraduate degrees, Preparation for Higher Education courses, summer courses, and evening and Saturday classes.
Once you have commenced the course, the University will not increase the fee in subsequent years by greater than the rate of inflation permitted by the Government.
The fees you pay for the course give you access to the teaching, assessment and resources necessary to complete your course satisfactorily.
If you have not paid your fees for the course or agreed a payment plan, you may be barred from accessing resources (including the Library and academic IT resources); and if this situation continues, you may be barred from teaching and assessment.
If you have outstanding academic debts to the University, and have not agreed a satisfactory payment plan, you may not be permitted to enrol for subsequent years of study.
Academic debts include outstanding fee payments, or any money you owe for course-related activities including educational visits and equipment you have bought from the University, or Library debts.
Each case will be decided on its merits, but enrolment will not be withheld if your academic debt is less than £250.
You should note that the regulations for students living in University Halls of Residence form a separate contract with the University, and these will be available for you to review when we open applications for Halls.
Any debts associated with accommodation will be considered separately from any academic-related debts, and will not impact on your teaching, assessment or progression through the course.
The offer we make you is made in good faith, and the University has every intention of honouring the commitment it has made.
However, there may be occasions where we do need to make changes.
For example, we may be required to respond to Government legislation or statutory requirements.
It's important that we make regular changes to courses to ensure that they remain current, including the most up-to-date knowledge in the subject area, and also so that we take advantage of educational opportunities which arise.
We also make changes in response to student feedback.
Changes are proposed by the course team in consultation with the student cohort and approved by a central University committee which always considers the impact on the student experience.
We'll always try to minimise any negative impact, and if any change of this type is necessary, we'll inform you as soon as possible.
There are some circumstances which are outside the University’s reasonable control.
These include an unexpected lack of funding, the departure of key members of staff whose knowledge is unique or not easily replaceable, industrial action, severe weather, fire, the failure of electricity or internet service, civil disorder, political unrest, government restrictions or serious concern about the transmission of serious illness making a course unsafe to deliver.
In these instances, the University will try to give you early notification of any changes to your offer/course and will try to minimise the impact by identifying alternative ways of meeting your expectations or providing compensation where it believes there is a fair case to do so.
If you're thinking of transferring to another course, either at AUB or at another institution, advice about the process is contained within this booklet .
You should read the guidance on pages 14-15 and 18-19 carefully before making a decision.
We also encourage you to speak to a member of staff so that you're clear about the steps you need to take; we give a list of useful contacts on pages 24-25.
If you’re currently studying at another university and wish to transfer to Arts University Bournemouth, please go through direct entry.
AUB courses are based on in-person delivery and you should expect most of your scheduled sessions to take place in-person.
We’ve learned that some activity works better when delivered remotely, because it's more accessible and it can be recorded for you to go back to, and means that valuable in-person time can be used more effectively.
We’ll continue to make the most of this opportunity to enrich your studies, and we provide digital support and relevant course software free to all students to give you the best chance to succeed.
But that won't reduce the importance of studio delivery – this is the bedrock of each of our degrees, and underpins our commitment to making, and to collaborating.
We’re not anticipating any disruption to your learning, but we do have contingency plans in the event that we're required to reduce campus access, for example if there are new national restrictions imposed – our experience shows us that we’re able to manage this effectively, by restricting numbers in some parts of the campus but by extending opening hours – and term dates – to ensure that nobody loses out.
If we do need to change our plans, we'll communicate this in a timely manner, and explain how we plan to ensure that any disruption is minimised.
We value collaboration and the work that you do together as students, and in the wider community.
We promote the value of connectedness, and the strength of the relationships our staff and students have with others.
We expect you to engage fully with your studies so that you take full advantage of these opportunities, and support your peers in their own development.
You should attend punctually for all scheduled sessions, and be ready to engage fully with the learning.
Late arrival to class or rehearsal is not acceptable.
It denotes a lack of respect for the work and for other members of the group; late arrival is disruptive and unprofessional.
If you’re more than ten minutes late, you won’t normally be permitted to participate in the class.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/equality-diversity-inclusion:
Equity is about creating a fairer society, where everyone can participate and has the opportunity to fulfil their potential.
Equality is the underlying principle which entitles everyone to freedom from unfair discrimination.
The emphasis of good equalities practice is to provide an environment which encourages positive attitudes to difference and equal opportunities for all.
We've recently enhanced our dedication to equality, diversity, and inclusion by shifting our focus from equality towards that of equity.
This new focus acknowledges and respects the unique circumstances of each individual, ensuring the allocation of tailored resources and opportunities to attain an equitable outcome for everyone.
Under our updated branding, EDI now stands for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion , reflecting the core values that will resonate across all AUB platforms.
At AUB, we value and celebrate the rich diversity present among our students and staff.
Our commitment to inclusion extends beyond the protected characteristics and public sector equality duty, as we strive to cultivate an inclusive environment where the unique identities and talents of each individual are not only acknowledged but truly understood.
In our pursuit of becoming a world-class art, design, and media university, we are dedicated to enhancing the diversity of our community.
This commitment necessitates collaborative efforts to empower all members in advancing equality, diversity, and inclusion.
Together, we aim to create a campus that actively addresses and removes barriers to inclusion, ensuring equitable outcomes for everyone and fostering a sense of belonging that is unique to AUB.
More information can be found by downloading our EDI Plan 2030 , or by contacting the EDI team at edi@aub.ac.uk .
Section 149 of the Equality Act 2010 sets out the general equality duty and places a legal requirement on the University to have due regard to the need to:
In addition, the Equalities Act introduced three ‘specific duties’ concerning: publication of information; equalities objectives; and manner of publication.
The Public Sector Equality Duty places a requirement on all higher education institutions to publish information on an annual basis and to prepare and publish equality objectives to continually develop one or more of the aims set out in the public sector equality duty.
The University is legally required to publish data on its equalities' performance in relation to both staff and students.
The data for the last three years are provided below:
The University produces an annual report on EDI activity, which is received by Academic Board and the Board of Governors.
This report focuses on achievements against the EDI Plan 2030 and annual EDI team action plan, reporting on progress and confirming compliance with legal duties.
The EDI Plan 2030 aligns with AUB’s Strategy 2030 to enhance the development of a culture of inclusion and sense of belonging for all in the University community.
The plan sets out AUB’s EDI ambitions, outlining its goals and objectives alongside specific actions and targets we aim to achieve in the coming years.
The EDI Plan 2030 is available for more information.
The University has an EDI Committee, chaired by the Director of People, Inclusion and Organisational Development to provide advice for the leadership team and Academic Board across all EDI issues and to oversee the implementation of the EDI Plan 2030.
The Committee has a broad membership with members from both the academic community and professional services, and student representatives nominated by the Students’ Union.
It's a strategic committee which reviews data, receives reports on activities and on national developments, and advises on areas for further investigation or action.
The Committee terms of reference and constitution are available for download.
It also applies to marriage and civil partnership, but only in respect of the requirement to have due regard to the need to eliminate discrimination.
In line with best practice, AUB is further committed to the characteristics of socio-economic background and caring responsibilities, particularly when assessing policies and practices under an equality impact assessment.
AUB has adopted the IHRA working definition of anti-Semitism , which would be referred to in the event of any complaint raised by a member of staff or student.
For further definitions of common equalities terms, the Equalities Committee has recently developed a Lexicon of equalities terms for ease of reference within the University.
You can find further information on the Equality Act on Gov.uk .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/charitable-foundation:
The Arts University Bournemouth Charitable Foundation was established in February 2005 (Charity Commission Number: 1109648).
The objects of the Trust as stated in the Governing Document are:-
"The advancement of educational opportunity for students at the Arts University Bournemouth within the subject areas of art, design, media and performance in such ways as the Trustees shall think fit, including by:
Each year, a number of Endowment prizes and awards are made at our Graduation ceremony to deserving students.
These are the result of bequests or donations by individuals who have or who have had special association with the University and are administered by the AUB Charitable Foundation.
Current prizes include the following:

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/privacy-policy:
This privacy policy explains when and why we collect personal information about people who visit our website(s), how we use it, the conditions under which we may disclose it to others and how we keep it confidential and secure.
We may change this Policy from time to time, so please check this page occasionally to ensure that you are happy with any changes.
By using our website(s), you are agreeing to be bound by this Policy.
Any questions regarding this Policy and our privacy practices should be sent by email to dp@aub.ac.uk
We obtain information about you when you use our website(s) and online forms, for example, when you contact us about products and services or browse our pages.
The personal information we collect might include your name, address, email address, IP address, and information regarding what pages are accessed and when.
We may use your information to:
We review our retention periods for personal information on a regular basis.
We will only hold your personal information on our systems for as long as is necessary for the relevant activity, or as long as is set out in any relevant contract you hold with us.
We will never sell or rent your information to third parties.
We will never share your information with third parties for marketing purposes.
Within the University, access to your data is limited to members of staff who need it in order to process your queries, provide services, send communications and otherwise as stated in the ‘How is your information used’ section.
You have a choice about whether you wish to receive information from us.
If you do not want to receive direct marketing communications from us, then you can select your choices by ticking the relevant boxes situated on the forms on which we collect your information.
We will not contact you for marketing purposes by post, email, phone or text message unless you have given your prior consent.
You can change your marketing preferences at any time by contacting us by email: dp@aub.ac.uk
The accuracy of your information is extremely important to us, and we are happy to review and correct this if necessary.
If you change email address, or any of the other personal information we hold is inaccurate or out of date, please email us at: dp@aub.ac.uk
You have the right to ask for a copy of the information that Arts University Bournemouth holds about you.
Please email dp@aub.ac.uk for further information.
When you give us personal information, we take steps to ensure that it is treated confidentially and securely.
Any sensitive information sent online is encrypted and maintained securely.
A lock icon will appear on the bottom of web browsers such as Microsoft Internet Explorer to indicate a secure page.
Non-sensitive details such as details in an email are transmitted normally over the Internet, and this can never be guaranteed to be 100% secure.
As a result, while we strive to protect your personal information, we cannot guarantee the security of any information you transmit to us, and you do so at your own risk.
Once we receive your information, we make our best effort to ensure its security on our systems.
Like many other websites, our websites use cookies.
‘Cookies’ are small pieces of information sent by an organisation to your computer and maintained on your device to allow a website to recognise you when you visit.
They collect statistical data about your browsing actions and patterns and do not identify you as an individual.
For example, we use cookies to store your country preference.
This helps us to improve our website and deliver a better more personalised service.
It is possible to switch off cookies by setting your browser preferences.
For more information on how to switch off cookies on your computer, visit our full Cookies Declaration .
Turning cookies off may result in a loss of functionality when using our website.
Our website(s) may contain links to other third party websites.
This Privacy Policy applies only to our website(s)‚ so we encourage you to read the privacy statements on the other websites you visit.
We cannot be responsible for the privacy policies and practices of other sites even if you access them using links from our website(s).
In addition, if you linked to our website from a third party site, we cannot be responsible for the privacy policies and practices of the owners and operators of that third party site and recommend that you check the policy of that third party site.
We are concerned to protect the privacy of children aged 16 or under.
If you are aged 16 or under‚ please get your parent/guardian’s permission beforehand whenever you provide us with personal information.
We keep this Policy under regular review.
This Policy was last updated in October 2024.
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website – you can change your consent at any time

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/terms-and-conditions:
Visitors to our website are required to accept the following terms and conditions in return for the information given about us, our business and the services we provide through our website.
Your personal information is your personal property and as such we recognise that this places serious responsibilities on us.
We have therefore published a separate Privacy Policy on these web pages.
Our omission to exercise any rights under these conditions of use does not constitute a waiver or such right unless expressly accepted by us in writing.
We use the definition of personal data as detailed in the GDPR.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/legal-and-governance/modern-slavery-statement:
Legal and Governance
Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of fundamental human rights.
It takes various forms, such as slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory labour and human trafficking, all of which have in common the deprivation of a person's liberty by another in order to exploit them for personal or commercial gain.
We're committed to improving our practices to combat slavery and human trafficking.
This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes Arts University Bournemouth’s slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 July 2023.
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is a specialist institution in the UK higher education sector delivering in the areas of art, design, media and performance.
We aspire to be the leading arts university dedicated to creative education and career success.
We currently have just under 4,000 students attending full-time, part-time and short courses at our compact campus in Wallisdown near the centre of Bournemouth.
The University comprises four schools: the School of Arts and Communication, the School of Design and Architecture, the Bournemouth Film School and the Graduate School; in addition, through AUB Open Campus, it delivers Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media, and an extensive range of Short Courses, all of which provide learning and progression opportunities for students of all ages.
We employ just under 500 full-time and part-time staff and number of visiting tutors and casual staff in addition, depending on need.
The Academic Schools are supported by a range of professional services to include finance, human resources, registry, quality, campus services, marketing and others.
The University is an exempt charity regulated by the Office for Students (OfS).
It has two subsidiaries AUB Enterprises Limited and AUB Services Limited (dormant); and an associated charitable company, the Arts University Bournemouth Charitable Foundation.
Its annual consolidated turnover is in the region of £55 million (2023/24) with income primarily generated in the UK.
More information about us and our activities is available on this website .
As a values-driven institution, our values underpin all that we do.
We promote a community where all individuals matter, where wellbeing is paramount and pastoral care is of the highest quality, where we're driven by our pursuit of social justice and the common good, and where people, the planet, and all living things are held in the highest regard.
We're committed to improving our business practices to combat modern slavery and human trafficking and to ensure that we're not complicit in any human rights violations.
We're committed to zero tolerance of slavery and human trafficking or child labour practices.
In keeping with our commitment to act with integrity in all our business dealings, many of our existing policies govern how the University conducts its business activities, to include sustainable, ethical, economic and social considerations in its purchase of goods and services and the employment of staff.
Where relevant, our policies extend to our suppliers in expectation of adherence to external regulations and University principles.
Relevant policies include:
The University is raising student and staff awareness by having Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking as a standing item on the Environment Committee, which considers the impact of a wide range of University activities.
AUB mitigates the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking within its own staff community by following fair HR recruitment and selection policies and procedures.
Checks are carried out to ensure that staff recruited are legally able to work in the UK and staff involved in undertaking the recruitment process are trained in the online recruitment system and related scoring.
In addition, the University’s pay rates are determined in line with UCEA national awards and AUB is working with contractors it uses so that they apply the Living Wage.
Where recruitment agencies are used, AUB requires that such agencies comply with all UK legislation relating to the employment rights and welfare of candidates.
We also publish a range of procedures setting out our approach to wellbeing at work, diversity and inclusion; and health and safety.
We comply with all pay related legislation including the UK national minimum wage adhere to the Living Wage.
Our Campus Services team ensure that our campuses are safe places to work and oversee our compliance with health and safety legislation.
The supply chain to AUB is diverse and we buy a wide range of goods and services to support the effective running of the University, e.g.
construction and estates services, furniture and stationery, electronics (computers, audiovisual, etc.), travel services, books and printing, security services, waste and recycling services.
The goods and services are procured from suppliers across the world and our First Tier Suppliers range from locally based micro-businesses through to large multinational/global companies.
The vast majority of our purchases are from suppliers based within the UK.
AUB purchases goods and services through a number of purchasing consortia, including but not limited to Southern Universities Purchasing Consortium (SUPC), Crown Commercial Service (CCS), Crescent Purchasing Consortia (CPC), and The Energy Consortium (TEC).
The University is an associate member of SUPC, which in turn is a member of Procurement England Limited (PEL), which has published a shared Sustainability Policy to which all PEL member consortia are committed, and the SUPC has itself published its own Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement to demonstrate its work in relation to modern slavery and human trafficking.
We channel in excess of 30% of the value of our addressable spend through SUPC and other agreements arranged by higher education and public sector purchasing consortia or frameworks.
While the risks of modern slavery in our direct activities is likely to be low, we recognise that there are risks through the goods and services that we procure linked to supply chains around the world.
Supply chains including security, construction/estates goods and services, catering/food supply chains, cleaning/domestic services, ICT equipment; and clothing and textiles.
The University continues to hold and apply its Fairtrade Kitemark.
Increasing the range of products bearing the Fairtrade Kitemark that are sold by the University ensures that the relevant parts of its supply chain are more likely to meet Fairtrade standards that protect workers' rights and guarantee payment of a minimum price.
AUB chooses its business partners, suppliers and contractors with great care and there are already systems in place to:
The University doesn't tolerate slavery and human trafficking of any kind.
Its tendering and contracting processes ask due diligence questions of suppliers in respect of Ethics and the Modern Slavery Act and our standard terms and conditions have clauses covering modern slavery and human trafficking.
AUB expects its First Tier Suppliers to ensure their goods, materials and labour related supply chains are fully compliant with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and that they're transparent, accountable and auditable.
The University will investigate the application of the NETpositive Supplier Engagement (HE) Tool to provide a single mechanism to engage contracted and non-contracted suppliers with issues of modern slavery and human trafficking.
This tool has been developed by a number of northern university consortia and it’s gaining traction in this area.
The AUB already has dedicated officers who are aware of the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act and the principles of human rights within:
These officers receive regular training and updating of knowledge to ensure compliance and embracement of new initiatives.
The University is committed to the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals, including Goal 8 – 'Decent Work and Economic Growth' – and Goal 10 – ‘Reduced Inequalities.’
AUB is developing its Sustainability Programme for the period 2021–2030 and will have ambitious sustainability goals to ‘reduce our emissions and become net zero by 2030’ and to become a ‘fast follower’ of HEIs committed to tackling the UN Sustainable Development Goals.’
We'll monitor, record and benchmark the extent to which activities may be deemed to be in contravention of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 either in the employment of staff or the procurement of goods and services from suppliers.
AUB will work tirelessly to minimise the occurrence of incidents of slavery and human trafficking and focus its efforts on the activities which are deemed to be higher risk.
Simon Hamilton Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee November 2024
Overview of our governance policies

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/privacy-policy/cookie-declaration:
Privacy Policy
Our privacy policy explains when and why we collect personal information about people who visit our website

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-acting:
BA (Hons) Acting is your introduction to the performance industry.
You'll hone your skills to stage and screen, working collaboratively as a part of AUB Productions and taking on roles in professionally produced student films.
Our BA (Hons) Acting course shows you what it takes to turn natural talent into a career and making dreams of performing on stage or film a reality.
This course is designed for students who have a passion for performance.
We'll show you what it takes to turn natural talent into a sustainable career and we will support you to help make your ambitions become reality.
On BA (Hons) Acting, you'll get professional training to improve your acting skills and learn how to create performances for different audiences and contexts, providing you with the skills needed for creating performances in today's multimedia world.
You'll work with other students on projects and films and your independent voice as an emerging artist will be developed and nurtured as you progress.
With a highly practical, portfolio approach to developing your creative practice, BA (Hons) Acting delivers training in a range of established techniques in relation to text, character and performance, alongside the core disciplines of movement, voice and singing.
Three main themes of training run through each level: a methodological approach to actor training, media training and the concept of the actor as creator and maker of new performance work.
This comprehensive approach reflects the demands and diversity of the 21st century creative industries.
Contextual and critical studies across each level will deepen your knowledge and understanding of key contexts within the performance industry and underpin your learning.
The course also develops transferable skills in collaboration, teamwork and problem-solving.
Sitting within Bournemouth Film School, BA (Hons) Acting is well-situated for cross-course collaborations and this is a key feature of the programme.
Within the course, we have an established collaboration for our fully staged Level 6 shows as part of AUB Productions with BA (Hons) Costume , BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance , and BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance .
Through the course, you'll also have the opportunity to collaborate with BA (Hons) Film Production , BA (Hons) Animation Production , BA (Hons) Games Art and Design , and BA (Hons) Creative Writing .
Professional development and employability skills are integrated through all three levels of the course, helping you to prepare for a career in the creative industries and/or postgraduate study.
These skills will enable you to aspire to professional standards within live performance and digital media contexts, as well as empower you to explore diverse career paths.
3 or 4 years (full-time)
Placement
Option of a 1-year placement
UCAS course code
W410
UCAS institution code
A66
All undergraduate courses at AUB offer an optional placement year, to be taken between your second and third years of study.
If you’re unsure about this optional placement, you don’t need to decide now.
Once you’re here and studying with us, the course team will discuss the placement options with you, so when the time comes, you can make a decision that’s right for you.
Students on BA (Hons) Acting have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
These opportunities allow you to study abroad at one of our brilliant partner institutions, experience different cultures, and enhance your academic journey.
You'll begin to explore the relationship between the performer’s body and voice through lessons in acting, movement, voice and singing.
Additionally, you'll learn how to engage with texts and non-text sources in order to understand how to create psychologically, emotionally and physically truthful characters.
You'll develop skills and knowledge in relation to creating work in and for specific audiences and you will also begin your journey of discovery of media performance, which includes collaboration with students on the BA (Hons) Film Production course.
At this level, you'll start to explore employability prospects and develop research and study skills, as well as an awareness of wider cultural and historical contexts, which will underpin your learning throughout the course.
You'll also be introduced to important skills such as self-reflection, analysis and self- and peer assessment.
At this level, you'll build upon the foundational work of Level 4 by expanding your skills, knowledge and experience of acting, movement, voice and singing work.
Your creative vocabulary will be developed by engaging with classical as well as contemporary texts and scores, including Shakespeare and his contemporaries.
There'll be the opportunity to acquire new skills within workshop, rehearsal and performance settings.
Your devising, writing, dramaturgical and collaborative skills will be developed and you'll learn how to create performances in non-traditional spaces, with external audiences and clients and/or community groups.
You'll also explore different forms of voice performance and specialised vocal techniques required for working across a range of audio media.
In addition, you'll have the opportunity to investigate a specialist subject of your own choice, in order to develop theoretical and critical thinking skills.
At this intermediate level of the course, you'll also be able to identify career and postgraduate study options and begin to build your professional portfolio.
You'll be able to test the working methods developed so far on the course, with a range of creative challenges.
You'll perform as part of an ensemble in a full-scale, public-facing production, both as a cast and crew member, in collaboration with Bournemouth Film School within AUB Productions.
Also, you'll work on an independent solo project and in collaboration with other students to create an original theatrical event, which will be presented to a public audience.
Your career ambitions and knowledge of the creative industries will be supported through lectures and workshops on producing, budgeting and touring, as well as visits and talks from industry professionals.
Your understanding of business and professional matters related to your career will be advanced by talks from representatives from Spotlight and the actors’ union Equity, and you'll gain the opportunity to join Spotlight Graduate.
Your digital portfolio of work will be further enhanced and you'll understand how to promote yourself within the industry and identify your personal brand and career goals.
This comprehensive set of tools that you'll have acquired by the time you're ready to graduate from the course will enable you to launch your career with confidence.
Our BA (Hons) Acting students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
Students from across BA (Hons) Acting, BA (Hons) Costume, BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance, BA (Hons) Make-Up for Media and Performance and BA (Hons) Creative Writing degrees collaborate on each production.
This provides students with a key insight into the industry and for developing skills in working as actors, designers and makers which make up theatre.
The actors also take on other roles within this process, such as Stage Management, Assistant Director and Publicity Officer.
BA (Hons) Costume and BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance students take on roles including set and costume design and making – constructing props, costumes and millinery.
Meanwhile, those from BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance provide prosthetics, hair and make-up.
Open Days are a great way to get a feel for undergraduate life at AUB.
At an Open Day, you'll be able to explore the campus, talk to course teams and discover our industry-standard facilities.
Visit us on:
Ed(D), SFHEA
MA, BA, PGCLTHE, FHEA
PhD, MA, PGCE, Drama Dip, SFHEA, SEDA, CELTA
BA, PGCert, FHEA
BSc
Discover from student Lou about what it’s like to study BA (Hons) Acting at AUB.
You can also listen to Katharine Piercey as she shares her insight into what makes a great actor.
In addition, find out how to prepare for your audition, and preview some of our students' work.
Once you've found the perfect Undergraduate course, you can apply to study via UCAS, including direct entry applications to second and third year.
When applying through UCAS, use the institution code A66 for courses taught at Arts University Bournemouth.
For courses based at Bournemouth and Poole College, use code B49.
We'll then use your completed UCAS form to make decisions about your application.
You can find out more on entry requirements in our apply section .
When you apply to one of our courses, it's important that you help us get a good picture of both you and your work – so you'll need a great personal statement.
We want to know more about why you're interested in the course, your key influences, and what you hope to do after your studies.
The fee that you pay the Arts University Bournemouth provides the necessary equipment and training for you to complete your course.
You may also choose to buy some items of personal equipment such as a laptop or tablet computer, but this is not required; desktop and laptop computers are available for you to use in common study areas, including a loan system in the Library.
If you decide to undertake an optional placement year, the tuition fee is £1,850.
This is subject to inflationary increases based on government policy, and providing you progress through the course in the normal timeframe (no repeat years or breaks in study).
For the majority of our courses, we'll ask you to digitally submit a portfolio as part of the application process.
Portfolios should show examples of your work – both finished and work in progress – that demonstrate your interests and skills.
We expect to see around 10 slides/images in your portfolio that shows your identity as an artist.
If we ask for a digital portfolio then we'll give you 30 days to submit it.
Sometimes we'll need a portfolio submitted quickly if there's a UCAS set deadline approaching, but if you need more time, just let us know and we'll try to help.
We've created specific portfolio guidelines for each of our courses, you can take a look at these below.
None of our courses currently require an interview.
The only course requiring an audition is BA (Hons) Acting and if you're invited to one you'll have at least 10 days notice.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Acting – Forest Forge Theatre Co.
Forest Forge Theatre Co.
is based in Ringwood, has been running for more than 40 years and has been involved with BA (Hons) Acting at AUB for over 12 years.
Run by co-artistic directors Jo Billingham and Lucy Phillips, the three arms of the company are Touring Theatre, Artist Development, and Participation, and they're unique in that all three have equal weight in the company.
BA (Hons) Acting students benefit from five specialist workspaces on campus including a fully equipped Studio Theatre and a sound recording studio.
AUB also has its own theatre, the Palace Court Theatre, which offers further rehearsal rooms and performance spaces in central Bournemouth.
The Studio Theatre is a flexible black box space suitable for experimental and intimate theatre, with retractable raked seating...
We have a number of lecture theatres and seminar rooms scattered around campus to assist students with their studies.
The Central Media store houses a diverse array of equipment, offering students the means to craft and capture...
Our Digital Suites offer a digital post-production facility and digital teaching space.
Our printmaking facilities are a hub of creativity on campus and have been inspiring students since 1964.
The Letterpress and Bindery studio is a central resource, where students can learn and explore bookbinding and letterpress printing.
Within this area of performance experiential learning is a key principle of study and your work throughout the course reflects the collaborative nature of acting.
Each unit is assessed separately, and the assessment forms part of the unit.
Assessment both provides a measure of your achievement, and also gives you regular feedback on how your learning is developing.
Throughout the degree you'll experience both tutor-led learning, including the participation of professional practitioners, and self-directed methods of learning (through independent learning, negotiated practice and research work).
In this way, you'll be able to develop an increasing independence and a positive attitude towards life-long learning.
The course objectives are met by deploying a wide variety of teaching and learning methods including rehearsal, performance, ensemble working, workshops, lectures, seminars, group critiques and tutorials.
In consultation with the Course Leader, staff are responsible for co-ordinating individual units of study, and for selecting appropriate methods of delivery according to subject matter and student experience.
The methods employed induct you to the disciplines required of a creative practitioner and promote the development of transferable skills.
Ensemble working reflects the importance of team work in the discipline of acting and there are many opportunities to work in teams to learn the value of peer co-operation.
The integration of theory and practice is promoted and reinforced through a team teaching approach.
Lectures, seminars and tutorials may be delivered by team members, as appropriate, in the creative learning environment.
The study time allocated to each unit in the course incorporates a balance of formal teaching, tutorial support and independent learning.
The course is structured progressively to provide increased opportunities for independent learning as you reach the later stages of the course.
The progressive promotion of independent learning reflects your anticipated maturity as a student and allows you to direct your learning towards individual goals.
The teaching in Level 4 is directed at providing you with the knowledge, concepts and skills to take increasing responsibility for the management of your own learning as you move on to Levels 5 and 6.
Contact hours include all scheduled teaching sessions, but also supervised time in the workshop or studio.
In line with national guidance, we include in our calculation of contact hours all the time which is scheduled in the studio for independent study which is also supported by staff (either academic staff, or technicians).
The information provided below gives the proportion of your study time which constitutes contact hours.
Where there are optional routes through the course, we have used the figures for the most popular option.
75
77
For every unit of your course, we'll inform you of what you're expected to learn; what you have to submit; how your work will be assessed; and the deadline for presenting your work for assessment.
This is made available through Unit Information, which is on your course blog.
You'll receive a final mark for each unit in the form of a percentage, which will be recorded on your formal record of achievement (transcript).
Each component of assessment is graded using a notched marking scale, whereby only certain marks are used within each grade.
The only marks available within any ten-point band are *2, *5 and *8 (e.g.
62, 65, 68).
These marks correspond to a low, mid, and high level of achievement within each grade band.
All learning outcomes must be passed to successfully complete the unit.
On successful completion of your Honours degree course, you'll be awarded a degree classification based on your unit marks.
The final classification is determined using all unit marks at Levels 5 and 6 using two different algorithms, which are detailed in the HE Student Regulations.
If the two algorithms produce different results, you'll be awarded the higher class of degree.
If you have joined Level 6 through either the Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) route or having completed a Foundation Degree (FdA), the final classification is determined using only your unit marks at Level 6.
For further information on assessment, progression, awards and classifications, please visit viewpoint.aub.ac.uk .
Graduates have gone on to work in feature and independent films, television, regional theatre, touring theatre and the West End, voiceovers and teaching.
Here are some examples of roles that our graduates are working in:
Our BA (Hons) Acting alumni have gone on to work in feature and independent films, appeared in BBC dramas and on London’s National Theatre tours.
You can read more about what some of our graduates are up to below.
His play For Black Boys Who Have...
Caitlin’s acting credits include Strike, Black Mirror, Hanna, and the feature film Mad To Be Normal with David Tennant...
Jes Gislason is an Icelandic actor who, since graduating from AUB in 2018, has since been working in TV, films and on stage...
After leaving AUB, finding myself an agent was top of my agenda, I'd say the best way to find one is to ask what clients they work...
We caught up with Harry about his experience of studying acting at AUB.
He shared his advice for collaborating in the industry...
A lot of people wanted to go to RADA or one of the other big schools, but I wanted to go somewhere that...
Fresh from the set of BBC drama Our Girl, we caught up with AUB acting graduate Nebras Jamali...
As part of BA (Hons) Acting, you may also get the opportunity to take part in course trips.
Previous trips have included:
*These trips are optional and some may incur additional costs
This course shows you what it takes to turn natural talent into a career – and make dreams of performing on stage or film a reality.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-animation-production:
On BA (Hons) Animation Production, you'll develop your unique style through industry-standard equipment and learning to a professional level.
Our alumni now work for studios like Pixar, Aardman and Studio Ghibli (UK) – this could be you.
Animation is everywhere, from the classic Disney fairytale to the quirky Aardman comedy and the dynamic Pixar blockbuster.
Our illustrious alumni at Pixar, Industrial Light & Magic (ILM), and Aardman testify to the success of our course.
On BA (Hons) Animation Production, you'll be led by a skill-set curriculum in industry-standard studio environments.
On BA (Hons) Animation Production, we’ll introduce you to the fundamental skills of drawing and painting which underpin animation in all forms.
Along with training in industry-standard software, you’ll be able to apply your skills to hand-drawn, stop motion, and CGI work.
Working as part of a team in an animation studio environment, you’ll develop your personal portfolio and produce graduate films.
We have industry-standard facilities, where you’ll have access to the following throughout your studies – PC workstations with WACOM Intuos Pro Tablets, Xencelabs drawing screens, a render management software, Adobe Creative Cloud, Toon Boom Harmony, Storyboard Pro, Dragon Frame, Maya, ZBrush, and Da Vinci Resolve.
Visits from industry practitioners and opportunities for studio placements will add to your knowledge and prepare you for a career that could see you work in film, commercials or even video game production.
We’ll teach you skills to shape the future of the industry.
Placement year
W615
Students on BA (Hons) Animation Production have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
First year introduces you to the fundamental principles of animation.
Through workshops, seminars and lectures, you’ll learn traditional animation techniques and how to use contemporary software.
We’ll teach you the 12 Principles of Animation in theory and practice, using 2D animation exercises that are used by professionals.
You’ll learn to use the industry-standard software, and study layout and background design.
Using sketchbooks to explore a variety of media, you'll develop a more subtle understanding of character performance and cinematic storytelling.
You'll study critical theories, concepts and analysis, and develop an understanding of historical and contemporary practice within the specialism.
In second year, you’ll develop your individual role within animation production by working on team-based projects.
From conception to post-production you'll enhance your understanding of animation through workshops.
You'll also advance in your drawing and painting skills and abilities in 2D, CG and stop-motion.
You'll research and develop your own personal project as part of a pitching process in line with industry practices, and be given the opportunity for industry experience or overseas study – you may also look at completing an optional work placement.
In your third year, you’ll successfully demonstrate your commitment to the collective responsibility of production and post-production.
You’ll identify your specialist role and develop a portfolio as part of a 2D, CGI or stop-motion film production.
A big focus will be communication, team-working skills and mentorship guidance.
Enhancing your skills as an animation practitioner through exploration of theory and practice, you'll develop strategies for personal planning and self-reflection, consider career aspirations and produce a targeted portfolio.
You’ll have the opportunity to pitch your story idea and take part in the process of selecting which films go into full production.
Our BA (Hons) Animation Production students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
2025
2024
2023
2022
2021 World Film Carnival, Singapore
2021
Take a look at some of our BA (Hons) Animation Production student films.
PhD, PGCert, BA (Hons)
MA, RCA, FHEA
PhD, MA, BA (Hons), FHEA
BA (Hons), PGCE
MA, BA(Hons), PGCert, FHEA
MA (RCA), FHEA
PhD, MA, BA
MA, BA
BA Hons, PGCE
MA, PhD, FHEA
Animation is all about drawing, and applying fundamental drawing skills to each animation technique; 2D, Stop-Motion and 3D computer animation.
Teamwork is also key, where our students work together in distinct production roles to prepare them for professional studio experiences.
Discover from student Rose about what it's like to study BA (Hons) Animation Production at AUB.
In addition, Dr Tom Walsh talks more about what you can expect from studying this course.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Animation Production – Paul Hilton.
Paul is lead environment artist at Treehouse Digital, currently working on a feature film project utilising Unreal Engine.
Prior to his role at Treehouse, Paul was a full-time lecturer on the BA (Hons) and MA Animation Production courses at AUB for 20 years, teaching both traditional and digital animation.
At AUB, our Animation studios mirror industry, with lots of students working together in a high energy environment.
Each student benefits from access to workstations and lightboxes and the course has its own computer suite with specialist software.
Student to have access to Adobe Creative Cloud, ZBrush and many more software programs.
Student will have the use of computers and drawing tablets throughout the duration of the course.
Our 3D workshops with manual and digital manufacturing equipment and computers
Within animation, experiential learning is a key principle of study, and your work throughout the course reflects the collaborative nature of the industry.
Teaching is directed at supporting individual engagement in learning, alongside opportunities to work in teams, which enables learning the value of peer cooperation.
The integration of theory and practice within animation study units is promoted and reinforced through a team-teaching approach, bringing together theoretical studies and specialist studies tutors.
The course is structured progressively to provide increasing opportunities for independent study in the later stages of the course.
The progressive promotion of independent learning reflects an anticipated evolution of learners, where learning experiences are increasingly directed towards individual goals.
The teaching in Level 4 is directed at providing the knowledge, concepts and skills to take increasing responsibility for the management of individual learning; this is a key element of the student-centred approach taken at Levels 5 and 6 and preparation for life in the workplace.
For every unit of your course, we'll inform you of what you're expected to learn, what you have to submit, how your work will be assessed, and the deadline for presenting your work for assessment.
If you've joined Level 6 through either the Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) route or having completed a Foundation Degree (FdA), the final classification is determined using only your unit marks at Level 6.
We’ll give you the skills to shape the future of the industry.
We're very proud of our employability rate.
Many BA (Hons) Animation Production graduates have gone to work in studios across the world, with students often being ‘snapped up’ ahead of graduation.
Our students work in 2D traditional animation, 3D computer animation, stop-motion puppet animation, games art direction and many other areas of animation and film.
Graduates from this course have gone on to work in studios including:
Graduates from this course have gone on to work in studios across the world, including Pixar, Aardman, Karrot, Lupus and LucasArts.
Andy Stevens graduated from the BA Animation Production course at AUB in...
I've always had a passion for drawing since I was young.
I was always getting told off for doodling all over my...
Jamie Badminton graduated from the BA (Hons) Animation production course in 2002...
I must say I have many wonderful memories of my time studying at AUB.
I found it really fun and interesting...
This course explores the whole production process, including techniques from traditional 2D drawn animation and stop-motion to the latest computer generated methods.
The MA Animation Production course focuses on practice, theory and professionalism and the ‘critical dialogue’ between them.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-architecture-arb-riba:
On BA (Hons) Architecture, you'll be immersed in a world of material, design and environments.
We're all about developing solutions through a practical approach between ourselves and the spaces we occupy.
On BA (Hons) Architecture (Part 1 ARB/RIBA), you’ll work in a studio-based environment to make places that make a difference.
On this unique and stimulating course, you’ll work within the context of a studio-based arts university, where everyone shares an interest in different forms of making.
The BA (Hons) Architecture degree will help you to prepare for professional practice (part 1 ARB/RIBA) and investigate the ways we live in the world through material and spatial relationships.
You'll develop skills that will form the foundation of your career in architecture: making, collaborating, designing and communicating.
Integrating practice with theory is at the heart of professional architectural practice, so that’s exactly what you’ll do here.
You’ll explore, experiment and develop new solutions.
Discussing and presenting your work you'll share ideas about architecture through making tangible propositions, mindful of how they might be realised.
This ‘research-by-making’ approach encourages risk-taking, innovation and entrepreneurship.
Both inside and outside the studio, as well as in regular seminars, lectures and reviews, you’ll work on projects that require a creative balance of rigour and risk, informed by your design, technical and contextual knowledge.
At every stage in your degree, you’ll have opportunities to build on your own practice through collaborations with other courses.
You’ll develop an understanding of the practice and theory of architecture, grounded in making, along with critical thinking and a familiarity with the material nature of architectural ideas.
You’ll explore the practice of making thoughtful, tangible, inhabited places that mediate between the individual, the world we live in, and the others we live with.
3 years (full-time)
K100
Students on BA (Hons) Architecture have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
In your first year, you'll gain a sound conceptual knowledge and skill base for the study of the subject.
You'll be introduced to the conceptual and practical skills and processes necessary for making an architectural proposition, the methodologies of analysing and communicating architectural proposition, and an understanding of theoretical aspects of architectural design.
A programme of studio projects, lectures, seminars, visits, case studies, guided reading and tutorials will be used to disseminate information and concepts.
You'll gain experience through practical studio-based experimentation and develop your creative design abilities through individual and group working opportunities.
In your second year, you’ll explore issues around building in an urban context and future scenarios for architecture.
You’ll propose innovative and thoughtful interventions and urban spaces to house public activities associated with the economic, sustainable and physical opportunities of the area.
Throughout the year, you’ll continue to increase your professional competence through the development of skills, knowledge and understanding.
You’ll extend your knowledge through the study of construction, structure and environmental control.
Your communication skills will be applied to the design and development of an existing environment and the making of an architectural proposition.
Visiting lecturers and subject specialists inclusive of professionals from industry will contribute their knowledge to your development.
Your third year begins with experimentation through design and research by making.
You’ll further explore the ways that these ideas can inform architecture.
You’ll investigate architectural design as a way in which our built environment is conceived and perceived, focusing on contemporary issues.
You’ll look at the role of the architect alongside the influence of clients, development, construction, planning, legal, regulation and wider social, ethical, economic and cultural values.
You’ll demonstrate skills in models, drawings and digital media and produce a portfolio of work to prepare you for employment or postgraduate study.
Our BA (Hons) Architecture students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
FHEA
PhD, MA, B.Arch., BA (Architecture), FHEA
PhD, FHEA
PhD, MSc, PGCAP, FHEA
BA (Hons), PG Cert, PhD, PCTHE, AMLI
AA Dipl
PhD, MPhil, BArch
BDesArch (Hons I + Medal), M.Arch., CEPH
MA, BSc (Hons), MRTPI, AoU
Discover from current students Dexter, Brad and Asta what you can expect while studying BA (Hons) Architecture (Part 1 ARB/RIBA) here at AUB.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Architecture (Part 1 ARB/RIBA) – HCC Property Services, the in-house architecture and design department of Hampshire County Council.
This multi-disciplinary practice has developed a particular reputation for good quality school design and is also notable as the only sizeable public-sector county architecture studio remaining in the UK.
The team built its reputation in the 1980s under the leadership of Sir Colin Stansfield Smith, who arrived in 1974 and was county architect until 1992.
In 1991 he won a RIBA Gold Medal award as a result of his work at Hampshire County Council.
Our Architecture studios mirror industry, with students working together in a high-energy environment.
You’ll share your experiences with others in a supportive environment and have access to 3D workshops with manual and digital manufacturing equipment.
You’ll also use our purpose-built Drawing Studio.
This striking building was designed and completed by renowned architect and AUB alumnus, Professor Sir Peter Cook RA, and his office, CRAB – it’s the first to be built at an art school for more than a century.
We also captured time-lapse footage of the Drawing Studio from inception to completion from April to November 2015.
The Architecture department offers a wide range of resources for students, including A1+ plotters and traditional drawing boards.
You'll be working in a design studio, complete with computer suite and team workspace
A wide range of delivery methods will be used during the course.
Throughout the BA (Hons) courses, directed learning will be complemented by allocated private study.
As you progress through the course, the balance of studies shifts from an emphasis on taught learning to self-directed study.
Student-initiated study forms a substantial part of Level 5 and Level 6 units.
In line with national guidance, we include in our calculation of contact hours all the time that's scheduled in the studio for independent study which is also supported by staff (either academic staff, or technicians).
The information provided below gives the proportion of your study time, which constitutes contact hours.
Where there are optional routes through the course, we've used the figures for the most popular option.
45
38
48
For every unit of your course, we'll inform you of what you are expected to learn, what you have to submit, how your work will be assessed, and the deadline for presenting your work for assessment.
The only marks available within any 10-point band are *2, *5 and *8 (e.g.
On successful completion of your Honours degree course, you will be awarded a degree classification based on your unit marks.
BA (Hons) Architecure has great transferrable skills.
Career destinations include:
Since graduating, Rebecca Smith has since worked for Western Design Architects as a Senior Architectural Designer...
As part of BA (Hons) Architecture (Part 1 ARB/RIBA), you may also get the opportunity to take part in course trips.
BA Architecture gives you the skills to create challenging and innovative places.
This course is accredited by ARB, RIBA & offers ARB/RIBA Part 1.
The Master of Architecture explores new approaches to architectural practice, through making, innovation and collaboration.
Our MA Interior Design (Online) course will empower you to rise to the needs of contemporary living.
MA Landscape Architecture Studies (Online) at Arts University Bournemouth enables you to create inspiring places with a positive impact...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-business-of-games:
BA (Hons) Business of Games prepares students for the fast-growing gaming industry by combining business strategy with industry-specific knowledge.
This course will run from September 2026.
BA (Hons) Business of Games prepares you for the fast-growing gaming industry by combining business strategy with industry-specific knowledge.
You'll learn key skills in game marketing, finance, project management, and publishing, with a focus on both indie and AAA games, also understand themes such as gender and identity awareness in games alongside technical proficiency and game development knowledge.
The course covers ethical considerations, global market trends, and emerging technologies like blockchain.
By the end of the degree, you'll be ready to lead in game studios, publishing, or launch your own ventures.
The course also includes a capstone project, where you'll create a comprehensive business plan for a gaming-related venture.
* This course is subject to validation.
During the BA (Hons) Business of Games course, you'll develop a comprehensive portfolio of business skills, showcasing your ability to create effective business strategies, manage game finance, and implement marketing initiatives within the gaming industry.
This portfolio will reflect your individual approach and technical proficiency, preparing you for a range of roles within the gaming and creative industries.
BA (Hons) Business of Games offers a comprehensive understanding of the business side of the gaming industry.
You'll gain skills in marketing, finance, project management, and publishing, while exploring industry trends, ethical issues, and new technologies like AI.
The course prepares graduates for careers in game studios, publishing, or launching their own ventures.
I624
Year 1 launches with Introduction to the Games Industry .
In this unit, you'll gain a comprehensive understanding of the global games industry, exploring the roles of key players such as developers, publishers, and distributors.
You'll examine how different entities operate within the industry and the interconnections between them, including partnerships and outsourcing.
You'll also understand major market trends, including the growth of mobile and indie games, the role of new platforms like VR, and the expansion of games into new markets.
By the end of the unit, you'll be able to contextualise current industry dynamics and predict how future trends might influence the market.
In the second term, the Games Marketing and Audience Engagement unit focuses on the essential principles of marketing within the gaming industry, exploring how games are positioned and promoted to different audiences.
You'll learn how to identify and target specific gaming communities, craft brand identities, and create marketing campaigns that resonate with both casual and hardcore gamers.
The unit will cover the development of community engagement strategies, including influencer partnerships, social media presence, and live streaming events.
You'll also explore how audience feedback can be integrated into marketing strategies to ensure long-term engagement and retention.
By the end of this unit, you'll be able to design comprehensive marketing plans tailored to various game genres and audience segments.
Year 1 concludes with Games Finance and Revenue Models 1 (Introduction).
This unit becomes a trilogy of units over the three years, which become incrementally more advanced.
In this introductory finance unit, you'll explore the fundamental financial principles that underpin the games industry.
You'll learn how to create basic budgets for game development projects, taking into account costs such as salaries, software, and marketing.
The unit will cover the different revenue models that games use to generate profit, including premium pricing, free-to-play models, and micro-transactions.
You'll explore the financial life cycles of both indie and AAA games, gaining an understanding of how different types of games are funded and how they generate returns post-launch.
By the end of the unit, you'll be able to analyse the financial viability of different types of games and create simple financial models for game projects.
The first unit of Year 2 has a collaborative element.
With this shared unit, Gender, Values, and Identity (Business of Games) , you'll examine the representation of gender, identity, and values within games and how these elements impact both the development process and player experience.
The unit will explore how games reflect or challenge societal norms and how they influence perceptions of gender, race, and cultural identity.
You'll engage with debates on inclusivity and representation in games, considering the ethical responsibilities of game creators.
This unit has shared delivery with BA (Hons) Games Art and Design and BA (Hons) Games Narrative.
Case studies will include both indie and AAA titles that have handled these themes successfully or controversially.
By the end of the unit, you'll be equipped to critically analyse games from an ethical perspective and apply these insights to their own work.
Games Finance and Revenue Models 2 (Intermediate) builds on the introductory concepts covered in Year 1.
This unit will look deeper into the economics of the games industry, focusing on advanced financial management and revenue strategies.
You'll explore more complex funding models, such as venture capital, crowdfunding, and publisher agreements.
The unit will also cover evolving revenue models, including the rise of games-as-a-service (GaaS), battle passes, and in-game economies driven by micro-transactions.
Through case studies and financial modelling exercises, you'll gain a clearer understanding of the financial mechanisms that drive both indie and AAA game success.
By the end of this unit, you'll be able to construct detailed financial forecasts and assess the long-term sustainability of different revenue models.
The Launchpad (Business of Games) unit runs throughout the year and is partly shared with BA (Hons) Games Art and Design and BA (Hons) Game Narrative.
This unit is designed to prepare you for your future careers by developing essential professional skills and industry knowledge.
You'll learn how to build a professional portfolio, craft an effective CV, and navigate job applications within the games industry.
You'll also be introduced to key entrepreneurial concepts, learning how to pitch ideas, secure funding, and manage a game studio.
Project management methodologies such as Agile and Scrum will be taught, enabling you to effectively lead or collaborate in team settings.
By the end of this unit, you'll have a clear understanding of industry roles and career pathways, as well as the skills needed to enter the job market with confidence.
In the final year, you'll undertake the Games Finance and Revenue Models 3 (Advanced) unit, the last in the trilogy.
In this finance unit, you'll engage with the most advanced aspects of game finance, focusing on global market challenges, financial scalability, and long-term sustainability.
You'll explore innovative revenue models, including blockchain technologies, NFTs, and decentralised game economies.
You'll analyse the financial risks associated with emerging technologies and how to manage large-scale financial operations in both indie and AAA contexts.
Additionally, the unit will cover strategic growth, including how studios expand through mergers, acquisitions, or the development of franchises.
By the end of the unit, you'll be able to create complex financial plans and revenue strategies, preparing them for high-level financial roles in the industry.
The Games Publishing and Distribution unit provides students with an in-depth understanding of how games are published and distributed, with a focus on both traditional and digital platforms.
You'll explore the relationships between developers, publishers, and distributors, and the various business models that govern these partnerships.
The unit will cover self-publishing, as well as distribution via platforms like Steam, Epic Games, and mobile app stores.
You'll also learn about the logistical and legal challenges involved in bringing a game to market, including international distribution and localisation.
By the end of the unit, you'll have the knowledge to navigate publishing agreements and create distribution strategies for games of any scale.
Finally, the Games Studio Business Plan is seen as a Final Major Project, in which you'll apply all your accumulated knowledge to create a comprehensive business plan for a gaming-related venture.
This could involve starting a new game studio, launching a game publishing platform, or developing a new game IP.
You'll be required to consider all aspects of business planning, including market research, financial forecasts, branding, and distribution strategies.
The final business plan will emphasise strategic financial planning, market positioning, and innovation within the gaming industry.
By the end of this project, you'll have a fully realised business proposal that could be pitched to investors or used to launch your career in the gaming sector.
Now that you've found the perfect course, it's time to apply.
The early deadline may have passed, but applications are still open!
Check out our handy 'how to apply' guide and our portfolio top tips.
As the gaming industry continues to evolve, it’s not just about creating great games—it’s about understanding the business behind them.
With BA (Hons) Business of Games, we prepare you to shape the future of gaming by equipping you with the skills to turn creative ideas into thriving ventures.
The fee that you pay Arts University Bournemouth provides the necessary equipment and training for you to complete your course.
This course doesn't require a portfolio as part of the application process.
Throughout BA (Hons) Business of Games, you’ll be fully immersed in the gaming industry, gaining a comprehensive understanding of the diverse business opportunities available.
Engaging with various sectors of the gaming world, from large AAA studios to independent developers, will equip you with the strategic, financial, and marketing tools necessary to succeed in the business side of gaming, whether you pursue a career in game publishing, studio management, or entrepreneurial ventures.
You’ll also have the chance to network with industry professionals such as business developers, marketers, producers, and studio leads, providing insights into the wide range of career pathways within the business of games.
These connections will help you explore roles in areas such as finance, publishing, and project management, as well as discover potential income streams and business models in the ever-evolving gaming industry.
The BA (Hons) Business of Games course offers a comprehensive combination of business strategy, industry insights, and hands-on application, immersing you in the world of game development and the business structures that support it.
Teaching methods include lectures, workshops, and practical projects, with a focus on developing business models, marketing strategies, and financial plans tailored to the gaming industry.
You'll work on both individual and group projects, honing your skills in project management, finance, and entrepreneurial thinking.
Throughout the course, you'll engage with a variety of tools and techniques to develop their business concepts, while also exploring emerging technologies, such as blockchain and NFTs, which are transforming the financial landscape of gaming.
Regular feedback from tutors ensures continuous improvement, while guest lectures from industry professionals provide valuable insights into current trends and future opportunities.
The course fosters self-directed study, encouraging you to think critically and solve complex business challenges independently, preparing you for successful careers in the business side of the gaming industry.
Independent learning is a core element of the BA (Hons) Business of Games course, encouraging you to develop their unique business acumen within the gaming industry.
Assignments often involve self-directed research, business strategy development, and problem-solving, fostering critical thinking and innovation.
You'll undertake independent projects, guiding their business ideas from concept to completion, applying their knowledge to real-world scenarios.
Alongside practical learning, you're encouraged to stay informed on industry trends, emerging technologies, and market shifts.
This self-directed approach fosters ownership, adaptability, and resilience – key traits for success in the dynamic and evolving world of game business management, ultimately preparing you to become independent and innovative leaders in the industry.
Assessment both provides a measure of your achievement and also gives you regular feedback on how your learning is developing.
Firstly, through regular review of coursework you'll receive feedback on how your learning is developing towards the achievement of the learning outcomes – f ormative assessment.
This process is delivered through the tutorial and critique experience; by engaging with this process, you'll develop your knowledge and skills.
You can experience the assessment process from an increased personal perspective and make serious critical decisions in conjunction with the teaching staff regarding their peers’ work.
Formative assessment is provided during tutorials where an action plan is formulated to develop your work.
Viewings and critiques offer indications of the quality of work and how it relates to the assessment criteria.
Formative assessment points will be outlined in the online unit information and within the scheme of work.
The second purpose is to provide a measure of your achievement, in the form of a mark or classification, at the end of a defined period of study, i.e.
unit, level, or final award – summative assessment.
Graduates of BA (Hons) Business of Games will be equipped with the skills and knowledge to pursue a wide range of career paths in the gaming industry.
Potential career destinations include:
Many graduates may also choose to start their own independent game development studios, while others might find opportunities in related fields like virtual reality, animation or digital media.
The school year is planned to include educational visits.
During the academic year, at least one excursion to London or another UK cultural hub is available.
Due to Bournemouth's proximity to London, you can easily plan excursions to the city's art galleries and museums to supplement your academic work.
Your professional progress as practitioners depends on primary research.
Trips give you confidence, promote independence, and present opportunities for your future professional and personal development.
Any additional fees are disclosed before the visit.
Visiting tutors play a pivotal role in the BA (Hons) Business of Games course.
These industry professionals bring invaluable insights into the business side of the gaming industry, sharing their expertise and experiences.
They conduct workshops, deliver lectures, and critique student projects, offering constructive feedback from both educational and industry perspectives.
Their presence also provides opportunities to network and learn about potential career paths, industry trends, and professional practices.
Visiting tutors often introduce diverse perspectives and unique skills, enriching the learning experience and fostering a deeper understanding of the standards and expectations within the business of games industry.
Prepare yourself for the fast-growing gaming industry by combining business strategy with industry-specific knowledge with BA (Hons) Business of Games.
Study Games Narrative at Arts University Bournemouth.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-ceramics:
BA (Hons) Ceramics is a new course that enables you to explore clay as a contemporary and expressive material, developing your own creative voice through experimental making and material-led design.
You'll gain practical expertise in hand-building, mould-making, throwing and casting, alongside surface decoration, glazing, and kiln firing, equipping you with the technical skills needed to work professionally as ceramicists, designers, or makers.
Conceptually, the course focuses on ceramics as both an art form and a cultural artefact – placing it within contemporary, historical, and international contexts.
AUB is based in Poole, which has a rich heritage through its location to Poole Pottery.
You'll engage with ideas around sustainability, identity, and craftsmanship, while also being introduced to entrepreneurial practice, digital design tools, and responsible uses of AI to support creative development.
The course encourages you to push the boundaries of what ceramics can be – whether sculptural, functional, or concept-driven – while developing your confidence to launch your own studios, collaborate with brands, or work across the wider creative industries.
You'll study influential ceramicists, explore the legacy of ceramics in British and global traditions, and begin to shape your own professional direction.
*This course is subject to validation.
Artwork: Millie Johnson (2024)
The BA (Hons) Ceramics degree provides a range of opportunities to engage with the ceramics and wider creative industries throughout their three years of study.
You'll gain valuable practical experience and professional insight, as they are supported in the development of a portfolio and body of work that showcases their personal creative identity and technical skill.
The course includes dedicated units that introduce you to entrepreneurship, self-promotion, funding applications, and intellectual property, giving them the tools to navigate careers as freelance ceramicists, studio practitioners, or creative business owners.
Whether aiming to launch an independent practice, collaborate with design brands, or continue into further study, you'll graduate with the confidence and knowledge to shape a sustainable, creative future.
BA (Hons) Ceramics gives you the opportunity to grow creatively, conceptually, and technically through hands-on exploration of clay as a versatile material.
You'll research historical and contemporary ceramics, test out your own ideas through studio practice, and develop a wide range of making techniques including hand-building, mould-making, casting, and glazing.
As you build your skills, you'll also engage with emerging tools such as digital visualisation, AI-assisted design, and 3D scanning to enhance your creative development.
You'll produce original ceramic works that range from functional design pieces to sculptural and conceptual objects, gaining insight into the role of ceramics within today’s cultural, social, and environmental landscape.
You'll also explore themes such as identity, material culture, sustainability, and ethics, while developing a critical understanding of ceramics as a platform for personal expression and social commentary.
To be confirmed
The first year of the BA (Hons) Ceramics degree introduces students to studying at higher education level and builds foundational knowledge in ceramic processes and material exploration.
Students will develop core skills in hand-building, mould-making, casting, throwing and surface decoration, as well as gaining a practical understanding of clay bodies, glazing, and kiln firing.
Alongside technical development, students will explore the cultural and historical contexts of ceramics, examining key makers and movements that have shaped the discipline.
A strong emphasis is placed on experimentation, critical thinking, and studio practice, allowing students to begin forming their own creative identity.
The year also introduces simple digital tools for form exploration and design visualisation, including the responsible use of emerging technologies such as AI.
In the second year, students consolidate their technical and conceptual skills through more ambitious projects and collaborative experiences.
A skills audit will help students reflect on their strengths and development areas, while set projects encourage teamwork across different roles common within creative practice.
The curriculum deepens its engagement with themes such as sustainability, material ethics, and identity in design.
Students will explore how ceramics can communicate values, cultural narratives, and personal stories, contributing to broader conversations around diversity, inclusion, and social impact.
Students will also be challenged to respond to live or competition briefs, propose their own self-initiated projects, and investigate relevant designers or studios in a case study that aligns with their emerging practice.
The final year is designed to prepare students for professional practice or further study.
It provides the opportunity to take on larger, self-directed projects that demonstrate both technical mastery and critical intent.
Students will produce a Final Major Project, which serves as the centrepiece of their portfolio and reflects their personal voice as a maker or designer.
Students will also write an industry-focused report, helping them define their career pathway—whether that’s launching a studio practice, pursuing freelance work, entering product design, or applying for postgraduate study.
The year includes professional development support, portfolio preparation, and opportunities to present work in exhibitions and events, ensuring graduates are ready to contribute meaningfully to the future of ceramics.
BA (Hons) Ceramics at AUB is about reimagining what clay can do – creatively, culturally, and commercially.
Drawing inspiration from the rich heritage of Poole Pottery, the course blends hands-on making with entrepreneurial thinking, helping students develop the skills and confidence to launch their own creative practice.
Whether you're creating art-led statements or functional design, this is a course where ideas take shape.
Acting course leader, BA (Hons) Ceramics
In addition to a dedicated, well-resourced ceramics studio, you'll have access to hi-spec, professional-level hardware and software, and the following facilities on our specialist creative campus.
BA (Hons) Ceramics is delivered through a dynamic blend of practical making, critical thinking, and contextual understanding.
Teaching methods include lectures, technical workshops, demonstrations, and studio-based practice, with a strong emphasis on learning through doing.
From the outset, you'll explore material processes and develop ideas through hands-on experimentation with clay.
You'll regularly engage in sessions that support personal expression and collaborative working.
Studio learning is supported by access to specialist facilities, including kilns, potters’ wheels, plaster workshops, and digital tools for visualisation and design development.
Throughout the course, you'll receive regular feedback from tutors to support growth and reflection.
Guest lectures and visiting practitioners bring real-world insight into contemporary ceramics and related creative industries.
Independent thinking and self-directed study are encouraged at every stage, nurturing the creative confidence, problem-solving ability, and entrepreneurial mindset essential for a professional career in ceramics.
Independent learning is a vital part of the BA (Hons) Ceramics course.
It encourages you to take ownership of your creative journey, explore personal interests, and develop a distinctive voice within contemporary ceramic practice.
Through self-directed projects, you'll learn to research, problem-solve, and experiment with ideas and materials in a way that supports individual growth and confidence.
While supported by regular tutorials, workshops, and feedback, you're expected to engage in studio practice beyond taught sessions, developing your work through reflection, curiosity, and critical enquiry.
Independent learning also involves staying engaged with current conversations in design, craft, and sustainability, and building awareness of professional contexts.
This approach nurtures resilience, adaptability, and creative independence – key qualities for a future in the arts, whether you choose to launch your own practice, work with creative studios, or continue into further study.
This is made available through the online Unit Information.
A minimum of one unit at Level 4 will be assessed on a pass/fail basis, with written feedback but no numerical grade.
Details of this will be clearly expressed on the Unit Information Sheet.
All other units will be given a percentage mark.
The final mark for each unit will be recorded on your formal record of achievement (transcript).
With the exception of the pass/fail unit, each component of assessment is graded using a notched marking scale, whereby only certain marks are used within each grade.
The final classification is determined using all unit marks at Levels 5 and 6.
For further information on assessment, progression, awards and classifications, please visit our Regulations page .
Firstly, through regular review of coursework, you receive feedback on how your learning is developing towards the achievement of the learning outcomes.
This process is delivered through the tutorial and critique experience and by engaging with this process, you'll develop your knowledge and skills.
You can experience the assessment process from an increased personal perspective and make serious critical decisions in conjunction with the teaching staff with regard to your peers’ work.
unit, level, or final award.
Graduates of the BA (Hons) Ceramics course can pursue a wide range of creative and professional pathways within the ceramics field and broader creative industries.
These include:
Some graduates may choose to set up their own studios or creative businesses, while others might work with design brands, galleries, or cultural institutions.
There are also opportunities in areas such as sustainable design, material innovation, curation, and further study at postgraduate level.
The academic year is planned to include educational visits.
During this year, at least one excursion to London or another UK cultural hub is available.
Visiting tutors play a key role in enriching the learning experience on the BA (Hons) Ceramics course.
These practising artists, designers, and industry professionals bring valuable real-world insight into contemporary ceramics and the wider creative industries.
Through workshops, lectures, and participation in critiques, they'll offer you constructive feedback grounded in both educational and professional contexts.
Their involvement helps you to understand current industry standards, emerging trends, and diverse approaches to making.
Visiting tutors also provide inspiration and guidance, helping you to envision potential career paths and creative futures.
With each bringing their own unique expertise, they'll broaden your perspectives and encourage ambition, experimentation, and professional awareness within your practice.
Push the boundaries of what ceramics can be.
Study BA (Hons) Ceramics at Arts University Bournemouth.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-commercial-photography:
BA (Hons) Commercial Photography offers you the opportunity to push creative boundaries and challenge the perceptions and expectations of contemporary commercial photography.
You'll develop your image-making and production skills to a high standard while gaining an in-depth knowledge of the expectations of contemporary commercial practice, and how to operate within it.
The media relies on creative imagery to communicate messages.
Our BA (Hons) Commercial Photography course gives you the opportunity to develop a specialist career, working within fashion, including beauty; advertising, including still life and lifestyle; and documentary and editorial, including portraiture.
This course gives you the opportunity to develop a specialist career, working within fashion/beauty, advertising, documentary/editorial and portrait photography.
Through the combination of creative and technical skill, you'll challenge perceptions and push boundaries, through making imagery that's at the forefront of contemporary photographic practice.
If you want the opportunity to set the future agenda for commercial photography, and have the commitment and drive to make the most of every opportunity, this is the course for you.
BA (Hons) Commercial Photography graduates have gone on to work for clients including Louis Vuitton, Stella McCartney, Chanel, The Times Fashion Supplement, Love Magazine, Dazed and Confused, Huck, Kit Magazine, The Telegraph, The Guardian, Vogue (UK, India and Italy), Nike, Adidas, Lacoste, Wall Street Journal and the BBC.
We’ll help you to gain a broad understanding of photographic practice and theory, so that you graduate confidently with the creative and critical visual language needed to work in the industry, both as an individual and within a creative team.
As part of this course, at all levels, you’ll attend guest lectures by visiting photographers and industry professionals.
You'll have great employment prospects, even before you graduate.
In recent years, students have been commissioned and published while still on the course through prestigious competitions.
Career options are varied too.
As well as setting up freelance businesses, graduates go on to work in a variety of roles within studio management, retouching, assisting, styling, and advertising.
Over the three years of study, you can choose to focus your specialism within one of the three award titles:
W644
Students on BA (Hons) Commercial Photography have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
In your first year, you’ll learn the creative, practical and theoretical skills that you’ll build upon during your degree.
We’ll introduce you to a variety of traditional and digital photographic techniques and processes, giving you a strong technical foundation in location and studio lighting, analogue and digital capture, as well as moving image and digital postproduction techniques.
This year also covers key historical and theoretical themes through written assignments, used to reinforce learning and development.
During second year, you’ll continue to develop your creative skills through enhanced ability within moving image, digital skills and promotional awareness, building upon your first-year experience and developing your genre-specific interests, during two practical units.
Your industry understanding will be consolidated during a unit that includes a period of work experience or other interactions with industry, allowing you to gain hands-on experience, working alongside industry professionals, while also building your own professional profile.
Our ‘Critical Analyses’ unit explores some of the themes and approaches used in the exploration of photographic meaning and semiotics, developing research and written communication skills, providing you with the academic ability to better understand your practice in broader socio/ political contexts, while preparing you for the third-year major written assignment.
Between second and third year, you'll also have the option to take a placement year.
Your third year allows you to build on your platform of skills and knowledge, with an extremely focused approach to your career ambitions, working in genre-specific study groups.
Two major practical units provide the opportunity to create the work that will become your professional portfolio, and the unit ‘Research Paper’ will allow you to engage with a critically informed analysis of a subject-related topic.
Graduating from the course, you’ll have the opportunity to produce an accomplished commercial portfolio and the critical skills with which to enter the creative industries.
If you wish to continue your studies, you'll have the option to progress to postgraduate study with our MA Photography course.
Our BA (Hons) Commercial Photography students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
2022 – Beautiful Bizarre Art Award | Photo North Festival, Student Award 2021 – Holocaust Memorial Award 2020 – Fresh Meet Award
BA (Hons) Commercial Photography students and graduates have been recognised in The Photographers Gallery ‘New Talent’ Award/Fresh Faced & Wild Eyed: 8 most exciting new photographers list in 2008, 2011 and 2019.
Watch Honor West's commercial, PARADE, which was awarded Ezio Student of the Year 2023:
Our lecturers and technicians are specialists in their fields.
Read more about their experience by browsing their staff profiles below.
MA, FHEA
MA, BA (Hons), FHEA
MA, PGCE
MA, BA, PGCert, FHEA
MA, BA (Hons), PGCE
BA (Hons), MA, PGCAP
PhD, MA, FBIPP, FHEA
BA (Hons), PGCE, FHEA
MSc
Creating imaginative images that meet the high commercial standards demanded by clients within the creative industries has to be a collaborative venture.
We're perfectly placed to make this happen, with all of the key disciplines physically located only minutes from each other.
Therefore, the creative collaborations that happen on the course replicate that of our industry, helping our students to create images that push the limits of expectation at undergraduate level, giving the opportunity to truly prepare our students for employment, as they become the next wave of creatively focused photographers, within fashion and beauty, advertising and documentary/editorial photography.
Student Sophia talks about her favourite projects and collaboration while studying BA (Hons) Commercial Photography at AUB.
Plus, discover what life has been like for AUB Grad and freelance NYC Photographer Phoebe Cheong.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Commercial Photography – James Hancock.
James is the founder of photographic agency Hancock and Handsome (H&H), which works with brands and agencies to create engaging, impactful imagery and film with personality.
As well as representing talent, they're a full production agency and happy to contribute as much or as little as clients need, to make their shoots a success.
H&H’s wider team of stylists, hair and make-up artists, directors of photography, etc., are industry-leading, and most importantly, great people to have on set.
The photography facilities at AUB recently underwent a multi-million-pound development and refurbishment, which saw the creation of brand-new digital suites, a collaborative specialist photography hub and brand-new colour printing facilities.
You’ll have access to seven dedicated photographic studios and specialist photographic equipment.
Photography and Commercial Photography students will have access to our seven photographic studios.
In addition to our well-equipped photography studios, you'll also have access to industry-standard...
Digital SLRs are available to book out on location and to use within studios, including full-frame Nikon and Canon...
Print Bureaux allows students to print work to commercial, and exhibition standards, through the support of...
The course outcomes will be met by deploying a wide variety of teaching and learning methods including workshop projects, studio projects, lectures, seminars, group critiques, guided reading and tutorials.
The integration of theory and practice is promoted and reinforced through a team-teaching approach.
Lectures, seminars and tutorials may be delivered by team members, as appropriate, in the creative environment of the studio.
The methods employed will, wherever possible, induct students in the disciplines required of a creative practitioner in commercial photography along with transferable skills (managing self, professional skills and team working), and value and credit any relevant previous experience.
A key method will be the promotion of work-related learning, including work placements, visits to the workshops or studios of relevant practitioners or organisations, guest lectures or workshops led by visiting practitioners and ‘live’ or simulated project briefs.
Learning and career planning will be consolidated through the encouragement of skills in personal planning, reflection and development.
Teaching is directed at supporting individual engagement in learning, although there will be opportunities for students to work in teams to enable them to learn the value of peer cooperation.
Also, it's anticipated that due to the vocational and professional orientation of the course, and to enable students to benefit from the range of resources and disciplines within the University, opportunities will exist for students to collaborate in teams with peers in, for example, Make-up, Textiles, Fashion or Modelmaking.
It is also envisaged that live project work may benefit from the collaboration of students from all levels of the course.
The study time allocated to each unit in the course incorporates a balance of teaching support and learning.
The progressive promotion of student-centred learning reflects the anticipated maturity of students and allows them to direct their learning towards individual goals.
For example, the teaching in Level 4 is directed at providing students with the knowledge, concepts and skills necessary to take increasing responsibility for the management of their own learning as they progress through to Level 5.
Level 6 of the course allows the student to confirm their particular creative concerns and to extend the scope and depth of their enquiry, taking the major responsibility for their study.
Teaching support reflects these expectations, as mature learners, through tutorial support that complements the autonomous nature of their study.
Negotiated Learning Agreements are the principle means of defining learning goals and monitoring progress and achievements, providing the opportunity for student to extend their interests and abilities, and demonstrate their capacity for sustained independent and professional work.
Guidance and counselling to help students in realising their learning potential will be provided continuously throughout each academic year.
The methods employed will, whenever possible, lead you, ‘the student’, into the disciplines required of a creative practitioner and promote the transferable skills of self-management and self-reliance.
The course is structured progressively to provide increased opportunities for autonomous learning.
The progressive promotion of student-centred learning reflects your developing maturity, as a student, and supports your individual learning towards your aims and goals.
68
If the two algorithms produce different results, you will be awarded the higher class of degree.
For further information on assessment, progression, awards and classifications, please visit https://viewpoint.aub.ac.uk
BA (Hons) Commercial Photography graduates have gone on to create images for clients including The Times fashion supplement, Kit Magazine, Huck, Vogue, The Telegraph, The Guardian , and BBC.
Other roles include:
Our students go on to create images for international magazines and newspapers, picture desks, ad agencies, fashion houses, and more.
Since graduating, Rhea has had a varied and extensive career.
Now an international British...
Mattia’s experience at AUB profoundly impacted his personal and professional growth.
He described his time...
After graduating, ﻿﻿I knew it was still life photography I wanted to pursue still-life photography, having completed...
Gabriel Bush has been widely recognised for his highly successful final year...
I've done a lot of work assisting British fashion photographer, Nick Knight.
I've worked with him for...
I have been a big football fan since my dad took me to my first game when I was five...
As part of BA (Hons) Commercial Photography, you may also get the opportunity to take part in course trips.
The commercial world relies on powerful imagery to give news stories and brand messages impact.
The MA Photography course is the perfect springboard for ambitious photographers wishing to become practitioners at the forefront...
MA Photography at Arts University Bournemouth equips you with an informed professional portfolio, and an effective online presence...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-communication-design-strategy:
BA (Hons) Communication Design and Strategy students deliver powerful messages with maximum meaning.
On this course, you’ll learn how to bring stories to life through innovative creative practice and strategic design thinking.
BA (Hons) Communication Design and Strategy combines graphic communication and business strategy.
As a creative innovator, you'll bring powerful messages to life through strategic design thinking.
With an emphasis on hands-on industry-relevant learning, you'll explore key facets of impactful communication design, from graphic design to digital media.
Alongside this, you'll understand the world of creative strategy, covering topics like marketing strategies, consumer behaviour, and business operations.
BA (Hons) Communication Design and Strategy is an innovative and unique course on which you'll learn the necessary design skills and strategic thinking to excel in the evolving communication landscape.
Tailored for individuals passionate about creative design, you'll integrate strategic thinking into your creative process, generating meaningful and impactful communications.
The curriculum takes an interdisciplinary approach, incorporating creative design, visual identity, digital and print media, advertising, and branding.
This is expertly balanced with a focus on business operations, marketing strategies, and consumer behaviour, enabling a robust understanding of both the artistic and commercial aspects of communication design.
Throughout the course, you'll delve into research methodologies, refining your abilities to examine complex issues and make informed strategic decisions.
You'll learn to scrutinise markets, recognise target audiences, and comprehend user behaviour, all informing and enhancing your design process.
By the time you graduate, you'll be proficient in creating strategic communication designs that convey messages effectively, tell compelling stories, and promote brands successfully.
The skills acquired are transferable across a multitude of industries, presenting graduates with an array of career opportunities, including roles such as marketing strategists, graphic designers, brand strategists, creative directors, and more.
You'll have access to state-of-the-art resources, including a creative studio and computers loaded with industry-standard software.
You'll also be encouraged to engage in collaborative work through shared spaces that promote creativity, innovation, and collective learning.
W213
The first year of BA (Hons) Communication Design and Strategy is structured into three comprehensive units: Introduction to Communication Design, Communicating Ideas through Strategy, and Designing in Context.
The first unit, Introduction to Communication Design, provides an understanding of research methodologies and the design process, complemented by practical skills like image-making, visual thinking, and typography.
Emphasis is placed on sketchbook use as a valuable tool for ideation and design exploration.
Additionally, you're introduced to basic digital skills, establishing a solid base for future units.
The second unit, Communicating Ideas through Strategy, introduces the aspects of design strategy, idea generation, audience identification, and team collaboration.
This unit promotes the crucial role of strategic thinking in effective communication design, including the history and theory of design.
You get to explore how research and strategic planning influence the translation of ideas into impactful designs.
The final unit, Designing in Context, expands on your understanding of narrative, audience, environment, and context in communication design.
It emphasises the significance of tailoring design decisions to the target audience and environmental factors.
The unit also allows you to develop your pitching skills, necessary for presenting your ideas convincingly.
The first year supports you to confidentially study at HE level and provides a solid basis for the second year of the course.
The second year introduces you to more advanced topics via three units: Design Communication and Testing Strategy, Preparing for Creative Industries, and Design Practice and Strategy.
In Design Communication and Testing Strategy, you'll explore designing and defining systems, understanding audience and stakeholders' influence on these systems, and review the role of hierarchy in controlling message and meaning.
You'll develop advanced typography skills and you'll be required to enhance their presentation skills.
You're also introduced to the concept of prototyping and testing strategies, a crucial part of any design process.
Preparing for Creative Industries is a year-long unit offering industry-focused briefs, enriching guest speaker sessions, and insights into design agencies.
It facilitates you in understanding your identity and voice within the creative industry.
You undertake self-branding exercises, begin structuring their portfolios, and you're introduced to networking skills.
Entrepreneurship opportunities are also covered for those of you who may want to start up your own business venture and preparations for an optional placement year commence, giving you a practical perspective on your career path.
In the final unit, Design Practice and Strategy, you're encouraged to draft your own design proposal with integrating strategy.
This includes an expanded learning agreement and a self-initiated project, accompanied by a strategy presented in a written report format.
This unit fosters autonomy and allows you to tailor your learning to your specific areas of interest, further enhancing your strategic design capabilities.
In the third and final year, you engage in two units during the first term: Professional Practice and Working Strategies, and Creative Strategy.
The Professional Practice and Working Strategies unit introduces you to real-world applications of your skills, involving you in national competition briefs and working strategies, such as design sprints and agile workflows across various projects.
Concurrently, the Creative Strategy unit allows you to demonstrate your gained knowledge through writing a project proposal and a comprehensive report on an existing project brief.
This exercise fosters deep research, analysis, and strategic planning to achieve the desired project outcomes.
The last two units, Design Practice and Preparing for Creative Industries 2, span across the second and third terms.
The Design Practice unit essentially serves as a final major project, offering you the freedom to craft your own project brief and produce a substantial portfolio piece.
This platform enables you to showcase your capabilities and align your work with your career aspirations post-graduation.
In tandem, Preparing for Creative Industries 2 builds on the self-branding exercises and networking opportunities introduced in the previous year.
You'll understand the logistics of establishing a business, gaining insights into intellectual property and copyright considerations.
This unit fosters awareness of contemporary trends, ensuring that you're well-prepared for a successful career in the fast-evolving creative industries.
Our alumni from previous, similar courses have gone on to win great things.
D&AD Awards
FHEA, MA, PGCE (PCET), BA (Hons)
MA, BA (Hons), PGCE, FHEA
BA (Hons), MA, PGCE
MA, BA, MISTD, FRSA
MA, PGDip, BA(Hons), PGCE
"Our Communication Design and Strategy degree equips students with the creative skills and strategic thinking that enables them to succeed as a professional in today’s multidisciplinary communication landscape.
Preparing students for a career in this innovative and dynamic sector, graduates will leave with a creative portfolio as well as an understanding of the creative industries."
Find out more about BA (Hons) Communication Design and Strategy from current student Ramona.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Communication Design and Strategy – Josh Ogden.
Through collaboration and partnership, AUB and Josh will develop new ways of thinking and, in doing so, create innovative solutions to meaningful problems, delivering lasting change.
Through connecting academic content to real-world experiences, the input from Josh helps students contextualise their knowledge and skills to identify potential career routes.
The design studio is equipped with a suite of Apple Mac computers, each with industry-standard software.
In addition, students have access to the AUB specialist arts library, a newly refurbished print workshop, dedicated Mac suites and a base room.
BA (Hons) Communication Design and Strategy is a unique course that's taught through a blend of theoretical instruction and practical application.
It utilises a variety of methods, including lectures, workshops, and studio-based practice.
Emphasis is placed initially on hands-on learning, developing concepts through to digital construction or strategic methodologies.
Students will frequently engage in individual and group projects that reflect their ideas and concepts.
Industry-standard software and hardware are used extensively to provide students with valuable, up-to-date technical skills.
Regular feedback from tutors ensures continuous improvement, while guest lectures from industry professionals provide unique insights.
The course encourages self-directed study, fostering creativity and independent problem-solving skills.
Independent learning is integral to BA (Hons) Communication Design and Strategy.
It empowers you to explore their unique interests and styles within the creative industries.
Assignments often involve self-guided research, creative concept development, and problem-solving, promoting critical thinking.
You also engage in independent creative projects, from conception to execution, providing a platform to apply learned skills.
Beyond studio-based learning, you're encouraged to stay updated with industry trends and software.
This self-directed approach cultivates a sense of ownership, resilience, and adaptability, crucial traits for future careers in the ever-evolving creative industry.
Ultimately, it supports the development of well-rounded independent designers and strategists.
In line with national guidance, we include in our calculation of contact hours all the time that's scheduled in the studio for independent study, which is also supported by staff (either academic staff, or technicians).
You'll receive a final mark for each unit in the form of a percentage, which'll be recorded on your formal record of achievement (transcript).
Firstly, through regular review of coursework, you receive feedback on how your learning is developing towards the achievement of the learning outcomes – Formative assessment.
This process is delivered through the tutorial and critique experience, and by engaging with this process you'll develop their knowledge and skills.
unit, level, or final award – Summative assessment.
Graduates from our similar, previous courses have gone on to work in a variety of creative industries, from international design agencies and motion graphic studios to book publishers and app developers.
They've filled roles such as junior designer at Penguin Random House and art director at AKQA Paris.
Alumni have also founded careers at:
Roles achieved by graduates from our similar, previous courses include:
During the year, at least one excursion to London or another UK cultural hub is available.
Due to Bournemouth's proximity to London, excursions can easily be planned to London’s art galleries and museums to supplement academic work.
Professional progress as practitioners depends on primary research; trips give you confidence, promote independence, and present opportunities for your future professional and personal development.
Any additional trip fees are disclosed before the visit.
Visiting tutors play a pivotal role in the BA (Hons) Communication Design and Strategy course, as they bring diverse perspectives and unique skill sets, enriching the learning experience and fostering a deeper understanding of the standards and expectations of the creative industries.
Industry professionals provide invaluable insights into the creative industry, sharing their expertise and experiences.
They conduct workshops, lectures, and participate in critiquing student work, offering constructive feedback from both an education and industry perspective.
Their presence can also offer you the opportunity to network and learn about potential career paths, industry trends, and professional practices.
Through this course, acquire the innovative and strategic skills to bring powerful messages to life.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-content-creation-with-marketing:
BA (Hons) Content Creation with Marketing offers a practical degree that takes an authentic approach to your learning enabling you to develop and hone your skills in developing compelling digital content for a range of online platforms.
In tandem with content creation, you'll learn about the business and strategy of digital production, including how to work with data sets, manage finance and develop short-, medium- and long-term strategies to enable businesses to use content creation to drive engagement, sales and consumer loyalty.
During the course you’ll develop an in-depth understanding of how to analyse audiences, plan, produce and evaluate content, strategise for short-, medium- and longer-term business planning for digital content to enable brands to meet their goals and work across platforms.
BA (Hons) Content Creation with Marketing is designed for individuals who are interested in developing leadership and innovation skills in the field of digital content production and strategy.
It's suitable for those who are passionate about creating high-quality content for digital platforms, and who are looking to pursue careers in roles such as Digital Marketing Manager, Content Strategist, and Social Media Manager.
You might already be creating your own content or simply enjoy the possibilities of digital communication and want to be equipped to work in this growing industry.
This course will enable you to become accomplished in both producing content and understanding the business of content creation.
W225
In the first year, you’ll cover the fundamental areas of knowledge and skills you’ll need to become a successful within a content or digital strategy role including the foundations of Content Creation, Social Media Management, Consumer Insights and Business Finance.
At AUB, the impact of what we do is central to our approach to education, so from the very start of the course you’ll be taught to critically question business practices and find solutions to complex problems such as fair pricing, transparent value chains and ethics.
In the second year, you’ll build on your knowledge through learning more about how to manage key aspects of digital content production.
In a core module, you'll learn about how Artificial Intelligence (AI) models can enhance efficiency and provide opportunities for innovation, whilst also understanding the ethics and responsibility of using AI.
You’ll have the opportunity to apply your learning through a live industry brief, which will provide you with experience of working within commercial constraints.
In the third term of second year, you’ll be supported in developing a career plan, which will enable you to map out your journey through to the end of your degree and beyond.
This forward planning will enable you to recognise and put in place the steps needed to flourish beyond your degree in securing employment, setting up your own business or moving into postgraduate study such as a Master's degree.
Between Year 2 and 3, you'll have the opportunity to spend a year in industry, further developing your knowledge through a work placement.
Whether you choose this option or progress directly to third year, the Career Planning unit will support you in identifying the steps you can take to maximise the opportunities and experiences that are open to you.
In Year 3, you'll be a more independent learner and be supported to develop a major project proposal that enables you to further develop your knowledge, skills and management practice through a self-initiated project.
This might be based on a live brief, a hypothetical project, or preparation for establishing your own business.
You'll be tutored in finding the most suitable route for you and developing a research question and methodology that'll create the structure for an academic, intellectually informed project with application to real-world business.
Jennifer Anyan (Director of School of Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management) sits down with Rainer Usselmann, to discuss how a working day looks as co-founder and Head of Commercial at Happy Finish, and why it's important to embrace a meandering career journey.
BA (Hons) Content Creation with Marketing is taught through a blend of theoretical instruction, practical application.
Emphasis is placed initially on hands-on learning, developing concepts through to digital construction.
Independent learning is integral to BA (Hons) Content Creation with Marketing.
It empowers students to explore their unique interests and styles within the industry.
Students also engage in independent game projects, from conception to execution, providing a platform to apply learned skills.
Beyond studio-based learning, students are encouraged to stay updated with industry trends and software.
This self-directed approach cultivates a sense of ownership, resilience, and adaptability, crucial traits for future careers in the ever-evolving industry.
BA (Hons) Content Creation with Marketing graduates can pursue a wide array of career paths within the industry and beyond.
Whether this is freelance, in an agency or in an in-house team.
These roles could include:
During the academic year, at least one excursion to London or another UK cultural hub is planned on BA (Hons) Content Creation with Marketing.
Due to Bournemouth's proximity to London, students can easily plan excursions to the city's art galleries and museums to supplement their academic work.
Professional progress as practitioners depends on primary research.
Trips give you confidence, promote independence and present opportunities for future professional and personal development.
Visiting tutors will bring you diverse perspectives and unique skill sets, enhancing your learning experience and understanding of the creative industries.
Become a specialist creator and strategist for compelling digital content.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-costume:
Our BA (Hons) Costume degree teaches the mastery of professional costume-making, tailoring and supervising for film, theatre and events.
You'll be at the heart of the wardrobe department creating bespoke and historical costumes.
On BA (Hons) Costume, you'll master the skills you need to become a professional costume maker, tailor and supervisor for the film, theatre and events industries.
BA (Hons) Costume offers a comprehensive approach to the study, interpretation and creation of costume.
You'll become skilled at producing accurate historical recreations of costumes as well as expressing imaginative flair through creative and conceptual costume making.
In addition, you'll learn the art of tailoring and couture dressmaking.
Costume supervision is integral to the course and can be described as interpreting a two-dimensional costume design into a three-dimensional costume through sourcing and procuring garments.
This exciting role places you at the heart of live productions, as you'll be key to ensuring the smooth running of the wardrobe department.
Our costume courses are award-winning too.
The former BA (Hons) Costume and Performance Design course was awarded the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for its ‘distinguished degree-level education in costume design for the UK’s leading creative industries’.
On BA (Hons) Costume, you'll work on exciting costume making and costume supervisory projects.
You'll become skilled at producing accurate historical recreations of costumes, contemporary costume and tailoring, as well as expressing imaginative flair.
As well as technical skill, you’ll learn that great costume production depends on your ability to interpret ideas, in addition to being able to place your practice in a wider historical and cultural context.
We place real emphasis on research and a deep understanding of social history to support the creation of costumes that tell a narrative within performance.
Collaboration is a key aspect of the course and you'll work alongside students from the BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance , BA (Hons) Film Production , BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance , and BA (Hons) Acting courses on stage and film productions.
W452
Students on BA (Hons) Costume have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
In your first year, the aim is to give you a solid grounding in Costume Interpretation with Supervision.
You’ll explore essential sewing and costume construction skills that'll enable you to learn the creative and technical processes required to be a costume maker.
In addition, you'll begin to learn about the role of a costume supervisor through documentation of your projects.
Design-theory and aesthetics are fundamental to costume interpretation and you'll work with a designer to realise their vision through cut, proportion, fabric and surface decoration.
The final unit allows you to develop costume and draping construction skills to prepare you for the second year.
In addition, you’ll develop academic research and writing skills through a series of written tasks related to costume in performance.
In your second year, your first unit, Historical Costume, will encourage you to be a ‘dress detective’ through examination and analysis of period garments (held in our very own Costume Archive) within a broader historical context.
You’ll then get the opportunity to make a historically inspired costume and/or underpinnings through the acquisition of period cutting and construction techniques.
In addition, you’ll develop your critical and contextual knowledge and academic writing through a written project that explores dress history through a performance case study.
This unit is followed by the Tailoring unit where you’ll learn how to make a tailored garment using traditional techniques.
The final unit challenges you to push the boundaries to develop your creativity and prepare you for Level 6.
You can opt to specialise in costume making or costume supervision in this unit.
The third-year focus is on ‘doing it for real’.
Projects will range from supervising or making for a live production that BA (Hons) Acting will stage, to making a costume for a museum or exhibition.
Other opportunities include making costumes for short films produced by our BA (Hons) Film Production students or making for external theatre companies.
The atmosphere in the studios reflects the pace and intensity of the industry and you’ll have the opportunity to work collaboratively with other courses while learning transferable skills, such as teamwork, problem-solving and communication techniques.
In the Research Project unit, you'll write a 5,000-word essay based on your own practice in context.
The Major Project unit is designed to develop your professional skills by working on productions or other live projects.
You’ll develop your professional identity by designing your portfolio, CV and personal promotional materials for your launch into the world of theatre and film.
You’ll also curate your work as part of the graduate summer exhibitions in Bournemouth.
Our BA (Hons) Costume students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
You’ll be taught by experienced teaching staff during your time at AUB.
Find out more about their specialisms and research interests by exploring their profiles below.
PhD (RCA/V&A), PGCAP, MA (Cantab), MA (Courtauld), FHEA
BA (Hons), PGCert, FHEA
MA, PGCert, FHEA
BA, PGCE, NCFE, NEBOSH
MA, BA (Hons)
Final-year student Daisy talks about going from self-taught sewing to discovering the art of millinery on BA (Hons) Costume.
Also, you can hear several students sharing their experiences working and collaborating in different costume roles on AUB Productions shows.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Costume – Carol Lingwood.
Carol is a freelance costume production manager, costume supervisor and assistant designer who works across theatre, film and events.
Her career started in the workroom at BBC TV and then she worked as a costume maker and then costume supervisor in rep theatre in the UK.
In 1989, she assumed the position of costume supervisor and later Deputy Head of Costume at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden and, most recently, as Head of Costume at the National Theatre, London (1999–2022).
Students on the BA (Hons) Costume course benefit from specialist facilities and equipment, tailored to the studies of the course which reflects industry practice.
We have large open plan studio space with enough industry-standard cutting and designing tables for each student to work on.
BA (Hons) Costume has two costume stores.
One houses our 20th century costumes; the other is home to pre-19th century, uniforms and more.
Our costume archive includes garments, accessories, sewing patterns and ephemera spanning four centuries.
It is utilised regularly to inform teaching, learning and research.
Access to extant garments provides students with first-hand knowledge of period cut and construction methods, fabrics, decoration and aesthetic detail, which is vital to historical costume reconstruction.
Our collection includes items donated by theatrical costumier, Paddy Dickie, elite garments from the Hooton Pagnell family and a teaching collection belonging to Shelagh Lovett Turner.
Items range from a Pearly King jacket to a Victorian mourning bodice made by the court dressmaker to Queen Alexandra.
The course objectives are met by deploying a wide variety of teaching and learning methods, including projects, lectures, seminars, group critiques and tutorials.
Although teaching is directed at supporting individual engagement in learning, there'll be opportunities for you to work in teams to enable you to learn the value of peer co-operation.
The progressive promotion of independent learning reflects your anticipated maturity as a student and allows you to guide your learning towards individual goals.
The teaching is directed at providing you with the knowledge, concepts and skills to take increasing responsibility for the management of your own learning.
Graduates from BA (Hons) Costume are employed at some of the most prestigious organisations in the UK and internationally, including the BBC, Channel 4, ITV, Pinewood Studios, Sky, Netflix, Glyndebourne, Royal Opera House, the Royal Shakespeare Company and the National Theatre.
Some graduates have careers as:
BA (Hons) Costume graduates have gone on to make costumes and costume supervise shows for theatres and film studios all over the world.
A third-generation tailor born into a family of tailors and seamstresses, Jay François-Campbell began her garment...
Lucy was one of several AUB alumni to work on the costumes for the 2015 Disney blockbuster, Cinderella...
As part of BA (Hons) Costume, you may also get the opportunity to take part in course trips.
Discover how to create whole new worlds on this exciting course.
Design and make costumes and sets for shows, films, plays.
Historical Costume supports and develops advanced practitioners who have the ambition to explore, challenge and redefine the relationship...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-creative-direction:
BA (Hons) Creative Direction spans the creative economy.
You'll learn how to engage and develop ideas into full-scale projects that apply themselves to the entire industry – your role as the director oversees them.
On BA (Hons) Creative Direction, you'll develop the conceptual thinking, creative problem-solving skills, and strategic vision necessary to occupy a role that's the beating heart of the creative industries – the Creative Director.
Creative Directors are employed across all sectors of the creative economy, whether that's advertising, the arts, design, fashion, gaming, music, publishing or TV and film.
They develop an intimate knowledge of their brand’s customers and direct all communication, controlling every point where their brand encounters their audiences, customers, and users.
They do this by developing a team of creatives from a range of disciplines to assist in the design, development and delivery of their organisation’s products or services.
On BA (Hons) Creative Direction, you'll work with a team of designers and content creators of illustration, photography, video and many other mediums and environments to deliver creative solutions to defined problems.
This course aims to nurture innovative and forward-thinking individuals who can shape and influence the creative landscape.
It provides a platform for you to explore your creativity, develop leadership qualities, and become industry-ready professionals capable of making a significant impact in the evolving creative industries.
On this course, you'll be introduced to design thinking, learn to encourage problem-solving by learning about the freedom of ideas.
You'll learn innovative brainstorm techniques, capturing even the smallest of ideas that'll nurture and grow into solutions that have impact.
You'll learn to listen, placing people at the very heart of design projects; being empathetic and responding to client needs and aspirations.
You'll discover industry and consumer insights that lead to the development of innovate solutions to problems.
You'll also gain confidence in the idea generation process, learning to trust your own judgement, your design team and to know your customers and users; becoming adept at managing projects, people, and resources to deliver on time and on budget, surpassing expectations at every stage of the process.
There'll be opportunities to engage in a range of hands-on projects, collaborative exercises, and industry simulations, applying learning in real-world contexts.
You'll also have the opportunity to work with industry professionals, agencies, and clients, gaining valuable insights and building a professional network.
It's the blend of real-world experience, project management and design skill that makes BA (Hons) Creative Direction unique.
At AUB, we're a creative community that represents the industry as a university-wide team.
This course places you at the very heart it as you learn to express yourself, design, develop and deliver as a Creative Director.
W222
Forming small production teams with support from course tutors and the technical team, you'll learn to design and deliver creative projects; delivering your first project during the first term of the first year of the course.
With guest lectures from specialist speakers, you're introduced to different sectors of the creative industries and the way they operate.
We'll also take some time to research and understand the potential impacts of creative work on the environment and the communities and stakeholders that engage with it.
Finally, student-led creative projects will be delivered to an external audience during the summer term.
In the second year of the course, you'll progress to more specialist study, building on experience gained during the first year.
Creative projects will provide an opportunity for you to work with an external client, designing a solution that responds to their needs.
You'll also acquire strong research skills, developing their insights into industry and learning how to pitch for investment for a new creative enterprise.
During second year, you can choose between undertaking a six-week work placement during the final term or spending a whole year on placement before returning to complete your studies.
This allows you to put your skills into practice, working within an industry setting.
In the third year, the focus is on independent learning, preparing you to transition into the world of work.
Students can design a major creative project and pitch their idea to colleagues, stakeholders, and alumni.
Working as part of a production team with funding from the course, support from tutors and the technical team, the culmination of learning will be to conceive and deliver a project that helps each student to stand out from the crowd and become a source of inspiration to those that'll follow them.
You can also choose between either working with an organisation from industry, researching their business to operate as a consultant and make recommendations for their future strategic planning; or researching a topic in depth and producing a dissertation that allows you to become an expert in your chosen field.
Our alumni from similar, previous courses have gone on to win great things:
MA, PGCE, BA (Hons), FHEA
M.Sc., PGCLTHE, BA (Hons), FHEA
"We're all creatives at AUB, and the Creative Direction course is an opportunity to place yourself at the centre of a vibrant community that reflects the wider creative industries.
The most creative act is to design projects that inspire those around you and stimulate the interests of your client’s, their customers, and their users.
I look forward to being inspired by your creative ideas."
Jennifer Anyan (Director of School of Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management) sits down with Fiona Hayes, an international Art Director, Designer, Creative Director and Consultant to discuss her current project, a coffee table book, and the significance of communication and collaboration.
Fiona addresses the challenges of creative direction, emphasising team dynamics and project management.
She encourages students to focus on skills and highlights the necessity of personal creativity in the age of AI.
The evolving role of creative directors in brand identity is also explored.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Creative Direction, Fiona Hayes.
Fiona is a creative director, designer and educator with over 35 years of international experience in publishing, fashion and the art world.
Among other clients, Fiona has developed art direction for Condé Nast across a range of brands, including eight editions of Vogue , and remains Design Director-at-Large for Vogue Hong Kong .
You'll learn in flexible spaces with the very latest in technology, with equipment sourced specifically for your projects, including audio visual, the latest digital technologies, and sector leading printing facilities.
We provide all the resources that you'd expect to find in a real creative business.
Our exhibition spaces include TheGallery, a major resource for contemporary art and design in the South of England with exhibitions that've received both national and international recognition.
It hosts several artist talks, panel discussions and other events to support the exhibition programme and is open to the public.
Students on BA (Hons) Creative Direction will also have access to AUB's specialist arts library, print workshop, dedicated Mac suites and a base room.
In consultation with the Course Developer, staff are responsible for co-ordinating individual units of study, and for selecting appropriate methods of delivery, according to subject matter and student experience.
The methods employed introduce you to the disciplines required of a creative practitioner and promote the development of transferable skills.
Teaching is directed at supporting individual engagement in learning and there'll be opportunities for you to work in teams to enable you to learn the value of peer co-operation.
Lectures, seminars, and tutorials are by team members, as appropriate, in the creative course spaces.
The teaching in Level 4 is directed at providing you with the knowledge, concepts, and skills to take increasing responsibility for the management of your own learning.
In line with national guidance, we include in our calculation of contact hours all the time which is scheduled in the studio for independent study, which is also supported by staff (either academic staff, or technicians).
All your assessments reflect the world of work and are designed to accurately reflect typical tasks that you'll undertake regularly when you graduate and embark on your career.
The core of the course is based on practical project-based assessments with some reflection and evaluation on your learning via reports and presentations.
You'll also have to pitch ideas to your colleagues and your clients.
Finally, you'll undertake research tasks that have a written output, either as a report or extended essay.
For further information on assessment, progression, awards and classifications, please visit viewpoint.aub.ac.uk.
Roles achieved by graduates of a similar course, which shares learning with this new course, include:
Upon successful completion of the BA (Hons) Creative Direction course, you'll be equipped with the skills and knowledge to pursue a range of exciting career paths.
Graduates typically go on to find opportunities as creative directors, art directors, brand strategists, advertising managers, marketing consultants, or digital content creators in a wide variety of sectors, including advertising agencies, design studios, marketing departments, media organisations, and as self-employed consultants.
You'll be introduced to a range of industry experts over the course of your studies who'll deliver their view of the latest thinking in their field.
This ensures that your studies reflect current best practice in industry.
You'll also visit relevant professional organisations and creative businesses, and be provided with opportunities to network with practitioners who'll be useful contacts when you graduate.
Visiting tutors play a pivotal role in the BA (Hons) Creative Direction course, as they bring diverse perspectives and unique skill sets, enriching the learning experience and fostering a deeper understanding of the standards and expectations of the creative industries.
Their presence can also offer students the opportunity to network and learn about potential career paths, industry trends, and professional practices.
Through this course, you'll gain skills to lead, innovate and impact the evolving creative industries.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-creative-writing:
On BA (Hons) Creative Writing we tell stories by mastering the writing process, from research and ideas generation to editing a final draft.
You'll draw inspirations from industry professionals, a wide range of published material, and collaborative feedback.
Stories are at the heart of how we communicate and understand the world.
On BA (Hons) Creative Writing, you'll gain the skills to join the next generation of creative storytellers.
On this course, you’ll learn to draw inspiration from existing literature, before developing your own voice.
Through a range of exciting projects, you'll explore the whole writing process – from idea generation and research to editing.
A career in creative writing could see you working in publishing, a literary agency, freelancing or in education — and that’s just the start.
Whether you want to create prose, scripts, poetry or non-fiction, we’ll help you turn writing into a career.
With visits from published writers and industry professionals, you’ll be able to explore career opportunities and build contacts.
When you graduate, you’ll have a strong portfolio and a professional network to kick-start your career.
Writers rarely work alone, so BA (Hons) Creative Writing will give you the opportunity to collaborate with other courses.
You might write scripts with animators or filmmakers, or explore narratives with illustrators.
W800
Students on BA (Hons) Creative Writing have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
First year allows you to experience different areas of Creative Writing, providing you with a toolkit of fundamental creative and academic skills.
A dynamic series of workshops, lectures and seminars, facilitated by staff and visiting industry professionals, are designed to build your competency.
You'll read widely throughout this level, gaining a solid knowledge of other authors and their work, and an understanding of how this research can impact on your own practice.
At the core of the course experience will be writing workshops that provide a safe environment for you to share your work with lecturers and peers, gaining invaluable constructive feedback.
These workshops will build confidence in sharing your work with others and develop strategies for giving and receiving feedback.
Second year encourages you to apply your developing skills in the area, form, and genre of your choice, exploring where you can take your practice beyond university.
You'll develop an awareness and understanding of publishing and production options, literary agencies and publishers, and other creative arts and literature-based organisations.
You'll also undertake practical community or industry-based live projects that reflect your interests.
You'll actively explore the mechanics of being a professional writer, developing knowledge in the areas of self-promotion, marketing and managing finances, gaining key employable skills and Graduate Attributes.
You'll enter your third year looking to strengthen existing industry links and networks introduced in second year through further practical engagement and experiences.
You'll be paired with a professional writer or editor, where possible, who'll guide you, alongside academic staff, as you undertake a project in your chosen specialism.
You’ll underpin your creative practice with a critical essay that consolidates your understanding of creative writing theory, practice, and contexts.
Concluding the year, you'll work on an extended project in your chosen area of interest, allowing you to develop a strong portfolio of work that best reflects you as a writer.
Our BA (Hons) Creative Writing students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
BA, MA, PGCAP, PhD
PhD, MA, BA (Hons), PGCE, CAPF
DPhil, MA, BA, DELTA, PGCHE, SFHEA
What makes a story great?
It has to have heart in order to connect with an audience.
As the poet Maya Angelou said — "People should hear the writing, it should slide through the brain and go straight to the heart".
Discover from student Freya about what it’s like to study BA (Hons) Creative Writing at AUB.
In addition, course leader Dr James Cole talks about what you can expect from studying the course, and also gives an insight into what makes a great story.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Creative Writing – Kashif Sharma-Patel.
Kashif is a writer, poet and editor at the87press.
They work at the interface of sonic, visual and written cultures with particular reference to queer and racialised experimental work.
Pamphlets include, relief I willed it (Gong Farm, forthcoming), fragments on mutability (Earthbound Press, 2020), and Suburban Finesse, co-authored with Ashwani Sharma and Azad Ashim Sharma (Sad Press, 2021).
Kashif has also written music, art and literary criticism for Artforum, Wire Magazine, The Quietus, AQNB, and more.
Throughout BA (Hons) Creative Writing, you’ll be exposed to professional industries to gain a solid understanding of all the opportunities available to writers.
Interacting with a wide range of writing-related industries will equip you with the creative and critical tools for continuing your writing beyond the course into a professional context, whether in industry or further study and research.
You'll hear from and network with a variety of industry professionals including publishers, agents, arts organisations, and funding bodies to gain a solid understanding of possible ways to make an income as a writer.
There’s also plenty happening in Bournemouth, Poole and the surrounding area to help you find your voice.
Dorset has a particularly rich literary history, something you'll really be able to make the most of at AUB.
﻿
The course has been designed to offer you experiences in a diverse mix of learning and teaching methods to ensure your time at the university is both stimulating and enriching.
Teaching will largely be delivered through lectures, seminars and workshops, supplemented by individual and group tutorials, presentations, and critiques.
In consultation with the Course Leader, the teaching team is responsible for co-ordinating individual units of study, and for selecting appropriate methods of delivery according to subject matter and student experience.
Level 4 provides you with an introduction to key writing and academic skills through the ‘Fundamentals’ series, while Levels 5 and 6 see a progression towards more independent learning and greater autonomy over projects and areas of interest.
At the core of the course experience will be writing workshops that provide safe environments for you to read your work in front of your lecturers and peers, to gain invaluable constructive feedback.
This is an essential part of the writing process and you'll be encouraged to translate the feedback into your practice through editing and redrafting, while also offering generous and critical feedback to others.
The course aims to foster critically reflective writers and the workshop is an excellent space in which to develop these skills.
The Level 5 experience offers an exciting opportunity to follow your independent interests and develop projects while guided and mentored by professional writers and/or editors.
The aim here is to let you explore, experiment, and hone your craft, nurtured by experts in your chosen field of study.
Throughout all levels, your learning will be enhanced by opportunities to leave the campus and write on location, responding to different environments and geographies.
Possible venues include the New Forest, the Jurassic Coast, the Earthhouse at Cranborne, and Thomas Hardy’s Cottage, amongst others.
39
25
36
BA (Hons) Creative Writing graduates have gone on to a variety of careers, including:
Since graduating, Kayleigh's continued to develop an interest in making theatre...
As part of BA (Hons) Creative Writing, you may also get the opportunity to take part in course trips.
Through this course, you'll gain the skills to join the next generation of creative storytellers.
Study Creative Writing online at Arts University Bournemouth.
Our MA Creative Writing (Online) course will help you develop an array of transferable skills and elevate your skills as a writer...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-creative-writing-online:
On this online BA (Hons) Creative Writing course, you'll master the writing process, from research and ideas generation to editing a final draft.
Stories are at the heart of how we communicate and understand the
world.
By studying BA (Hons) Creative Writing (Online) with AUB, you'll gain the
skills to join the next generation of storytellers.
Creative writing is
becoming more and more important.
It's just as integral to arts and
entertainment as it is to business and commerce.
A career in creative writing
could see you working in publishing, a literary agency or in education.
And
that’s just the start.
Whether you want to create fiction, scripts, poems, or
non-fiction, we’ll help you turn writing into a career.
BA (Hons) Creative Writing (Online) offers an exciting opportunity for you to explore your passion for telling stories in any genre or form of your choice (including fiction, poetry, script and creative non-fiction).
You’ll build an appropriate portfolio of creative, critical and transferable skills and leave the course with a significant body of creative work, supported by critical research, as well as an awareness of industry and employment in your specialist areas of interest.
On this course, you’ll learn to draw inspiration from the world around you, and existing literature, in order to develop your own voice.
Through a range of exciting projects, conducted online, you’ll explore the whole writing process – from ideas generation to final draft.
A career in creative writing could see you working in publishing, literary agencies, freelance writing, or in education – and that’s just the start.
Whether you want to create prose, scripts, poetry or non-fiction, we’ll offer you an insight into the writing and publishing industries in order to help you with the next stage of your career.
With online talks from published writers and industry professionals, you’ll be able to network and build contacts.
When you graduate, you’ll have a strong portfolio and a professional network to kickstart your career.
W801
Fees (home/international)
£6,750* per year
* £100 recurring annual costs for associated course materials should be considered.
Varying costs – optional face-to-face events (one annual on-campus event).
The first year allows you to experience different areas of Creative Writing, providing you with a toolkit of fundamental creative and academic skills.
Facilitated by staff and industry professionals, a dynamic series of online workshops, recorded lectures, online tutorials, and seminars, are designed to build your competency and help you to hone your craft.
At this stage you’ll try everything: Fiction, Poetry, Scriptwriting and Creative Non-Fiction, before you specialise in your chosen area.
You'll read widely throughout this level, gaining a solid knowledge of other writers and their work, and an understanding of how this research can impact on your own creative practice.
At the core of the course experience will be online writing workshops, and activities that provide a safe environment for you to share your work with lecturers and peers, gaining invaluable constructive feedback.
These workshops will build confidence in sharing your work with your peers and developing strategies for giving and receiving feedback online.
The second year encourages you to apply your developing skills, equipping you with strategies for pushing boundaries and exploring where you want to take your writing and your stories.
There’s a lot of creative freedom here – you can specialise in one area or mix and match, depending on your interests.
You’ll begin to look at the different platforms available for writers including online, in the community, in publication, and/or in production/performance.
This will help give you a solid understanding of where writing can take you in the future.
This process will also help you develop industry links and networks and a clear understanding of different publishing options and routes including traditional, independent, and self-publishing.
You'll actively explore the mechanics of being a professional writer, developing knowledge in the areas of self-promotion, marketing and managing finances – all transferable and employable skills for the future.
You'll enter your third year looking to further strengthen your professional networks introduced at Level 5 through further unique experiences such as our mentorship programme where you’re paired with a practising writer in your chosen field.
This programme allows you to develop your work closely with an industry expert, seeking their guidance and advice.
To conclude the year, you'll work on an extended project in your chosen area of interest meaning you’ll leave us with a substantial body of creative work ready to send out to publishers, agents, and/or production companies.
"We’re extremely excited to offer this remote learning experience, drawing on our rich tradition of writing and storytelling at AUB.
Based on the incredible success and popularity or our on campus Creative Writing course, we want to provide greater access to even more students.
We’re looking forward to growing our writing community through expanding into digital spaces and we can’t wait to hear your stories and see where they take you."
In order to study remotely, you'll need a secure and stable internet connection.
You'll also need access to digital equipment such as a laptop, tablet or device that'll allow you to view recorded and live-streamed content.
Bespoke content and curricular resources have been generated by the course team and are fully available to you online.
These will be relevant to the different units of study.
You'll have online access to a wide range of library resources, including eBooks, downloadable content, and academic journals and articles.
Our BA (Hons) Creative Writing (Online) course uses our flexible digital learning environment, Canvas, which holds all of the materials, resources, and content you need for your studies.
You'll have access to remote technical support from our ServiceDesk team.
Teaching will be online and largely delivered through lectures, seminars and
workshops, supplemented by individual and group tutorials; some of this will be
pre-recorded, some will be live-streamed.
In consultation with the Course
Leader, the teaching team is responsible for co-ordinating individual units of
study, and for selecting appropriate methods of delivery according to subject
matter and student experience.
Level 4 provides you with an introduction to key
writing and academic skills through the ‘Fundamentals’ series, whilst Levels 5
and 6 see a progression towards more independent learning and greater autonomy
over projects and areas of interest.
At the core of the course experience will be writing workshops that provide
safe environments for you to share your work with lecturers and peers, gaining
invaluable constructive feedback.
This is an essential part of the writing process,
and you will be encouraged to translate the feedback into your practice through
editing and redrafting, whilst also offering generous and critical feedback to
others.
The course aims to foster critically reflective writers and the workshop
provides an excellent opportunity to develop these skills.
This aspect of the
course will utilise our state-of-the-art digital learning environment, Canvas.
The online nature of this course gives you increased ownership of your studies.
Recorded lectures and content can be accessed in your own time around existing life and/or work commitments.
You will get support in how to best use your independent study time, through completing curricular and extra-curricular projects, weekly writing tasks, and guided online activities.
Throughout BA (Hons) Creative Writing (Online), you'll receive opportunities for tailored academic support from your online tutors, unit leaders, and the course leader.
There is also academic support available through our library, Study Skills and English for Academic Purposes teams – all available through online tutorials and email.
For every unit of your course, we will inform you of what you are expected to learn, what you have to submit, how your work will be assessed, and the deadlines for submitting your work for assessment.
There are three assessment points per year, one per term.
This is a portfolio-based course, rather than exam-based.
For each term, you will be asked to submit a creative body of written work, relevant to the unit, alongside an academic piece of writing such as an essay or reflective commentary.
Support will be provided for both aspects of your portfolio, to ensure they are as strong as they can possibly be.
Students graduating from BA (Hons) Creative Writing degrees often enter a variety of careers.
A freelance writer will be working on their own creative projects whilst taking on employment as community workshop facilitators, writers-in-residence, and writing to briefs and commissions.
Other career sectors include:
Many students also go on to undertake further education at postgraduate level.
Alumni from our on-campus BA (Hons) Creative Writing course have entered a variety of careers that shows how our course provides you with the skills to work across forms and genres and helps you to shape your creative journey post-graduation.
Students have gone on to find success in marketing and content creation, teaching, developing writing for publication, facilitating community writing projects, and even writing songs for Stormzy’s latest album.
During the BA (Hons) Creative Writing (Online) course, there'll be an optional annual visit to AUB offering you an exciting extra-curricular opportunity to meet peers, explore AUB, and celebrate Dorset’s literary heritage including visits to landmarks associated with writers such as Jane Austen, J.R.R.
Tolkien, Mary Shelley, Robert Louis Stevenson, and Thomas Hardy.
This residential programme will not be financed by the course fees and is entirely optional.
Some content and workshops on the BA (Hons) Creative Writing (Online) course will be facilitated by Visiting Tutors – published writers and experts in specific subject areas.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-dance:
With great regret, we've decided to discontinue recruitment to our BA (Hons) Dance degree.
Over many years, AUB Dance has worked creatively and energetically with different audiences in a range of settings to bring invigorating and exciting performances that have thrilled and delighted participants and the public.
However, the performing arts sector is always changing and developing, and it's important that higher education reflects these challenges and opportunities.
Our decision will allow the University to consider the potential for the development of a new contemporary arts performance provision that future-proofs the subject area and responds to current and future market demands.
To do so, we've co-convened Dance Futures, which will bring together dance professionals, arts leaders, health professionals and educators in the region to consider how best to promote dance across different age groups and in all communities.
As always, our current students will be invited to play a part in that project, bringing their unique experiences and insights so that dance might continue to thrive in different formats across the region.
Our BA (Hons) Dance course gives you a chance to perform, produce, create and collaborate within this ever-changing art form.
Take the first step in becoming a performance professional with a foundation-level degree in Performing Arts

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-design-costume-performance:
On BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance, we do it for real.
As part of one of the most collaborative courses with AUB Productions, you'll create bespoke costume and set designs in a practical environment like no other.
The creative sector is always changing and developing and it's important that our courses continue to reflect this, to ensure we maintain the highest standard of student experience and excellence in teaching that you'd expect of AUB.
In order for the course team to make the appropriate changes, they've made the decision to discontinue recruitment to BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance for 2026/27 entry.
The course will be relaunched as part of BA (Hons) Costume for entry in 2026/27 .
BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance is still open for applications through Clearing for 2025/26 entry.
BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance (DCP) trains students to work as costume designers in film and television, and as set and costume designers for theatre, live performance, festivals and events.
This course produces adaptable and innovative designers with a sought-after professional skill set, an achievement that's recognised by our accreditation with ScreenSkills, the industry-led skills body for the screen industries.
In addition to training students in costume and stage design, our ‘on-set skills’ strand teaches our students how to work in the costume management and supervision departments of film and TV production companies.
Other DCP students go on to become scenic artists, prop and puppet makers, to work as designers in site-specific and outdoor performance, or to become designers and producers in the events and exhibitions industry.
Our students learn the role of the costume and performance designer for grad films and for outdoor performances.
They often see their designs evolve from their initial sketchbook ideas to pitches and collaboration and into full production.
Every year, our Level 6 students see some of their set designs fully realised for live AUB Productions and their costume designs made and tailored by students on our partner course BA (Hons) Costume .
It's important to note when making your degree choice that BA (Hons) Costume at AUB focuses on the making of costumes, rather than on costume design.
If you're into costume and stage design, then BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance is the course for you.
BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance at AUB lets you dive into everything from designing live theatre shows to life-drawing, digital costume illustration, scale modelmaking and more.
The creative buzz in our well-equipped studios trains you for the pace and intensity of the professional costume and performance design industry.
Our aim is to help you develop the visual skills, collaboration and creative freedom of expression that every working designer needs.
BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance is a design-led course that puts the costumed, performing body at the centre of your creative practice.
The course offers hands-on training in historical, contemporary and experimental costume and performance design.
During your studies, you’ll also work closely alongside students from the BA (Hons) Costume, Film Production , Make-up for Media and Performance and Acting courses on live theatre productions, student films, outdoor festival events and installations.
W453
Students on BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
First-year DCP Core Skills units are focused on three strands of your development as a designer: 1) Designing for performance; 2) Skills for creating and realising designs; and 3) Designing costume for the screen.
Level 4 sessions include life drawing, costume design processes and scale modelmaking.
You’ll explore essential, design-led 3D costume construction skills and learn about contextual and cultural issues related to costume, dress, performance design and representation.
In the first year, you’ll develop a realised Performance Design based on the study of a text.
You’ll also produce a full set of sampled costume designs and a scale model.
You’ll learn about the role of the costume designer in the film and TV industry and develop your critical and academic skills through a series of research and writing tasks.
Level 5 DCP is all about helping you develop as an independent creative designer with high aesthetic standards and strong technical ability.
The year begins with the Historical Design unit, a design project based on a historical text that allows you to create a set model and costume designs based on primary research.
You’ll also get to grips with a range of industry-standard digital design platforms.
In the L5 Critical Contexts unit, you’ll develop your contextual cultural knowledge and academic essay writing skills, in preparation for your final-year Research Dissertation.
Throughout the year, you’ll attend industry masterclasses and explore film, TV, theatre, site-specific design, festival design, carnival and puppetry.
In the Design-Led Practice unit, you’ll bring all these skills together, while the Creative Projects unit looks specifically at costume design for film through a series of in-depth film analysis lectures and associated creative workshops.
Our Level 6 (third year) focus is on "doing it for real".
The final year requires students to define the direction of their practice for the remainder of their studies.
This year, you'll also refine your interpersonal skills and professional behaviours in a way that reflects industry expectations.
BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance graduates go on to work in every area of the performance industries, as film costume designers, as well as performance designers in theatre, circus and festivals.
Graduates have also been able to use the transferable skills they learn on the DCP course in a wide range of other employment settings, including all levels of education, visual merchandising, marketing, arts administration and event production.
In the Production Practice unit, you’ll get to choose from a range of supported, independent projects, which could include designing for live film, theatre and site-specific performance, or working up designs for festivals, installations and exhibitions.
You'll have opportunities to develop and realise costumes and set design for an AUB Productions stage play performed by BA (Hons) Acting students, or to design costumes for graduate films produced by BA (Hons) Film Production.
The third year also includes opportunities for industry work placements, working alongside our many professional partners in film, TV and performance.
In the Research Dissertation unit, you’ll write a 5,000-word academic essay based on your own practice in context.
We also offer Inclusive Assessment options for students with specific learning styles such as dyslexia, as an alternative to the academic essay.
The Major Project unit develops your professional skills by working on a production or film project that feeds directly into your graduating portfolio.
We make sure that when you graduate, you have an effective, professional web presence and promotional materials in Design for Costume and Performance that showcase your work across a range of platforms and boosts your contacts and employability.
You’ll also curate your work as part of the graduate summer exhibitions in Bournemouth and London, subject to competition.
Our BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
Course awards – Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education (2016–18) for ‘Distinguished degree level education in costume design for the UK’s leading creative industries’ (BA (Hons) Costume and Performance Design).
Students also have opportunities to participate in the following national and international competitions, exhibitions and symposia.
Looking for inspiration?
You can browse the gallery below to take a look at some of the work that our BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance students create here at AUB.
You can find out more about their specialisms and research interests by exploring their profiles below.
BA, PGCE, MA, SFHEA
MA Theatre Arts
Hear from student Lizzie to find out what it's like to study BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance at AUB.
You can also explore our other videos showing some of the projects students have worked on within AUB, as well as external collaborations with alumni, theatre companies and more.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance – Howard Burden.
Howard is an Emmy award-winning costume designer who's been creating characters for over 30 years thanks to his skill in understanding the psychology of people and their personal relationship to clothing.
Best-known for his work on the long-running cult science fiction comedy, Red Dwarf , his career spans TV, film and stage productions.
He's responsible for Peter Capaldi’s incarnation of the 12 th Doctor in Doctor Who (Seasons 7 and 8); the 18 th century costumes of Poldark; and the Mackenzie Crook re-imagining of Worzel Gummidge.
Students on the BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance course benefit from specialist facilities and equipment, tailored to the studies of the course which reflects industry practice.
Our high spec computer suite features Eizo monitors, Wacom tablets, large bed scanners, and printing facilities.
The AUB Scenic Studios are a 120msq dedicated workshop for the building and painting of bespoke sets and props for theatre and film...
Students have access to four bespoke studios including our Elliott Road Studio Complex
The course objectives are met by deploying a wide variety of teaching and learning methods including projects, lectures, seminars, group critiques and tutorials.
Although teaching is directed at supporting individual engagement in learning.
There will be opportunities for you to work in teams to enable you to learn the value of peer co-operation.
For further information on assessment, progression, awards and classifications, please visit https://viewpoint.aub.ac.uk .
We've been teaching costume design for film and performance since 1992, and theatre set design since 2008.
From 1992–2020, this was via a combined course: BA (Hons) Costume and Performance Design (CaPD).
In 2017, our CaPD Design curriculum won the Queens Anniversary Prize for ‘distinguished degree-level education in costume design for the UK’s leading creative industries.’
In 2020, CaPD evolved into two new specialist AUB courses:
The first BA (Hons) Performance Design and Film Costume cohort graduated in 2023, and already our alumni are working in some exciting professional roles, including:
Our graduates have gone on to employment at some of the most prestigious cultural and media organisations in the world, including:
BBC | Netflix | Disney | Marvel | Amazon | Channel 4 | ITV | Pinewood Studios | HBO | Lucasfilm | Glyndebourne | Royal Opera House | The Royal Shakespeare Company | National Theatre
Our Design graduates work as:
Find out what some of the alumni from our previous BA (Hons) Costume and Performance Design course have gone on to do.
Sophie Canale is an acclaimed costume designer with credits including Saltburn and the award-winning...
Maudie is a freelance costume designer.
One of her recent projects saw her work as costume stand-by on...
Eleanor Bull is a set and costume designer based in the UK across London and Brighton.
In 2017, she won the Linbury Prize for...
Kate McStraw is an independent creative producer working across the arts and cultural sector...
BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance offers regular educational trips and group opportunities*.
These help you explore the cultural and professional landscapes that inform design for costume and performance at local, national and international levels.
Some past examples include:
During your studies on BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance, you'll have the opportunity to attend lectures and devised workshops from some of the industry leaders and top professionals.
In the past, we've invited a variety of guests to inspire and offer practical advice on a wide range of topics within the field of performance design.
This course will start in September 2020 and was previously part of BA (Hons) Costume and Performance Design.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-digital-technology-design:
BA (Hons) Digital Technology (Design) will no longer be accepting applications for 2025 and onwards.
The digital arts sector is always changing and it's important that our courses continue to reflect this.
This decision wasn't made lightly and will allow an opportunity for us to consider developments in the digital technology discipline, and how this fits within our portfolio of courses.
With this degree, work at the interface of technology and become proficient in creative problem-solving.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-events-management:
On BA (Hons) Events Management, you'll harness your creativity to design, develop and deliver unique experiences that enable you to stand out from the crowd and by applying skills, knowledge and imagination to push your creative boundaries and ensure that you thrive in the fast-growing festivals and events industry.
The world of creative events is part of an exciting and fast-growing industry that requires a combination of creativity, experience, skills and imagination.
We’re looking for people who want to push creative boundaries, challenge perceptions and set the agenda for creative festivals and events.
The world of events and festivals is full of well-organised project managers.
However, the most successful event managers are those that can also design experiences.
Focusing on that blend of project management and design skill is what makes studying BA (Hons) Events Management at Arts University Bournemouth unique among event management courses.
This course will provide you with the skills that you need to become not only the experienced manager that is at the heart of every event, but an experience architect, a designer of time.
The ultimate creative process is to conceive and deliver unique experiences that stand out from the crowd and become a source of inspiration to others.
During your studies, you'll work with peers from your course and collaborate across many relevant courses at AUB to design and deliver live events and festivals in every year of your course.
The practical nature of BA (Hons) Events Management means you'll have opportunities to build a portfolio that potential employers will find attractive.
Alongside your academic studies you'll also be offered further opportunities to add to that portfolio including a formal work placement.
It's the stories that you tell about the many projects you worked on and the contacts that you make with our stakeholders that'll help you to seamlessly transition into the career you want to pursue.
Our course's alumni are among some of the most successful and creative event managers in our industry.
When you join us, you'll be taking the first step towards joining them.
Our graduates have gone on to use their design and management skills in festival production, experiential marketing, brand activations, fashion shows, wedding planning, managing world-class museums, and fundraising for leading charities.
We'll connect you with our network and a range of industry practitioners via guest lectures and site visits to events and festivals.
Many students secure employment via the network of contacts that they develop on the course.
WN12
Students on BA (Hons) Events Management have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
Forming small production teams with support from your tutors and the audio-visual technical team, you'll learn to design and deliver unique experiences that are safe, well organised and that have an audience.
You'll deliver your first live event during the first semester of your first year.
With guest lectures from specialist speakers, you’ll be introduced to different sectors of the events industry and the way they operate.
We'll also take some time to research and understand the potential impacts of your work on the environment and the communities and stakeholders that engage with your work.
Finally, your live event project will be a themed one-day festival that you deliver during the summer term.
In your second year, you’ll progress to more specialist study, building on experience gained in your first year.
Your live event project will be an opportunity for you to work with an external client, designing an experience that fulfils their requirements.
You'll also develop your research skills by learning how to develop programmes that respond to specific audiences, understand how events and festivals can be vehicles for positive change in society and learn how to pitch for investment for a new creative enterprise.
In the summer term, you'll either undertake a short six-week work placement or prepare for a year-long placement, both of which will allow you to put your skills into practice, working in an industry setting.
In your third year, the focus is on your independent learning, preparing you to transition into the world of work.
You'll either work with an organisation in the event industry, researching their business to operate as a consultant and make recommendations for the strategic plan of your host organisation, or you can choose to research a topic in depth and produce a dissertation that allows you to become an expert in your chosen sector of the event industry.
Finally, you'll design a major event and pitch your idea to your colleagues, stakeholders and alumni.
Working as part of a production team with funding from the course, support from your tutors and the audio-visual technical team, the culmination of your studies will be to conceive and deliver a unique experience that stands out from the crowd and becomes a source of inspiration to those that will follow you.
Our BA (Hons) Events Management course has been recognised as one of the best in the UK.
Top 3 | Guardian University Guide: Hospitality, Event Management and Tourism League Table
Top 5 | Complete University Guide: graduate employability
Top 10 | Complete University Guide: Tourism, Transport, Travel and Heritage Studies
Find out how our students study BA (Hons) Events Management here at AUB.
AUB is a microcosm of the creative industries and, each year, you'll have the opportunity to collaborate with creative practitioners and external stakeholders to design, develop and deliver creative festivals and events.
In your final year, you'll work on an ambitious major event, putting all your acquired skills and knowledge to the test and producing work of a professional standard.
Take a look at some of our previous events.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Events Management – Clary Salandy, artistic director and designer at Mahogany Carnival Design.
Clary Salandy is a Carnival and theatre designer known for her award-winning Carnival work.
She co-founded Mahogany Carnival Design with structural engineer Michael Ramdeen in 1989.
Clary has over 30 years’ experience of designing award-winning costumes for the Notting Hill Carnival, where her visions come to life through the exceptional skills of the Mahogany team and the support of the local community.
Mahogany Carnival Club are regular award-winners for their inspiring Mas performances at the Notting Hill Carnival.
You’ll learn in flexible spaces with the very latest in digital technology.
We provide all the resources that you’ll find in an events business.
You’ll be able to work with equipment sourced specifically for your live projects, including lighting, sound, projection, staging and exhibition materials.
Students will have access to the resources that you’d expect to find in a real events business.
The BA (Hons) Events Management degree aims to provide students with a creatively focused learning experience, which supports their personal and collective growth and confidence as they develop into competent event designers and managers.
The course aims to develop students’ skills in generating creative and complex event design ideas that are both realistic and realisable.
Students will engage in project-based learning that enables them to explore and develop awareness of the domains of events management including financial, logistical, operational marketing, resource, and risk management.
The BA (Hons) Events Management course is taught through a blend of theoretical instruction, practical workshops, project based learning and independent study.
It utilises a variety of methods, including lectures, workshops, and both studio-based and public facing practice.
Emphasis is placed on hands-on learning, investigating theoretical concepts by developing live projects that stimulate a deep learning approach and provide opportunities for students to engage with a wide range of learning styles.
Students will develop resilience and learn through constructive failure.
Students will listen, verbalise, visualise, and engage in kinaesthetic learning via the workshops and the projects that they produce.
Industry-standard resources are used extensively to provide students with valuable, up-to-date technical skills.
Regular feedback from tutors ensures continuous improvement, while guest lectures from industry professionals provide unique insights and specialist points of view.
Learning is through intellectual enquiry, research, and practice.
The course outcomes are met by deploying a wide variety of teaching and learning methods supervised by members of the team, visiting academic tutors, and support staff, practitioners, and consultants from industry.
In consultation with the Course Leader, the wider course team are responsible for co-ordinating individual units of study, and for selecting appropriate methods of delivery in accordance with the subject matter and to provide the best student learning experience.
Importance is placed upon students acquiring the skills to be able to learn independently and to develop a critical awareness.
This is facilitated through a variety of learning and teaching methods such as individual and group tutorials, group discussions, peer learning and assessment, project-based learning, lectures, workshops, seminars, study visits, demonstrations, skills-based workshops, educational visits, on-site learning, working with external clients, developing learning agreements and presenting both in groups and individually.
Theoretical, contextual, and authentic professional practices are embedded within all units.
This integration dissolves the artificial barriers between these forms of engagement, allowing students to fully realise their potential and truly understand the rich relationship between theory, practice, and the wider, practical context of their work.
The total study time allocated to each unit in the course incorporates a balance of formal teaching, tutorial support and independent learning.
The course is structured progressively to provide increased opportunities for independent and scaffolded learning as students reach the later stages of the course.
The promotion of independent learning reflects a student's anticipated maturity and allows them to direct their learning towards individual goals.
All our assessments are authentic to the world of events management and reflect the skills that you need to develop.
That means that there are no exams; the assessments are a mix of practical and written submissions.
Formative assessment and feedback take place following both group and individual presentations of work in progress.
This formative assessment approach is transparent and promotes the summative assessment as part of the learning within the unit of study.
Students will learn not only from the feedback and discussion relating to their own work but also from that of their peers
We’ll give you the skills to ensure you thrive in the events industry.
Many of our BA (Hons) Events Management graduates have gone to do incredible things, such as running festivals like Boomtown, Camp Bestival, Wilderness, Secret Garden Party, and The End Of The Road, as well as working at venues like London’s Roundhouse and the Science Museum, and working for companies like Spotify and ITV.
Our students can be found in all parts of today’s creative industries.
Here are just a few:
You can read more about what some BA (Hons) Events Management graduates are up in the profiles below.
Senior Event Manager at the Royal Parks, London...
Co-founder of Jimmy's Iced Coffee...
Head of Programme, Coventry City of Culture Trust 2021...
Creative Director, elrowFamily, Barcelona...
Co-founder and Producer, Shangri-La Glastonbury & Production Manager, Boomtown Fair...
Agent/Producer and Managing Director, Andrew Harding Management...
Managing Director, Port Eliot Festival & Area Coordinator, Worthy View Glastonbury...
Head of Visitor Events, Natural History Museum...
Marketing & Events Co-ordinator at Krowji, Cornwall’s Creative Hub...
Ruth worked on the opening ceremony for the New Louvre in Abudhabi...
Programming and Producing trainee, Sheffield Theatres & Committee Member, Stage Sight (led by UK Theatre)...
Account Executive, Exposure Promotions...
Marketing Manager, Spotify...
Founding Director and Promoter, Red Rooster Festival; General Manager and Production Manager...
Project Manager, ITV experiences...
Senior Events Officer, Arts and Events, Bristol City Council...
Senior Lecturer and course director for BA (Hons) Illustration and Graphics, Coventry University.
Experimental electronic musician...
Artist, Art Director, Creative Production Manager...
Executive Director, In Between Time (live arts company)...
Student Union President, Arts University Bournemouth...
Music Programme Coordinator, Boomtown Fair...
Senior Gallery Officer/Curator, The Gallery Arts University Bournemouth...
Programme Manager, Cause 4...
MA Marketing, Distribution, Sales and Exhibition student at National Film and Television School...
As part of BA (Hons) Events Management, you'll also take part in course trips.
*T rips are optional and may occasionally i ncur additional costs
Event Managers conceive, plan and deliver all kinds of events throughout the creative industries.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-fashion:
BA (Hons) Fashion merges traditional skills and craftsmanship with contemporary, cutting-edge technology and ethical practice.
You'll interrogate the current industry while creating innovative, sustainable and bold garments of your own.
BA (Hons) Fashion are award-winners in fashion innovation.
The AUB Fashion community supports experimentation, exploration and the application of traditional and contemporary techniques and methods, to inform creative solutions for a more considered fashion future.
BA (Hons) Fashion at AUB is leading the way for innovation.
From concept to realisation, you'll experiment, interrogate, and develop design practices appropriate to your individual design philosophy.
You'll creatively explore traditional and modern techniques, cutting-edge digital fashion technology, craftsmanship, product development and presentation.
You'll also explore connections between concepts of dress, fashion, and the body as a site for artistic expression.
The social, ethical and environmental contexts of fashion are critical forces: they're central to course debate and practice.
How we understand fashion’s impact will inform creative solutions and help you become effective change-makers for a more sustainable and inclusive world.
BA (Hons) Fashion is an award-winner in innovation, with a portfolio of student successes that is internationally recognised through graduate destination, exciting industry collaboration and inspirational speakers integrated into the DNA of the course.
During your time at AUB, you'll construct a unique portfolio of skills to support your career launch or graduate outcomes.
We celebrate your individuality and will help your realise a tailored path within the fashion industry and community at this critical time in history.
BA (Hons) Fashion students are pushing the boundaries of digital fashion.
With a clear identified understanding of digital fashion software explored from Level 4, you'll innovate and develop new approaches to technological developments and how to align these to their developing practise in line with industry advancements throughout Levels 5 and 6.
You'll all experience and explore the breadth of textile opportunities as part of your BA (Hons) Fashion journey; where possible, you'll work alongside students from both BA (Hons) Fashion Communication and BA (Hons) Textiles Design .
From digital embroidery and digital print to wet dye processes such as screen print and dyeing, to constructed textiles alongside digital rendering of fabric textures for digital avatars and prototypes.
This sets us apart in terms of fabrication giving you the opportunity to explore, personalise and develop truly unique approach to colour, pattern and texture as part of your fashion output.
BA (Hons) Fashion offers you the opportunity to gain a “named award” in one of a number of specialist areas, which have been developed to not only reflect areas of expertise on the course, but also, more importantly, reflect the nature of the global fashion industry into which our graduates will progress:
W230
Students on BA (Hons) Fashion have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
First year introduces creative exploration and skill set submersion.
It focuses on fundamental skills as an enriching foundation for the student journey.
It’s comprised of three skill-based units with intensive design development, pattern cutting, construction and fashion textiles sessions.
It’s underpinned by contextual, social and ethical debates and an introduction to digital fashion software to support your sustainable practice.
As you immerse yourselves in university life, you're encouraged to explore your design individuality (DNA), develop confidence in technical problem-solving and identify strengths, interests, and areas of specialism.
With a strong sense of course and campus community, collaboration is encouraged.
You'll work with peers from other year groups to expand your understanding and emerging practice.
This allows you to engage with a broad range of experiences to support specialist decisions in the future.
Additionally, in line with Graduate Futures I, you'll be introduced to both course and Careers and Enterprise service activities appropriate to this level.
Level 5 prioritises innovation, market awareness and industry practice.
Building on your knowledge of fundamental rules from Level 4, you're now encouraged to challenge them, critique the status quo, and innovate solutions to problematics within fashion industry and culture.
Fashion Engineering is a technical unit in which you'll discover the intricacies of tailoring, technical drawing, working with archives, and preparation for communicating with industry professionals.
You're encouraged to question existing practices and look for new solutions, exploring diversity and emotionally considerate design as practice.
This is followed by 3D Innovation, offering a first opportunity to explore creative pattern cutting, develop knowledge of digital fashion software and presentation.
You'll continue to explore your design ‘identity’, which is foundational to your unique design philosophy.
Level 5 concludes with the Industry Collaboration unit, offering the unique opportunity of participation in a ‘Live Project’ collaborating and designing for a high-end brand or design company.
Recent collaborations have included Size?, ThruDark, Vivienne Westwood, COS and luxury British heritage brands.
Additionally, in line with Graduate Futures II, you'll continue to practise both course and Careers and Enterprise service activities appropriate to this Level.
Upon finishing Level 5, you may have the opportunity to undertake an industry placement year.
The placement year will be recognised on the degree transcript and as you'll remain a registered student for the duration of the Placement Year, you'll retain access to all university support services.
Recent placements have included Paco Rabanne, COS, Vivienne Westwood, Christopher Raeburn, Victoria Beckham, Florence and Fred, H&M, Coast and Clarkes.
Placements often lead to a permanent role on graduation, providing a greater chance of success for graduates of this course.
The course also offers international student exchange opportunities, where Level 5 students can apply to complete a term at one of AUB’s international partner universities.
Level 6 consolidates skills developed through previous levels in preparation for graduation and career launch.
It's considered by graduates as the most challenging and exciting time of their university experience.
You'll focus on a specialist area of study related to a named award.
The Final Major Project 1 and 2 is a self-determined body of industry-ready work aligned to a career plan and graduate destination.
This is underpinned by a Creative Research and Exploration unit, interrogating a topic relevant to individual practice.
The final unit is an opportunity to create and present a portfolio of creative work that demonstrates the specialist practise and unique skills you've developed during your time at AUB.
This unit helps you to effectively communicate your ambition, innovation and grasp of content and context through a professional portfolio, preparing them for the demands of future employment or further study.
Additionally, in line with Graduate Futures III, you'll engage with both course and Careers and Enterprise service activities appropriate to this Level and apply them to your chosen aspirations for after graduation.
Our BA (Hons) Fashion students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
2025 Graduate Fashion Week
2024 Graduate Fashion Week
2023 Graduate Fashion Week
On BA (Hons) Fashion, you’ll benefit from the expert guidance of our experienced teaching staff.
You can read more about their specialisms by exploring their profiles below.
MA (CSM), FHEA
MA, BA (Hons), PgCAP, FHEA
MRes, MA, BA (Hons)
It's critical that as a next generation of designers, we pioneer in innovation and change, and explore new and better ways of working, push creative boundaries, and blend modern technology, with traditional craftsmanship, and ethical practice.
The future of the industry is about making conscious decisions and generating innovative and sustainable fashion products that have a specific place in a current and contemporary market that consumers respect and aspire to own.
Find out from student Jason about what it’s like to study BA (Hons) Fashion at AUB.
Our dedicated studios are equipped with a range of state-of-the-art industry-standard specialist machinery.
You’ll have access to Lectra Modaris and CLO 3D technology, three digital studios and three working studios, plus a dedicated sewing room.
You’ll also use a seminar and theory room for lectures and tutorials.
The fashion studios offer an extensive portfolio of machinery and kit to support your design, manufacture and pattern cutting exploration
AUB was one of the first UK Universities to implement and deliver the exciting 3D prototyping technology back in 2005...
The course combines both independent learning and taught sessions throughout all levels.
Taught sessions are designed to support, underpin and inform independent learning and are delivered in a variety of styles including a diverse range of ongoing practical workshops, demonstrations, lectures, group and individual tutorials, seminars, critiques, unit briefings and optional study visits.
These are delivered by the course team and supplemented by visiting practitioners from the fashion industry.
Teaching is directed at supporting individual engagement in learning, although there are opportunities to work in teams to enable you to learn the value of peer cooperation.
As members of the cohort, you're all active participants in learning and teaching and through this the sharing of good practice is established.
Peer learning is facilitated through group critiques and feedback sessions, collaborative projects and more informally within the studio environment.
The course team has developed a variety of learning and teaching methods which support different learning styles, inclusivity and access to learning.
The main focus for the learning and teaching methods is through the assignment(s) undertaken for each unit, which reflect the level of study.
The course team has developed team teaching opportunities, both within the core team and in collaboration with Visiting Tutors and industry professionals, to enhance learning opportunities and to further your knowledge and awareness of industry practices and expectations.
The team also regularly attend new and updated training, seminars and conferences in order to keep delivery current and in line with industry requirements.
The progressive promotion of independent learning and self-reflection encourages anticipated maturity and allows you to direct learning towards individual goals.
Emphasis is placed upon reflective practice where you'll be expected to progressively take personal responsibility for your learning.
Graduates from this course have gone on to work with UK and international brands such as Burberry, Ralph Lauren and Net-a-Porter.
Our graduates work as designers, pattern cutters, garment technologists, product developers, fashion buyers, merchandisers, promoters and more.
Here are some examples of recent graduate career destinations:
The unique nature of the BA (Hons) Fashion programme helps you learn skills and gain knowledge that's transferable to many different roles across the fashion industry.
Our fashion graduates secure jobs in fashion design, product development, digital fashion, buying, merchandising and visual merchandising, as well as trend and fashion forecasting, fashion journalism and PR, freelance work or setting up their own business.
The BA (Hons) Fashion course also has many graduates who choose to continue their studies to postgraduate courses both in the UK and abroad.
My collection is based on the work of Dorothea Lange and the Farm Security Administration...
My collection is inspired by illustration and artwork.
A lot of it is based on mental health...
As part of BA (Hons) Fashion you may also get the opportunity to take part in course trips.
This dynamic course gives you the skills needed for a career in the fast-moving world of 21st-century fashion.
Research is the fundamental driver for creative thinking and innovation.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-fashion-communication:
Behind every successful campaign or publication lies communication.
On BA (Hons) Fashion Communication, you'll learn how to keep up with this £26 billion UK industry while creating your own creative visual identity.
Behind every successful fashion campaign or publication is a team of top communicators, working tirelessly across the diverse and rapidly evolving areas of marketing, branding, PR, styling, social media, and trend prediction, which fuels the £26 billion British fashion industry.
Image: Brandon Bolland, MASC Magazine (2024)
Our BA (Hons) Fashion Communication course will help you to become part of this rapidly growing and exciting aspect of the fashion industry.
On BA (Hons) Fashion Communication, you’ll gain theoretical and practical skills by exploring the process behind creating effective and responsible fashion communication.
You'll create forms of still and moving image and develop visual identities using the latest creative software.
The course will help you to understand the theory and thought process behind everything from creating a narrative for an image or campaign, to building a brand identity.
Great fashion communication requires collaborative thinking and teamwork.
In AUB’s creative community, you'll be introduced to, and encouraged to work with, students on other BA (Hons) courses, including Fashion , Commercial Photography , Textiles Design , Film Production and Make-up for Media and Performance , so the opportunities to collaborate and apply your skills are limitless.
This will also allow you to gain confidence is creatively directing others to realise your own vision.
According to the British Fashion Council, the UK Fashion Industry supports 797,000 jobs.
With a degree from AUB, you'll be able to make your own unique mark in this exciting space.
Our teaching and technical staff are exceptional.
They're inspiring teachers, industry practitioners, technicians and researchers who are here to support you with your studies and help you to achieve outstanding outcomes.
W111
Students on BA (Hons) Fashion Communication have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
Exploration
Through the BA (Hons) Fashion Communication journey, you'll be challenged to problem-solve and explore possibilities to seek innovative and responsible solutions to concept origination, application and final outcomes.
On this course, you’ll develop a creative tool kit of skills, knowledge and practice, which will underpin and inform your personal and professional growth to develop your sense of place within the creative industry.
The units will allow you to critically reflect on the study of fashion communication from the beginning of the course by exploring design and fashion theory from the past and present to inform the future.
Your first unit unpacks how fashion can be used as a communication tool.
Your second unit uses the mediums of photography and styling to consider the meaning behind images that are communicated in fashion.
At the end of your first year, you'll create an individual project concept that may involve aspects of collaboration, where you’ll begin to define strengths and specialist choices through the production of a publication that embeds the core skills learned in the first two terms.
By studying three core units across the year that underpin the discipline of fashion communication, you'll investigate and experience the range of possible practices and areas of study you may want to engage with as a fashion communicator during your time on the course.
The Level 4 journey will not only shape your experience through learning new skills and knowledge – it'll also identify your strengths, interests and areas of specialisms, as well as introducing you to relevant and contemporary creative practices.
It'll also ensure that you engage with a broad range of experiences, which will support specialist decisions in the future.
Innovation
During your second year of study, you'll develop a critical understanding of consumer behaviour and market diversity, while also directly informing your approach to focused communication development and market analysis.
You'll engage with distinct and challenging research methods and visual communication techniques through problem-solving and live briefs.
You'll be encouraged to question existing practices and look for new and innovative solutions, exploring diversity, ethics, niche market opportunities, and by developing empathic consideration for the local and global fashion industry.
You'll develop a portfolio of visual and written communication material to promote yourself in your continued personal and professional development.
The first unit explores moving image through a live client brief by considering how fashion films form a large part of contemporary marketing campaigns, especially via social media.
The second unit is a live client brief that requires radical thinking to come up with your own fashion communication campaign and allows you to begin to focus on the communication mediums that you prefer, such as photography, film, graphic design, illustration, or publication.
The third unit aims to explore research methods fashion communication practice, allowing you to develop a ‘passion project’ that reflects your creative identity and interests.
At the end of your second year, you'll be able to undertake an optional UK or international work experience placement year to help prepare you for your graduate future by giving you firsthand experience of the expectations around creative industry practice.
Application
In your final year, you'll undertake a Research Project unit and a Final Major Project that's relevant to your desired graduate future.
Your projects will be appropriate for your portfolio and for your graduate show, relevant exhibitions, and related graduate fashion events.
In the first term, you'll produce a research project in which you'll demonstrate an advanced range of research and writing skills.
You'll also experiment for your Final Major Project through researching ideas and creating prototypes, culminating in a ‘work in progress’ exhibition at the end of the first term.
Your second term is dedicated to the completion of your Final Major Project, which you'll use to showcase your own creative identity.
The third term focuses on preparing you for your graduate future by exploring your personal brand and your portfolio.
Whether you're looking to start your career or move into further study, the course will help you to transition to the next steps and showcase your work by working with you as an individual.
Ultimately, the final year requires you to define the final direction of your theory and practice.
It encourages you to be focused and innovative.
You'll graduate with the knowledge, understanding, skills and creative agility necessary to further develop your specialist practices for your chosen graduate future.
We actively encourage you to form collectives, freelance, start your own business, organise events and exhibitions, complete internships, enter competitions and work collaboratively.
Our BA (Hons) Fashion Communication students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
2019–2023
BA (Hons), FHEA
BA, MA RCA
BA (Hons), MA
Fashion Communication is all about making content and campaigns for brands.
We encourage students to explore a plethora of omni-media content platforms and tools (analogue and digital) to create innovative and responsible campaigns and other communication outcomes.
Our students develop a research-led and problem-solving approach to understanding the DNA of fashion brands and consumer behaviour, which encourages students to create relevant and responsible campaign activations.
Alumnus Brandon Bolland reflects on his time studying BA (Hons) Fashion Communication at AUB.
Also get a sense of what it's like to study the course from current student Immy.
What do I think fashion communication is now?
After doing this project and observing my peers, I think fashion communication is a broader term than I initially believed.
I think it has a unique definition based on the one defining it.
But to me, fashion communication is about making change, whether that be to people's internal discourse on fashion, or on how fashion is viewed as a whole.
It is about disrupting and having an impact on the space you are in.
BA (Hons) Fashion Communication student
Taught sessions are designed to support, underpin and inform independent learning and are delivered in a variety of styles, including a diverse range of ongoing practical workshops, demonstrations, lectures, group and individual tutorials, seminars, critiques, unit briefings and optional study visits.
These are delivered by the course team and supplemented by visiting practitioners from the fashion and related sectors.
The team also regularly attends new and updated training, seminars and conferences in order to keep delivery current and in line with industry requirements.
Teaching is directed at supporting individual engagement in learning, although there are opportunities to work in teams to enable you to learn the value of peer co-operation.
As a member of the cohort, you'll be an active participant in learning and teaching and through this, the sharing of good practice is established.
60
Students studying BA (Hons) Fashion Branding and Communication achieve great things, including roles such as:
Ed Earl has earned a great reputation as AUB’s Student Union President for 2023-24.
Since being elected for the role, they've secured...
Marketing, branding, PR, styling and trend prediction fuels the £26 billion British fashion industry.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-film-production:
On BA (Hons) Film Production, you'll take your ideas to the big screen.
You'll be hands-on and practical from the outset through filmmaking and collaboration in our professional, industry-led studio environments.
We have an international reputation in the film business.
Recent BA (Hons) Film Production graduates have worked on Oscar-winning productions, BBC documentaries and dramas, and for major studios like DreamWorks.
Communication, passion, creativity, technical ability, vision, research, commitment, respect and professionalism – these are all essential characteristics of those who work in film.
The BA (Hons) Film Production course is designed to foster these skills and abilities through a wide range of exciting and challenging film production experiences – from the moment of a film’s inception to its final distribution to cinema, streaming platforms or other media to be viewed by the audience.
Our BA (Hons) Film Production course is hands-on from the outset, and you'll gain a solid grounding in fundamental, traditional practices, such as shooting on film, as well as exploring the complex creativities of digital production and modern filmmaking protocols.
The specialist and focused nature of the course will help you develop your understanding of the creative and commercial realities of film production.
As well as learning practical filmmaking, you'll study cinema in its various forms to achieve a working knowledge of eclectic practices within fiction and non-fiction filmmaking.
Your practical skills are informed by an understanding of the cultural and historical contexts of film practice.
Making films is a collaborative process and teamwork is a key part of the course.
You won’t only work with your peers, lecturers, and technicians on the course, but with contemporaries and staff from other subject areas across AUB too.
We have formal and informal link-ups with BA (Hons) Visual Effects for Film and Television , BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance , BA (Hons) Acting , BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance , BA (Hons) Animation Production , and others.
These collaborations are what builds our creative community here at AUB, with BA (Hons) Film Production at its core.
W610
Students on BA (Hons) Film Production have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
At this
level, you’re asked to consider how film
production relates to the current media environment and today's world.
You’re introduced to the core principles of film production through technical
tuition, practical application and historical and contextual study.
You’re also
encouraged to experiment with your practice and back up your decision-making
with informed research and reflection.
You'll learn set
protocols, effective collaboration and health and safety, essential within the film industry, and which will be reinforced
throughout the course.
Through practical workshops you engage in many aspects
of the production process, enabling an informed and guided choice of specialism
at the end of the year.
During Level 5, your specialist skills are developed, your practical and critical abilities are enhanced, and you become further accustomed to the teamwork that’s an essential feature of the film production process.
You deepen your specialist learning and develop your ability to reflect on and evaluate your work.
Your contextual knowledge and understanding are extended, and you become prepared for the more rigorous pace and scale of work demanded by Level 6.
Relevant health and safety practice continues to be emphasised throughout the year of study.
Specialist skills training, some of which is certified, is offered as part of the curriculum and will continue into Level 6.
Final year students demonstrate their abilities within their respective specialist roles and their commitment to the collective responsibility for the pre-production, production and postproduction of graduation films.
Level 6 enables you to develop and consolidate your specialist production roles, building on your previous learning.
You’re required to undertake significant independent study while also contributing effectively as a team member to the production process.
Successful fulfilment of the demands of Level 6 will allow you to demonstrate your professional practice, your creative and technical abilities, and intellectual maturity, all of which are necessary for effective operation in the film and media industries, or for progression to postgraduate study.
Our BA (Hons) Film Production students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
2025 Kodak/NAHEMI Awards
2024 Kodak/NAHEMI Awards
2019 — Winner | Regional RTS Awards, Best Student Drama – Zebra
Our staff are industry professionals who are passionate about their craft.
You can read more about their experience by browsing their staff profiles below.
BA, MRes, FHEA
PhD, MA
PhD, Dipl Eur Hum, PG Cert, FHEA, FRSA
PhD, MA, PGCE, FHEA, SEDA
MA (Oxon), BA
MA, PGDip, PGDip, PGCE, BA
BA, MA, PhD
BA(Hons), PGCAP
BA, MA, PGCert
BA
Listen to Maddy and Toby to discover what it's like being a part of BA (Hons) Film Production and a look behind the scenes at their current project.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Film Production – Happy Hour Productions, a leading TV and video advertising agency.
Ranked in the Top 40 creative agencies in the UK, Happy Hour handles creative and production for many market leading advertisers including retail, financial services, gaming, tech and charity.
Their TV commercial production work includes live action and animation across a range of industry sectors.
As a film student at AUB, you'll have access to state-of-the-art equipment, three well-equipped studios, editing and grading suites, sound suites and high-end ARRI camera systems.
We have professional filmmaking equipment for each part of the process, from pre-production to delivery of completed films.
Students will have access a range of industry equipment, including cameras, lighting, sound and much more
The course objectives are met by deploying a wide variety of teaching and learning methods.
These include productions, exercises, lectures, seminars, workshops, certified training, tutor and peer-led critiques, discussion groups and tutorials, and both directed and independent self-studies.
Assessment both provides a measure of your achievement and gives you regular feedback on how your learning is developing.
The study time allocated to each unit on the course incorporates a balance of formal teaching, directed self-studies and independent self-studies.
The course is structured progressively to provide increased opportunities for self-directed study as you reach the later stages of the course.
At Level 4, your work will be closely supervised, and you’ll work to set briefs.
At Level 5 there’ll be a mix of specialist teaching and independent study.
At Level 6 you’ll work primarily on self-directed projects, with tutorial and workshop support.
Teaching supports individual learning, but there are ample opportunities for you to work in teams, enabling you to learn the value of peer co-operation and collaborative working.
At Level 4, there’s a positive emphasis on the acquisition of research and academic writing skills, and students are encouraged to work with the Subject Librarian.
These skills are sustained and developed further at Levels 5 and 6.
For every unit of your course, we'll inform you of what you're expected to learn, what you’ll submit and how you’ll be assessed, and the deadline for presenting your work for assessment.
This is made available through Unit Information on your course blog.
Formal feedback on assessed work is given to students not more than four weeks after work has been handed in.
However, feedback is also provided on a rolling basis through individual and group critiques.
Except for the pass/fail unit, each component of assessment is graded using a notched marking scale, whereby only certain marks are used within each grade.
On successful completion of your Honours degree course, you’ll be awarded a degree classification based on your unit marks.
If the two algorithms produce different results, you’ll be awarded the higher class of degree.
If you’ve joined Level 6 through either the Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) route or having completed a Foundation Degree (FdA), the final classification is determined using only your unit marks at Level 6.
For further information on assessment, progression, awards and classifications, please visit https://aub.ac.uk/regulations .
Assessment components include practical exercises and film productions, e-portfolios, written essays, and presentations, as appropriate to the student and unit.
The course uses both formative and summative assessment and fosters inclusivity.
Our graduates have gone on to work on such productions as Harry Potter , Gravity , Sherlock Holmes, and a host of BBC dramas, while others are employed at companies like Framestore and DreamWorks.
Graduate career destinations include:
Alumni from the BA (Hons) Film Production course include: Simon Beaufoy, writer of 127 Hours and Slumdog Millionaire ; Chris Dickens, editor of Slumdog Millionaire and Submarine ; Chris Jones, co-author of The Guerrilla Film Makers Guide ; Mark Blaney, producer of Africa United ; Nick Love, writer and director whose recent credits include The Firm and executive producer of Monsters ; and Molly Manning-Walker, whose directorial debut How to Have Sex was nominated for three BAFTAs.
Since graduating AUB, Linda Dorigo has worked on a multitude of projects and productions that vary from long-form film and TV content...
Since graduating, Elijah has continued to work as a sound designer and audio engineer working on a variety of projects.
This included...
I didn't want to be a filmmaker.
I didn't know I could be a filmmaker.
I didn't grow up as a budding filmmaker obsessed by movies...
I've always been interested in theatre and drama; I originally studied English at Oxford and my interest in film grew...
Sound is so hard to do well.
You don't notice it when it's working, but when there is anything wrong with the quality, it instantly sets...
The university has an international reputation in the film business.
Graduates have worked on Oscar-winning productions.
Our MA Film Practice (Online) course allows you to explore the possibilities of contemporary film and moving image practice...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-fine-art:
On BA (Hons) Fine Art, you'll be part of an exciting, multidisciplinary course set within our dynamic culture of making in our purpose-built studios, as part of a thriving art community here at AUB.
Be part of an exciting, multi-discipline BA (Hons) Fine Art course, set within our dynamic culture of making in our purpose-built studios.
We take great pride in our course to create a thriving fine art community.
Explore current student artwork on our course Instagram: @aubfineart
This course considers fine art in its widest sense, which means you can test out many different approaches or choose to specialise in one.
Experimental workshops in painting, drawing, printmaking, sculpture, video, digital media and sonic arts provide you with a solid foundation in testing the physical and conceptual potential of materials that you can then develop further.
Our course is designed to provide you with a high-quality education in contemporary art practice, and is delivered by highly respected tutors, acclaimed artists and excellent technicians.
Over the duration of the course, you'll develop your individual artistic voice, informed through your own research and critical evaluation, peer and tutor feedback and a deep understanding of your chosen materials.
When you graduate, you'll be fully equipped to contribute and add something new to the UK’s art scene as an emerging artist.
Exhibiting and being enterprising is a key part of our course.
We offer many opportunities for you to exhibit your work with an emphasis on site-specific locations thanks to our unique partnerships with local museums, councils and research centres.
We also have a series of international student artist residency placements and worldwide partner university study exchanges.
All these experiences are specially created by our tutors to give you a real sense of what it means to be a professional artist – both in the studio and the broader world.
In the first year, you'll work in open plan studios and participate in collective workshops to find what inspires and excites you as an artist.
In the following years, you'll develop your practical, theoretical and critical skills within your self-defined study plans.
We support and encourage experimentation and development of skills, and workshops are offered as a continual part of the course over the three years.
These are conducted in painting, drawing, printmaking, sculpture, video, digital media and sonic art as well as seminars to foster your conceptual development and understanding of curation and how exhibitions are put together.
You'll have additional access to the latest technology, such as laser cutters, CNC (computer numerically controlled) machines and 3D printers.
Our aim is to provide you with a solid foundation so that you can create contemporary artworks with high technical skill combined with solid conceptual grounding.
Above all, we offer a welcoming and inclusive course, set in a vibrant campus dedicated to creative practices of all kinds.
W100
Students on BA (Hons) Fine Art have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
Your first year builds upon your previous learning; you’ll experiment broadly and acquire new skills and knowledge, from a combination of both practice and theory sessions.
You’ll attend various workshops, learn about curating and exhibit your work.
An important part of the first year is helping you to confidently speak and write about your work.
In the final unit of this year, you'll define your practice and determine which areas you wish to specialise in.
You’ll work in a mixed practice studio.
Your second year encourages you to examine the positioning of your work within the Fine Art industries and to consider its relationship to audiences.
At the beginning of Level 5, you’ll decide where to locate your practice and which practical working zone of the course to locate yourself in.
You can also move between zones.
You’ll continue to improve your practical skills whilst simultaneously clarifying the research questions you are investigating.
You’ll have opportunities to study abroad and participate in challenging projects.
We encourage work experience in this year if you decide to opt for the independent study unit.
Your research into career options and professional practice will also begin.
In your third year, you’ll continue to develop and refine your understanding of your own practice, specifically the Fine Art discipline, the language it operates within and how it's interpreted by viewers.
This is the crucial year when you consolidate your previous experience and experiments and pursue a focused practice.
This is celebrated in your degree exhibition at AUB, allowing your work to be viewed by hundreds of people and giving you a springboard into professional life.
Our BA (Hons) Fine Art students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
Looking to be inspired?
You can browse our gallery of BA (Hons) Fine Art student work and take a look at some of the projects that our current students have been working on.
On the BA (Hons) Fine Art course, you’ll benefit from the expert guidance from our experienced teaching staff.
BA, MA, PhD, PGCert
BA, MFA, PGCert
MFA, BA (Hons)
MFA, PGCert, BA (Hons), FHEA
MA RCA, BA (Hons), FHEA, PGCert
Our course challenges visual culture through the creation of new paintings, sculptures, videos and performance.
We offer you many opportunities to explore materials and their application in new and exciting ways.
A broad team of experienced practising artists will help you to progress and refine your art, testing it in real-world situations through the many international study and exhibition projects.
Discover from student Ella about what it's like to study BA (Hons) Fine Art at AUB.
In addition, Jennifer Anyan (Director of School of Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management) sits down with Professor Elizabeth Price and discusses the trajectory of her wide and varied artistic career.
Price is a major figure in contemporary art in Britain, having won the Turner Prize in 2012.
She has exhibited internationally at major galleries and museums, and has worked as a professor and lecturer at a number of arts universities in the UK.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Fine Art – Visual Arts South West (VASW).
BA (Hons) Fine Art has collaborated with VASW to create new career advice resources.
These resources begin with a lecture and then provide helpful web-based employment advice; provided by several artists who've been there, done that and got the T-shirt.
Our purpose-built North Light Studios offer a bright open-plan feel, yet also allow for personal workspaces for each student.
The motivation behind Global Networks is to cultivate inspirational and experimental learning environments and open up a world view for both student and tutor through exciting international projects.
These optional projects, with one of our international partner organisations, aim to stretch and challenge the student’s art practice and critical faculties whilst simultaneously increasing their awareness of broader social contexts.
BA (Hons) Fine Art contains a rich mixture of taught activities that incrementally build practical and theoretical skills during the levels of the course.
For every unit of your course, we will inform you of what you are expected to learn; what you have to submit; how your work will be assessed; and the deadline for presenting your work for assessment.
These activities can take place both on and off campus and occur over all three years.
Independent study time is of fundamental importance for learning.
We facilitate strategies to help students develop and manage independent learning.
Independent study time consists of two main activities:
1.
Studio Practice (Praxis)
The skills and knowledge gained from the taught activities help inform individual work.
Speculative material investigations take place.
Uncertainty must be managed.
2.
Contextual Research and Reflection
This can take place simultaneously in the studio and elsewhere, such as the AUB library or other off campus research centres that the student individually selects.
We advocate that students conduct primary research.
It is also a time to be critically and analytically reflective about all types of work, and to decide on study plans.
The course promotes individual learning and teaching opportunities by adopting a student-centred ethos.
Elective choices can be made within each year of study.
These include practical workshops, lectures, seminars, study visits and international university exchanges.
Assessment feedback is designed to enhance learning.
We consider assessment to be part of the learning process, and promote deep learning through encouraging students to reflect and discuss their assessment feedback.
There are two main forms of feedback:
Formative feedback for learning.
This is developmental, takes place during a unit and can be verbal or written.
It is used to help improve learning and to enhance academic performance.
Summative feedback on learning.
This is written and specific to the learning outcomes of a unit and takes place when a unit is completed.
It is used to give grades for each unit.
Our feedback is constructively critical, helping determine how the student work might progress academically.
Highly motivated graduates from the BA (Hons) Fine Art course go on to be leading contributors in a variety of fine art disciplines, whether as the next generation of contemporary artists, inspiring teachers, curators, or as assistants to renowned artists.
Our students go on to a broad range of destinations, these include:
Kinnari Saraiya is an artist-curator, writer and folk dancer based in the UK.
Her practice utilises ancient, sensorial and trans-media...
Following a successful graduate exhibition in London, Rachel was selected for the Graduate Platform Award at Aspex Gallery...
I helped my friend set up a cycle café in London called Cycle PS and we created this community of cyclists...
The Bournemouth Emerging Arts Fringe (BEAF) was established in 2014 by Bournemouth council to provide a platform for local artists and...
Aaron Peever has a passion for oil painting and has had his work displayed in online galleries, magazines, and physically in...
As part of BA (Hons) Fine Art, you may also get the opportunity to take part in course trips, previous trips have included:
International:
National:
This year, we invited a number of industry experts professionals into our classes to give our students a valuable insight into Fine Art and industry.
Guest lecturers have included:
Be part of an exciting, multi-discipline fine art course, set within our dynamic culture of making in our purpose-built studios.
MA Fine Art offers a distinct focus and reassessment of autobiography and the familiar, through differing understandings of creativity.
Our MA Illustration course encourages you to question the nature of your practice and its context and position relative to the creative...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-games-art-and-design:
BA (Hons) Games Art and Design creates innovative gaming perspectives.
On this course, you'll conceptualise and develop your own computer games while gaining a valuable knowledge of key skills and the industry at large.
The BA (Hons) Games Art and Design degree is a new course, in which you'll create and develop innovative gaming perspectives through conceptualising and developing your own computer games.
You'll gain valuable knowledge of the gaming industry, generate original concept art, learn character animation techniques, undertake experimental gameplay and understand emerging technologies – such as AI scripting.
By the end of the course, you'll be able to produce your own games via Unity and Unreal.
BA (Hons) Games Art and Design at AUB provides numerous opportunities to interact with the games industry during your three years of study.
Through ‘live’ and industry research projects, you'll gain practical experience and industry insight and also receive support with the production of a portfolio and showreel, preparing you for a career in the games industry.
The course includes specially designed units allowing you to have a working knowledge of start-ups, indie games, intellectual property, funding application and freelance opportunities.
You may even feel empowered to consider launching your own business after graduation.
The BA (Hons) Games Art and Design degree gives you the chance to grow creatively and conceptually, as well as to research games, test out ideas, gain valuable knowledge of the gaming industry.
You'll generate original concept art, learn character animation techniques, undertake experimental gameplay and understand emerging technologies such as AI scripting.
The direction of the course is to create impactful games, meaning you'll graduate with specialist knowledge required for roles in the gaming industry, and informed perspectives on game creation that considers equality, diversity, and inclusion.
You'll be able to produce your own games via software such as Unity and Unreal and will acquire critical viewpoints on games and their cultural and social relevance.
You'll cover topics like power, identity and ethics, as well as the function that games play in social change, health and educational endeavours.
Throughout the course, you'll collaborate and undertake different roles in the creation of games, preparing for a career in the games industry or for postgraduate study.
As this course is delivered within a specialist Arts University, you'll work alongside other like-minded and creative individuals, who all add to the unique dynamic of the AUB campus.
The course focuses on creating fun but ‘meaningful’ games that showcase concepts with value-driven design to gain critical perspectives on cultural and social significance.
They could include issues such as power, identity and ethics, as well as the role of games in education, health, and social change initiatives.
I620
The first year of BA (Hons) Games Art and Design degree is an introduction to study at higher education and provides you with the principles of games creation.
The course gives an understanding of the concept of identity within gaming, including avatar and character development, which is crucial for creating engaging and immersive games.
The first year also introduces concept art and aesthetics, game mechanics and the basics of software, which are essential skills for game design and development.
In addition to technical skills, the course also emphasises research and understanding the history of gaming through its development, both digital and non-digital.
You'll gain a thorough understanding of the concept of "play" and how it has evolved over time.
The importance of storytelling will also be delivered, as it's an essential aspect of creating successful games.
In the second year, you'll be challenged to consolidate your skills and knowledge by producing a skills audit.
This helps to identify areas where you may need to improve and where your strengths lie.
You'll then collaborate in groups on a set project in different roles used in the games industry.
Enabling you to gain experience in different aspects of game design and development, preparing for your future careers.
In addition to technical skills, the second year of the course emphasises the importance of gender, identity and values in designing games.
You'll explore how these factors influence the design of games and how they can be addressed in game development.
This provides a deeper understanding of the role of games in society and how they can be used to promote equality, diversity and inclusion.
The second year of the course also includes a wide range of creative challenges, including undertaking competition briefs, learning how to launch your own games business, writing a self-initiated project and producing a case study of companies or designers that relate to your interests.
The final year is designed to prepare you to enter the games industry or to consider postgraduate study.
The curriculum provides the opportunity to work on industry-set projects, allowing you to gain practical experience and evidence their skills with a professional viewpoint.
In addition to industry projects, the third year of the course allows time to compile a portfolio of work.
This includes the Final Major Project, which has significance from a technical and conceptual viewpoint, this project will be the focal point of your portfolio, showcasing skills and abilities to future employers or clients.
To support this, you'll also write an industry-focused report, helping to understand which aspect of the industry you want to progress into, or to see where your business enterprise will lead.
PhD, MEd, MA, BA
"Our Games Art and Design degree transcends conventional gaming paradigms, embedding principles of meaningful games and showcasing concepts through values driven design.
We work with students with a range of skills and talents and prepare them for a future within the ever-expanding gaming industry."
Get a feel for what it's like to study BA (Hons) Games Art and Design from current student Emeline.
This course has a dedicated, well-resourced games studio, with hi-spec professional level hardware and software.
You'll also have online access to a wide range of library resources, including eBooks, downloadable content, and academic journals and articles.
BA (Hons) Games Art and Design is taught through a blend of theoretical instruction, practical application and understanding the concept of ‘Play’.
Independent learning is integral to BA (Hons) Games Art and Design.
It empowers students to explore their unique interests and styles within the gaming industry.
This self-directed approach cultivates a sense of ownership, resilience, and adaptability, crucial traits for future careers in the ever-evolving gaming industry.
Ultimately, it supports the development of well-rounded, independent game artists and designers.
BA (Hons) Games Art and Design graduates can pursue a wide array of career paths within the gaming industry and beyond.
During the academic year, at least one excursion to London or another UK cultural hub is planned on BA (Hons) Games Art and Design.
Trips give students confidence, promote independence and present opportunities for future professional and personal development.
Visiting tutors will bring you bring diverse perspectives and unique skill sets, enhancing your learning experience and understanding of the creative industries.
Create and develop innovative gaming perspectives through conceptualising and developing your own computer games.
Study Business of Games at Arts University Bournemouth.
Take the first step in your career in CGI with a foundation-level degree in 3D Animation and Visualisation for Film and Games...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-games-narrative:
BA (Hons) Games Narrative aims to equip graduates with the skills to create compelling, interactive stories for the gaming industry, emphasising 'Meaningful Games' and understanding themes such as gender and identity awareness in games alongside technical proficiency and game development knowledge.
The BA (Hons) Games Narrative course aims to equip you with the skills to create compelling, interactive stories for the gaming industry, emphasising 'Meaningful Games' and understanding themes such as gender and identity awareness in games alongside technical proficiency and game development knowledge.
You'll explore narrative design, player agency, and game mechanics, preparing for careers such as narrative designer, scriptwriter, and transmedia storyteller.
During the course, you’ll develop a comprehensive portfolio of narrative design skills, showcasing your ability to create immersive and interactive stories for games through your own imagination and implementing immersive technology such as AI.
This portfolio will reflect your individual style and technical proficiency, preparing you for a range of roles within the gaming and creative industries.
The BA (Hons) Games Narrative course is designed to equip you with the skills and knowledge to create engaging and interactive stories for the gaming industry.
A core focus of the course is on Meaningful Games —games that convey powerful messages and themes beyond entertainment—and understanding how storytelling can provoke thought and inspire social change.
You'll also explore critical themes such as gender and identity, learning how to create narratives that are inclusive and resonant with diverse audiences.
Through hands-on projects and collaboration, you'll develop immersive narratives while gaining valuable industry insights, preparing them for a variety of roles in the gaming and creative industries.
I622
The first unit, Introduction to Game Narratives , shows you the core elements of narrative structure, storytelling techniques, and your application within the gaming context.
You'll explore how narrative shapes the player's experiences and you'll begin to understand the relationship between traditional storytelling methods and interactive media including the use of AI.
This unit lays the groundwork for more complex narrative studies, helping you to build a solid foundation in crafting compelling game narratives.
The second unit, Character Development and World-Building allows you to understand the creation of immersive worlds and believable characters, essential components of any successful game narrative.
By learning the principles of world-building, you'll be equipped to design environments that enhance the player’s journey, while character development focuses on crafting engaging, multidimensional characters that drive the story forward.
This unit encourages creativity and a deep understanding of how settings and characters work together to create compelling experiences.
The final unit, Storytelling Through Games (Narrative) is a part-shared unit with BA (Hons) Games Art and Design .
This unit explores the mechanics of storytelling within interactive and game-based formats, emphasising the creation of Meaningful Games .
You'll learn how to design stories that convey deeper messages and themes, engaging players on multiple levels.
You'll explore narrative techniques tailored for interactivity, such as dialogue systems, branching storylines, and non-linear storytelling.
This shared unit allows for interdisciplinary collaboration, providing insight into how narrative integrates with art and design in the game creation process.
The opening unit of Year 2 is Gender, Identity, and Values (Narrative) is partly shared with BA (Hons) Games Art and Design.
This unit focuses on critical themes like diversity, representation, gender, and identity in game narratives.
You'll analyse and create stories that reflect a broad spectrum of human experience, learning to consider ethical storytelling and cultural sensitivity.
Alongside these themes, you'll experiment with techniques for creating branching narratives and providing meaningful player agency, ensuring that decisions within a game influence the narrative in significant ways.
This leads on to the Self-Initiated Project .
In this unit, you take full ownership of a narrative project of your creation.
You'll propose, plan, and develop a narrative design, applying the skills and knowledge gained from previous units.
You'll examine the relationship between game mechanics and narrative, ensuring that the story and gameplay mechanics complement each other.
This project allows you to explore your creative direction, honing your ability to merge story and gameplay while managing a long-term design process.
The Launchpad (Narrative) unit runs throughout the year and is partly shared with BA (Hons) Games Art and Design and BA (Hons) Business of Games.
This industry-focused unit helps you to prepare for the transition from university to professional roles in the gaming industry.
You'll build a professional portfolio showcasing your narrative designs, engage with industry professionals, and learn about the practical aspects of career development.
Topics include intellectual property, collaboration within game development teams, and market trends.
The unit is designed to prepare you for future employment, freelancing, or further study in the field.
The start of the final year has the unit Advanced Narrative Techniques, this unit takes you into advanced narrative techniques such as transmedia storytelling, where stories span multiple platforms (e.g., games, films, books), and explores how immersive worlds can be created with complex narrative structures.
You'll refine their ability to design layered, engaging narratives that are rich in detail and creativity.
This unit encourages you to push the boundaries of conventional game storytelling, exploring innovative approaches that resonate with modern audiences.
Alongside this, the Industry Report unit tasks you with conducting research into the gaming industry, with a focus on how narrative design is utilised across different sectors.
You'll analyse current trends, investigate specific roles related to narrative within the industry, and explore potential career paths.
This report will offer a deep understanding of how their skills can be applied in the professional world and give them insights into the business side of game development.
The final two terms are made up of a Final Major Project unit.
This self-initiated project serves as the culmination of the course, where you'll develop a comprehensive narrative design for a game.
Drawing on feedback from tutors and peers, you'll integrate everything learned throughout the course, from storytelling techniques and world-building to player agency and mechanics.
This project is an opportunity for you to showcase your mastery of narrative design and create a piece that's portfolio-ready and industry-competitive.
Alongside the Final Major Project, you'll work on the Reflective Journal unit where you'll maintain a Reflective Journal documenting your creative process, narrative decisions, and personal growth.
This journal helps you to critically evaluate your work, identify areas for improvement, and reflect on how your understanding of narrative design has evolved, and is instead of a standalone dissertation.
It serves as a vital tool for personal development, encouraging you to continually assess and refine their creative approach.
"As creators of interactive worlds and storytellers of the digital age, you have the power to craft narratives that not only entertain but challenge, inspire, and connect.
In this course, you’ll learn to harness that power, shaping stories that leave a lasting impact on players and the world around them."
Throughout the BA (Hons) Games Narrative course, you'll be immersed in the gaming industry to gain a deep understanding of the wide range of opportunities available to narrative designers.
Engaging with various sectors of the gaming world, from AAA studios to indie developers, will equip you with the creative and technical tools needed to continue crafting compelling game narratives beyond the course, whether in professional game development or further study and research.
You’ll have the chance to network with industry professionals such as narrative designers, game writers, producers, and studio leads, gaining insights into the diverse pathways for making a career in game storytelling.
These connections will provide valuable industry perspectives and help you explore potential roles and income streams as a narrative designer in the fast-evolving gaming industry.
The BA (Hons) Games Narrative course offers a unique blend of creative development, theoretical instruction and practical application, immersing you in the world of interactive storytelling.
Teaching methods include a combination of lectures, workshops, and hands-on projects, with an emphasis on developing narrative concepts and applying them to game design.
You'll frequently work on both individual and group projects, exploring your own creative ideas while refining your storytelling techniques.
Throughout the course, you'll use a range of methods to create and develop their concepts, as well as implement emerging technologies, such as AI, gaining valuable technical skills that are essential for a career in game narrative design.
Regular feedback from tutors supports continuous growth, while guest lectures from industry professionals offer insights into the latest trends and practices.
The course encourages self-directed study, empowering you to think creatively and solve complex narrative challenges independently.
Independent learning is a core element of the BA (Hons) Games Narrative course, encouraging you to explore their unique storytelling styles within the gaming industry.
Assignments often involve self-directed research, narrative development, and problem-solving, fostering critical thinking and creativity.
You'll undertake independent projects, guiding your ideas from concept to completion, allowing you to apply your skills in real-world contexts.
Alongside hands-on learning, you're encouraged to stay informed on industry trends and technologies.
This self-directed approach cultivates ownership, adaptability, and resilience – key traits for success in the dynamic and evolving field of game narrative design.
Ultimately, it prepares you to become independent and innovative narrative designers.
Graduates of the BA (Hons) Games Narrative course will be well-prepared for a variety of roles within the gaming and creative industries.
During the academic year, at least one excursion to London or another UK cultural hub is planned.
Due to Bournemouth's proximity to London, you can easily plan excursions to the city's art galleries and museums to supplement their academic work.
Visiting tutors play a pivotal role on the BA (Hons) Games Narrative course.
The industry professionals provide invaluable insights into the creative industry, sharing their expertise and experiences.
Their presence can also offer the opportunity to network and learn about potential career paths, industry trends, and professional practices.
Visiting tutors often bring diverse perspectives and unique skill sets, enriching the learning experience and fostering a deeper understanding of the standards and expectations of the creative industries.
Create compelling, interactive stories for the gaming industry.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-graphic-design:
On BA (Hons) Graphic Design, we believe in the power of design to evoke emotions and create meaningful connections to change the way people see, think, and behave in the world.
Thinking through making is core to the BA (Hons) Graphic Design course.
‘Bringing ideas to life’ involves taking a concept or thought and turning it into a tangible reality or action that's expressed through creativity, innovation, and craft.
This approach promotes design practice as a conversation, not a monologue, where you're encouraged to work with one another collaboratively on set and industry-led projects.
BA (Hons) Graphic Design provides a dynamic, student-centred learning experience, integrating specialist professional knowledge with theoretical academic understanding.
This approach is relevant for various graduate-level roles and postgraduate study.
Through project-based enquiry-led practice, sense-making activities, open-minded experimentation, robust critical thinking, and integrated writing output, you'll build your graphic design knowledge and understand its language and culture.
The BA (Hons) Graphic Design course benefits from deep professional practice knowledge, driven by our passion for conceptually led design projects and collaboration with industry partners and the creative sector.
The curriculum, informed by industry, supports progressive learning, giving graduates a stronger critical knowledge of self-efficacy, participatory creativity, emerging technologies, and experimentation.
Graduates are highly employable for their creative ideas, design skills, process thinking, and teamwork.
Conceptual thinking, resulting from creative openness to prototyping and exploration, is believed to define the future of graphic design.
Thinking through making is central to the course.
‘Bringing ideas to life’ involves turning concepts into tangible realities through creativity, innovation, and craft.
This approach promotes design practice as a conversation, encouraging students to work collaboratively on set and industry-led projects.
This experience builds strong studio communities and networks, mirroring industry practice.
Co-creation helps reframe ideas, challenge assumptions, and build trust and empathy for others' ideas and experiences.
The curriculum embraces innovative technologies and addresses design challenges from climate emergency, social injustice, economic inequality, and cultural development.
You'll learn to respond ethically, with curiosity, and strategically to new challenges by identifying essential themes for each unit.
The aim is to inspire responsible practitioners with core conceptual and technical skills, understanding graphic design's potential to influence and shape perceptions and behaviours.
A human, nature, and planet-centred approach nurtures positive, progressive interactions between the designer, the design output, and the end user.
We aim to inspire future designers to become responsible practitioners, gain core skills, and understand graphic design's potential to influence and shape perceptions.
The course connects with internal and external speakers through talks and workshops integrated into the AUB Human initiative.
You'll participate in study trips, events, set and ‘live’ projects, and designer-led workshops to integrate professional and transferable skills.
This integration helps you to become confident, empathetic designers positioned within ‘design practice.’ Studio and cultural visits, attendance at the portfolio ‘Network Event,’ and placement options inform career ambitions and support the transition to industry or further study.
W210
Students on BA (Hons) Graphic Design have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
The first year provides you with opportunities to develop fundamental skills, principles, processes, and knowledge.
These are considered core attributes encompassing the tasks and knowledge expected of all graphic designers.
All Level 4 units are designed to provide experience in the studio and computer lab, to promote confidence in using digital processes, methods, and materials essential to the study of graphic design.
Additionally, gaining a working knowledge of typography is a key goal for this year, enabling you to effectively structure and arrange information to enhance communication and expression.
This level of study also offers a broader contextual understanding of the subject.
Theory and practice are seamlessly integrated across all units.
Skills in research, critical analysis, evaluation and communication of interrelated practices and technologies, are delivered to enhance your creative potential.
You'll explore contemporary global themes and issues related to design practice, contributing to the creative dialogue between theory and practice.
Alongside incorporating these concepts into their design work, you're encouraged to be curious, take risks, and engage in experimentation – fostering growth as creative individuals who formulate and communicate visual solutions, either independently or collaboratively.
Throughout the year, emphasis is placed on generating and developing ideas.
Units such as Exploring Graphic Communication and Visual Thinking will help in developing your typographic skills, visual language, and to the ability to research, experiment and generate ideas tailored to specific audience needs.
The final unit in the year, Purposeful Curiosity, serves as a bridge to Level 5.
Here, you're introduced to fundamental animation and motion graphic skills while delivering designed solutions.
The importance of team working is also recognised within all units and include elements of self-reflection and peer evaluation.
In the second year, you'll consolidate and expand your digital, technical, typographic, design thinking and making skills.
You'll identify different perspectives, specialisms, and modes of critical design thinking, within the broader field of graphic design.
Furthermore, you'll explore code, moving image and emerging technologies, engaging in individual or collaborative projects with real-world applications.
To highlight and celebrate your work, you'll participate in an industry 'Network Event' during the summer term, providing you with opportunities to build your design networks and establish connections within the creative industry.
Units in this year encourage you to engage with the subject from different viewpoints.
In Innovate, you're challenged to embrace critical design practice and become agents of change.
In Narrative, the focus is on designing motion design sequences and web interactions; you'll explore methods of analysing, constructing, and accessing narratives.
In Experience , you'll be introduced to immersive design and the user-centred agenda, preparing you for Level 6 study and units such as Future Practice.
In this way, the Level 5 experience provides a way of scoping different understandings, skills, and methods of working that can inform your thinking in relation to the more self-directed practice, and project-based learning occurring at Level 6.
Theoretical and contextual understanding is broadened and deepened in a variety of ways in Level 5.
Ethical and sustainability issues are addressed in units such as Experience and Place where talks and lectures align and integrate with the University’s AUB Human initiative.
The Place unit provides opportunities to explore and reflect on practice, in relation to themes and issues that might go on to become the focus of Level 6’s Critical Practice and Major Project as well as future career planning.
The 'Network Event' encourages and supports you to participate in industry placements during summer break, which may help with the start of a career planning process.
In your final year, you'll continue to expand the scope of your skills, delve deeper into critical enquiry, and confirm your personal creative aspirations.
You'll develop a strategic approach that directs your individual graphic design practice towards future career destinations.
In the units Future Practice and Major Project, a research-oriented approach underpins experimental, disruptive, and speculative methods.
This encourages you to take the lead in shaping your own path, empowering your practice.
Learning in these units is primarily project-based, emerging from the challenges and nuances of each project.
The Critical Practice unit offers opportunities for advanced independent research, which can complement the Major Project.
The integration and consolidation of themes across Level 6 units support and enhance creative practice and career aspirations.
Additionally, beyond academic writing, you're expected to use your writing skills for reflecting on and organising ideas and process, messaging, specification, copywriting and pitching ideas.
At Level 6, all units require you to define your study through Learning Agreements, which are negotiated with the teaching team.
These agreements provide focus and enable you to demonstrate agency by integrating your own interests and passions into your learning.
The course emphasises an outward-facing perspective, evident through engagement with competition briefs and input from visiting speakers.
Project briefs may be ‘ignited’ in workshops led by designers, providing a springboard for research and ideation.
Our BA (Hons) Graphic Design students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
On BA (Hons) Graphic Design, you’ll benefit from the expert guidance of our experienced teaching staff, that include professional graphic designers, researchers and relevant visiting practitioners delivers the course.
The course is outward-facing and works closely with creative agencies and other organisations at local, national, and international levels.
MA RCA, BA, PGCE (HE), FHEA, FRSA
MA (RCA), BA, PGCE (HE), FHEA, FRSA
MA, RCA, PGCHE
BA (Hons), MA, FHEA, PGCert
FHEA, PGCert, PhD, MA, BA (Hons)
PhD, MA, FHEA
Graphic Design is a dynamic creative field and, at its core, it is about communicating to inform, educate, entertain, and persuade.
Experimentation, discovery and transformation of creative ideas into tangible expressions are important values on this course.
Graphic Design joins thinking and making.
Through design-led enquiry, we gain insight into unfamiliar contexts and explore opportunities to turn end-user or audience needs into human-centred solutions.
There’s no 'right' answer and you’ll be supported to try new things and confidently find your own path as you learn more skills.
Find out from students Paul and Nayanika about what it’s like to study BA (Hons) Graphic Design at AUB.
Course leader Marion Morrison talks about what to expect from studying BA (Hons) Graphic Design here at AUB, and Senior Lecturer Alice Stevens explains how graphic design is changing the world.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Graphic Design – Wes Richardson, creative director at Imagination.
Our partnership with Imagination is aligned to core AUB and course ethos and values.
The opportunity is exciting as Imagination creates innovative work in experiential brand immersion by mixing the blend of in-depth understanding of how to connect brand experience with audience through culture and dynamic digital technologies.
BA (Hons) Graphic Design offers numerous facilities to aid your journey.
We pride ourselves in our ability to enable almost every...
BA (Hons) Graphic Design is a practice-based course.
The studio and a studio culture are central to the ethos of the course.
The emphasis is on building creative skills, cognitive processes and methodologies.
The diversity of the student group brings benefits of cross-disciplinary and cross-cultural experience.
The course objectives are met by structuring the learning progressively and by incorporating a wide variety of learning and teaching methods and experiences.
Including: project-based learning, workshops, lectures, seminars, educational visits, group critiques and tutorials.
You'll develop creative cognitive skills, including research methodologies, critical analysis, problem-solving, communication and presentation as well as specialist technical skills.
You'll be encouraged to experiment, take risks, and try out new things.
The moment when new-found skills and knowledge are connected to your existing skill set and understanding, is seen as an opportunity for insight, creativity and learning.
Projects involve phases of research discovery, problem finding, insight gathering, problem-solving, and spotting opportunity for innovation.
Throughout, the programme integration of theory, critical thinking and practice is promoted.
The learning experience emphasises the disciplines required of a creative practitioner and promotes the development of transferable skills, preparing you for a variety of employment routes and postgraduate study.
A team of staff that include professional Graphic Designers, researches and relevant visiting practitioners delivers the course.
The course is outward facing and works closely with design agencies and other organisations at local, national and international levels.
Staff are responsible for co-ordinating individual units of study, and for selecting appropriate methods of delivery according to subject matter and student experience.
Midway through the larger 40 credit units Formative Assessment will take place to help you keep on track, monitor your progress and support your achievement.
You'll have the opportunity to take part in major graphic design competitions, for example in second year, Creative Conscience, and in final year, the International Society of Typographic Designers Licentiate scheme that gives the opportunity to attain a specialist professional qualification and the Royal Society of Arts Student Design Awards as well as Design and Art Direction new Blood student awards offer opportunities to participate in industry-based briefs.
The course is structured progressively to provide increased opportunities for independent learning as you reach the final year of the course.
The tutor leading the unit will use a variety of methods of delivery in order to encourage your participation in the learning process.
Progressively teaching is directed at providing you with the critical judgement necessary to take increasing responsibility for the management of your own learning towards individual goals.
Throughout the units within a year and (year on year) across the course, you're encouraged to gradually become more autonomous, and to consider yourself as a professional designer.
Teaching is both directed at individual learning and working in teams to enable you to learn the value of peer collaboration.
Learning activities include: studio workshops, lectures, technical demonstrations, tutorials (individual and group), project reviews, presentations, independent study, field trips, AUB and London shows.
Typical contact hours can be found below:
50
Graduates of our course go on to play an active role in a wide range of communications businesses from design consultancies to media companies, publishers to packaging.
And many set up their own companies.
Careers include:
Some BA (Hons) Graphic Design graduates choose to take postgraduate courses before embarking on their career.
BA (Hons) Graphic Design has close links with industry, and graduates are actively recruited by leading national and international design companies, including:
Forpeople | Sky Creative| JKR | Mad River | Moving Brands | NB Studios | Bond and Coyne | Pentagram | Walker Agency | Dixon Baxi | Ustwo | Nice & Serious | Bright Blue Day | Multi-adaptor | Dyson | Ogilvy | Accenture | 20 Ten Creative | Quantum
You can find out more about our alumni by browsing their profiles below.
Milly Withers is an experienced calligrapher and graphic designer.
She's been running her own business, Blink Lettering...
When I heard that the number of asthma attacks was increasing, I decided to see what I could do about it...
James Addison works as creative lead at for people, a design studio based in London...
I’m a multidisciplinary designer based in London, with a particular interest in design thinking and brand strategy whilst honing...
Izzi graduating from the AUB in 2017, and since has worked alongside some of the world’s biggest brands such as Google, and YouTube...
As part of BA (Hons) Graphic Design, you'll gain insight into the industry by visiting a range of design studios.
You may also get the opportunity to take part in cultural course trips, previous trips have included:
These trips are optional, and some may incur additional costs.
BA (Hons) Graphic Design has welcomed a wide range of inspiring speakers, to provoke discussion, deliver practice advice and workshops.
We had the brilliant Eleni Beveratou – Creative Director at Dalton Maag – running a typography workshop for our third-year students.
The AUB Human newspaper features AUB student and staff work from the Environmental Connection project with BA (Hons) Graphic Design and Interior Architecture and Design courses.
The project was undertaken in collaboration with Activate Performing Arts, in relation to the Green Space Dark Skies project at Maiden Castle in June 2022.
Graphic Design is about communicating to inform, educate, entertain and persuade.
The success of this course is represented by the sheer number of awards that our students win.
MA Graphic Design encourages designers to explore ways of developing understanding between co-communicators.
MA Graphic Design (Online) at Arts University Bournemouth gives you the freedom to develop innovative and future-facing projects...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-illustration:
On BA (Hons) Illustration, you'll experiment, test and develop your creative practice, set in our dynamic studio environments to create rich visuals through eclectic image-making.
Illustration is a way of seeing and understanding the world around us.
In our dynamic studio environments, you’ll learn to experiment, test and develop your illustration practice.
You can explore a range of processes and strategies from drawing, painting, and printmaking, towards photographic image, digital painting and image, moving image and motion graphics, CGI, interactive media and more!
On BA (Hons) Illustration, you'll learn to experiment, test, and develop your work through the diverse world of illustrative practices in our studio environments.
W220
Students on BA (Hons) Illustration have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
Level 4 is all about experimentation and taking creative risks as you're introduced to the diversity of illustration.
The emphasis is on learning through gaining practical experience and critical reflection, in order to form your own unique visual vocabulary.
You’ll attend workshops led by our dynamic group of tutors, as well as visiting lecturers with expertise in specialist areas.
You'll undertake independent learning to help you develop ideas and outcomes through ongoing studio practice.
You’ll test and discuss your ideas during tutorials and group critiques and benefit from regular formative feedback.
We encourage you to undertake independent research, evaluating and analysing your findings in relation to your Illustration practice.
At Level 5, your practice will become increasingly independent and critically reflective.
You’ll develop a critical understanding of key concepts and principles.
You'll consolidate your practice as developed through Level 4, with the addition of deeper technical and conceptual enquiry.
Level 5 units give you the opportunity to immerse yourself in the eclectic nature of image-making through exploring the synergy between traditional and digital modes.
In doing so, we encourage you to challenge the parameters of your illustration practice.
You’ll be supported in the challenge of articulating your ideas through core strategies and concepts as they relate to audience and illustrative practices.
In this process of further consolidation, you'll be encouraged to push the boundaries as they relate to your own developing practice.
You will utilise your own bespoke technical framework, incorporating aspects as far ranging as printmaking to computer generated image The focus of this framework is dependent on the individual practitioner and the necessity of their practice.
In this exploration of the evolving contents for illustration and the individual place of your practice, you’ll learn the professional skills that provide the foundation for the development of an independent, audience-aware practice, ready for Level 6 study.
At Level 6 the emphasis is on professionalism, ambition and innovation.
With the support of your tutors, you’ll be encouraged to manage your own practice, set your own goals and move into a position where you can solidify a post-degree context for your work.
Through the first part of your Level 6 experience, you’ll identify the subject matter and contexts that influence and position your practice.
You'll be encouraged and supported with locating your work within an external audience; considering the possibilities of what you do as sustainable post-degree practice.
The decisions you make and the direction you discover will then be developed, tested and refined within the Major Project and Professional Practice units.
You'll be encouraged to relate your research and learning to your professional aspirations, to develop your own bespoke post-degree creative strategy.
With this goal in mind, you’ll be supported in building a portfolio of work in specific awareness of your own potential career opportunities within the creative industries.
Our BA (Hons) Illustration students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
Want to know more about the kind of work our students are working on?
Browse the gallery below to explore the work of our current BA (Hons) Illustration students.
You can find out more about our talented and experienced BA (Hons) Illustration teaching staff by exploring their profiles below.
BA, MA, PGCE, FHEA
MA, BA (Hons), PG Cert, FHEA
PGCert, MA, BA (Hons)
Hear from student Charlie to find out what it's like to study BA (Hons) Illustration here at AUB.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Illustration – Lush.
For the past 25 years, Lush has pioneered intricate pictorially exciting products such as the fizzing bath bomb, shower jellies and shampoo bars.
Lush places emphasis on the visual and material quality of sustainable final design, building integrated uncomplicated visual statements in antithesis of over-packaging and waste packaging.
As a BA (Hons) Illustration student, you’ll work in a combination of multi-use studio spaces and tutorial areas.
You’ll benefit from access to a number of University facilities, such as specialist print areas, workshops and lecture theatres.
Learning is through intellectual enquiry, research and practice.
The course outcomes are met by deploying a wide variety of teaching and learning methods supervised by members of the team, visiting support staff, practitioners and consultants from industry.
In consultation with the Course Leader, Level Leaders are responsible for co-ordinating individual units of study, and for selecting appropriate methods of delivery according to subject matter and the student experience.
Theoretical, contextual, studio and professional practices are embedded within all units.
This integration dissolves the artificial barriers between these forms of engagement, such as recognising theory in making, allowing you to fully realise your potential and truly understand the rich relationship between these elements of practice.
The promotion of independent learning reflects your anticipated maturity as a student and allows you to direct your learning towards individual goals.
Importance is placed upon you acquiring the skills to be able to learn independently and to develop a critical awareness.
This is facilitated through a variety of learning and teaching methods such as tutorials, group critiques, discussion groups, peer learning activity, projects, lectures, workshops, seminars, study visits, demonstrations, skills-based workshops, educational visits, on-site learning, ‘live projects’, learning agreements, exhibition and group presentation.
54
53
55
Our graduates are working within the creative industries across a range of diverse visual art and design practices.
Our BA (Hons) Illustration graduates have created:
Our alumni are represented by illustration agencies including Jelly London, Folio Illustration, The Artworks, The Greenhouse and The Bright Agency.
You can find out more about what some of our BA (Hons) Illustration graduates are up to below – click on the alumni below to read more.
I loved my time at AUB.
I had just finished a sequential illustration HND which was quite focused...
I decided to base my final project at AUB on multiple briefs for competitions and some self-directed surface patterns...
Liv & Dom didn’t really happen until the last couple of months of university...
As part of BA (Hons) Illustration, you may also get the opportunity to take part in course trips, previous trips have included:
The following Visiting Tutors also contribute to the teaching on the course:
Illustration is a way of seeing and understanding the world.
You'll discover how to connect and communicate with different audiences.
MA Illustration (Online) at Arts University Bournemouth enables you to explore, refine and reflect on the practical aspects of your craft...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-interior-architecture-design:
Learn how to understand the spaces in which we work, live and play on BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design.
You'll work in contexts, atmospheres and environments with real clients – our graduates have immediate employment potential.
BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design will help you to become a skilled designer, capable of understanding the spaces in which we live, work, rest and play from a four-dimensional perspective.
This includes factoring structure, context, atmosphere, environmental consideration, narrative, wellbeing, technology and human need to create multi-faceted spaces.
This course will offer you the skills, knowledge and work experience you need to become a leader in one of the most dynamic, creative, economically valuable and diverse areas of design.
You’ll have the chance to work with real clients on real design projects in a studio-based and professionally focused learning environment.
Through the adaptive reuse, rebranding, remodelling, recycling and re-communication of existing spaces, structures and environments, BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design offers you the skills, knowledge and work experience that you need to become a leader in one of the most dynamic, creative, economically valuable and diverse areas of design.
Interior Architecture and Design has an enviable record in graduate employment, often working with clients on real design projects in a studio-based, professionally focused learning environment.
We offer you the chance to gain extended work experience in an optional placement year to get under the skin of an industry, organisation and the role to assist you with making better-informed decisions about your future career prospects.
This course will teach you to understand the three-dimensional potential, the atmosphere, and the identity of the spaces in which we live, work, rest, and play, placing a strong emphasis on sustainability, environmental and social responsibility into the projects.
KW12
Students on BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
Understanding the interior, 'The individual dimension'
Level 4 aims to generate a fundamental understanding of space: its analysis, theoretical manipulation, habitation, technological construction and materiality and scale.
At this level, you'll concentrate on acquiring fundamental skills essential for your progression throughout subsequent years of study and into professional practice.
This foundational period is characterised by an emphasis on mastering core abilities and techniques integral to the disciplines.
Through structured course work and hands-on experiences, you'll cultivate a solid understanding of key principles, methodologies, and tools relevant to the interior architecture and design discipline.
During the first year, you'll understand the principle of a user-centred approach within the field of Interior Architecture and Design.
This approach places importance on understanding and accommodating the needs, preferences, and experiences of people as central to the design, operation, and delivery of services within interior spaces.
Additionally, you'll be introduced to Careers and Enterprise activities appropriate to this Level.
Up-thinking the interior, 'The community dimension'
Level 5 aims to consolidate and refine the skills delivered at Level 4 and encourage you to develop your own methods of realisation and visualisation.
Your second year has been designed to enhance your development both creatively and professionally.
Technical knowledge (construction/light/sound/materiality) will also be further developed with design units being used to demonstrate how your knowledge and critical understanding of the well-established principles of interior architecture and design have developed.
Technological developments and developments in the nature of interior practice will be explored such as the communication of semiotics, atmosphere and identity, ideas of brand and image, interactivity, the real and the virtual.
In Level 5, design will progress from the concentration on the personal and intimate at Level 4 to ideas of community – and the deeper understanding of scale, complexity and hierarchy in space that this will necessitate.
By adopting a community-centred approach, interior architecture and design interventions aim to foster inclusivity and accessibility within built environments.
This approach seeks to create holistic solutions that cater to diverse community needs and facilitate collaborative partnership among stakeholders.
Also in Level 5, there'll be a deliberate emphasis on utilising theory as a fundamental tool for the design process.
Through theoretical exploration and analyses, you'll harness conceptual frameworks to inform and enrich your design decisions, fostering depth and sophistication in your creative work
The course in general at Level 5 allows for interdisciplinary collaborations across different courses, schools or external partners, this allows a culture of collaboration to develop among students.
The optional placement year offers the students the opportunity to get under the skin of an industry, organisation, and role to assist you with making better-informed decisions about your future career prospects.
Undertaking a placement will ensure students to take personal responsibility for tasks, duties, and projects within a real-world work scenario.
The placement year will be recognised on the degree transcript.
Redefining the interior
Your final year is your opportunity to bring all your learning, skills and knowledge together in the production of a package of professionally orientated, creative work that will examine and emphasise your research theme.
One of the fundamental strengths of the course is that it does not attempt to define the interior for you, rather it encourages you, over three years, to challenge, theorise, conceptualise, realise and visualise your notion of the “interior” in contemporary society: in other words we encourage you, in your final year, to look at what the interior can be.
Units at Level 6 will look to consolidate this approach through the work that has been undertaken at Levels 4 and 5.
In addition, the course will encourage you to build on your Level 5 experience to contextualise the work in a professional studio environment that emphasises practice, law and the ethical and ecological roles and responsibilities of you as a designer.
At the end of the year, you'll have produced a comprehensive body of written and design work that'll demonstrate to both specialist and non-specialist audiences your practical and thinking skills and intellectual and critical engagement in the complex design of interior spaces.
Having undertaken this work in a professional setting, you'll evidence your readiness for the move to either practice or postgraduate study and you'll be proud of what you have achieved.
Our BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
2025 TP Bennett Awards
2025 – Winner | Gendo AI Award, Architectural Visualisation – Devon Beach
2025 – Shortlisted | Interior Educators Awards, Social Justice – Freddy Barrett
2024 TP Bennett Awards
2024 – Winner | Architects for Health Award, Judge's Special Category – Molly Gransbury
2023 – Shortlisted | Arts Thread Global Design Graduate Show, Product/Architecture/Interiors – Femke Burley
2022 – Shortlisted | Creative Conscience Award, Architecture, Engineering, and Interior Design – Isabella Williams
2021 – Winner | Architects for Health Award, Best Project for Interior Design – Tom Pritchard, Isabella Williams
As a course, we've also been selected as finalists in the HSJ 2022 Awards for Integrated Care System of the Year for our work with Our Dorset on the Think Big initiative.
Browse our gallery of student work and take a look at some of the projects that current students have been working on.
On the BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design course, you’ll benefit from the expert guidance from our experienced teaching staff.
B.Arch., M.Arch.
MA, BA, PGCE (HE), FHEA
The course is positioned with clear aim of creating interior architecture and design graduates who see themselves as creatively confident, technically competent, critically capable, and ready to commence their part within the professional interior architecture and design community of practice, or related fields.
We believe that tomorrow's designers should be able to use technologies that continue to evolve.
They should gain empathy and maintain a deep understanding of social issues, human behaviour, and modern business models and they must meet new ethical challenges in different global territories with different sustainability issues, different cultures, and different value systems.
In this video, find out from student Chloe as she explains what it's like to study BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design at AUB.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design – Rebecca Wall.
Rebecca is a project director in the interiors team at TP Bennett, with an extensive range of experience spanning across many sectors.
Working with well-known brands and establishments from small roll-out refurbishments to large complex new builds both in the UK and internationally.
As a student on the course, you’ll work across our studio and computer spaces.
Design work, tutorials and critiques take place in a dynamic and creative atmosphere using the latest in digital and audio-visual equipment.
The Interior Architecture and Design resources are categorised into exclusive IAD facilities and shared spaces with the...
From before you join the course (at open days and interviews) you'll have appreciated that, whilst not mimicking practice, the studio is central to your practice.
The diversity of the student group brings benefits of cross-disciplinary and cross-cultural experience; you can learn so much from making use of your space.
BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design is structured progressively to provide increased opportunities for independent learning as you reach the later stages of the course.
The tutor leading the unit will employ a variety of methods of delivery in order to encourage your participation in the learning process.
These will be dependent on the nature of the unit and the progress of the unit.
Throughout the units within a year (and year on year) in the course, you're encouraged to gradually become more autonomous, progressively being asked to consider yourself as a professional designer.
The understanding of the role and appropriateness of communication is essential: as designers of space – something that cannot be experienced in reality until it is built, and something that will not be built unless it has been communicated beyond any level of doubt – clarity and professionalism in the verbal, visual and written communication of the self, of ideas and solutions to problems is prioritised on the course from the moment you join us.
The teaching across the course is directed at providing you with the judgements necessary to take increasing responsibility for the management of your own learning.
Teaching is directed at supporting individual engagement in learning, although there will be opportunities for you to work in teams to enable you to learn the value of peer co-operation.
The University has agreed that, during 2019/20, it will run a pilot project.
This will mean that on some courses, one unit at Level 4 will be assessed on a Pass / Fail basis only, with written feedback but no numerical grade.
If your course has been selected for the pilot, your Course Leader will tell you this, and the details will be clearly expressed on the Unit Information Sheet.
The 'interiors' sector is the fastest growing sector of design in the UK economy.
The breadth of areas covered on the BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design course enable graduates to have a wide variety of career opportunities open to them such as: architecture, interior architecture, interior design, set and stage design, point of sale display and exhibition design.
On graduating from BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design, students find that their studies have prepared them to take-on the challenge of an increasingly diverse creative sector: design companies such as Terry Farrell and Partners, Conran Design and Black Sheep have offered opportunities and internships; international brands, such as Wedgwood, and high-profile, international, communications agencies such as Exposure are working with our students.
The course prides itself on its success in promoting work experience for students and graduates; the variety of positions that the students achieve are a reflection of the philosophy of the course, namely that the study of Interior Architecture and Design is broad, dynamic and exciting and allows you, the student, to work to your strengths and follow the path that is best suited to you.
The breadth of areas covered on the course enables graduates to have a wide variety of career opportunities open to them such as: architecture, interior architecture, interior design, set and stage design, point of sale display and exhibition design.
During the course, students have worked for organisations as varied as the English National Opera and even Formula 1.
Here are some examples of companies that our graduates are working for:
Jasmine has been employed in the role of a visualisation artist, contributing to various architectural endeavours...
The AUB Human newspaper features AUB student and staff work from the Environmental Connection project with BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design and BA (Hons) Graphic Design courses.
From bars and restaurants to yacht design, to disaster relief and refuge, our students work on a huge variety of projects.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-interior-architecture-health-and-wellbeing:
BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design for Health and Wellbeing will no longer be accepting applications for 2025 and onwards.
This decision wasn't made lightly and will allow an opportunity for us to consider developments in the interior architecture and design disciplines, and how this fits within our portfolio of courses.
Interior architecture and design's place within the health and wellbeing sector will continue to be explored in our BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design course.
You'll place human-centred design at the heart of everything you do to transform environmental experiences from debilitation to invigoration

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-make-up-for-media-and-performance:
Eye-catching make-up and special effects can transform a production.
On BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance, you'll collaboratively develop and apply your cosmetic skills to performance, fashion, film and television.
Spectacular make-up and dramatic special effects can transform a production.
Our BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance course gives you the skills you need to play a key creative role in performance, fashion, film or television.
The make-up artist is an important member of any production team and you’ll work with students studying acting, film production, costume and fashion to create ‘live’ collaborative projects.
BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance gives you the skills that you need to play a key creative role in performance, fashion, film or television.
Our recent graduates have worked on television and film productions (such as The Last of Us, The Marvels, Paddington in Peru, The Gentlemen, Thor: The Dark World, Wheel of Time, The Crown, Ted Lasso, Doctor Who, Coronation Street , and Casualty ), theatre productions at the Royal Shakespeare Company and the English National Opera, musicals (such as Tina, Wicked , Mary Poppins , Matilda and Priscilla Queen of the Desert ), and at London Fashion Week and Warner Bros.
Studios, Leavesden.
The make-up artist is an important member of any production team, and you’ll have the chance to work with students who are studying BA (Hons) Acting, Film Production, Costume, Design for Costume and Performance, Commercial Photography, Visual Effects, Fashion and Fashion Communication to create ‘live’ collaborative projects.
On this course, you’ll learn a diverse range of make-up skills.
You’ll study make-up and hair design for drama, ballet, opera and music.
A different perspective will give you the skills for fashion and photography shoots.
You’ll also construct wigs and hairpieces and create prosthetic make-up FX for film and television.
In short, you’ll develop skills that are a real asset to a wide range of performance industries, from theatre to TV, and from the music business to the world of fashion and film.
W45G
Students on BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
The first year (Level 4) of the course is designed to teach you the fundamental creative, practical, analytical and critical skills needed by make-up artists working in various media and performance industries.
Workshops and practical projects will help you to extend existing skills in make-up, wigs and hair design and application through learning about postiche.
Interpersonal, communication and employability skills are developed through these units since you will carry out practical make-up and hair projects on one another, models and performers under direction and supervision.
The units will also introduce you to formally recording your work through developing a professional make-up portfolio.
The development of analysis, critical thinking, research, reflection and writing skills are an important part of the course and link with the development of your practical and creative work.
The second year of your course enables you to build upon the skills and knowledge that you have gained at Level 4 and gives you the opportunity to consider the specialisms and career pathways that you would like to explore in more depth during Level 6 study.
Employability and professional skills are developed through exploring professional make-up contexts, digital technology in make-up, industrial links and collaborative engagement.
You’ll refine your technical abilities and knowledge of the place of the make-up artist within the creative team.
You’ll work on a variety of live projects including live performances, shoots and make-up events – an important aspect of the course.
You’ll develop a contextual understanding of the art of make-up transformation and performance work though research.
Your third year provides the opportunity for you to formulate and identify your particular professional and academic interests.
Risk and ambition within the field will be crucial to your individual development and intellectual and academic integrity will be further encouraged through written work and ‘thinking through practice’.
The structure of Level 6 is made up of units that will further develop your potential to become intellectually motivated and increasingly autonomous professionals.
There is a strong emphasis on balancing conceptual thinking skills, research methods, practical and technical skills, working independently and as part of a team and acquiring lifelong learning skills.
You’ll develop your specialist areas of interest such as prosthetic transformation.
You’ll extend your portfolio of work within a range of professional contexts through live projects and collaborations.
You’ll investigate your own practice and develop a philosophical understanding of key critical and contextual issues.
The opportunity exists within the curriculum to graduate with one of four named awards.
The named awards available are:
Our BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
2021 – Winner | BBC Three's Glow Up , Series Three – Sophie Baverstock
2019 – Winner | Body Paint Pro (Warpaint Magazine) at the North Make-up Championships
Ready to be inspired?
Browse our gallery of student work to see some of the projects that our current students have been working on.
On BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance, you’ll benefit from the expert guidance of our experienced teaching staff.
MA, SFHEA, PGCE
MFA, FHEA
PGCE, BA (Hons)
Make-up is about transforming identity and becoming the other whether it’s for stage, screen or photographic purposes.
You will need to be determined, creative, adaptable and resilient in order to be innovative in constantly changing industries.
Working with the next generation of filmmakers, photographers and performers develops your contextual and interpersonal skills making you responsive and sensitive when working collaboratively.
Discover what it's like to study BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance at AUB from students Harmony Evans and Lydia Harris.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance – Jane Tyler.
Jane is a freelance hair and make-up artist in television and film, whose successful career spans over 30 years.
She started as a make-up trainee at Granada TV in Manchester, where she developed her skills and assisted on BAFTA award-winning television series such as Cracker , Band of Gold , Moll Flanders , and popular Saturday night talent show Stars in their Eyes .
AUB has three state-of-the-art make-up studios, which provide a realistic, professional and comfortable working environment.
Formally opened by Nick Dudman himself, our make-up studios offer large flexible spaces for lectures, demonstrations, and practical workshops for all creative make-up and hair work.
Our studios have individual workstations with make–up chairs, mirrors, lighting, and much more
The teaching and learning within the BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance studio environment is structured so that you can make the most of the opportunities that arise within and beyond the curriculum structure.
This multidisciplinary manner of teaching is characteristic of the nature of the subject and individual development, as well as collaborative engagement, is strongly encouraged and supported.
The course will encourage you to explore the notion of make-up as an interface within the creative community with a particular focus on the media and performance contexts of stage, screen, film, fashion promotional and editorial, special effects and prosthetics.
Projects will encourage you to investigate, test and challenge the critical and theoretical ways in which contemporary, historical, cultural, psychological and anthropological attitudes inform and impact upon our perceptions of identity.
Opportunities to consider the importance, significance and invention of faces and the representation of make-up on the body provide an exciting environment for producing creative work.
You will be encouraged to relate your theoretical research to your practical development of make-up transformation through design thinking and technical skill development in hair styling, wig making, body painting, prosthetics and character design.
We are interested in a convergent and divergent approach to thinking, through research development, design thinking, ideas generation, and problem-solving for make-up transformation, from conception to the final outcome, be that a live performance, film, video recording, photographic evidence, digital images, installation or artefact.
Lectures, seminars and tutorials will be delivered by team members and visiting guests in the creative environment of the make-up studios.
The course objectives will be met by deploying a wide variety of teaching and learning methods including studio workshops, simulated and collaborative projects, lectures, seminars, group critiques, guided reading and tutorials.
The course is structured progressively to provide increasing opportunities for autonomous learning.
The methods deployed will, whenever possible, lead you into the disciplines required of a creative make-up designer and practitioner and promote the transferable skills of self-management and self-reliance.
The progressive promotion of student-centred learning reflects your maturity as a student and provides the opportunity to focus learning towards individual goals.
71
76
73
You will receive a final mark for each unit in the form of a percentage, which will be recorded on your formal record of achievement (transcript).
Successful completion of this course means you’ll have acquired the accomplished, discipline-specific and transferable skills needed in order to enter a highly competitive and sometimes unpredictable make-up industry, which requires graduates with a robust work ethic.
Career opportunities will focus on working closely with directors, designers and other creative departments in film, television, live performance and fashion which could include CGI technicians, photographers, model makers, sculptors, animatronics designers, visual effects artists and fashion stylists.
As graduating make-up artists from AUB, your professional options are wide and varied.
With this in mind, the course has been designed to prepare you for a professional career in a diverse range of specialist roles thus giving you the necessary skills to take full advantage of an inspiring and exciting career.
Our Careers and Enterprise Service is dedicated to supporting you in turning your creativity into a great career.
Opportunities that our recent graduates have undertaken include:
Previous graduates have gained employment on the following projects:
My first job after graduating was working for Nick Dudman on the ‘Warner Bros.
Studio Tour – The Making of Harry Potter'...
Since graduating, Natalie Allan has added some impressive work to her portfolio.
Her roles have included working as a junior...
I’ve worked in various roles in the industry, making use of the different skills I’ve learned.
My tasks vary...
As part of BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance, you may also get the opportunity to take part in course trips.
Stuart worked with our Level 5 students over two days on their kit bag challenge exercise, which allowed them to explore their creativity...
We were delighted to welcome SFX company Neill’s Materials to talk with our Level 6 students.
Tom and Matt gave a fantastic presentation...
Check out our student's work on our social media channels

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-media-marketing-and-advertising:
BA (Hons) Media, Marketing, and Advertising course provides a dynamic and hands-on learning experience, empowering you to cultivate and refine your skills in crafting marketing strategies and engaging advertising content across various media platforms.
You'll explore the rich history and theory behind marketing and advertising, equipping you to critically evaluate these fields through a social and cultural lens.
In addition, our curriculum delves into the business and strategic aspects of digital production, teaching you how to leverage data sets, analyse consumer behaviour, and devise effective marketing materials and advertising content.
Our course emphasises not only effectiveness but also a commitment to responsible practices, preparing you for a successful future in the evolving media landscape.
During the BA (Hons) Media, Marketing and Advertising course, you’ll develop an in-depth understanding of how to analyse consumer psychology and behaviour.
You’ll apply this insight alongside your learning about media platforms to strategise for marketing plans and advertising content that's relevant, compelling and responsible.
This distinctive course equips students to become well-rounded marketing and advertising professionals, blending a deep understanding of business fundamentals with the creative vision essential for effectively positioning and promoting brands and ideas in today’s dynamic media landscape.
N721
In the first year you’ll cover the fundamental areas of knowledge and skills you’ll need to become a successful within an advertising or marketing role, you’ll begin by studying the foundations of advertising through understanding the way the industry works, key theoretical ideas and examples of historic and contemporary practice.
A unit in consumer insights will be foundational in providing the tools to understand different audiences and how to develop marketing campaigns that have meaning for them, creating engagement and connection that leads to brand loyalty.
For many companies, the largest part of their advertising budget is spent online on social media; you’ll have the opportunity to learn through project work how to develop campaigns for social media, learning about the strategy and business as well as the creative content.
At AUB, the impact of what we do is central to our approach to education, so from the very start of the course you’ll be taught to critically question advertising practices and you’ll be tasked with ensuring your work is responsible in terms of its potential impact on people and planet.
In the second year, you’ll build on your knowledge, learning to use data to better understand how to tailor marketing strategies aligned to the needs, interests and behaviours of your audiences, as well as managing key aspects of digital content production.
In a core module, you'll explore PR, Branding and Advertising, building a portfolio of work that demonstrates your knowledge through devising and developing campaigns and producing advertising content for different media channels.
In third year, you'll be a more independent learner and be supported to develop a major project proposal that enables you to further develop your knowledge, skills and practice through a self-initiated project.
This might be based on a live brief, a hypothetical project or be preparation for establishing your own business.
You'll be tutored in finding the most suitable route for you and developing a research question and methodology that will create the structure for an academic, intellectually informed project with application to real-world business.
At this point in the course, students are able to develop a project, with structured support, that aligns to a particular area of interest that they'd like to specialise in within media, marketing and advertising.
BA (Hons) Media, Marketing and Advertising is taught through a blend of theoretical instruction and practical application.
Independent learning is integral to BA (Hons) Media, Marketing and Advertising, empowering students to explore their unique interests and styles.
BA (Hons) Media, Marketing and Advertising graduates can pursue a wide array of career paths within the industry and beyond.
Cultivate and refine your skills in crafting marketing strategies and engaging advertising content across various media platforms.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-modelmaking:
BA (Hons) Modelmaking has an international reputation for developing creative, articulate, and versatile makers; equipped with the skills and knowledge to excel throughout the creative industries.
The curriculum is designed to enable you to tailor your experience to suit your personal career aspirations.
Our graduates enjoy successful careers in a range of industries that include film, architecture, animation, advertising, display, design, Formula 1, museum and heritage, medical, education and more.
Having developed an international reputation for high standards, BA (Hons) Modelmaking is a leading course in its field.
Our programme equips you with the versatile skills necessary for thriving careers in the creative industries.
Graduates from this course are adaptable, innovative, and proficient problem-solvers.
BA (Hons) Modelmaking is your stepping stone to an exciting career in making.
With hands-on experience and access to the latest technology and traditional resources, you'll learn to make things using an extensive array of materials, tools, and techniques.
You'll develop the making skills needed for rewarding careers in film, architecture, exhibition, and design.
You'll develop as an independent thinker, capable of solving problems and taking imaginative leaps in creative design and making.
You'll work on live collaborative projects with students from other courses and with industry professionals.
Using our strong links with the creative industries, you'll have opportunities to undertake work experience with leading companies in the UK and abroad.
This course has been the first step in the journeys of many successful graduates, leaders, and innovators who continue to excel in a broad spectrum of the creative industries and beyond.
W291
Students on BA (Hons) Modelmaking have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
You're introduced at Level 4 to all the core skills of a professional modelmaker: making processes and techniques, design thinking, and the essential function of the model as a form of communication.
Previous assumptions about skills, methods, thought processes, and representation are challenged, reframed, and developed to build the necessary foundations for professional practice.
During Levels 4 and 5, a lecture programme, reinforced by studio discussion and debate, will introduce you to theoretical concepts and a wide range of issues including audience, communication, sustainability, and ethics, which will underpin your development as a modelmaker.
In the second year, you'll continue to develop your understanding of modelmaking as a form of communication.
Interpretation and representation are studied and practised in a variety of different professional contexts.
Attention is turned outwards to clients, to industry and to society.
Engagement and interaction with industry, audiences and consumers are integrated into the curriculum, as is research, reflection and the use of writing to develop understanding.
You're encouraged to develop interests and lines of enquiry that'll inform your choice of creative and career directions in the third year.
The course seeks to facilitate your self-discovery and to build confidence in pursuing independent paths in skill development, reflection and enquiry, and in choosing career directions.
In the final year, the direction of the course and of your decision-making is firmly towards the outside world as characterised by clients, the industry and audiences.
As part of this, however, there's a continuous process in which you're expected, through research and work experience, to 'benchmark' standards of performance, and to define, manage and meet your own personal standards of excellence.
Expectations are set that you'll demonstrate high levels of ambition as well as achievement and demonstrate the flexibility and resourcefulness appropriate to a professional in achieving those goals.
The course supports you to engage staff in dialogue over decision-making, from an independent position.
You're encouraged to identify yourselves as members of your chosen professional field, to make connections through personal contact and research and to 'prepare for success' by seeing yourselves as professionals already in practice.
2025 New Blades
2024 New Blades
2023 New Blades
2020 APMM Art Hedlund Student Model Making Competition
On BA (Hons) Modelmaking, you’ll benefit from the expert guidance from our experienced teaching staff.
MA, PGCE, HND, FHEA.
MA, BA(Hons), PGCE, FHEA
Modelmaking is a thriving, creative profession that works across the creative industries with unique and highly desirable skills.
Join this world-leading course to explore opportunities that enable you to turn your passion for making into an exciting and rewarding career.
Course leader Paul Johnson talks more about what you can expect from studying BA (Hons) Modelmaking here at AUB.
And find out more about the model tank students worked on for Bovington Tank Museum.
Our purpose-built, and well-lit Modelmaking studio is divided into three separate areas, one for each year group...
The course combines independent learning and structured taught sessions.
Teaching includes guided studio sessions, inductions, demonstrations, specialist workshops, individual and group tutorials, seminars, group critiques, lectures, and study visits.
These are delivered by a course team of industry-experienced professionals.
The teaching is further supplemented by the invaluable input of visiting professionals, supplying the course with a wide range of current skills and industry knowledge.
Work experience and company visits also provide highly valuable learning opportunities.
Universities interviewing for creative courses will expect to be presented with a portfolio to help them understand your ability and range of work.
Your portfolio could be your golden ticket into receiving an offer so making sure it’s presentable, well-organised and accessible is essential.
Independent learning includes studio practice, research, analysis and critical reflection.
Teaching by the course team is directed at supporting you in managing your learning.
You're encouraged to develop strategies for independent learning and time management on each unit of study and this responsibility progresses as you move through the levels of the course where the use of a statement of intent becomes an integral part of the process.
The skills you'll gather from BA (Hons) Modelmaking apply to many other industries too.
There are few courses that offer the range of experience that we can, and we have a very good reputation among those who are looking for reliable and well-prepared graduates to employ.
Many of our graduates have progressed to run departments and successful businesses.
Our graduates design and make handheld props, sets and costumes in the film industry.
In world-renowned architectural practices, they lead teams and run departments making a range of architectural models; in the world of animation, our graduates work for companies such as Aardman, making sets, props and puppets.
From prototypes to wind tunnel test models, from prosthetic limbs to robotics and from science fiction to science research, our graduates excel in making models and artefacts that entertain, educate and communicate to global audiences.
AUB's Careers and Enterprise team is dedicated to supporting you in turning your creativity into a great career.
I'm a workshop and installation team leader at Merlin.
I work with lots of theme parks, right now I'm working on scarcest for Alton Towers.
My job is to turn concept art into real life props.
It usually starts with a concept design for a weapon from the art department...
Here at Tailor-made Model Makers, we make high-quality architectural models for architects, designers, property, developers and marketing...
Graduates from the BA (Hons) Modelmaking course are now working in an exciting range of careers - from the precision of Formula One.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-movement-dance-creative-practice:
Move, create, innovate – this is a degree for those who see the body as a limitless creative tool.
Rooted in dance, physical theatre and movement research, this course places the moving body at its core.
BA (Hons) Movement, Dance and Creative Practice is a course for people who believe the power of movement is the heartbeat of creativity and wellbeing.
This unique degree places movement at its core – celebrating its role in performance, dance, theatre and human health, and as a vital creative force that connects and inspires.
You’ll grow as a portfolio artist and as a practitioner, becoming someone equipped to work in artistic contexts and to live creative briefs.
You’ll become an artist who makes meaningful contributions to communities and the world around you.
Join us and become a creator, performer and change-maker at the forefront of interdisciplinary performance.
Your body, your movement, your imagination and your creativity have the power to shape the future of the arts.
From day one on BA (Hons) Movement, Dance and Creative Practice, you'll be at the centre of a campus like no other – a playground of possibilities.
This is a bold, hands-on degree for those who want to push the boundaries of their art form.
Blending dance, physical theatre and interdisciplinary collaboration, this course places the living body at the heart of creative practice.
You’ll immerse yourself in a wide range of projects, collaborating with industry partners and a variety of art forms at a specialist arts university.
This degree bridges the gap between movement as an art form, a professional career and a tool for innovation.
Each term is project-driven, working with industry and community partners on everything from choreography and digital innovation to movement for wellbeing and social change.
Alongside professional projects, you’ll train rigorously as a physical performer, develop entrepreneurial skills and explore how movement can shape the future of performance, education and health.
You’ll graduate as a versatile movement artist, ready to create, perform and lead in an evolving world.
W711
With professional engagement, innovative practice and creative experimentation at its heart, BA (Hons) Movement, Performance and Creative Practice equips you with the skills to shape the future of performance, wellbeing and embodied creativity.
As you begin to explore how to use the body as the primary tool in physical performance, you will be introduced to interdisciplinary collaboration.
You'll begin to develop your physical skills toolkit alongside other artists from a variety of disciplines, including dance, theatre, visual arts, design and digital media.
From day one, live performance and making is embedded in the course and you’ll explore creating, producing and performing original works in a variety of settings, from theatres to non-traditional spaces.
You’ll have the chance to explore the basics of technical theatre and design, as you develop a strong understanding of the technologies that inform and enhance your creative practice.
You’ll continue to develop your physical and movement-based skills, exploring interdisciplinary performance, movement direction and choreography.
You’ll be supported to explore these via more diverse performance-based projects with additional responsibilities for production and design.
Whether it’s with community, education and engagement-based work or via health and wellbeing arts projects.
You’ll explore more options for pathways into movement and physical performance work as you begin to think about your identity and brand as a creative maker.
You’ll be given the chance to develop skills for facilitating workshops and creative experiences for diverse groups, focusing on inclusion and accessibility, highlighting how performance and movement can be used as a tool for empowerment, social change and education.
The focus of your final year will be on defining your own artistic voice and brand.
You’ll be given the freedom to propose final year projects that are as bold and dynamic as you are.
By collaborating across disciplines and across industry settings and challenging traditional performance boundaries you can immerse yourself fully in your own vision.
You’ll be given the freedom to take control of the entire performance toolkit, from technical aspects, to production, to brand.
You’ll be supported to bring your idea to life in a real-world setting to experiment, innovate and redefine what performance can be.
SFHEA
BA, MA
BA (Hons), PGCHE, MSc (Student), FHEA
Listen to current student Emilie and her insights into what performance and working with a performing body means.
At Arts University Bournemouth, we’re passionate about the physical performer – the movers, makers, and creative thinkers.
That’s why the audition process for BA (Hons) Movement, Dance and Creative Practice is less about pressure and more about possibility.
Auditions and interviews usually run from November through March and take the form of a workshop experience day.
Think of it as a taster of the course – a chance for us to meet you, and for you to experience the kind of dynamic, collaborative environment we foster.
You’ll take part in a tutor-led contemporary focused technique class and a creative exploration task, designed to reflect a typical first-year session.
We’re not looking for perfection – we’re looking for potential, curiosity, and passion.
It’s a chance to move, create, and connect.
No pressure.
Just an opportunity to discover, share, and enjoy.
AUB has three purpose-built dance studios for learning and practice
The course looks strategically at the needs of the performance industry and offers an authentic understanding of the opportunities available in this sector.
By studying performance at AUB, you'll develop the skills and experience you'll need in these areas in order to gain employment.​
The course offers regular and sustained contact with and delivery by national and international performers, choreographers, practitioners and producers; all of whom have worked across these professions and related industries.​
​Experiential learning is a key principle of study throughout the course and your work will reflect the collaborative nature of performance.
Throughout this degree, you'll experience both tutor-led learning with specialist teachers and self-directed study.
You'll be able to develop an increasing independence and a positive attitude to lifelong learning.​
​The course objectives are met by deploying a wide variety of teaching and learning methods including rehearsal, ensemble working, workshops, lectures, seminars, group critiques and tutorials.
The delivery methods are informed by the University’s Creative Learning Plan and share the overarching aims:
The course uses a variety of assessment methods to test your knowledge and understanding of all aspects of contemporary performance practice:​
This is made available through Unit Information, which is on your course blog.​
These marks correspond to a low, mid, and high level of achievement within each grade band.​
All learning outcomes must be passed to successfully complete the unit.​
Designed for individuals with a background in dance, BA (Hons) Movement, Dance and Creative Practice builds on your existing skills to explore movement as both an art form and a tool for change – fuelling cross-disciplinary collaboration.
From stage to studio, from somatic practice to social impact – this is where movement becomes your language, your toolkit and your muse.
Harness the professional skills and experimental versatility needed for the arts sector

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-photography:
At Arts University Bournemouth, the BA (Hons) Photography course offers a rigorous and expansive education designed to foster creative excellence and professional development.
This programme is built on a foundation that recognises and nurtures the individual aspirations of each student, encouraging a journey that goes beyond traditional boundaries to explore new, often unpredictable, and challenging possibilities in photographic practice.
World-leading photographers such as Giles Duley, Wolfgang Tillmans and Nick Knight started their careers at AUB.
At the core of our BA (Hons) Photography course is a conceptually driven curriculum that actively responds to the expanded field of contemporary photography, enhanced by the rapid technological advances shaping the medium.
Our approach is deeply rooted in the belief that photographers must not only master technical skills but also develop a robust understanding of the cultural, historical, and contemporary contexts that influence visual culture.
To this end, you'll engage in experimental practices supported by rigorous research methods and theoretical discourses.
You'll be joining a course with an international reputation, a challenging curriculum, and inspiring teaching.
BA (Hons) Photography encourages students to engage with contemporary photography in an individually creative and experimental manner, supported by outstanding analogue and digital resources.
This course is visually led, but you'll learn how to place your practice within a historical and contemporary context, and define its audience.
You'll be introduced to a range of technical processes, from 19th century alternative printing techniques in our traditional darkrooms to digital still and moving image capture, and post-production in our state-of-the-art lighting studios and digital suites.
You'll also be able to borrow an extensive range of analogue and digital kit from our professional standard technical store.
You'll have access to unparalleled professional production facilities on campus, allowing you to create exhibition-ready work of the highest standard.
During your studies, you'll be engaged in specialist professional practice units, and will be able to use our extensive alumni and professional network to help plan your career or prepare you to undertake postgraduate study.
W640
Students on BA (Hons) Photography have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
In your first year, through group and individual learning, we'll introduce you to the technical skills, historical and contemporary practices and theoretical issues that are fundamental to photography.
You'll work on a range of visual projects, develop your creativity and establish a strong grounding in photographic production.
In support of this, a series of technical workshops will provide you with skills and working-knowledge of studio and darkroom practices, and digital image editing and printing.
In your second year, you'll begin to define your own practice and engage with more complex issues in art and photography, as you continue to take risks, experiment further and test out potential modes of display.
Units of study are longer and more focused.
During this time, you'll develop an understanding of the creative industries and start to consider future career directions.
In your final year you'll refine your practice and produce a substantial body of work for exhibition.
The relationship between theory, practice and technical skills will be consolidated and your knowledge of professional practice deepened.
With the opportunity to use our extensive alumni and professional network you'll be able to make informed choices in preparation for your future career.
Our BA (Hons) Photography students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
2023 — Winner | TGP Develop Collective – Kymara Akinpelumi
Looking for creative inspiration?
Browse our gallery below to see the kind of projects that are students are involved with.
MA, PGCert, BA
MA, PGCE, BA
Graduate Ben Hubert tells us about his projects, experiences and successes while studying BA (Hons) Photography at AUB.
Honours study combines independent learning and taught sessions.
The methods employed induct you to the disciplines required of a creative practitioner and promote the development of transferable and adaptable skills
The teaching in Level 4 is directed at providing you with the knowledge, concepts and skills to take increasing responsibility for the management of your own learning.
66
65
The expansive nature of the BA (Hons) Photography course means our graduates find employment in many areas of the creative industries worldwide.
The expansive nature of BA (Hons) Photography means graduates work in all kinds of roles, in many areas of the creative industries worldwide.
Where will this course take you?
We're immensely proud of our alumni and their considerable achievements:
Sam P.
Cashmore is a visual artist, writer, and publisher based in Bristol, UK.
His practice often employs the medium of image-text...
London-based artist and curator Ibrahim Azab shifts between sculpture, performance and photography.
Ideas of process, perception...
After graduating from AUB, I returned to Japan and started an internship for Kyotographie, an international photography festival in Kyoto...
Caitlin and Andrew Webb-Ellis are a British/Canadian artist duo.
Working primarily with moving images and sound, their process is fluid...
Since graduating from AUB BA (Hons) Photography, Thomas Brown has been shooting and directing in London...
I’ve just graduated from the Arts University Bournemouth.
The University itself has supplied me with the most valuable mentorship...
As part of BA (Hons) Photography, you may also get the opportunity to take part in course trips, previous trips have included:
*These trips are optional, and some may incur additional costs
At Arts University Bournemouth, you'll benefit from interactions with a diverse array of distinguished guest speakers and visitors from across the globe, enriching the learning experience with varied perspectives and expert insights.
Some notable contributors over recent years include:
Aron Morel (Morel Books) | Aaron Schuman | Bruno Ceschel (Self Publish Be Happy) |  Brendan Barry |  Clare Strand | Craig Easton | Darren Harvey-Regan | Dominic Bell | Duncan Wooldridge | Emma Bowkett | Erin O’Keefe | Esther Teichmann | Eugenie Shinkle | Eva Stenram | Folium Publishing | Francesca Allen | Hannah Archambault | Hannah Hughes | Harold Offeh | Ibrahim Azab | Jake Elwes | Jennifer Martin | John Stezaker | Kate Steciw | Lisandro Suriel | Lorenzo Vittori | Lucy Soutter | Luis Juarez and Verónica Fieiras | Mark Neville | Mishka Henner | Peter Kennard | Rodrigo Orrantia | Silvia Rosi | Simon Roberts | Simone Mudde | Sian Davey | Spectrum Photographic | Tereza Cervenova | Tereza Zelenkova | The Forge | Thomas Brown | Tomoko Sawada | Witty Books | Wolfgang Tillmans | Yushi Li
Tomoko Sawada’s practice as a photographer and performance artist has made her one of the leading Japanese artists of her generation...
As part of the University's programme of undergraduate London exhibition and show events, Level 6 BA (Hons) Photography students...
Some of the world's leading photographers such as Wolfgang Tillmans and Nick Knight started their careers on this photographic course.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-sustainable-design:
BA (Hons) Sustainable Design will no longer be accepting applications for 2025 and onwards.
This decision wasn't made lightly and will allow an opportunity for us to consider developments in the sustainable design discipline, and how this fits within our portfolio of courses.
This course will challenge you to look at societal issues and problems that require change; to investigate what you can do that'll encourage positive change; to develop and design proposals for change and to reflect what the world might look like after this change.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-textiles-design:
Textiles surround us – they're one of the largest design skill sets used globally.
On BA (Hons) Textiles Design, you'll hone your practical and professional skills to work with all types of different materials and find your place in the vast industry.
On BA (Hons) Textiles Design, you’ll learn the practical and professional skills to work as part of a team, or even set up your own business as an independent freelancer.
BA (Hons) Textiles Design is perfect for you if you have a love of colour, pattern, texture, fabric, materials, surface design, making, decorative drawing, decoration, constructing, manipulating, and practical engagement.
Textiles is a huge global industry that constantly surrounds us, on floors, walls, furniture, clothing and fashion, gift-wrap, cards, and even car interiors.
It is one of the largest design skill sets used globally.
On this course, you’ll learn practical and professional skills that equip you to work as part of a team, or to set up your own business in textiles.
You’ll study textiles in its widest sense and learn many skills, from print, stitch embellishment to dyeing and mixed media construction (basics of knit and weave).
You’ll have the opportunity to focus on a variety of specialist areas, including textiles for fashion, textiles for interiors and textiles as design and crafts materials.
Traditional skills are taught together with expertise in modern design development, production, and contemporary invention.
Whether you go on to work for a retail brand, or an international design house, we'll prepare you for the challenges that the creative textile industry holds.
We formed an AUB textiles agency to promote student work at Premier Vision Paris and London Print Textile Trade Fairs, and students have engaged with industry through placements and live briefs – experiencing how the business buys and sells textiles, as well as makes and uses them.
W236
Students on BA (Hons) Textiles Design have the chance to broaden their horizons through exciting exchange and international summer programmes .
Your first year provides you with a sound practical base for the study of the subject, contextualised by parallel study of aspects of contemporary, historical and visual culture.
Projects, lectures, seminars, practical demonstrations, visits, case studies, guided reading and tutorials will be used to disseminate information and develop the necessary skills.
This will provide you with the opportunity to learn through experimentation and discovery, and develop skills within a personal context.
You’ll be introduced to a variety of applications and to the fundamentals of critical theory and professional studies that will underpin your knowledge of textiles and their design, production and creative usage.
Work placements are run during the end of the first year of study, for a minimum of ten days and up to a maximum of one month.
On your return, you’ll present on your experience.
Your second year will focus on your individual interests and ensure that your professional and technical skills mature through first-hand experience with industry specialists.
The units anticipate that you'll be able to apply the knowledge, concepts and skills addressed in your second year to fully exploit the range of opportunities for your personal creative development.
You’ll work with fellow students on live industry briefs and enter major national and international competitions.
Previous briefs have included: Hand and Lock, live fashion studio briefs Style Council NY, and wellbeing projects.
If you’re required to have a Student Visa to study in the UK, it won’t be possible to undertake the one-year placement option; there’ll be other opportunities for you to engage with industry during your study at AUB.
Your third year allows you to refine your existing creative practice, develop your skills and reflect upon your experience and direction formed from previous study.
The course nurtures students to develop into original, mature and autonomous textile practitioners and makers, encouraging them to lead rather than respond to industry trends.
You’ll be encouraged to formulate and identify your particular skills and potential.
Risk and ambition within the field will be crucial to your individual development.
Intellectual and academic integrity will be further encouraged, through ‘thinking through practice’.
External experiences are highly prized throughout, from course trips to textile trade shows e.g.
Premiere Vision Paris, to European visits, to London exhibitions, e.g.
New Designers, Islington.
This year also particularly focuses on employability, building professional portfolios and gives students the opportunity to participate in industry presentations.
Our BA (Hons) Textiles Design students and graduates have gone on to win great things.
2025 New Designers
2025 Batsford Prize
2023 New Designers
Our team is made up of specialists in disciplines that span the industry.
SFHEA, MA, PG Diploma
PGCert, MA RCA, BA
MA, BA, PGCE
MA; BA
MA, PGCert, BA (Hons)
Textiles is a hidden design form.
You get up in the morning, you get out of bed — your duvet is covered in pattern and colour.
You go down the stairs — the wallpaper is the same, and the curtains, the clothes that you're wearing every day are designed with colour and pattern, even down to patterns for gift wrap.
An absolute love and passion for colour, detail and craft are the core traits of a fantastically inventive and creative textile designer.
Find out from student Catherine about what it’s like to study BA (Hons) Textiles Design at AUB.
Also, listen to BA (Hons) Textiles Design course leader Anne-Marie Howat explain what makes a great textiles designer.
You can also preview student work from this course.
Meet the Industry Patron for BA (Hons) Textiles Design – Anna Taylor.
Anna is an embroidery designer specialising in freehand Irish machine embroidery and creative digital embroidery, using innovative and experimental techniques.
She has worked in the textiles industry for over a decade involved in design, development and production of high-end embroidery.
Our studios work in a way that mirrors industry.
Students working together in a high-energy environment, with industry-standard facilities and excellent tools and equipment.
As well as dedicated studios for each year, we have a dedicated print room, stitch room and dye room with specialist, industry–standard equipment.
Students will be working together in a high-energy studio, with industry-standard facilities and excellent tools and equipment
Students will have access to a print room, stitch room and dye room with specialist, industry-standard equipment
The course objectives will be met by deploying a wide variety of teaching and learning methods including workshop/studio practice, lectures, seminars, group critiques, guided reading, tutorials, projects, demonstrations, learning teams, personal planning and reflection, work related learning and independent study.
Unit tutors in consultation with the Course Leader will be responsible for co-ordinating the course for individual units of study and for selecting appropriate methods of delivery according to the subject matter and student experience.
The methods employed will, wherever possible, induct you in the disciplines required of a creative practitioner in textiles design and making along with transferable skills ( managing self, professional skills and team working ), and value and credit any relevant previous experience.
A key method will be the promotion of work related learning, including work placements; visits to the workshops or studios of relevant practitioners or organisations; guest lectures or workshops led by visiting practitioners; ‘live’ or simulated project briefs; and the mentoring of individual students or small groups by practising designers and other industry professionals.
Your learning and career planning will be consolidated through the encouragement of skills in personal planning, reflection and development.
The progressive promotion of student–centred learning reflects the anticipated maturity of students and allows you to direct your learning towards individual goals.
Also, it is anticipated that, due to the professional orientation of the degree and to enable you to benefit from the range of resources and disciplines within the University, opportunities will exist for you to collaborate in teams with peers in, for example, fashion or architecture.
Guidance and counselling to help you in realising your learning potential will be provided at the start of each term.
49
Introducing the 2025 graduating cohort from BA (Hons) Textiles Design.
The work presented in this book demonstrates the enthusiasm, determination and diligence that the students have employed over the past three years.
You can also explore the work of our 2024 graduates .
BA (Hons) Textiles Design graduates have gone on to diverse career destinations, including designers, designer-makers, buyers, trend forecasters, researchers, teachers and stylists.
Others have set up their own businesses or gone on to postgraduate study including renowned institutions such as The Royal College of Art, Kolding University DK, and AUB.
Previous BA (Hons) Textiles Design graduates now have careers in the following:
Since graduating, Pia Elliot has continued to develop her artistic practice and is now a well-known name within...
Brodie Allen is a Dorset-based sustainable printmaker who centres her designs on the beauty, history and nature of the...
BA (Hons) Textiles alumna Ella Averty is a printed textile designer and illustrator, currently working as a print designer in London...
As part of BA (Hons) Textiles Design, you may also get the opportunity to take part in course trips.
As a course, we invite industry professionals to share their knowledge, practice and design journey with our students on a regular basis.
Recent contributors have included Kit Miles, Jenny King Embroidery, Hand & Lock, and Stoff Studio.
Collaborations and creative events are held across all three years also, e.g.
cross-course collaboration projects with BA (Hons) Architecture and Commercial Photography and creative problem-solving with BA (Hons) Event Management and Fashion courses.
We also run Creative Match Night events with BA (Hons) Fashion, Make-up for Media and Performance , Events Management and Commercial Photography to encourage students to set up independent collaborative projects and to listen to our industry guest advise for their futures.
The UK textile industry offers graduates an opportunity to work with businesses that range from fashion to interiors.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-hons-vfx-film-television:
BA (Hons) Visual Effects (VFX) for Film and Television will no longer be accepting applications for 2025 and onwards.
This decision wasn't made lightly and will allow an opportunity for us to consider developments in the VFX discipline, and how it fits within our portfolio of courses.
VFX will continue to be taught at AUB across courses and Schools and this provision will be updated and enhanced as part of the exciting plans for the expansion and diversification of Bournemouth Film School.
You may still be interested in looking at related courses: BA (Hons) Animation Production , BA (Hons) Film Production or BA (Hons) Games Art and Design .
Britain leads in the production of high-quality visual effects for film and television.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/ba-bsc-hons-arts-media-and-creative-industries-management:
BA/BSc (Hons) Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management responds to the growing global demand for agile, business-savvy professionals in the creative industries.
With a strong focus on leadership, innovation, and international collaboration, it equips students to shape impactful careers in a rapidly evolving cultural and media landscape.
During the BA/BSc (Hons) Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management course, you’ll develop a deep understanding of how creative industries operate across global markets – gaining skills in project management, leadership, innovation, and strategic planning.
You’ll explore how to lead creative teams, build sustainable business models, and respond to the complex ethical, financial and cultural demands of today’s creative and media sectors.
This course is designed for individuals who want to lead, manage and innovate within the global arts, media, and creative industries.
Whether your background is in performance, visual arts, or media, BA/BSc (Hons) Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management supports your transition into strategic roles where creativity meets commerce.
You might be passionate about shaping creative projects, developing cultural programmes, or driving change in the media and entertainment landscape.
Through a blend of practical and theoretical study, you’ll gain the tools to become a confident, values-led manager – ready to lead teams, launch ventures, and respond to the challenges facing creative organisations today.
In your first year, you’ll be introduced to the foundations of creative business and management.
You’ll explore the structure of the global creative industries and gain key skills in teamwork, leadership, communication, and financial literacy.
You’ll examine the role of ethics, sustainability and social responsibility in managing creative enterprises, and begin to develop your own approach to collaborative working.
Core topics include:
In your second year, you’ll build on your understanding of the sector by studying how innovation and strategy are used to shape and grow creative businesses.
You’ll take on live briefs and case studies from industry partners, giving you real-world insights into the challenges and opportunities in the field.
You’ll also deepen your understanding of audiences, brand strategy, marketing, and intellectual property.
By the end of the year, you’ll work on a career planning module to identify your professional goals and the steps needed to achieve them.
Topics include:
If you opt for the four-year course, this is followed by an optional placement year, where you’ll work in industry to develop hands-on experience, build your network, and strengthen your CV.
In your final year, you’ll apply your learning to a major self-directed project that reflects your professional aspirations—this could be a business plan, a creative enterprise proposal, or a critical research study.
You’ll also develop advanced strategic skills through units in leadership, cultural policy, and sustainability.
You’ll be supported in articulating your unique identity as a future creative leader, and in planning your next steps after graduation.
BA/BSc in Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management is an innovative new course at AUB that empowers students to shape their own learning journey.
With a rich selection of optional units, students can tailor the degree to reflect their individual passions, interests and career ambitions.
Each term builds on the last, developing knowledge, confidence and practical skills in creative leadership and management and entrepreneurship.
By the end of the course, students will have a diverse portfolio of projects and experiences that reflect their unique skillset – underpinned by a strong understanding of how to lead, collaborate and innovate across the global creative industries.
Director, School of Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management
BA/BSc (Hons) Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management is a unique course that's taught through a blend of theoretical instruction and practical application – mostly project based work.
You’ll be taught in a dynamic way that mirrors industry in many ways – such as problem-based learning, hackathons, action learning sets and practical time constrained challenges, alongside this there will be some more traditional style lecture, seminar, tutorial and workshop sessions.
Industry-standard software and hardware are used to provide students with valuable, up-to-date technical skills.
Independent learning is a cornerstone of BA/BSc (Hons) Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management.
Supported by structured guidance and reflective accountability, you are encouraged to explore your individual interests within the expansive and fast-evolving creative industries.
Many assignments are designed to promote autonomy—requiring self-directed research, critical analysis, creative development, and strategic problem-solving.
You’ll initiate and deliver your own creative projects, applying your learning in real-world contexts.
Alongside this, you’re expected to actively engage with current affairs, global culture, industry trends, and digital innovation.
This independent, self-motivated approach fosters not only resilience and adaptability but also equips you with the entrepreneurial mindset needed to build your own business, work freelance, or become your own boss.
You’ll develop the skills and confidence to forge your own path, while also being well prepared to work effectively within organisations and collaborative environments.
Throughout, an emphasis on agility, flexibility and sustainable practice helps you consider how to manage workload, creativity and wellbeing—essential for maintaining a healthy work-life balance in today’s fast-paced, fluid creative economy.
As a graduate of BA/BSc (Hons) Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management, you’ll have acquired the tools to become a confident, values-led manager.
You'll be able to pursue roles such as:
You could also go on to found your own creative enterprise.
Visiting tutors and industry professionals play a vital role in the BA/BSc (Hons) Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management course, enriching your learning with real-world insight, up-to-date industry knowledge, and diverse professional experiences.
You’ll benefit from workshops, guest lectures, and live project critiques delivered by creative leaders across sectors such as media, events, branding, and cultural enterprise.
These sessions not only bring depth and relevance to your studies but also provide opportunities to network, explore career paths, and understand the evolving expectations of the creative economy.
You’ll also have access to the University’s Innovation Studio, where external partners and mentors support collaborative projects, enterprise initiatives, and early-stage business ideas.
The course encourages active engagement with a wide range of creative thinkers and makers from across the School of Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management , helping you build professional relationships and gain a broader perspective on leadership, innovation, and creative collaboration.
Grow your understanding of how creative industries operate across global markets with our BA/BSc (Hons) Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management course.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/bsc-hons-fashion-management-and-strategy:
BSc (Hons) Fashion Management and Strategy offers a rigorous values-based business management degree with a focused application for the fashion and lifestyle industries.
BSc (Hons) Fashion Management and Strategy offers a rigorous values-based business management degree with a focused application for the fashion and lifestyle industries, giving you the skills you need to become a considered and ethical future leader in these exciting global industries.
During this course, you’ll develop your knowledge and skills in developing strategy for and managing business with a values-based approach.
You'll consider the impact on people, animals and the environment alongside understanding what it takes for a business to be creatively and financially successful.
BSc (Hons) Fashion Management and Strategy is for those who aspire towards leadership and innovator roles within a creative business environment.
From the start, you’ll learn through theoretical analysis and practical projects about the fashion industry, developing skills that'll make you highly employable: collaboration, effective communication and business acumen, alongside an in-depth knowledge of global fashion practice.
Throughout the course, you’ll learn about how to strategically plan for fashion businesses with a strong emphasis on ethics.
This takes into account what a business produces and how it operates in terms of its impact on people, animals and the environment.
In line with AUB's own values, it's designed from the ground up with this approach, which is channelled though both the content and the ways we teach every unit.
W112
During first year, you’ll cover the fundamental areas of knowledge and skills you’ll need to become successful within a management role.
This includes analysing the global fashion system, understanding data and the digital landscape, consumer behaviour and finance for business.
At AUB, our impact to is central to our approach – from the very start of this course, you’ll be taught to critically question fashion and business practices and find solutions to complex problems such as fair pricing, transparent value chains and equality within the workplace.
In second year, you’ll build on your knowledge through learning more about how to manage key aspects of the fashion industry such as product supply chains, fashion merchandising and range planning.
In the third term, Career Planning, you’ll be supported in developing a career plan, enabling you to forward plan and map out your journey through to the end of your degree and beyond.
Between second and third year, you'll have the opportunity to spend a year in industry, further developing your knowledge through a work placement.
Whether you choose this option or progress directly to third year, the Career Planning unit will support you in identifying the steps you can take to maximise these opportunities and experiences.
During your final year, you'll be an independent learner and be supported to develop a major project proposal to your further your knowledge, skills and management practice through a self-initiated project.
This could be based on a live brief, a hypothetical project, or preparation for establishing your own business.
You'll be tutored in finding your specialism through developing a research question and methodology that'll apply to real-world fashion business.
On BSc (Hons) Fashion Management and Strategy, you’ll learn in flexible spaces with equipment sourced specifically for your degree.
The BSc (Hons) Fashion Management and Strategy course aims to provide you with a creatively focused learning experience, supporting personal and collective growth and confidence as you develop into competent fashion managers.
You'll engage in project-based learning that enables you to explore and understand the domains of fashion management and strategy including finance, logistics, consumer behaviour and value chains.
The BSc (Hons) Fashion Management and Strategy course is taught through a blend of theoretical instruction, practical workshops, project based learning and independent study.
Graduates from BSc (Hons) Fashion Management and Strategy will be able to pursue a wide range of career paths.
Study a management degree with a focused application for the fashion and lifestyle industries.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/fda-digital-animation-design-and-production:
Animation endures as one of the truest forms of creative expression.
It's a vessel for humour, a voice for social or political commentary and an evergreen form of entertainment.
It has the liberty to go anywhere, in any style and tell any story, which remains one of the reasons it is still so loved; it challenges narrative limits.
Digital animators are enviably positioned within the creative world; our skills are used for character design/concepts, environments, pre-visualisation/animatic within 2D, 3D, stop motion and hybrid work.
We understand timing, nuance, style, representation and above all, story.
Animators are found within film, games and of course animation itself as standalone work.
This is the cultural space of the creators, the dreamers, the outsiders and the storytellers.
Our own sensibilities and skills allow us to work in concept, production and post-production comfortably across all areas of media.
We have the opportunity to both embrace technology but also retain character and humanity of voice.
2 years (full-time)
Qualification level
Level 5
£7,750
2DAN
B49
Location
Bournemouth and Poole College
We aim to give learners the knowledge, skill, support and environment in which to explore animation.
We'll look at various areas including life drawing, 2D/digital design and illustration, stop motion and modelmaking, character design/expression/acting and movement, writing for animation, storyboarding/shot and camera, animatic work, environment/asset design, colour and lighting (2D, 2.5D and 3D), and post-production, effects and colour grading.
We'll also cover pitching your idea, working independently and within a team as an animator, and workflow and roles.
You'll attend lectures and seminars delivered by a passionate and engaging team, in a positive environment.
The course aims to equip learners with a thorough knowledge of the processes and skills expected for a professional animator.
You'll build a portfolio demonstrating these aspects of animation, which will be further underpinned by more established creative sector skills such as pre- and post-production, editing, working with sound and so on.
If you're interested in applying to a course at Bournemouth and Poole College via Clearing, we've got two simple ways for you to get in touch and discuss your application further:
All applicants should have Level 3 qualifications, including at least one ‘creative’ subject.
We're looking for 48 UCAS points.
Applicants who fall outside this tariff may be considered.
The course is taught in English.
Academic IELTS overall score of 5.5 with a minimum of 5.0 in each band (reading, writing, speaking, listening).
Please note that we're unable to consider students for this course who would require a student visa to study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/fda-esports-production-broadcasting-and-events:
This course will run from September 2025.
The FdA Esports Production Broadcasting and Events course is designed for creative and technical-minded students with an interest in digital broadcasting and media production.
While esports is a key focus, the course equips you with versatile skills applicable to a wide range of broadcasting roles.
Through hands-on learning and exposure to industry-standard tools and techniques, you'll develop the technical, creative, and collaborative skills needed to thrive in today’s digital media landscape.
FdA Esports Production Broadcasting and Events offers a comprehensive curriculum covering digital media production, content creation, broadcasting, and event management.
You'll explore the full spectrum of production processes, from pre-production planning and camera work to post-production editing and on-screen graphics.
Teaching is delivered through a blend of lectures, seminars, practical workshops, and project-based work.
The course is designed to foster both independent and collaborative learning, providing you with opportunities to specialise in areas of personal interest within the field of digital media.
FDES
In the first year, you'll begin by building foundational skills in media production, exploring the workflows, technical skills, and theoretical knowledge needed to succeed in digital broadcasting.
Modules cover areas such as studio production, video editing, and research methods.
You'll also engage with the cultural and ethical dimensions of digital media and esports.
Then in the second year, the focus shifts towards more advanced applications, including the development of professional practice and digital marketing skills.
You'll work on more complex projects, gaining practical experience in the production and management of digital media content.
Although the course emphasises esports, you'll develop broadcast skills that are highly transferable across the broader digital media and creative industries.
All applicants should have level 3 qualifications including at least one ‘creative’ subject.
Take the first step in becoming a music production professional with a foundation-level degree in Music and Sound Production...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/fda-3d-animation-and-visualisation-for-film-and-games:
In collaboration with Bournemouth and Poole College, on FdA/BA (Hons) 3D Animation and Visualisation you'll develop your 3D design skills with CGI in studio-like facilities, partnered with Epic Games and Unreal Academic Partner.
The world of 3D computer generated imagery (CGI) and animation provides significant cultural and economic contribution to the UK through games, films, TV, advertising and visualisation, and the UK’s leading animation and visualisation studios are constantly on the look for new and emerging talent.
In 2015, Bournemouth was recognised as the fastest growing digital economy in the UK.
Our degree programme offers a solid base of 3D skills – Bournemouth and Poole College has been training students and preparing them for the creative industries since 2002.
You don’t need any previous experience to join our foundation degree course, and all assessment is through coursework-based units.
There's an individual project element central to each year of study which will enable you create a portfolio to enhance your future career prospects.
You'll work in a studio environment with small groups of typically 10-20 students, where you'll practise fundamental skills linked to art and visualisation subjects that are taught throughout the course.
Whatever your level and specific interests, we encourage the development of storytelling techniques, creativity, technical and visual communication skills.
Bournemouth and Poole College is proud to partner with Arts University Bournemouth, and with Epic Games as an Unreal Academic Partner, where we offer excellent studio-based facilities with the latest industry-standard software, and all necessary resources, including a fully operational green screen studio.
You'll also have the option to progress to a BA (Hons) degree by studying for an additional year on our exclusive top-up course.
3DAN
Our one-year BA (Hons) 3D Animation and Visualisation for Film and Games course is designed for students who've completed a relevant course at Level 4 and 5, and who are passionate about creating 3D digital content and animations for film and games.
The programme focuses on developing the latest skills to enhance your future career opportunities.
This course is ideal for aspiring 3D content creators, animators, and visualisation artists.
It prepares students to tackle the diverse challenges faced by industry professionals, ensuring they're well-equipped for roles in the dynamic field of 3D animation and digital content creation.
Level 6
£9,535
AV3D
Students will learn comprehensive 3D modelling and animation workflows, including rigging, texturing and shading, lighting, rendering, and post-production.
Assessment is based on coursework, ensuring practical application of skills.
A significant component of the year is the individual project, allowing students to create an impressive portfolio that'll bolster their career prospects.
On this course, you'll cover:
Please note that we're unable to consider students for this course who would require a student visa to study in the UK

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/fda-music:
In collaboration with Bournemouth and Poole College, on FdA/BA (Hons) Music and Sound Production you'll engage with the music industry through both analogue and digital means, with creative experimentation at the heart of what you make.
This Foundation Degree-level course focuses on providing students with the skills that they need to meet the needs of clients in live music production, studio recording and media-based contexts.
You'll develop your potential, further your knowledge and refine your skills in demanding industry.
In the UK, we listen to an estimated 60 billion hours of music a year – that’s the equivalent of seven million years!
As a student on FdA Music and Sound Production, you'll study units embracing studio production, live music applications, audio electronics and sound synthesis.
The course explores analogue recording processes, as well as digital.
You'll produce work using several of the major music software platforms in current use and will develop academic knowledge of music technology from historical, cultural, social and economic perspectives.
It's intended that the course will provide you with a vehicle for creative experimentation as well as training to be able to provide industry applications.
MS24
This course aims to expose students to the diverse nature of the challenges faced by those who take on the role of music producer.
The working producer may encounter different studio environments, different technologies, different client demands and many different forms of music.
Therefore, students seeking a career in this role should prepare to develop skills that are entrepreneurial, freelance and independent – flexible to the needs of clients, creative and contributory with an awareness of culture, and firmly based in theory, practice, and later, experience.
To this end, students will be studying a specialist programme focused on music production that offers a broad but interconnected selection of units.
This course offers students opportunities to explore old and new technologies, different music forms, recording as documentary, sound as a function within other media artefacts, and music and sound as art and performance (commercial and otherwise).
We believe that the ‘craft skills’ of music production and the identity of the music producer should be founded on knowledge and learning through practical application.
As part of this course, and in replication of the ’real world’ students will find themselves collaborating with their peers from other disciplines (Dance, Film and Events) to complete project work that places the music producer in a role that is less central than that experienced in the recording industry.
There'll be opportunities for cross-disciplinary learning to assure preparation for the wider artistic climate and the development of a clear perception of the role of the sound producer/practitioner within different contexts.
The self-confidence required to contribute to collaborative, time-bound creative projects is developed through a secure understanding of the equipment, its function and application, and repeated practice in the working environment.
Students will therefore be supported in the development of their strengths, the improvement of their weaknesses and the creation of new opportunities through exposure to a wide range of teaching methods, studio experiences, staff expertise and visiting professionals.
By the end of the course you'll be able to:
Our one-year BA (Hons) Music and Sound Production course is designed for students who've completed a relevant course at Level 4 and 5, and who are passionate about the technical and creative sides of music production.
MSBA
The BA (Hons) Music and Sound Production top-up year primarily engages the student with technology but is intended to provide opportunities for any suitably qualified candidate with an established interest in writing, producing, collaborating in music production.
You'll begin with the "Arranging" unit, where you'll consider the relationships between mixing and orchestration.
You'll study the ways in which musical elements are balanced against each other to create specific music effects and styles and practice re-arranging/re-mixing music to create new versions.
The unit will also teach you how to create parts for session musicians.
It's not uncommon for a producer to enhance the work of an artist through the addition of parts such as counter melodies, harmonies, brass and string pads, etc.
To this end, you'll learn to create basic parts, fit for modification by the professional musician, using music notation software to meet the needs of the reader and assessment.
You'll simultaneously undertake the "Research Project" unit.
In agreement with your tutor, you'll choose an area for close study and develop a full dissertation on the subject in question.
The dissertation may be presented in a variety of forms, written work, verbal presentation, audio, visual production, etc.
This major piece of work may utilise practical skills and experimentation but must conform with the notion of academic rigour.
It should be substantial, draw on authoritative research sources (referenced using the Harvard system) and meet the objectives established with your tutor at the start.
You'll need to propose a detailed plan prior to commencement.
Following these two units, you'll carry out your Final Major Project: a substantial project of your own choosing, which must be agreed with your tutor.
It should lead to the creation of your highest-quality, exemplar work.
The unit will begin with taught sessions on project planning and will incorporate sessions on business planning, event management, rights management, and budget planning.
Your projects may involve members of the external music community, collaborations with peers, private clients, etc., or be completely directed at their own aims for future employment.
Delivery will therefore move from the initial model of taught sessions in the early part of the year to regular one-to-one support through tutorials.
As FdA/BA (Hons) Music and Sound Production students, you'll be able to make use of Bournemouth and Poole College's dedicated music studio and facilities.
This includes the following:
Control room
Live room
In addition to this dedicated studio, you'll have use of a further four studios that house the same Mac, audio interface and software, but with a variety of alternative mixings desks, monitors, and other equipment.
The music department also has two dedicated music technology suites and three individual production suites with the same software as the studios, as well as a live performance space, three further good-sized full band rehearsal rooms, lecture theatre, and a well-stocked tech store with mics, electric, electronic and acoustic instruments.
Bournemouth and Poole College also has a dedicated HE building with teaching facilities, study areas and places to relax.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/course/fda-performing-arts:
In collaboration with Bournemouth and Poole College, on FdA/BA (Hons) Performing Arts you'll experience our multi-disciplinary performance foundation degree, developing your acting skills towards a BA (Hons) in the process.
A multi-disciplinary performance Foundation Degree, in which you'll perform in both musicals and plays, with a subsequent one-year BA (Hons) top-up, where you direct and engage in creative leadership.
Working with industry specialists, you'll have work created for you, about you and by you that'll support and facilitate immediate progression to a rewarding and creative portfolio career.
If you’re thinking of studying performing arts, you might be dreaming of taking to the stage to perform for a living.
You may be thinking of gritty drama or comedy roles in an ongoing series.
Or you might not know which career paths are open to you as a passionate, creative individual and that's where studying on the FdA Performing Arts is a step in the right direction.
The skills you'll learn will support you in a range of careers, especially if you're able to effectively combine creative talent with the practical aspects of self-promotion and arts management.
Graduates from Bournemouth and Poole College have gone on to experience an array of roles within the creative industries as well as in careers that value and demand the skill sets fostered and supported within their HE courses.
In addition to teaching self-expression, critical thinking and creative application, Performing Arts supports self-knowledge and understanding.
Theatre and Performing Arts plays a role in influencing society – pointing out attitudes and mindsets of current cultural climates.
It can be used as a tool to educate people about the world in which they live and the role they play within it.
The artistic voice asks those who listen to think, to question and to reflect on what it is to be human.
In other words, it's power.
At The College, you'll discover that power and find ways specific to you that'll enable you to use that power to build a career in whatever field you ultimately choose.
For anyone who has a passion for performing, a degree in Performing Arts can be your path to a fulfilling and hugely engaging career.
At Bournemouth and Poole College, the Performing Arts department has a proud history of delivering quality degrees that are an immersive, enlightening and interactive experience for students.
54D2
The course aims to expose you to the diverse nature of challenges faced by those who take on the role of performer, of which there are many.
The working actor now faces even challenges in terms of gaining employment and making a living.
A performer now needs to be completely adaptable, and this is a key focus on the degree – adaptability – providing the individual with enough varied experience of the industry, not just focusing on aspects of performance, but on other roles within the creative industries.
As a student on this degree, you should be prepared to develop skills around entrepreneurship, freelancing and independence; flexible to the different forms of performance.
You should be creative with an awareness of culture and firmly based in theory, practice, and later, experience.
You'll be studying a specialist programme focused on performance that offers a broad but interconnected selection of units, offering students opportunities to explore old and new performance-based methodologies, musical theatre performance, dramaturgy, analysis of contemporary play texts, voice-over, acting for online gaming and professional development with a clear focus on employability and next steps.
In a mirror image of the ’real world’ you'll find yourselves collaborating and learning with your peers from other disciplines (Radio, Film and Events departments) to complete project work, allowing you to experience many aspects of the creative industries.
The self-confidence required to contribute to collaborative, time-bound creative projects are developed through a secure understanding of the current demands of the industry.
You'll be supported in the development of your strengths, the improvement of your weaknesses and the creation of new opportunities through exposure to a wide range of teaching methods, theatrical and new media experiences, staff expertise and visiting professionals.
Our work is constantly evolving and runs in parallel with the ever-changing industry landscape.
We employ various freelance practitioners, who are working in the industry with a view to them providing you with an up-to-date insight into how the industry is working in the now.
The current trends, the obstacles that need to somehow be overcome and the various leaders in their field of creative output.
On FdA Performing Arts, you'll work on singing, acting, dance and voice for industry-focused careers.
While there's some focus on skills for theatre performance there'll also be a consideration of how these skills can be used in wider employments contexts, e.g.
gigs, voiceovers, cruise ships, teaching, workshop leading and more.
In addition, you'll undertake units considering performance contexts and criticism to assure your understanding of the importance of theoretical underpinnings of performance.
There'll be work-based learning experiences throughout the course and you'll have the opportunity to work with industry practitioners.
You're expected to continuously engage in critical analysis using the theoretical skills you'll have gained throughout their studies.
This could be a consideration of a local theatre company, an essay, or an analysis of a particular theatre genre/historical perspective.
You'll also get the opportunity to form a company and undertake rehearsal and performance in an alternative context, hosted at The Lighthouse, Poole or a similar regional venue.
This will equip you with the practical skills required to have a rewarding career in the arts.
The emphasis will be on community engagement and realising projects through appropriate means.
You'll build on your critical theoretical understanding as covered in the first unit and use this to complete a funding bid for your own project with a local festival/arts council body.
W470
The Level 6
programme is an advanced course that moves beyond the FdA content.
You’ll be expected to produce work that’s sophisticated in its
form and demonstrates contemporary social, political and cultural
awareness.
You’ll have
the opportunity to learn how to lead a project and direct other students,
culminating in a fully stage-managed and produced 30-minute piece of theatre.
You’ll be responsible for selecting and editing a published script and will be
guided toward this process through a series of lectures and workshops relating
to formative and influential playwrights, directors and dramaturgs.
The final
showings will take place at The Jellicoe Theatre with an invited audience.
You’ll
be encouraged to reflect on this process from the outset and throughout.
Your final
unit is a culmination of skills covered across your three years of study, and
will support you in negotiating your own job role and/or specialism for
assessment.
Independently, or collaboration with your peers, you’ll work towards
creating an original piece of material for The Jellicoe Fringe Festival.
You’ll
be encouraged to invite industry professionals and community artists to this
event to consolidate your professional network.
Alongside this,
you’ll be exposed to the sophisticated and complex workings of the creative
industries.
You’ll learn how to operate and function as a freelance artist,
complete a live funding application in relation to your own work and create
your own digital promotional platform such as a website.
Your final business
portfolio will function as a transitional gateway to industry and your future
career.
Nearing the end of your studies, you'll be expected to research and engage with the local arts sector and undertake a short work placement.
We encourage working with companies such as; Pavilion Dance South West (PDSW) , BEAF , Activate Performing Arts , schools, Black Cherry Theatre Co , Arts by the Sea (and more).
Your academic
journey concludes with an extended essay, in which you’ll engage critically and
theoretically with a topic of your choice, either scholarly or industry focused.
This will further your understanding of the arts at BA level.
All applicants should have four GCSE passes at grade 4 (formerly C) minimum, including Maths* and English or equivalent.
Applicants should also have one of the following qualifications as well:
We're looking for 48 UCAS points from two full A Levels (or equivalent), including one full A Level at 32 tariff points (i.e.
grade C) in a relevant subject.
Relevant subjects: Dance, Performing Arts, Drama
Unfortunately we're unable to offer places to students that require a visa to study.
Study Movement, Dance and Creative Practice at Arts University Bournemouth.
Find out about the course, fees, how to apply...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-animation-production:
This course can be studied full- or part-time from September or full-time from January.
Image: (g)Host Country, directed by Kheyal Roy-Meighoo (2024)
The MA Animation Production philosophy sees understanding of the traditional principles of animation as fundamental, but these are critically contextualised in relation to technology, history, theory and professional/studio practice.
MA Animation Production offers you the opportunity to demonstrate a systematic and critically informed understanding of current developments in animation theory and practice.
Fundamentally based on a tripartite approach of Practice, Theory and Professionalism – with each element placed in ‘critical dialogue’ with the others – the course will ensure that your research and practice is at the forefront of the discipline.
This course is closely associated with Bournemouth Film School, which includes BA (Hons) Animation Production and BA (Hons) Film Production .
Bournemouth Film School is the UK's largest film school outside of London.
Animation’s position as an interdisciplinary field that draws from Art and Design, Film, Computing, Fine Art, Graphics (and other areas besides) necessarily means that top-level graduates in the field will have mastered a cross-disciplinary understanding of a range of skills, techniques, theories and discourses.
The overriding objective is to enable all MA Animation Production students to see themselves as part of a ‘community of practice’ (that includes research and critique, and the building of a ‘production culture’), existing not as atomised students ‘doing their own thing’, but as part of a meaningful whole.
You’ll be a BA graduate in Animation or a related discipline.
Although we will consider good graduates from other disciplines – having accepted them from Costume, Graphics, Digital Media, Illustration, Modelmaking, Photography and Fine Art in the past – you must have some understanding of the animation production process to prosper on this course.
Our alumni have gone on to work at Aardman, ILM, Lupus Films, Framestore, Pixar, Moving Picture Company and many other companies.
We’re proud of the network of AUB graduates who are now employed in animation – many of whom return to talk to current students.
The overall aim of this course is to enable you to pursue your interests and specialism – whether 2D/drawn, CG, stop motion or other forms of animation – and produce excellent work that synthesises the ‘strands’ of theory, practice and professionalism.
MA Animation Production consists of three 60-credit units (180 credits for the MA).
These are:
Your engagement with the course is via your own specialist practice in Animation – this may involve pre-production, production or post-production specialisms such as character design, storyboarding, concept work, or other specialisms such as puppet-making, or costume design for animation.
You may choose to make an animated film as your final ‘outcome’ but could develop an MA-level portfolio through one of these other forms of specialist practice.
The three-unit structure enables you to clearly identify and develop your ideas across practical, theoretical and professional modes of understanding, bringing your work to fruition in the final 'Resolving Practice' unit.
The part-time route offers an ideal opportunity for people who are already working in industry to further develop their specialist skills and practice, and complete a major body of work across a two-year period.
We strongly encourage people to apply who want to examine and interrogate their professional Animation practice, and develop their understanding of the workplace.
Time to take your studies to the next level.
Apply directly to us to begin your Master's journey at AUB.
Whether you have any burning questions or you just want to find out more about our courses, you can book a one-to-one call with our course team at any time.
BA, PGCE, MA, PhD
PhD, MSc, BA (Hons), FHEA
When you're ready to apply, you'll need to head to our online application form to apply directly to us.
We encourage you to apply early so that you have time to organise accommodation and to arrange for a visa (if required) before you enrol.
We encourage applications from students with a broad range of qualifications and experiences.
We'll take into consideration the knowledge and skills that have been developed inside and outside the classroom, as well as your previous qualifications.
We aim to interview all applicants who demonstrate the potential to succeed on the course.
Interviews are used to assess whether you have the necessary skills and capabilities and whether this programme is appropriate to your interests and aspirations.
The tuition fees you pay will vary depending on the subject area and the type of postgraduate study you're embarking on.
The fee that you pay AUB provides the necessary equipment and training for you to complete your course.
We also have a number of progression discounts and bursaries available to go towards paying for your studies.
You may also choose to buy some items or personal equipment such as a laptop, tablet or computer.
This isn't a requirement as desktop and laptop computers are available for you to use in common study areas, including a loan system in the Library.
As part of your application to this course, we’d like to see your portfolio.
You can find out more by viewing our Portfolio Guidelines.
Browse our gallery of student work – you can find more in our Student Stories , too.
Meet the Industry Patron for MA Animation Production – Amy Backwell, artist, inclusion champion, and Emerging Talent Specialist at Industrial Light & Magic.
Amy is a board member for various organisations active in VFX, animation and games.
In 2023, she co-directed and curated the LIMITLESS exhibition with Animated Women UK , which celebrated the independent work of women in the animation and VFX sector.
She has a proven passion for Diversity and Inclusion, and is proud to be part of multiple D&I groups including those championing women, LGBTQ+, neurodiversity and disabilities and faith.
Our studios work in a way that mirrors industry with students working together in a high energy atmosphere.
Our state-of-the-art animation studios provide students with access to computer workstations and light boxes.
There is also access to a computer suite equipped with specialist software.
There are many opportunities on the MA to work with students on our award-winning BA (Hons) Animation Production course.
You’ll also have access to the following:
Alumni from MA Animation Production at AUB go on to work for reputed companies and studios including Aardman, ILM, Lupus Films, Framestore, Pixar, Moving Picture Company.
Find out about some of our graduates and their career journeys below.
Since graduating in 2021, Sarah has been involved in a variety of diverse projects including the first artist-in-residency...
Andre Grima graduated from MA Animation Production at AUB in 2015.
During his studies, he developed a strong interest in VFX...
Head over to our social channels to see more creative work from our students.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-creative-teaching-and-learning-design-online:
The MA Creative Teaching and Learning Design course prepares you to be a learning professional with the knowledge and skills to design, deliver and lead transformative learning experiences.
This comprehensive programme uniquely combines principles of creative education and research with advanced learning design, preparing you for leadership roles in learning and teaching.
MA Creative Teaching and Learning Design is founded on the principle that effective learning design can fundamentally transform people and organisations.
We strive to develop confident professionals capable of creating learning experiences that are engaging, inclusive, and human-centred.
Our approach recognises the complex interplay between creativity, pedagogy, and technology in modern learning environments.
Our goal is to empower learning designers who can reimagine education for the 21st century.
You'll experience a journey from exploring foundational concepts in learning and teaching to mastering advanced application and research into learning experiences.
The journey culminates in a substantial research project, which will position you at the forefront of innovation in teaching and learning design.
Throughout all stages, you'll engage with real-world challenges to develop your critical thinking and practical problem-solving skills.
The course is delivered part-time, online over 105 weeks, enabling you to balance advanced study with professional practice.
For those with existing qualifications, direct entry to the PGDip stage is available with 60 relevant credits at Level 7.
We view learning design as an interdisciplinary practice, integrating insights from psychology, technology, and the creative arts.
Our philosophy is founded on the complex interplay between creativity, pedagogy, and technology in modern learning environments.
Our course design fosters innovative problem-solving and enables our graduates to address the multifaceted challenges in contemporary education.
Critical reflection is at the core of our philosophy.
We believe that empathy, critical reflection and facilitation enable designers to create learning experiences that are not only effective, but also inclusive and adaptable to diverse contexts.
We’ll challenge you to question assumptions, examine beliefs about learning, and develop your distinctive voice as a learning professional.
While we embrace emerging technologies, including artificial intelligence, we maintain a balanced perspective.
Our curriculum integrates cutting-edge tools with established learning theories and human-centred design principles.
This equips our graduates to navigate and lead in the rapidly evolving landscape of professional education and learning.
Our aim is to empower you to lead in the field of learning design, and the course design foregrounds collaboration to mirror professional practice.
We foster a community of practice where ideas are shared, challenged, and refined.
This collaborative ethos reflects the reality of professional learning design and prepares students for leadership roles in multiple sectors.
Ultimately, we're preparing you not just to design learning experiences, but to reimagine what education can be in the 21st century.
The MA course journey unfolds across three distinct yet interconnected stages:
Stage 1: PGCert in Creative Teaching and Learning Design (60 credits)
This foundational stage introduces you to core principles of learning design.
In the Learning Design Bootcamp (20 credits), you'll explore six fundamental pillars: empathy, curriculum, inclusivity, facilitation, technology, and community.
This unit provides a robust framework for understanding how effective learning experiences are crafted.
The Creative Teaching and Learning Design unit (40 credits) then deepens your understanding by encouraging critical reflection on the relationship between creative teaching, learning design, assessment, and feedback.
You'll engage with established and emerging learning theories, exploring their practical application in designing inclusive and creative learning experiences.
This stage also introduces you to the use of digital technologies and artificial intelligence in education.
Stage 2: PGDip in Learning Design Methods (60 credits)
Building on the PGCert, this stage focuses on professional application and research skills.
The Learning Design Toolkit unit (40 credits) is where theory meets practice.
Here, you'll develop advanced skills in project management, UX design, and the application of digital technologies in learning contexts.
You'll learn to work as both an internal and external consultant, collaborating effectively with Subject Matter Experts across various disciplines.
You’ll explore topics including artificial intelligence, storytelling, learning product development, creative direction, video production, UX design, accessibility, project management, digital technologies, change management, and effective communication.
The Learning Design in Context unit (20 credits) strengthens your ability to lead through research in creative teaching and learning design roles.
Learning professionals regularly explore new and unfamiliar problems, and in this unit you’ll have the opportunity to investigate an area of interest related to your present or future work.
You'll conduct a small-scale research project to build your confidence in research, decision-making and developing new insights.
Stage 3: MA in Creative Teaching and Learning Design (60 credits)
The final stage focuses on advanced research and innovation in learning design.
The Researching Creative Teaching and Learning Design unit (60 credits) is an extensive exploration of how learning design intersects with creative teaching and other disciplines.
You'll identify a suitable audience and topic for a substantial research project, then design and execute this project drawing on all the skills and knowledge you have acquired throughout the course.
This stage encourages you to push the boundaries of conventional teaching and learning design, positioning you at the forefront of innovation in the field and preparing you for leadership roles in learning and teaching.
*For AUB staff, the work you produce on the course can also be used as the basis for an application for Associate Fellow, Fellow and Senior Fellow of AdvanceHE.
We believe great teaching and learning design can make a positive difference to people’s lives.
Our MA is founded on our desire to empower our students to lead change through transformative learning experiences.
And it’s built out of our extensive experience as professional educators and learning designers.
On the MA Creative Teaching and Learning Design course, you'll have access to a range of advanced digital resources including:
While the course is delivered online, you'll have virtual access to:
While MA Creative Teaching and Learning Design is an online course, you'll have opportunities to engage with industry leaders through guest lectures, workshops, and collaborative projects.
These experiences provide insights into contemporary practices in teaching and learning design across sectors.
Head over to our social channels to see more creative work from our students
On PGCert Creative Teaching and Learning Design, you'll acquire the core knowledge and skills required to design engaging learning...
PGDip Learning Design Methods equips you with advanced skills for a career in the fast-moving world of learning design...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-creative-writing-online:
On our MA Creative Writing (Online) course, you'll develop an array of transferable skills and elevate your skills as a writer.
Connecting you to industry with a team of talented writers who work with Netflix, BBC, Bloomsbury, The British Library, Palgrave Macmillan, Routledge, Chelsea Green Publishing, Fly on the Wall Press (Best Small Press 2024) among others, your writing practice and professional writing career will be taken to the next level.
Develop an array of transferable skills on our MA Creative Writing course.
Throughout your studies, we’ll encourage you to reflect on your own practice, explore the fundamental duty of the writer, and guide you in honing your creative identity.
Unlike other equivalent courses, we place a special emphasis on the ethical and environmental aspects of creative writing.
You’ll develop the unique ability to combine the art of storytelling with a deep commitment to environmental consciousness.
As a graduate, you’ll stand out because you can harness your discipline to respond to the climate crisis and drive positive change in the world.
By looking at a vast spectrum of literary genres and theoretical approaches, you’ll cultivate a holistic understanding of your craft.
Coupled with a broad range of real-world insights into the contemporary publishing industry, you’ll be set to succeed as a published professional writer.
Our course units also highlight the importance of collaboration and constructive feedback in bringing creative ideas to life.
On top of this, you’ll have unique opportunities to get involved with industry-specific events like the Writing the Earth symposium.
As a graduate of AUB, you’ll join a vibrant, thriving community with environmental ethics at its core.
Armed with industry-ready skills and a global network, the opportunities you’ll have are boundless.
Our academics have designed this course to explore every facet of your craft.
The breadth of theoretical and practical knowledge you acquire will help you position yourself in today’s literary publishing scene.
Through the common thread of a Reflective Journal, you’ll also document your own transformative journey
In this introductory unit, we’ll orient you with foundational knowledge and appropriate research methods.
You’ll be challenged to reframe your practice, charting your journey as a writer-researcher and proposing a research paper at a student-led Research Symposium.
This starting point will give you a clear focus for the rest of the course.
Together, we’ll deep-dive into all the practical elements of the writer’s craft – from notebook use and idea generation to drafting and exchanging feedback.
You’ll also interrogate the concepts surrounding the lore of the writer – from ‘inspiration’ to ‘writer’s block’.
This will encourage you to break down your methodology and reflect on it intensively.
In this unit we’ll take a wider view, looking at where the writer fits into the culture and society around them.
This will involve considering their ethics, culture, activism, and public image.
You’ll then develop a public-facing platform which articulates your emergent identity as a writer.
Together, we’ll explore a range of imaginative genres across the full spectrum, from the grittily realistic to the wildly fantastic (e.g.
science fiction, weird, speculative, solarpunk).
You’ll explore how these often-subversive stories challenge geopolitical leadership and cultural norms, creating a space for intellectual growth and inclusive representation.
With a profound understanding of these stories, you'll develop your own prose narrative sample.
The Anthropocene is the current geological age, where human activity predominantly impacts the climate and environment.
In this unit, we’ll explore how the climate crisis and the UN’s sustainability goals can be woven into your literary vision.
Together with your cohort, you’ll look at both classic and contemporary works to see how they engage with these pressing issues.
Through current trends, emergent forms, and new opportunities, we’ll examine what distinguishes a 21st century publication from literature that precedes it.
With input from a variety of industry professionals – including agents, editors, publishers, book designers, and booksellers – you’ll learn about print and publishing culture from a multi-faceted perspective.
In this unit, we’ll explore the power of linguistic nuance, individual word choices, and layout choices.
Through the lens of current trends, emergent forms, and both classical and contemporary poets, you’ll develop a deep understanding of the current poetry scene.
We’ll also help you cultivate your communication skills in online open mics, sharing your poetry and critical feedback with fellow students.
With a focus on scriptwriting and emerging technologies, we’ll encourage you to think far beyond traditional literary formats.
We’ll consider screenplays, podcasts, audio drama, graphic novels, interactive fiction and role-playing games, to name just a few.
You’ll also hear avant-garde perspectives from guest speakers at the forefront of contemporary practice.
We’ll support you in developing a professional proposal for what will be not only your Major Project, but also a real-world industry submission.
You’ll research available markets and emergent publishing trends to identify a focus.
By the end of this unit, you’ll be capable of confidently pitching substantial creative ideas – an essential skill for flourishing in your future career.
This unit is the culmination of all the rigorous self-reflection, skills, and knowledge you've acquired throughout the course.
You’ll produce a final written piece in a format of your choice (e.g.
novel extract, short fiction, poetry, audio drama, stage script), accompanied by a critical reflective essay.
Dedicated writing time, quality professional guidance, and a constructively critical, supportive environment are some of the most valuable things a writer can give themselves.
Course Leader
Course leader Dr Kevan Manwaring provides an overview of the MA Creative Writing (Online) course.
We encourage you to apply early to secure your place.
We may contact you to arrange an interview to discuss your potential to succeed on the course.
If you want to discuss your application, you can book a one-to-one.
You'll be studying online and so you will need to have reliable access to a computer and the internet as well as a suitable study space.
Meet the Industry Patron for MA Creative Writing (Online), Michelle Zeitlin – The Hollywood Insider.
Holding a Liberal Arts BA from St Mary’s College, Los Angeles, Michelle Zeitlin’s creative journey began in ballet.
Since then, her extensive multidisciplinary training in dance, drama, and film has taken her across the globe and maps out a rich, storied career.
From drama training and movie direction to choreography, theatrical writing and talent management, Michelle has worn many hats, building a healthy network of industry connections along the way.
Her motto is “passion to power”, which is reflected through her talent management agency, More Zap .
The versatile, distinctive skillset you acquire on this course will open up a wide variety of options for your future – in terms of both employment and further academic study.
Projects such as the anthology submission will be viable for industry publishing, and through your final project, you’ll already have first-hand experience delivering an outstanding pitch.
You’ll also benefit from guidance as part of AUB's Industry Patron scheme: a formal connection with a creative writing practitioner who offers unique collaborative opportunities and close relations within the industry.
The project management, collaboration, market analysis and critical thinking skills you develop will increase your chances of employability as a writing professional – whether your goal is to be a freelance writer, in-house author, or publisher.
On top of this, you’ll develop core soft skills surrounding resilience and flexibility that are highly sought-after in today’s fast-changing global economy.
A few of the options you could pursue as an MA Creative Writing graduate include:
You could also pursue opportunities in research, lecturing, lexicography, and communications.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-design-and-innovation:
The Design sector is always changing and developing and it's important that our courses continue to reflect this.
To ensure we maintain the highest standard of student experience and excellence in teaching that you'd expect of AUB, the decision has been made to discontinue recruitment to MA Design and Innovation for 2024.
Depending on your specific interest in MA Design and Innovation, you may want to consider one of the course options below:
The MRes Arts is a qualification specifically aimed at makers, designers and thinkers who wish to undertake an...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-digital-fashion-innovation:
The MA Digital Fashion Innovation course at Arts University Bournemouth positions students at the forefront of the digital revolution in fashion.
The course challenges creative boundaries while embracing advanced digital technologies across multiple disciplines.
With a strong emphasis on practice-based research, students delve deeply into innovative methodologies and acquire transferable skills that span multiple industries.
The curriculum not only interrogates contemporary practices but also pioneers new ones, preparing graduates to lead in both existing and emerging fashion fields.
Students embark on a journey through various realities, exploring digital-only products (DOPs), augmented realities (AR), and digital textiles.
This dual approach equips graduates to fluently navigate both the digital ('URL') and physical ('IRL') sides of the industry, optimising designs for each.
Central to the curriculum is the concept of 'Phygital' fashion, where digital and physical worlds converge, encouraging students to influence the evolving dynamics of fashion consumption and experience.
As the demand for digital solutions and digital-only products rises, particularly among Gen-Z and Gen-Alpha consumers, AUB positions its graduates at the forefront of this growth.
Emerging technologies such as AR, artificial intelligence (AI), and machine learning are seamlessly integrated into the curriculum, fostering an environment where digital artisanry meets design thinking and storytelling.
Encouraging global engagement, research and collaborative work on diverse projects, the programme promotes strong industry connections and live project opportunities, enhancing employability and entrepreneurial skills.
This global and interdisciplinary approach ensures that graduates are well-prepared to lead and innovate in the fashion industry.
Throughout the course, students develop a critical awareness of advanced methods and practices, culminating in an independent Master's Project.
Supported by a reflective journal and the option to produce a written outcome where appropriate, students articulate their theoretical frameworks, methodologies, and research approaches, leading to a final exhibition, presentation or other appropriate forms of publication or dissemination.
AUB celebrates a diverse cohort, welcoming students from various cultural, educational, and professional backgrounds.
Experience in digital fashion isn't mandatory; the programme values a wide array of perspectives and skills, from garment design and textiles to VFX and gaming.
The fashion industry is under a sustainability microscope and the world is waking up to 'greenwashing'.
MA Digital Fashion Innovation seeks to support students to address and understand the UN Sustainability Development Goals, as retailers, brands and manufacturers are now increasingly compelled to revamp business models to align to a shifting regulatory landscape.
These regulations span the entire fashion value chain, from product design to marketing, and will impact consumers and companies globally.
The digital practices and methodologies explored through this course will support students in working towards being more conscious and sustainable in line with current and future legislation.
MA Digital Fashion Innovation at AUB transcends being a taught programme; it serves as a portal to the future of fashion.
Designed for those who want to redefine the boundaries of creativity, sustainability, and design, this programme offers a transformative educational experience that combines rigorous academic research with industry engagement.
Joining this course means joining a team of pioneers influencing and directing the next wave of digital fashion innovation.
MA Digital Fashion Innovation represents an exciting opportunity for you to challenge and build on your previous achievements and to study at an advanced level.
The course provides specific discipline-focused project work aimed at enabling you to take the right path towards your chosen career in industry or progress to further study at doctorate level.
The course is structured around three 60-credit units, as consecutive and equally weighted phases of study:
Master's 1: Exploration and Thinking
This unit comprises a range of projects that begin with revisiting the fundamentals of digital fashion innovation.
Although some elements are likely to be familiar, you're encouraged to analyse and critically evaluate how and why they're manifested into advanced practice.
You'll be challenged to articulate and question some of the basic assumptions that may underpin your conception of your Master's projects.
This unit consists of shared workshops and lectures, encouraging and creating a network for all postgraduate students to attend alongside their subject specialist sessions.
You'll begin the unit with a skills audit, identifying your strengths and any opportunities to advance your skills.
You'll be invited to attend several workshops, including digital pattern cutting, virtual prototyping, augmented, virtual and extended reality, alongside software-specific workshops in Twin Motion, Unreal Engine, CLO3D, Sizestream, and Vizoo.
You'll also be encouraged to consider if you're focusing on URL or IRL design, or if you're researching at the intersection of both the digital and the physical and working within the Phygital space.
You'll identify theories and markets relevant to an emerging study focus appropriate to these concerns, which will directly inform and identify your Master's 1: Exploration and Thinking proposal.
Master's 2 : Test, Collaborate and Strategise
This unit requires you to formalise your intentions in a Learning Agreement, and to interrogate and explore contextual issues relevant to the study specialism through creative design practice.
You'll also be expected to engage with academic literature surrounding your chosen area, and to engage with theoretical and contextual reading.
This unit offers you the opportunity to align your Master's project exploration and experimentation with specific industry requirements, needs or briefs, through collaborative opportunities as appropriate.
Using an individualised Learning Agreement, you'll establish an appropriate outcome for this module with tutors that will also define the proposal and agreement for Master's 3.
Master's 3: Resolution, Audience, and Impact
Here, you'll carry through your plan of action identified in the Master's 2 Learning Agreement and establish innovative ways of presenting and disseminating the outcomes.
You'll need to consider communicating digital fashion innovation findings to both specialist and non-specialist audiences.
This unit emphasises creative output and professional development.
If appropriate to your ambitions, and in agreement with tutors, you could also opt to produce a written outcome.
At the conclusion of the Master's 3: Resolution, Audience and Impact unit, you'll have the opportunity to display or present your work in an appropriate professional context.
For example, this could be an exhibition, website, show, screening, or publication.
Master's 2 and 3 involve periods of independent study that determine your major portfolio of practical work.
They build upon, and contrast with, the taught mode of delivery in Master's 1, providing you with opportunities to sustain and fuse the advanced skills, understanding and application of research methods towards the completion of project plans as identified through Learning Agreements, and present to students, industry, and staff.
Over the course of the three units, students should develop a portfolio of work that will establish them as advanced, skilful, and innovative digital fashion practitioners, who are ready to proceed to a professional context, further research, or PhD study.
In each unit, you'll develop a reflective written component alongside your body of creative work to aid your evaluation of your learning journeys and processes.
Part-time pathway The part-time pathway is carried out over a period of 90 weeks – rather than 45 weeks as in the full-time pathway.
PhD, BA(Hons), FHEA
Meet the Industry Patron for MA Digital Fashion Innovation – The Fabricant.
The Fabricant has been pioneering fashion-tech since 2018, working at the intersection of technology, creativity and fashion.
Their expertise lies in building fashion solutions based on 3D and digital fashion, blockchain and AI technologies, and they're motivated to create a new fashion industry that's more creative and less pollutive.
On MA Digital Fashion Innovation, you'll have access to a very wide range of specialist industry equipment including, but not limited to: Juki three-step zigzag machine, cover stitch machine, Jersey binding machine, industrial flat beds, industrial overlockers, industrial irons, heat press, Juki and Brother industrial overlockers, Juki and Brother industrial flat beds, Brother blind hemmer, Irish embroidery machine, Juki freehand embroidery machine, Solent twin needle, Juki button shirt buttonhole machine and a Juki keyhole buttonhole machine.
Digital equipment: Computer suite which includes access to software including Adobe software (Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Substance), Microsoft package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint), Lectra (Modaris, JustPrint, Diamino, Kaledo Style), CLO3D, Wilcom embroidery software, Browzwear and Unreal Engine, Twinmotion.
There's also access to: Lectra plotter printer, Digitising board, Adler pillar sewing machine (Dürkopp Adler), Pfaff post wheel sewing machine (PFAFF 591), Leather Skiver (Global-SK 111), Cornely embroidery machine (Global Cornely freehand embroidery machine), leather burnishing machine, Vizoo digital fabric scanner, Totum digital touch screen, body scanner, digital loom, fabric testing and digitising equipment, VR headsets, Sublimation printer (Epson dye sublimation printer, in digital hub), rotary heat press (digital hub) and the well-equipped Dye room.
The Knit Room resources include: Dubied big knit machine, Brother knit machines, Silver Reed knit machine.
Meanwhile, the Embroidery Room resources include: Small digital embroidery machines (Happy Voyager 12-needle embroidery machine), and a large digital embroidery machine (Happy 15-needle embroidery machine).
You'll also have access to our on-site Innovation Studio, which is also home to resident businesses and specialist resources and researchers who can support your endeavours.
Cameron Wilson is a multiple award-winning British visual artist with over a decade of experience in the fashion industry...
MA Innovation and Creative Entrepreneurship is for people who want to make a change; to found their own business, be part of a start-up...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-film-practice:
MA Film Practice will no longer be accepting applications for 2025 and onwards.
You can still undertake an MA in Film Practice by studying online with AUB.
Discover our MA Film Practice (online) course.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-film-practice-online:
With our MA Film Practice (Online) course, you'll explore the possibilities of contemporary film and moving image practice.
Taught by practising filmmakers, academics and moving image artists, MA Film Practice (Online) supports the integration of practice, experimentation, and theory through intensive online study.
The course offers you the opportunity to develop and realise your creative ambitions in the context of an international learning community while being supported to work across narrative fiction, documentary, experimental film, artist moving image, and hybrid projects.
MA Film Practice (Online) encourages applications from individuals around the world who are motivated to expand their film or related practices in a supported international community of students, practitioners and teaching staff.
In addition to applicants with experience of working with film and moving image, we welcome applicants from related fields including photography, sound artists, visual artists, performance and ethnography.
Throughout the MA Film Practice (Online) course, you're encouraged to question and debate established and mainstream modes of film practice.
Supported by bespoke lectures, group seminars, and one-to-one tutorials, you'll explore the overlapping histories and iterations of film and moving images.
Through guided readings and screenings, you're encouraged to think critically about their own and others' work and to consider how through specific approaches, subjects, theories, and methodologies, film practice can engage with our contemporary world.
You'll have opportunities to work independently and collaboratively through projects considering how films and moving image works are developed, funded, presented, and disseminated.
MA Film Practice (Online) enables you to actively expand your existing knowledge and approaches to film and moving images.
It welcomes applicants not only from film and moving image backgrounds, but also from individuals with experience in related and complementary fields, including photography, performance, contemporary art, and sound work.
The course culminates in each student creating a substantial short film or moving image work accompanied by a practice research document that critically reflects on, and articulates, the research, development, and making of their final MA work.
The MA Film Practice (Online) course at AUB is taught by practising filmmakers, academics and moving image artists.
The series of course units enable students to expand and refine their individual film practices through bespoke lectures, practical assignments, seminars and group work which combine experimentation with critical reflection.
These culminate in a final longer unit in which student realise their thesis projects.
In this introductory unit, we’ll help you evaluate your experiences and knowledge to further inform your creative development.
You’ll position your practice, establish or reinforce a critically informed grounding in filmmaking, and start a reflective journal practice to support your studies.
During this unit, you’ll develop new working methods and specialist techniques to enhance your practice.
You’ll consider the contextual factors that shape your filmmaking and get to experiment with different creative approaches to strengthen your practical abilities.
This unit will help you gain the expertise necessary to analyse film as an art form.
We’ll explore different styles and forms of moving imagery, the history of creative techniques, contemporary developments in film theory, philosophical perspectives, and more.
Together, we’ll look at the challenges and possibilities of performance and cooperation in filmmaking.
This unit will encourage you to think about how your practice involves and relates to other people to expand your understanding of diverse creative techniques and produce culturally relevant work.
Co-lab is an interdisciplinary unit that focuses on discovering collaborative ways of working and exploring new areas or creative approaches outside your comfort zone.
You’ll learn how to engage with ideas and processes that are unfamiliar to you and consider how your work is impacted by the contribution of others.
This unit will help you understand how to apply research and specialist practical techniques to inform and support the construction of narrative in your filmmaking.
We’ll investigate key concepts within film studies to help you consider structure, form and meaning in your work.
This unit explores the multiplicities of Film Industries including cinemas, gallery screenings and film festivals.
It explores networks, organisations and practitioners involved in creating, screening and distributing film and moving image works.
In this unit, we’ll focus on important issues around representation and ethics in filmmaking.
You’ll be challenged to critically consider who you choose to work with at each stage of your film practice, how your present them, and the perspective from which your work is created.
The Thesis Film Proposal unit will guide your through the development process of your final project, giving you an opportunity to create and present your ideas and plans.
Throughout the unit, we’ll support you in researching, conceptualising, refining, and planning your project.
As the final part of the course, this unit focuses on the creation of your individual, research-informed project: a short film or moving image work and a practice-research document that communicates your processes and critically reflects on your own film practice.
Final projects are screened at an annual event, Aspect Ratio , in the summer, with the 2025 graduates' work exhibiting at the Palace Court Theatre.
Discover the 2025 event, Aspect Ratio: Moving Images , on our website.
Want to get a sense of what you could achieve on MA Film Practice (Online)?
Take a look at the work of current student Jonny White below.
Jonny's film Still Moving (2025) is a four-minute, black-and-white poetic short exploring ageing and identity through contemporary dance.
PhD, MFA, BA (Hons)
MA, PhD, Senior Postdoc
PhD, MA, PgCert, BA(Hons), AFHEA
Studying MA Film Practice online with AUB enables students to gain an international perspective on their practice and to realise ambitious and innovative projects whether they want to make narrative fiction, documentaries, experimental films, or artists' moving image works.
View excerpts and stills from the final project films of our MA Film Practice (Online) graduates below.
Video 1: Yn Chy (in this house) by artist and filmmaker Patricia Smith is a 10-minute moving image work filmed in Cornwall, intended to be shown as a three-channel installation | Video 2: Found and Forgiven is a nine-minute narrative short film by Slovakian filmmaker and actor Peter Kertesz, filmed in Taiwan.
Stills 1–2: Maria Giovanna Colabianchi's Italian-language film Ju'o Coio (I pick it) (2025) | Still 3: Farid Huseynli's Unorthodox Treatment (2025) | Still 4: Kingsley Fernando's Blanket of Shadows (2025), an autobiographical film informed by his own experiences as a young immigrant moving to the UK from Nigeria | Still 5: 6 Winters (2025), a personal and poetic experimental film by Kyla Rosselli | Still 6: This is Olly (2025) by Kay Stocks – a film portrait of her sister | Still 7: From Milwaukee-based filmmaker Fidel Rodriguez from his film The Monkey He Left Me (2025), in which a 16-year-old Hispanic American teenager reflects on the loss of her older brother.
Meet the Industry Patron for MA Film Practice (Online), Ania Trzebiatowska.
Ania is a Los Angeles-based feature film programmer for the Sundance Film Festival, focusing on both US and world documentary features.
Prior to that, she was the Sales and Acquisitions Executive for the documentary sales agency, Autlook Filmsales, and also the Senior Director of Acquisitions for the New York City-based agency, Visit Films.
In additional to her work at Sundance, she runs Sands: International Film Festival, which happens in St Andrews, Scotland.
The MA Film Practice (Online) will prepare you for the next phase in your journey as practitioner.
Through the course, you'll build and understanding of how to apply what you've learned to your individual practices and through collaborations, as well.
You'll be able to analyse and critically engage with the work of others through a deeper understanding of filmmaking as a discipline.
Combined, these skills will allow you to pursue a number of roles, such as:

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-fine-art:
The MA Fine Art course offers a stimulating community of creative practice in which any curious individual can interrogate what art is, what it can do, and how best they can develop a meaningful artistic role.
Options of full-time or part-time study modes from September, or full-time from January, allow for greater inclusivity, diversity and flexibility.
MA Fine Art at AUB invites those of all disciplines, dispositions, life circumstances, ethnicities, neurodiversity and professional experience to embrace ‘play’ as a driver for self-discovery and cultural transformation.
Providing a grounding in Fine Art for students that come from art or non-art backgrounds, it supports practices that are multi-disciplinary and technologically innovative, alongside the discipline-specific such as drawing, photography, sculpture, printmaking, painting, moving image or performance.
This course builds on the longstanding reputation of Fine Art at AUB as a specialist art and design university renowned for shaping student employability.
Whether aiming to exhibit or curate in contemporary galleries; work in the public domain; engage in social art enterprise; teach in academia; or pursue further research, individual aspirations are enabled.
MA Fine Art alumni are agile, confident, robust, autonomous, and impactful creatives, well-equipped to face the complex contemporary art climate.
Learning how the rules and systems of art operate, involves testing what it means to bend or break them through experimental studio practice and theoretical enquiry.
Students contextualise their work in relation to other contemporary artists and connect their ideas with wider discourses, issues and debates.
By drilling deeply into subjects of current relevance, they aim to expand the limits of what's possible, known or imagined.
In doing so, they work towards being the kind of responsible and credible practitioner that makes valuable contributions to society.
The course philosophy is underpinned by two premises.
Firstly, that creativity isn't a talent that we're born with but something that can undoubtedly be learnt; and secondly that artists learn most effectively by doing, by engaging in activity that's meaningful to them, and then reflecting upon that experience.
The open-ended nature of the discipline is reflected in an emphasis on investigative studio practice.
A Fine Artist may know ‘how’ or ‘why’ they're going to work in a certain way but can't predetermine ‘what’ the final product will be, or how others will make meaning from it.
The distinctive features of MA Fine Art at AUB include:
The course is delivered through three 60-credit units, as consecutive and equally weighted phases of study:
Master's 1: Deconstructing Thinking and Practice
The first unit launches studio coursework with an experimental phase of study that challenges pre-existing understanding of artistic materials, methods, and contexts.
Short projects driven by thematic provocations revisit the fundamentals of Fine Art thinking.
Light-hearted and fast-paced, this unit dispels self-consciousness as developmental responses are regularly documented and constructively discussed.
Although some properties, processes and strategies may already be familiar, analysis of their relevance for oneself and others is encouraged.
Master's 2: Navigating Content and Context
This unit aims to define subject-matter, intentions, and research parameters in relation to context.
In launching a major body of work to be finalised in Master's 3, you're encouraged to survey existing practices, literature, concepts, theories, and enquiries of relevance to an emerging subject focus.
The approaches of others are repurposed as modes of gaining understanding and generating new knowledge around one’s own concerns grow a stronger sense of artistic identity and responsibility.
Gradually taking ownership of planning, testing, promoting, and presenting work helps build a distinctive professionalism in which individual personality, interests and audience meet.
Master's 3: Resolving Audience and Impact
The final unit emphasises the findings, function and coherence of outputs that are realised then tested in the public domain through group exhibition and/or publication.
It constitutes an ambitious and demanding phase of study investigating the forefront of disciplinary boundaries and pushing the possibilities of artistic roles.
The reflexive, self-aware and autonomous habits required to sustain a successful Fine Art practitioner are cemented through increasingly methodical working.
A set of opportunities for future practice and research are defined in establishing a position within creative industries.
PhD, MA, PGDip, BA (Hons), PGCert, FHEA
PGCert, MA, BA (Hons), SFHEA
Meet the Industry Patron for MA Fine Art – Aspex Portsmouth.
As a visual arts and educational charity dedicated to cultivating creativity, collaboration, and community, the Aspex ethos aligns perfectly with our course aims.
Nourishing this relationship and its opportunities for meaningful discussion and participation, will clearly benefit our students in becoming the kind of responsible, sustainable, and professional practitioners that make valuable contributions to society.
Browse our gallery of student work below.
Working as a creative within the luxury product industry and a Lecturer within the Foundation Diploma at Arts University Bournemouth...
MA Painting will explore this innovative and expansive territory in depth, dedicating itself to specialist study at postgraduate level.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-graphic-design:
This course approaches all forms of graphic design as triggers for thinking and feeling.
By interrogating your practice at the cognitive level, you’ll explore how such things as a metaphor, and the framing and blending of ideas, drive communication.
Through self-initiated research and experimentation, you’ll be encouraged to engage with the world, and find insights that generate understanding and guide positive action.
Students apply to the course predominantly from graphic design courses but are welcomed from a variety of backgrounds (if they can show an aptitude for typography).
Students may have studied photography, architecture, illustration, interaction design, three-dimensional design, fine art, or, subjects such as journalism, philosophy, psychology, anthropology or sociology.
Whatever your background, you’ll be required to reflect on your worldview; the underlying assumptions and understanding that guides and constrains your practice, and to use this reflection as a starting point from which to further develop.
Your practice can take many forms: it can be self-expressive, or socially orientated; print, screen-based or three-dimensional.
It can focus on an aspect of a well-defined area of design, such as branding, experimental typography, publishing, and user-centred design, or on something more unconventional defined as part of your study.
Graphic designers often work in groups, sometimes comprising members from different disciplines.
MA Graphic Design provides opportunities to work in interdisciplinary ways as it sits alongside the courses of other disciplines.
Many of the taught sessions such as the introduction to research methods and processes occur in these interdisciplinary groups.
At other times however you’ll be developing your project with your supervisor and other students on your course.
This will require you to develop a theoretical framework, methodology and research methods that support your research focus.
As a graphic designer you should anticipate the possible consequences of your design interventions, including the meanings constructed through your practice, in relation to ethical and sustainability issues as well as to other relevant contexts.
Creative approaches are required that respond to complex situations in which many problems reside.
Outcomes are not constrained by media or by limited interpretations of what it is to be a graphic designer.
Consequently, an outcome might involve the design of an experience or service, as much as it might concern more conventional forms of graphic production.
MA Graphic Design represents an exciting opportunity for you to challenge and build on your previous achievements and to study at an advanced level.
Master's 1: Framing Graphic Design Practice
This unit seeks to identify and critically review the attitudes and understanding underlying your graphic design practice.
It begins with a critique of conventional understanding of the communication process.
It introduces theories from the cognitive humanities, such as frame theory, primary metaphor theory, and conceptual metaphor theory and applies these to your practice through a number of assignments.
You'll be encouraged to return, through practice, to an engagement with the fundamental elements and language of graphic design
You'll be encouraged to reflect in-action as you respond to a series of assignments that will challenge assumptions about graphic design and the nature of communication, and which will encourage you to scope possible areas for deeper enquiry.
Master's 2: Scoping the Challenge Space
This unit marks a shift from a predominantly taught, toward a supervisory mode of study.
You’ll engage in experimentation and primary and secondary research around a focus of study that you'll define in consultation with the course team.
This exploration is directed toward the development of a Learning Agreement, which defines the project that will be refined and implemented in the final unit.
Master’s 3: Resolving the Solution Space
The final unit sustains and fuses your engagement with theory, research methods, experimentation and the context of your focus of study through practice and presentations to students and staff.
Throughout the course, you’ll produce a Reflective Journal providing a means to gather evidence in support of your career aspirations and as a way of documenting your practice.
We’re highly aware of and very responsive to, the needs and professional aspirations of graduates as they progress to meet the future demands of the professional work-related environment.
In this respect we’re committed to keeping up with new trends within graphic design and its allied fields.
Part-time pathway The part-time pathway is carried out over a period of 90 weeks – rather than 45 weeks as in the full–time pathway.
Meet the Industry Patron for MA Graphic Design – Mark Smith, Group Sales Director at Dayfold, an organisation at the forefront of print and packaging in the New Forest.
Mark has a depth of experience in working with many leading design practices and publishers, helping them to optimally realise their print and packaging projects.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-graphic-design-online:
MA Graphic Design (Online) at Arts University Bournemouth drives sustainable innovation for future-ready designers.
In a noisy global landscape dominated by visual communication, forging a solid creative identity can be a major challenge for graphic designers.
MA Graphic Design (Online) is a comprehensive, multi-disciplinary course that will equip you with the ability to elevate your creative practice and so much more.
With units focused on urgent global issues such as sustainability, inclusivity and human-centric design, you’ll embark on a transformative journey that empowers you to help people and the planet.
Today’s business market is in high demand for graphic designers who can think laterally, apply critical thinking to their own practice, and engage meaningfully with the world around them.
While day-to-day professional experience is invaluable, it takes outstanding academic teaching rigour, theoretical knowledge and contemporary research resources to raise your discipline to the next level.
Our course seamlessly blends theory and practice centred around the three pillars of design: Design Strategy, Usability, and Creativity.
Together with your peers, you’ll explore your discipline through critical debate, theoretical enquiry, and multi-modal practice.
What is the graphic designer’s fundamental role in society?
In what ways does culture and human behaviour influence (or get influenced by) the graphic designer’s work?
How can graphic design be channelled to tackle contemporary social issues such as climate change, waste, inclusivity and accessibility?
These are just the beginnings of what you will dive deep into with your cohort, as you broaden your career prospects and shape a better future for our world.
The units within this course have been designed to broaden your creative horizons and give you a global perspective of how graphic design fits into the bigger picture.
Together with our academics, you’ll hone your craft as part of a virtual studio community, inform your practice with evidence-based research, and explore how design can be used to drive positive change.
This introductory unit is designed to orientate you with postgraduate study.
Where does your past and present practice fit within contemporary graphic design?
Which directions might you take in the future?
You’ll also be challenged to expand on your own reference points as a practitioner.
Combining theory and practice, we’ll delve far beyond the aesthetic surface of graphic design.
You’ll be introduced to design thinking: a research-informed, iterative process for understanding audiences, challenging assumptions, and ensuring that your designs have the right impact.
This will shape your creative output before the creation stage, elevating your work as a catalyst for problem-solving.
For designers, the five senses are an important consideration when it comes to promoting certain customer behaviours.
In this theory-based unit, we’ll explore how sensory design can be used to influence brands and branded environments.
You'll then work collaboratively with your peers to design, present and reflect on a branded experience.
Contemporary design practice often focuses on user needs, and this has ultimately shaped the landscape of customer experience.
In this unit, you'll learn how to adopt human-centred design: a problem-solving technique that puts real people at the heart of the development process.
This unit will delve into cognitive science: the interdisciplinary study of mind and intelligence.
We'll explore how the graphic design process and typography has been revolutionised by neuroscience, evidence-based design, and AI.
You’ll also be tasked with creating a statement and either choosing or creating typography that amplifies, enhances, or elucidates your message.
Together, we’ll explore how to become champions of inclusive design.
Inclusive design is a design process that considers diverse groups of people and their needs in visual communication.
You'll learn how to make your products, designs and services usable by as many people as reasonably possible – no matter what their age, ability, and socioeconomic background.
Through several real-world case studies, we’ll explore ‘nudge theory’ in visual design.
You’ll develop a profound understanding of how your projects can influence audience behaviours, shift social perceptions, and act as a catalyst for positive social change.
Through the combined lens of both design and theory, we'll help you centre your practice on the UN’s sustainable development goals.
Mirroring professional experience, you’ll be asked to make a successful communications strategy or campaign that prioritises eco-consciousness every step of the way – from the use of sustainable materials to the creation of impactful messaging.
This unit represents a pivotal point in your academic journey.
Together, we’ll help you define the study focus for your Final Project.
You’ll also reflect on your purpose as a graphic designer and determine the lines of enquiry you will delve into in your future practice.
This final unit is your opportunity to demonstrate the vast breadth of knowledge and skills you have acquired.
You’ll work independently to produce a resolved, research-informed, practical project on the topic outlined in your research proposal.
MRes, BA (Hons), FHEA
BA, MA, FHEA
Frauke Stegmann’s graphic design practice uses, among other, DIY models (low-tech production methods extending to any...
Briony Hartley is a graphic designer, typographer and colour consultant.
She has a BA (Hons) Typography from...
Justine is a seasoned e-commerce professional and has worked with some of the UK’s favourite brands.
From running a...
Simon is a seasoned graphic designer from the UK with over 20 years of experience in creative direction and brand consulting...
With over 15 years of experience in the digital design landscape, Tom has been at the forefront of branding, web design...
"Central to our course is a focus on sustainability in design.
Designers can foster innovation for societal change in materials, processes, and design thinking."
Our Industry Patron, Sarah Hyndman, discusses her research, her business, and exploring typography across all senses.
Meet the Industry Patron for MA Graphic Design (Online), Sarah Hyndman.
Sarah is the founder of Type Tasting and the author of Why Fonts Matter .
She entertains audiences with her unique blend of science, activities and sense-hacking, and has been measuring emotional and multi-sensory responses to fonts since 2013.
She’s also a TEDx speaker and a judge for the D&AD Awards.
As a graduate of the MA Graphic Design (Online) course, you’ll unlock a diverse range of varied, rewarding career options in the future.
Innovative designers are in high demand at companies worldwide.
With the knowledge you acquire at AUB, you’ll stand as someone who can help them meet their sustainability and inclusivity goals – and you'll be able to navigate these issues with confidence.
The international network you’ll develop with your peers and tutors will also broaden your knowledge and help you get established as an in-house or freelance graphic designer.
Whichever route you choose, your industry-ready skills will empower you to spearhead positive change in the world and drive companies toward success.
Of course, establishing yourself as a graphic designer is just the tip of the iceberg – there are many areas in which you can apply your skills.
Whether you’d like to bolster eco-conscious brands, advise businesses on sustainable practice, design eco-friendly packaging with recyclable materials, or branch out into inclusive web design, your dream job will be within reach.
Here are just a few of the options you could pursue as an MA Graphic Design (Online) graduate:
You could also pursue opportunities in innovation strategy, UX research, and packaging design.
Exclusively offered to students on the course is the ability to have access to presentations from industry professionals.
This not only provides an insight into current industry practice but a wealth of research sources and networking links.
Embarking on a journey towards postgraduate study is a massive step-up in your career – and if you’re passionate about...
Are you a graphic designer looking to step into the world of freelancing?
With sustainability, accessibility and inclusivity taking...
Typography is all around us – and it’s a vital part of graphic design.
It’s integral to conveying messages and creating visually...
Think back to how we’d listen to music on-the-go in the late 1990s.
People used portable cassette players and CD players like Walkmans...
In a visually noisy world, graphic design dominates the landscape around us.
From product packaging and app interfaces to billboard...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-historical-costume:
The MA Historical Costume course is designed to introduce students with a pre-existing interest in historical clothing to a range of historical costume practices and the fundamentals of research in the field of dress and costume history.
It then encourages you to develop an individual specialism in the field that's aligned with your own artistic and professional aspirations, allowing you to demonstrate an advanced level of research and creative output within that specialism.
At the beginning of the MA Historical Costume course, you're given the opportunity to develop a grounding in different approaches to historical costume, including archival research, historical making and costume design and styling.
You're then helped to develop individual research projects that tie together a specific element of costume with the opportunity to do detailed research into a specific historical period.
You're encouraged to develop these projects with regard for diverse, ethical, and sustainable practice in the creative industries, and to consider the MA as a transformative step towards a future in costume.
Student projects and interests fall into the following types of creative direction:
The distinctive features of MA Historical Costume at AUB include:
The MA Historical Costume course is structured around three 60-credit units, as consecutive and equally weighted phases of study:
Master's 1: Exploration
This unit exposes you to the sweep of different historical costume directions covered by the course.
You'll be offered a lecture course outlining the basic shape of historical costume across a range of time periods and geographical contexts, and a variety of different workshops on subjects that may include archival research, basic sewing skills, fabric choice, pattern cutting, and design for film.
To support the development of individual interests, you're asked to complete a series of short responses to set briefs in this unit, which will enable you to explore different areas of historical costume and experiment with different forms of costume practice.
At the end of this unit, you're asked to think about developing a research area and project to carry forward into Master's 2: Development , and Master's 3: Progression .
Master's 2: Development
In this unit, you'll have identified a specific area of interest that's linked to a historical and geographical costume and will develop a research portfolio and creative response to this costume form based on one of the areas of historical costume encountered in Master's 1: Exploration .
You'll also be expected to engage with academic literature surrounding your chosen area, and to engage with theoretical and contextual reading on costume in general; this is facilitated through seminar teaching.
Using an individualised Learning Agreement, you'll establish an appropriate outcome for this module with tutors, which will normally comprise written research and some creative output.
Master's 3: Progression
For most students, this unit will follow the same research area as Master's 2: Development , with more emphasis on creative output and professional development.
You're supported in this unit to link your projects to your future work in industry or to research, and to work on live projects as well as your own independent projects.
As with the previous unit, students and tutors will make use of the individualised Learning Agreement to determine the desired outcomes from each project.
At the conclusion of the Master's 3 unit, you'll have the opportunity to display or present your work in an appropriate professional context.
Over the course of the three units, you should develop a body of work that'll establish yourself as an advanced, skilful, and reflective practitioner in historical costume, ready to proceed to a professional context or further research.
In each unit, you'll develop a reflective written component alongside their body of creative work to aid their evaluation of their learning journeys and processes.
The undergraduate courses – BA (Hons) Costume and BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance – are two of the leading courses in the UK specialising in costume construction, set and costume design (Scenography) and film costume design skills.
These specialist areas of study also contribute to the quality and breadth of practitioners that Master's students in MA Historical Costume have the opportunity to meet and engage with within the studio, seminar and lecture theatre.
All staff within the course team act as senior members of practice led societies including the Performance Design Educators Collective (PDEC) and The Society of British Theatre Design (SBTD) as well as USITT.
The MA Historical Costume course enjoys the company of leading academics including emeritus professor scenographer Professor Pamela Howard, OBE, author of What is Scenography?
(2002, 2009 and 2019), Oscar-winning designer; AUB Honorary Fellows Jenny Beavan, OBE (designer of The King's Speech , Sherlock Holmes and Cranford ); and leading costume maker Jane Law.
The course also regularly invites leading TV costume designer Claire Collins, designer for the BBC studios production Sister Boniface and Father Brown , to talk to our students.
There may also be the opportunity to learn from work placement opportunities during the course.
BA (Hons), HDFA, PGCE, SFHEA
Meet the Industry Patron for MA Historical Costume – Katie Godman.
Katie is the curator at Blandford Fashion Museum and visiting lecturer at Lawrence College.
She's given talks on historical fashion at a wide range of conferences and museums, as well as on BBC Radio 4.
Her book Gothic Fashion: The History was published by Unicorn Publishing Group in 2022.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-illustration:
The MA Illustration course allows you to further refine your creative identity, offering a bridge between HE and professional illustration practice.
It offers a great opportunity for creative professionals to return to university in order to reflect upon their creative practice and change direction.
MA Illustration welcomes a diverse range of design practitioners and celebrates a contemporary expansive notion of illustration.
The course offers you an active and dynamic community of practice, critical discourse and debate.
Students come to us from a number of educational and professional backgrounds, including illustration, graphic design, animation, fine art, modelmaking, textiles and photography, or from academic realms outside art and design.
This course is designed to appeal to students who are open and excited by a range of innovative possibilities from traditional methods such as drawing and printmaking, to virtual and time-based media.
Experimenting with ideas that might culminate in publication, exhibition or new hybrid platforms, you are encouraged to re-imagine, navigate and resolve your practice.
Through writing the Reflective Journals alongside studio outputs, you come to understand research and reflection as fundamental drivers for challenging creative thinking.
We encourage you to engage imaginatively with your own contexts and experiences, in order to extend your practice into new arenas.
The strong emphasis on career planning enables you to carve your own niche within an evolving global market for illustration materials.
Our graduates are supported in addressing the boundaries of the discipline itself through developing new visual perspectives on the world.
MA Illustration will appeal to you if you’re open to participating in a broad range of creative strategies, utilising traditional and digital methods.
These include drawing and printmaking, lens and time-based media, with ideas and concepts that might be realised through exhibition, publication or exciting new hybrid forms.
Students studying on the course come from a number of diverse backgrounds including illustration, graphic design, printmaking, drawing, photography and painting.
Others come from outside of art and design, having had experience across other subject disciplines, but demonstrating a passion for illustration.
MA Illustration is structured and delivered in order to encourage and support you in developing your own distinct visual language, recognising an expansive understanding of contemporary illustration through the exploration of relationships between illustrator as author, audience and context.
Ideas are developed through specific individual approaches to research into practice and reflective enquiry.
This deeper understanding and commitment to practice assists students in identifying, exploring and achieving your future career aspirations.
The course encourages you to engage imaginatively with illustration, in relation to both the academic subject and practice of illustration.
MA Illustration encourages you to question the nature of your practice and its context and position relative to the creative industries.
The course encourages you to engage imaginatively with your practice in relation to the evolving academic subject and practice of illustration.
Your practice will be considered in a global context, with an awareness of the emergence of new and innovative approaches that interrogate, challenge and advance traditional.
As a graduate from MA Illustration, you’ll be able to carve your own niche in an evolving market for visual materials.
The course is structured and delivered in order to encourage and support you in developing your own distinct visual language, recognising an expansive understanding of contemporary illustration through the exploration of relationships between illustrator as author, audience and context.
You’ll deepen your knowledge and your ability to focus on your chosen field in relation to the key aspects that inform it.
The course devises specific discipline-focused project work to enable you to take the right path towards your chosen career in industry or progress to further study at doctorate level.
Master's 1: Re-imagining Practices and Content
This unit encourages you to dismantle and deconstruct your own creative assumptions through re-visiting the fundamentals of the subject discipline.
It requires you to develop an intellectual depth of understanding of Illustration via the application of critical reasoning.
Shared studio activities and workshops enable those of different backgrounds and experience to develop common skill sets and adjust to new ways of working.
As the Re-imagining Practices and Content unit progresses, you're encouraged to survey promising areas of investigation.
Your framework of interests, theories and career aspirations are identified.
They form the basis for your second unit.
Master's 2: Navigating Audiences and Contexts
This unit drives periods of independent study through which you explore, transform and test your findings to date in relation to audience and context.
Reflecting on this will help you determine your direction for the final unit, Realising Professional Futures .
Master's 3: Realising Professional Futures
Realising Professional Futures supports you in establishing orderly practice-based research methodologies and formalising your intentions for presenting and disseminating your final outputs.
Through editing, selecting and resolving your portfolio, you gain the confidence to embrace the complex and unpredictable challenges of creative industries.
In this way, you acquire the strategies needed for agile and sustainable working practice in your chosen field.
The three Reflective Journals reflect upon your portfolio of work and the integrated research of each unit, enabling you to focus your learning, development and planning.
These are ongoing self-referential, reflective documents, updated continuously and made available for assessment at the completion of each unit.
In identifying your strengths and weaknesses, your Reflective Journals enable you to take remedial action to improve and/or develop new relevant skills in preparation for the future.
As such they evidence a wide range of academic engagement, reflective evaluation, critical analysis, processual thinking, specialist capabilities and professionalism in:
All units include plenty of opportunities to share your work and to develop confidence in presenting your work to an audience, both verbally and visually.
You’ll also have the opportunity to attend professional practice workshops, where you will be advised on important skills such as self-promotion, entrepreneurship, approaching clients and pricing your work.
We’re highly aware of and very responsive to the needs and professional aspirations of graduates as they progress to meet the future demands of the professional work-related environment.
In this respect we are constantly alert to the trends within each of the respective, discipline-specific, marketplaces.
BA (Hons), AFHEA
Meet the Industry Patron for MA Illustration, Plum Agency.
Plum is a global, industry-leading agency specialising in children’s publishing and media.
They help people thrive, steering talent to blossom and make careers grow.
The agency works with debut and established talent – including AUB alumni – and their illustrators and authors frequently win awards and top the bestseller lists.
Plum helps their illustrators realise their ideas from initial thought to final concept before pitching it out to the world of children’s publishing, theatre, TV and film.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-illustration-online:
The MA Illustration (Online) course is a part-time, flexible course that enables you to explore, refine and reflect on the practical aspects of your craft in a setting that suits you.
In tandem with this, you'll gain new understanding of your craft through engaging with the historical, contemporary and professional contexts of your subject.
Enabling you to become active and valuable participants in the growing international illustration community.
Through rigorous self-reflection, academic enquiry, and thorough research, you'll break down and rethink your practice.
Dissecting and cross-examining both historical and contemporary illustration works, using them as reference points to chart your position as a practitioner in today's industry.
The degree welcomes individuals from a diverse range of backgrounds, whether academic or professional, who seek to realise their own creative ambitions while celebrating a contemporary and expansive notion of what illustration can be.
The flexible online delivery method suits working professionals who would like to explore and understand how the academic principles of the subject can further underpin and expand their own creative practice.
Whilst the breadth of subjects covered within the course enables practitioners and artists in other creative fields to further develop their skills in the field of illustration in a supportive and inspiring space
We’ve worked carefully to combine academic excellence with knowledge grounded in the realities of the industry.
Through hands-on experience, support with portfolio creation and public-facing projects, we’ll help you market yourself as a graduate.
Informed by a profound understanding of theoretical knowledge, current challenges and research methodology, you’ll stand out more than ever as a creative professional.
You’ll also gain global insights from both your tutors and your cohort – an international network of like-minded creatives.
These connections could lead to future job opportunities, creative collaborations, joint exhibitions, and much more.
The course has been designed to suit students that want to continue their creative journey, exploring their personal or professional illustrative practice, but who may have other responsibilities preventing them from studying full-time.
Our interdisciplinary approach combines multi-modal creative practice with a systems thinking approach, considering the broader context in which our illustrative work exists—such as how cultural, social, and technological elements can influence our creative practice.
We place as much emphasis on a consideration for what is being illustrated, and the meaning being conveyed, as we do on the final aesthetic and finish of the piece.
We value work that explores the ethical, societal and environmental whilst building professional portfolios.
The course fosters a culture of goal setting, project management, and collaboration, preparing students for the professional world.
A Master's degree in Illustration instils in you the ability to approach all aspects of an illustration career with academic rigour and professional level practical skills.
Our units – and the briefs within them – are varied and specialised – ensuring a balance between developing your own creative practice, conducting in-depth high-quality research and exploring how illustration exists as a medium in a contemporary context.
Alongside this, we support your career planning and positioning – enabling you to understand how you can situate and market your work.
This introductory unit is designed to orient you and your cohort.
We’ll give you the core skills and knowledge required to deconstruct, build and expand on all aspects of your practice – preparing you to be capable of engaging meaningfully with the rest of the content on the course.
This unit delves into the concept of self, and how it shapes the work of the illustrator.
Together, we’ll explore how others identify socially and culturally.
You’ll document your research and development in a process book and create an illustrative response to a prompt provided by your tutors.
Every mark we make on a (real or virtual) surface can add a different meaning to the overall work.
By experimenting with and analysing this concept, we’ll explore ways of translating your ideas into your chosen medium.
You’ll also delve into the enduring mythology of craftsmanship, and its context in today’s world.
Looking at both historical and contemporary resources, we’ll explore how images are sequenced to tell a story.
This knowledge will feed into theories related to visual literacy, the reading of an image, and the ways in which you can engage with (or challenge) an author.
You’ll then deliver a creative visual response to a set prompt.
Collaboration is a core aspect of the AUB experience, and it will always be an integral part of developing your creative career.
Together with your peers, you’ll work collaboratively to solve a set brief.
By connecting with a global ecosystem of fellow creatives, you’ll get first-hand experience developing viable collaboration methods across different time zones.
This unit will focus on building your entrepreneurial prowess and helping you thrive in the industry, exploring both the practical and theoretical aspects of your practice.
We’ll examine the identity of the illustrator as both an artist and a design professional and consider your work within a business setting.
Is it possible for someone to own an idea?
Now more than ever, notions surrounding intellectual property are being challenged.
Together with your cohort, you will deep dive into idea generation methods as well as considering the ethics and the impact that generative AI has on contemporary illustration.
Illustrators often use their skills to document the world around them, and relay truths or opinions in visual form.
Through medium and aesthetic, ideas can be repositioned and recreated – so what is the illustrator’s role in this process?
Can the discipline ever be impartial, and what is the resulting effect of the agency you assert?
Throughout this unit, you’ll investigate documented spaces and reflect on how your perspectives influence your creative output.
We’ll help you develop and structure a final creative output for the course.
What resonated most with you?
What lines of enquiry would you like to pursue?
What topics and methodologies do you want to expand on?
Exploration is key here, and we’ll encourage you to research a diverse range of sources for inspiration.
In this final unit, you’ll work independently under supervision to follow through on your written and illustrated proposal delivered in Research Methods.
We’ll guide you in producing a technically proficient, accomplished body of work that shines at the forefront of illustration practice.
MA, BA (Hons), AFHEA
With over a decade of experience as a freelance illustrator and graphic designer, Verity has worked on commercial and...
Leah works in painting, drawing, textiles and print, and her playful, highly colourful and patterned works are created using forms...
"This online MA prepares graduates for life as a working professional, where you are immersed in your practice and no two days are the same."
Course leader Mark Pavey provides an overview of the MA Illustration (Online) course.
Meet the Industry Patron for MA Illustration (Online), Dan Mumford.
Dan Mumford is an illustrator working within in the pop culture and music scenes.
Over the past 15 years, whilst running Studio Dan Mumford Limited, he has created everything from album covers, branding and screen prints to new interpretations of classic film posters and albums.
Clients include Disney, Hasbro, Apple, Adobe, Sony, Wizards of the Coast, Icon Motorsports, CBS, Iron Maiden, Metallica, and many bands and international record labels.
As a graduate of AUB’s MA Illustration (Online) course, you’ll unlock a wide range of rewarding, creative career paths.
Companies worldwide are seeking innovative minds who can help them achieve their sustainability goals.
With our course’s unique emphasis on eco-consciousness, we’ll make sure you’re ready to meet this demand and drive positive environmental change.
Equipped with a comprehensive skillset that covers both traditional and digital illustration, you’ll be capable of communicating your creative vision clearly and articulately.
With the guidance our experts will give you, you’ll already have the vital tools in place: a creative CV, industry-ready portfolios, and an established online presence.
Combining versatile entrepreneurial and marketing skills with a profound understanding of current industry challenges, you’ll have the confidence to establish yourself as a freelance independent illustrator.
Of course, that’s just the first of many doors that you’ll open on completion of your studies.
Here are just a few of the options you could pursue as an MA Illustration (Online) graduate:
You could also pursue opportunities in art direction and editorial illustration.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-innovation-and-creative-entrepreneurship:
MA Innovation and Creative Entrepreneurship is for people who want to make a change.
This course will enable you to identify open problems and the appropriate frameworks to develop evidence-based responses.
By working on live projects with external partners, you'll develop the critical thinking skills, experience and confidence to launch your own innovative project.
The course supports students who want to found their own business, be part of a start-up team or become intrapreneurs and lead change in larger organisations.
MA Innovation and Creative Entrepreneurship begins by developing an understanding of the self, personal values and intrinsic motivators that are critical for building a robust innovation practice and entrepreneurial mindset.
You'll be guided through critical evaluation of existing frameworks and tools.
Crucially, you'll apply these in responding to real-world issues with external partners.
This experiential learning, working with peers in a supportive network and guided by mentors will embed your learning and build your confidence as you move toward your final independent project, whether your ambitions are to launch a start-up or lead innovative initiatives within existing organisations.
The current social and economic climate shows a pressing need for innovative thinking and entrepreneurial action, particularly for recent graduates who either wish to start their own business or establish a career leading innovation in existing companies.
But being a founder is a lonely and risky business.
20% of SMEs fail in the first year, 60% fail in the first three.
Alongside structural issues such as supply chain management and cash flow, mental health is a prominent key cause of business failure.
Intrapreneurship, leading change within existing organisations, is similarly fraught, with resistance to change, lack of managerial support and available resources being key challenges.
As well as enabling you to develop the skills to approach complex problems, the MA Innovation and Creative Entrepreneurship course will focus on the importance of health and wellbeing and developing a sustainable practice.
The MA Innovation and Creative Entrepreneurship course is structured around three 60-credit units, as consecutive and equally weighted phases of study:
Master's Project 1: Orientation and Vision Setting
This unit comprises a range of projects to interrogate assumptions, understand the self, motivations and values that you'll need to be successful innovators, entrepreneurs and responsible leaders.
You'll explore a variety of reflective frameworks to identify, challenge and articulate their Drivers , Motivations and Values.
By interrogating Leadership Styles and Team Roles, you'll understand the importance of equality, diversity and inclusion.
You'll also explore Wicked Problems and interrogate and apply Sustainable Design Principles.
Live Project One will be set with an external partner, will run alongside the phases above and will enable the practical application and testing of the theories and frameworks explored.
Master’s Project 2: Exploration and Collaboration
This unit will extend your application of innovation and entrepreneurial frameworks and develop collaborative competencies.
It will refine your understanding and application of appropriate research methods.
You'll explore different types of Innovation and innovation contexts and how to choose appropriate approaches.
In addition, you'll explore entrepreneurial and intrapreneurial behaviours, understanding business proposition, legal structures and storytelling techniques, including speaking to diverse audiences and cultural sensitivity.
You'll also explore methods for creating and testing customer personas and customer journey.
Also set with an external partner, Live Project Two will run alongside the phases above and will enable the practical application and testing of the theories and frameworks explored.
Master's Project 3: Creating and Strategising
This project will emphasise your professional development as an innovator, entrepreneur and practitioner.
The project could take the form of a proposal for a start-up business, a collaborative project with an external partner, an intrapreneurial proposal for your current employer, or a wider proposal engaging with an open problem in your industry or community.
You'll develop sustainable approaches to business development, and explore ways to create strategic value as global and inclusive citizens.
Outputs will be appropriate to the aims of the project as defined, but are likely to include a mix of artefacts (including prototypes or MVP), business plans, research reports, case studies and policy papers.
These final outputs will include versions written for appropriate external audiences.
Outputs will be accompanied by the Reflective Journal.
This Master's course involves increasing periods of independent study and critical reflection that determine your major portfolio of practical work.
This provides you with opportunities to embed your advanced skills, understanding and applying research methods towards the completion of project plans as identified through Learning Agreements.
MA Innovation and Creative Entrepreneurship is based in AUB’s Innovation Studio , a multi-use space that co-locates our Innovation and Research teams, technicians, resident businesses, pre-start-ups and postgraduate and doctoral students.
You'll benefit from being part of this vibrant community.
The Innovation Studio houses a variety of digital and physical equipment that students are able to access.
Our equipment enables early stage ideation and prototyping in multiple levels of reality!
You can find an up-to-date list on our website.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-interior-design-online:
Do you hope to move forward in the spatial design world?
Or is architectural design your calling?
Whatever your ambitions, Our MA Interior Design (Online) course will prepare you to start the next stage of your professional journey, empowering you to rise to the needs of contemporary living.
There's an increasing demand for designers from different specialisms who can rise to the needs of contemporary living, both indoors and outdoors.
Experts are needed who can create spaces, buildings and environments that aren't only creative and diverse, but also recognise current and future sustainable and wellbeing standards.
Whether you’re a graduate with a related degree, an interior design professional or an aspiring designer wanting a career switch to further your existing practice knowledge, the MA Interior Design (Online) course will help you make your mark on this exciting field.
It'll provide opportunities for those interested in enhancing their existing specialist practice knowledge in the subjects of design, business, or the interior, architectural, product or textile design disciplines, providing a broad spectrum of knowledge to take forward into future careers.
This unique course is designed to blend research and practice with creative theory.
MA Interior Design (Online)'s varied curriculum considers interior design in its broader context with a strong underpinning delivery of sustainability and design for wellbeing, including the benefits of biophilic design, which increases connectivity to the natural environment through the use of direct nature, indirect nature, and space and place conditions.
The multi-faceted elements of the course encourage new ways of creative thought.
Each of its seven units will look at existing problems and how designers can respond to the changing needs of clients in a creative, experimental way.
Through discussion and theoretical exploration, linked to evidence-based design solutions, this will guide you in developing a thoughtful approach to designing interiors, installations, and buildings.
You’ll also understand how to create solutions and spaces for occupants, in a variety of self-selected environments.
Just as importantly, we’ll explore topics such as collaboration, experience, transition, inclusivity, and diversity – and you’ll learn how to translate these points into interior design solutions that spearhead an inspiring, sustainable existence.
Led by our experienced academics, the units within this course have been crafted to strengthen your research capabilities and understanding of a range of sectors.
Whatever your ambitions, your studies will prepare you to start the next stage of your professional journey.
This introductory unit will equip you with the knowledge needed to tackle your studies with confidence.
We’ll go over the course structure, research and academic standards, learning and assessment methods, project outcomes and expectations, and evidence-based design techniques.
We’ll investigate the different forms of interior design across various sectors, such as retail, hospitality, leisure, education, exhibition, and healthcare design.
You’ll get to explore your own specialist practice interests and define a personal research focus for your studies.
With this unit, you’ll focus on how to implement a sustainable approach to domestic and commercial design projects.
You’ll learn about identifying and sourcing materials, fixtures and fittings for sustainable wellbeing, plus concepts such as biophilic design and Passivhaus approaches to deliver net-zero-ready new and existing buildings.
As its title suggests, the Collaboration unit focuses on developing a collaborative, practice-based approach to interior design.
We’ll look at integrating interior design techniques with healthcare and lifestyle living, and what can be accomplished from collaborative usability.
This unit focuses on the interior design of commercial spaces – from the initial concept stages through to planning and interior detailing.
You’ll study the principal aspects of commercial interior design including function, aesthetic, user requirements, and constraints of the building envelope.
Together, we’ll explore the meaning of reinvention within interior design and how designs can be enhanced by transforming old features into new ones.
Through this unit, you’ll understand how to make creative, sustainable work by repurposing materials, styles, spaces, and structures.
Your lessons and coursework for this unit will introduce you to a different view about how we use the five senses – vision, hearing, smell, taste and touch – to enhance the user experience.
Alongside this, we’ll explore complex theories around spatial awareness, premonition, intuition, and meanings of interiority, space and time.
During this unit, you’ll learn about designing for diverse occupancy within domestic, work, and educational environments.
By examining cultures from across the world, we’ll also research how designers can create spaces that support multigenerational and community living.
The Research Methods unit will help you investigate and select a strong, original topic for your Master’s Project.
You’ll be introduced to a range of approaches to research design and how to make effective links between theoretical frameworks and their practical application.
As the final part of the course, your Master’s Project will require you to work independently under supervision, to produce a research-informed project on a topic chosen by you.
It’s your opportunity to further explore your specialism of interest and showcase all the knowledge you’ve gained.
PhD, MA, BA (Hons), SFHEA
BA (Hons), SBID, BIID
MA, RIBA, ARB
BA(Hons), PhD
Take the opportunity of combining your passion for design in your favourite sector, with the ability to answer questions to current design problems to help others, which this Master’s degree allows you to do.
Course leader Sarah Bax provides an overview of the MA Interior Design (Online) course.
We also provide some more information about potential career directions following completion of the course.
My journey here at AUB has been transformative, both creatively and professionally.
My experience during the course has offered a deeper, broader understanding of how our environments have a profound impact on our wellbeing in our daily lives, and provided me with the opportunity to explore sustainable, evidence-based design in a way I had never experienced before.
This journey reinforces the fact that design is more than aesthetics, it is about making a positive impact on the lives of those we design for.
This valuable knowledge will be applied to all my designs now and as we look to the future.
This MA has helped me to integrate evidence-based design into my practice and teaching.
It's ignited a curiosity to explore specialist areas within interior design and the built environment.
I wanted to do more research to inform the work I do designing airport lounges and waiting areas.
I’m learning a lot during the course about different areas of design, such as the concept of biophilic design, that I can apply to my current work.
I love the emphasis on evidence-based design that the master’s degree has, as well as the commitment to accessibility and sustainability that permeates throughout the course.
The staff involved, the course ethos, materials and pedagogy is deep rooted in wellbeing, sustainable research and design thinking practices.
With my passion and background in bioclimatic design, the course seamlessly aligns with my future aspirations.
Meet the Industry Patron for MA Interior Design (Online), multiple-award-winning architect and CEO, Debbie Flevotomou.
Debbie is the founder of Debbie Flevotomou Architects (DFA), established in 2012, with a mission to promote nature-centric architecture and interior design.
She's also the creator of the THINK NATURE movement, an enviro-aesthetic, unique and innovative way of designing net-positive energy and net-negative operational carbon buildings based on natural forms and organic motifs.
THINK NATURE creates sustainable buildings with biophilic and parametric features that promote harmony and boost wellbeing.
The MA Interior Design (Online) course is a fantastic platform to build the expertise you need to make strides in the interior design industry.
Whether you see yourself working as an in-house designer, a consultant, or a contractor, you’ll be able to consider a number of different roles.
After graduation, you’ll be prepared to follow your interests into a variety of domestic or commercial design environments.
Some examples include:
Interior design teaching is another career path you could explore after completing the course.
After graduating from the course with a distinction, Martyna launched her own business, Happy Wall...
Ahmed Khattab achieved a distinction on MA Interior Design (Online) and is now the Interior Design Manager...
Exclusively offered to students enrolled on the course is the ability to have access to presentations from industry professionals.
This provides not only an insight into current industry practice but a wealth of research sources and networking links.
One of the most exciting aspects of the course has been discovering and refining my own specialism.
Learn more about Passivhaus-standard building and what criteria constructors need to meet to be...
Discover how interior design plays a role in educational spaces and the learning experience.
Turn your interior design passion into a freelance career.
From portfolios to rates, here's all you...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-landscape-architecture-studies-online:
Create inspiring places with a positive impact with our MA Landscape Architecture Studies (Online) course.
Now, more than ever, there's a recognition that landscapes must be conceptualised, designed, and managed in ways which address contemporary challenges facing communities and the global environment.
With a real-world approach that emphasises both theory and practice, this course will help you develop the knowledge and skills to address these challenges and have a positive impact on our society, culture, and the environment.
You'll also be exposed to different cultural and professional contexts within a creative and supportive learning community where collaboration and innovation are encouraged, while you forge an exciting new chapter in your career.
MA Landscape Architecture Studies (Online) is a two-year, part-time course designed to provide a broad foundation of critical knowledge and skills for students with a passion for landscape.
The course is designed for students from a wide variety of backgrounds around the world wishing to build on their current subject knowledge, or to transfer from related subject areas.
Taught by practising landscape architects, urbanists and academics, the course offers an in-depth perspective on what's an increasingly important and growing field at the forefront of many of the most critical regional and global issues, including environmental sustainability, human wellbeing and resilience.
The units within this course have been crafted to help you contextualise your current or future landscape design practice within a wider framework of interconnected systems.
With support from our experienced academics, you’ll get to explore the benefits that this dynamic approach could bring to both your career, and to wider social, economic and environmental needs.
This introductory unit will familiarise you with key themes and practices in landscape architecture.
You’ll also use this time to think about and articulate your own learning needs and interests, and then identify your goals and hopes for the course to guide your studies.
In this unit, we’ll go over important ideas and theories relating to the meaning of landscape from social, cultural, environmental and ethical perspectives.
You’ll also expand your understanding of architecture’s theoretical foundations in fields such as geography, ecology, sociology and art.
We’ll look at cultural traditions and philosophies in the context of current existential crises regarding landscape value.
You’ll learn about how current practice is influenced by past and present social formations, and examine philosophical, spiritual, aesthetic and practical relationships to landscapes.
This focuses on the complex and conflicting relationships, systems and processes in both built and natural landscapes.
It draws upon a range of innovative landscape approaches, including green-blue infrastructure planning, cradle to cradle design, and natural capital accounting.
We’ll critically evaluate how landscape can help promote physical and mental health by addressing sources of economic, social and environmental stress.
You’ll also learn how diversity, environmental justice and inclusivity relate to you and your practice, as well as their wider social context.
This unit covers how landscape architecture practice can support social justice and community through design and innovation in tools and techniques.
We’ll explore equitable placemaking design and management, discussing topics such as public transportation, accessibility and more.
Your lessons for this unit will help you consider how the practice of landscape design and our conceptual understanding of landscape is historically grounded in the context of gardens.
You’ll study garden design precedents from across a range of typologies, scales and cultural contexts.
As its title suggests, this unit is an introduction to urban design as a discipline.
We’ll cover its language, terminology and examples of recent urban planning – and examine the nature of cities as landscapes and ecosystems from the perspectives of contemporary and historical urban theorists.
During this unit, you’ll gain a theoretical and practical grounding in research and research design methods.
The unit serves as a foundation to the Comprehensive Master’s Project and is your opportunity to identify and test your area of research, key sources and methods of inquiry.
The Comprehensive Master’s Project is your time to showcase your position and approach as a landscape professional.
With the support of a project supervisor, you’ll be challenged to create a design project that synthesises the ideas, knowledge and skills you’ve developed during the course.
Arkitekt MA
Dipl Arch, M.Arch., PhD
Global climate change and the ecological crisis are undoubtedly the defining environmental issues of our time.
Landscape architecture is uniquely positioned to tackle these issues, and a rigorous approach to embody sustainability and resilience into landscape practice is a fundamental part of the course.
Course leader Dr Kirsten Tatum provides an overview of the MA Landscape Architecture Studies (Online) course.
Meet the Industry Patron for MA Landscape Architecture Studies (Online), Jennie Savage.
Jennie has a co-design practice.
She works with communities in the field of planning and urban design to ensure that local knowledge shapes design outcomes.
Her work explores the relationships between people and places and uses storytelling to creatively engage communities and imagine shared futures.
She's worked nationally and internationally on projects funded by Heritage Lottery, European Social Fund, The Arts Council and British Council.
MA Landscape Architecture Studies can help you pursue a diverse array of careers.
You’ll build an advanced portfolio of landscape skills, techniques, knowledge and understanding, to develop your career or to prepare for further specialised study.
Graduates are well equipped to work in landscape related fields within the UK and internationally, as well as for landscape architecture practice outside the UK.
Some of the roles that you’ll be able to work towards include:
Please note, MA Landscape Architecture Studies (Online) isn't designed to provide a complete training for becoming a UK Chartered Landscape Architect.
However, for students without a previous degree in landscape architecture wishing to pursue a career as a UK Chartered Landscape Architect, the course offers a pathway to access further specialist education on Landscape Institute-accredited postgraduate courses in the UK.
Alternatively, the course can enable students to access relevant industry experience which offers an alternative pathway towards becoming a Chartered Member of the Landscape Institute (CMLI) via their Experienced Route to Chartered Membership (E2C).

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-painting:
‘What is thinking in painting, rather than thinking about painting.’
The MA Painting course can be studied full- or part-time from September or full-time from January.
Painting defines its practice through the particularities of the painted field.
The making materiality of the unique object, a globally acknowledged cultural history and the dedicated and dynamic relationship of the painted object to the painter.
Painting in the 21st century is vital and relevant.
Contemporary painting and what it can be, do and declare is meaningful.
We ask how, why and according to what means.
The MA Painting course will explore this innovative and expansive territory in depth, dedicating itself to specialist study at postgraduate level.
Join us to explore global issues within 21 st century painting and become a practitioner at the forefront of this international discipline.
Within MA Painting, you'll occupy a professional, challenging, progressive and highly contemporary dialogue within visual culture, and you'll foster this through innovative teaching and a professional studio culture.
You'll discover and take risks within an expansive and inclusive arena, we are committed to supporting your artistic and professional practice, enabling you to forge a sustainable and engaged career.
Also, you'll develop and foster a painting practice that can transform and ignite the imagination and senses in a distinct and profound manner, whilst realising its potential in the 21 st century.
Painting defines its particular practice through the peculiarities of the painted field; the making materiality of the unique object; a globally acknowledged cultural history; the dedicated and dynamic relationship of the painted object to the painter.
We're committed to your personal growth and professional development and building a confidence in the wider aspects of managing a career as a painter in a global context.
This specialism is reflected in the course content, delivery and dedicated studio and workshop facilities.
Staffed by leading practitioners who are currently exhibiting in international exhibitions, group shows and art fairs.
You'll develop your practice through individual tutorials and group critiques, online seminars, practical workshops, artist and alumni talks and presentations.
In addition, you'll develop professional awareness in your ability to reflect critically on your studio work and be informed by the peer group.
Focused painting technicians and visiting experts in the field will facilitate professional development delivering a programme built upon the cross-fertilisation of practical application, with an understanding of contemporary painting discourse.
Further engagement with practising artists, art world professionals and stakeholders will enable a connected and informed Master’s student.
Through individual studio practice and a dedicated programme, you'll come to an advanced level of understanding of both painting theory and application whilst mapping your position within this territory.
This course looks to establish a new and distinctive voice in fine art study, both nationally and, through collaborative ventures, internationally.
Staffed by leading practitioners and academics, focused painting technicians and visiting experts in the field; the MA Painting programme is built upon the cross-fertilisation of practical application with an understanding of contemporary painting discourse.
Further engagement with practising artists, art world professionals and partner institutions will enable a connected and informed master’s student.
You will, through individual studio practice and a dedicated programme, come to an advanced level of understanding of both painting theory and application whilst mapping their position within the wider field of contemporary visual arts.
Independent studio practice is an essential component of the course, through dedicated application comes failure, success and revelation.
A strong ethos of making as thinking, self-discipline and material exploration is encouraged throughout the programme.
Critiques, workshops, seminars, lectures, surgeries, tutorials and personal research will inform your practice, building confidence and clarity in situating your creativity within contemporary painting.
Master's 1: The painted language (Materials, methods, contexts)
Assignments in The Painted Language are aimed at decoding three key areas of your making: the theories, debates and situating of practice; the technical considerations and processes involved in the expanded field of painting; the relationship to modes of making that is the personal dynamic.
This will be instigated by a re-visiting of the fundamentals of the subject discipline; in practical; theoretical; historical; social and cultural terms.
If your first degree was in a subject other than in the one you are registered, or if you are less familiar with working with critical language and debates, these introductory projects will give you the opportunity to develop skills and adjust to new ways of working.
Master's 2: Everything in its wrong place (Explore, enquire, elucidate)
This unit provides an opportunity to explore and articulate your painting practice, through focused research, professional engagement, active dialogue and studio practice.
Here you will start to locate your painting practice through informed articulation of your methods, defining the rituals and habits of the creative act and building a critical framework.
Master's 3: Head, Heart and Hand (Purpose, integrity, exhibit).
Here you'll create a fully resolved and realised body of work.
Very much a time of independent working against the creative tension of a deadline.
A final exhibition will establish chosen methods of exhibiting a body of work; considering the narrative in a series of artworks, curatorial coherence and audience readings.
The full-time course runs for one year (45 weeks of study), from September to August, or January to December.
Full-time students will have access to a dedicated studio.
The part-time course runs for two years (90 weeks of study), from September to August.
Attendance is one day a week (Tuesdays).
Course leader Associate Professor Dominic Shepherd talks more about what you can expect from studying MA Painting here at AUB.
Also take a look at the course's recent exhibition at Lighthouse, Poole's Centre for the Arts.
Meet the Industry Patron for MA Painting – internationally renowned critic, curator and writer, Paul Carey Kent.
Paul is the former editor of Art World magazine and has written for Art Monthly , Frieze , Elephant , Border Crossings and STATE in print, plus Photomonitor , FAD and ArtLyst online.
He visits and writes extensively about contemporary art practice, and is also an editor for Seisma Magazine, where art meets science.
Browse our gallery of images from the course – you can find more in our Student Journal and graduate show, too.
As part of the MA Painting course, you may get the opportunity to take part in course trips and study visits.
During the MA Painting course, we receive guest speakers from industry, including:

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-photography:
Unlock your potential with the MA Photography course!
Create ambitious, professional-level work that combines artistic expression with commercial impact.
With hands-on workshops, cutting-edge facilities, and guidance from award-winning staff, you'll fast-track your career.
Plus, get exclusive introductions to top photographers and industry leaders, agents, and curators.
The course allows you to undertake advanced study in a wide range of areas including advertising, documentary, editorial, fashion, portrait and fine art photography.
By a combined approach of practice, theory and professionalism, the course will provide a challenging and stimulating environment in which you're able to develop to your full potential, with the aim of becoming a practitioner at the forefront of the profession.
You're encouraged to make industrial links across a broad range of organisations relevant to your chosen professional specialism.
Using these links, you'll learn to manage and exceed client expectations through the application of your new academic understanding to the production of inventive saleable work.
Whilst studying on the course you have the option to add a ‘Named Award’ to your degree title from the list below.
The specialisation doesn't need to be decided before you start the course, as the selection is made during the first unit.
Choosing a 'Named Award' is entirely optional, and if you decide not to select one, the qualification will be titled MA Photography without any additional description.
MA Photography course is a balance of art and commerce and is founded on the assertion that photography is a powerful form of communication that potentially connects with an audience of millions.
The course offers the opportunity to make professional work within, or crossing genres, whether it’s for publication, or the gallery.
What defines it as professional, is that it's conceived and created with a specific audience in mind and is conscious of how meaning is affected by socio-political criteria.
The course is designed for ambitious photography graduates, or experienced photographers who wish to develop their knowledge and expertise in order to reach the very top of their field.
We look for individuals with a passion for the subject and who are willing to take risks, and in doing so, push themselves to new heights.
From expressing challenging, thought-provoking opinions on the complexities of our world, to promoting commercial ventures, the course provides fertile ground for creative thinkers to make a lasting impact and build careers, whether in the realm of gallery exhibitions or publication.
Distinctive features of the course include:
The course structure allows for a flexibility of approach, as an MA Photography student, you'll be a creative practitioner in the broadest sense of the term and be involved with emerging technologies as well as heritage media.
Either way, you'll hone your skills and develop your own visual identity as a professional practitioner.
You'll be encouraged to develop a systematic and comprehensive understanding of techniques and knowledge relevant to that specialism of photography you choose and to combine this with a critical awareness of developments in that area of professional practice.
Professional photography draws upon many subjects including graphic design, illustration, film, animation, fine art and fashion, all of which are AUB Master's programmes.
Thus, the AUB Master's community offers you an outstanding opportunity for collaboration within a postgraduate context and encourages links that may well develop further after graduation.
The course encourages you to make industrial links and work on live projects as part of your Master's study.
This may include you working very closely with external organisations to achieve a highly creative postgraduate level outcome and these links may lead to career development opportunities.
Our industry patron, Wendy Carrig, is a multiple-award-winning photographer.
In addition, we have a network of industry mentors who provide students with real-world knowledge and connections.
This unique collaboration keeps the course industry-relevant, offering students valuable opportunities to engage with professionals and stay up to date with current practices.
Although the course comprises three units, these should be seen as one integrated body of study.
Depending upon your own individual approach you will be given the opportunity to run one major project across Master’s Project 2 and Master’s Project 3, or produce a different project for each unit.
The course is project focused and builds towards the completion of a major portfolio of work through self-initiated practical assignments, which are supported by written commentaries.
The full-time course runs for one year (45 weeks of study), from September to September.
Attendance is on average one day a week (Tuesdays).
The part-time course runs for two years (90 weeks of study), from September to September.
Attendance is one day a week for the first 15 weeks (Tuesdays) and then one day every other week for the rest of the course.
Photography is a mirror to society and as a result reflects new trends and opportunities and challenges.
We encourage the photographers on the course to respond to this ever changing context and in the process find their own distinctive visual voice.
Course leader Professor Paul Wenham-Clarke talks more about what you can expect from studying MA Photography here at AUB.
Meet the Industry Patron for MA Photography – Wendy Carrig.
Wendy is a British-Irish photographer based in London, renowned for her narrative-driven work focused on women's stories.
Her portfolio spans genres, blending fashion, portraiture, still-life, and documentary photography, often collaborating with female-led brands, charities, and activist groups.
Her early work documenting Women Peace Protestors at Greenham Common continues to inspire her commitment to storytelling and advocacy.
The students undertake a huge a variety of projects from social issue documentary work to advertising work for corporate partners they have identified.
In the process they are often successful in photography awards and competitions including in the Association of Photographers Student Awards, The BIPP Student Awards and The BJP Portrait of Britain Awards.
Student Jayne Jackson is the winner of the ‘People’ category of the AOP Student Awards 2020 for her project Asking For It .
Studying on our MA Photography course means you’ll have access to state-of-the-art facilities and industry-standard equipment.
Our studios and resources support all photography practices from analogue through to high-end digital production.
Our photography department is equipped to the highest professional level – there are seven studios and numerous location kits of with Profoto and Broncolor lighting equipment.
The digital camera equipment includes Hasselblad, Phase One and Fuji GFX as well as numerous high-end 35 mm-based DSLRs including Nikon, Canon and Sony.
There's a dedicated retouching suite equipped with top end Apple computers all with the latest versions of Adobe Creative Suite software.
We have digital printing in the digital suites to A2 and in addition a 40-inch-wide large format inkjet printer, plus an amazing Chromira printing system that prints digital files onto C-type light sensitive colour paper.
This printer is the same type as several of the top London professional photographic laboratories.
In addition to all the digital equipment, we have a comprehensive set of analogue facilities.
There are two large black-and-white darkrooms, one wet and one dry, plus C-type darkroom printing and high-end scanning available.
In addition to the state-of-the-art digital equipment, we have numerous film cameras of many types including Hasselblad, Mamiya, Sinar, Toyo and even a 10×8 camera.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-photography-online:
Equip yourself with an informed professional portfolio, and an effective online presence.
Our MA Photography (Online) course harnesses the symbiotic relationship between academic inquiry, industry-grounded practice and informed research.
Image: Anthony Chris Schmidt
Through a broad, varied curriculum, on MA Photography (Online), you’ll explore the many ways in which you can channel your creativity.
Photographic practice can be used as a way of understanding the world around you, fostering introspection and tackling contemporary issues by engaging with a wider audience.
Our tutors are also active in a wide range of photography genres – ranging from fashion and documentary photography to fine art photography – so you’ll develop knowledge from across the industry.
Plus , this part-time asynchronous, online course offers you the flexibility to combine study with the rest of your life.
Underpinning the entire MA Photography (Online) course is one of the most important, versatile and transferable skills that every Master’s graduate should acquire: rigorous self-reflection.
You’ll be encouraged to document your progress, methodologies, creative processes and the challenges you encounter in a reflective journal.
By the end of the course, you’ll have a profound understanding of contemporary photography, and a sharp awareness of how it's being shaped by emerging trends.
You’ll be able to articulate your creative identity with confidence and draw on a vast range of knowledge for inspiration.
Join our vibrant cohort of like-minded creatives from across the globe and embark on our transformative academic journey.
There’s no limit to where the connections you make with your peers and tutors will take you.
They could unlock future job opportunities, creative collaborations and mentorship in the future.
The course has been carefully designed to guide you every step of the way, from mapping out your creative identity to experimenting with new mediums.
With frequent feedback shared through forums, your diverse range of insights will also help one another refine your creative vision as you prepare for the next steps in your career.
This introductory unit is designed to set a baseline for you and your peers, so that you can all engage meaningfully with the rest of the modules.
We’ll help you break down your current practice and think about where it fits into the contemporary photography scene.
You'll also develop a basic understanding of practice- and arts-based research and start documenting your academic journey in your reflective journal.
In this unit, we’ll encourage you to deconstruct your creative process.
You'll enrich your creative vision by experimenting with alternative approaches, techniques, genres and ideas.
We’ll also give you a foundational understanding of the discourse that will underpin the rest of your studies.
This research-focused unit will deep dive into the history of photography, and its role in contemporary culture.
Looking at both historical and contemporary theory, you’ll deliver responses to specific artists, genres or themes.
We’ll also start exploring the symbiotic relationship between theory and practice.
In this process-oriented unit, you’ll collaborate with your peers to organise, curate and present work to an audience.
In doing so, you’ll explore and challenge traditional and experimental approaches, considering how this may influence your audience’s interpretation.
This unit is led by a seasoned commercial photographer and will present the realities of the industry.
You’ll take part in a series of workshops that will involve developing a creative CV, an artist’s statement and an online presence.
We’ll also support you in developing key collaborative skills and creating portfolios for open calls and competitions.
This unit focuses heavily on the art of introspection.
Through the lens of everything that shapes your identity, you’ll use your lived experience as a creative springboard.
You'll also be introduced to a range of artists who use their identities as a starting point for creative practice.
With the rate at which technology is transforming our world, definitions of photography are constantly blurring with other parallel but connected disciplines.
Together, we’ll explore alternative uses for and definitions of photography.
We’ll also encourage you to conduct ‘practice-based research’: the process of familiarising yourself with a subject by making art about it.
You'll be introduced to a range of artists who use photography as a means of documenting the world around them and becoming more familiar with it.
We’ll then explore how, by ‘looking out’, your photography can act as a vector for developing your understanding of the world.
We'll support you in developing a proposal for your final project.
This is your time to reflect on all the knowledge, skills and perspectives you've gained throughout the course.
What direction has your artistic practice taken?
What themes would you like to expand on further in the future?
Through your reflective journal, an oral presentation and a written proposal, you’ll articulate your final project idea.
Throughout this final unit, you’ll conduct and resolve your research-informed final project.
Our tutors will support you in breaking down your final project into smaller, more manageable chunks.
You'll also receive constructive individual and peer feedback, which will aid you in completing your project successfully.
"Stay curious and actively engage with the material, seeking diverse resources to deepen your understanding while staying connected with peers and instructors for a richer learning experience."
Course leader James Elliott provides an overview of the MA Photography (Online) course.
Meet the Industry Patron for MA Photography (Online) – Photoworks.
Photoworks champions photography for everyone.
As an international platform, they've been providing opportunities for artists and audiences since 1995.
They're a registered charity and the only organisation with a national remit for photography in England, and their work is supported by public funding through Arts Council England’s National Portfolio.
As a graduate of AUB's MA Photography (Online) course, you’ll be poised for a diverse range of career paths across many industries.
From a creative CV and artist’s statement to a professional website and online presence, we’ll give you all the important tools you need to get your name on the map.
Our experts will also support you in submitting your work to open calls, exhibitions and competitions – so even before you graduate, you’ll be likely to have a foot in the door.
However, it’s important to remember that photography itself is just the first of many avenues you’ll unlock with this degree.
With adaptable skills including visual literacy, a collaborative spirit, critical and reflective thinking and creative communication, the world really is your oyster.
Here are just some of the rewarding career options you could pursue with confidence:
You could also pursue opportunities in digital marketing and lecturing.
AUB's MA Photography (Online) course presented itself as an accessible and flexible route, allowing me to pursue...
There’s no doubt about it – sustainability is a universal concern.
Organisations and practitioners across...
In a world where most people carry cameras in their pockets, what does it mean to be...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/ma-user-experience-ux-ui:
MA User Experience (UX/UI) is a research-led, practice-focused course designed for students who want to strengthen their understanding of user-centred design, develop advanced creative and strategic skills, and critically explore the cultural and ethical dimensions of digital experience.
Whether progressing directly from a BA or returning to study after time in industry, students will be supported in navigating new methods of enquiry, reflecting on their practice, and shaping their personal design direction.
Artwork: Roshna George (2024)
The MA User Experience (UX/UI) course offers a critical and practice-led environment for advanced designers to explore and shape the future of digital experience design.
It combines creative experimentation, user-centred research, and strategic thinking to support the development of sophisticated, industry-relevant work.
You'll engage with complex design challenges, live briefs, and interdisciplinary collaboration – producing high-quality portfolios that blend research insight with refined visual and interaction design.
Ethical and values-driven design underpins the course, encouraging you to address themes such as accessibility, inclusion, digital wellbeing, and data ethics through both critical discourse and applied practice.
Entrepreneurial thinking is woven throughout, equipping you with the tools to navigate freelance careers, launch ventures, or lead within digital product teams.
As graduates, you'll leave with a distinct professional voice, capable of delivering meaningful, responsible, and future-facing UX/UI solutions.
MA User Experience (UX/UI) is an advanced thinking course that enables you to refine your creative, strategic, and research skills within the evolving landscape of digital experience design.
Building on existing UX/UI knowledge, the course supports you in developing thoughtful, future-facing solutions that respond to complex user needs.
You'll explore advanced user research, prototyping, and interface development using industry-standard tools, while also engaging with emerging technologies such as AI-assisted design, AR/VR, and voice interfaces.
The course encourages critical inquiry into the ethical, cultural, and societal impact of design – exploring themes like accessibility, identity, wellbeing, and sustainability.
Through self-directed and collaborative projects, you'll define your personal design direction and contribute meaningfully to contemporary UX/UI discourse.
Whether preparing for industry, entrepreneurship, or further research, graduates will leave with a distinct critical perspective and the tools to lead in a rapidly changing digital world.
The MA User Experience (UX/UI) course enables you to develop a critically engaged, research-led design practice.
Beginning with the 60-credit Explore – Critical Approaches to UX and Digital Culture unit, you're challenged to discover and examine the role of UX/UI within wider cultural, social and ethical contexts.
Through lectures, seminars, and studio-based enquiry, you'll interrogate themes such as data ethics, platform politics, accessibility, digital wellbeing, and algorithmic bias.
The unit invites you to critically reflect on your own design values and to explore how user experience shapes, and is shaped by, broader systems of power, behaviour, and belief.
This theoretical framework informs the second unit, Evaluate – Advanced Methods in UX Practice .
Here, you'll understand and refine your technical and creative capabilities through experimentation with research and prototyping methods.
Projects involve complex user journeys, systems mapping, inclusive testing strategies, and interaction design across platforms, including AI-assisted tools, immersive technologies, and speculative interfaces.
You're encouraged to evaluate emerging areas of UX/UI while questioning dominant methodologies and proposing alternative approaches.
The unit is supported by tutorials and critiques that focus on aligning theory and practice, allowing you to define your direction ahead of the final phase.
The course culminates in Innovate - Final Major Project: UX/UI Research and Innovation , a self-directed 60-credit unit that synthesises your individual critical position and creative ambition.
This extended project allows you to identify a challenge or enquiry, conduct in-depth research, and aim to develop an original UX/UI design response.
The output may take the form of a high-fidelity prototype, speculative artefact, or service proposal, supported by a written evaluation that contextualises the work within current discourse.
The project represents a culmination of your creative thinking, providing a platform for publication, exhibition, further research, or professional practice.
Throughout the course, you're encouraged to position yourself within the UX/UI landscape as a thoughtful practitioner and researcher.
Whether exploring digital equity, sustainable design, or the future of human-computer interaction, you'll graduate with a strong critical foundation, advanced design capability, and the confidence to lead, challenge, and innovate in the field.
MA User Experience (UX/UI) is for designers who want to challenge conventions and create meaningful digital experiences.
It’s a space to explore, evaluate, and innovate, which are the three themes outline the units.
It’s an opportunity to combining critical thinking with advanced practice to shape the future of UX/UI.
Acting course leader, MA User Experience (UX/UI)

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/master-of-architecture-part-2-arb-riba:
This two-year, full-time, studio-based course, is the second part of the three-part qualification in becoming an architect.
This design-based professional qualification, accredited by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) and the Architects Registration Board (ARB).
You’ll work alongside fellow makers, collaborators, and enablers who have come from different schools around the world; you’ll have the opportunity to collaborate across the arts.
The course philosophy has many connections and develops on from the four key issues identified in the BA (Hons) Architecture (ARB/RIBA part 1) .
This course takes its approach from the context of the ‘shared studio-based arts university’ where all courses are making.
This philosophy is applied throughout the taught units by emphasising the role of drawing, models and texts in the making of architecture; the things we make – to think about the things we make.
As a student you’ll be asked to develop projects with strong narratives commenting on current social, cultural and environmental issues.
In each unit you’re encouraged to give architectural expression to your own personal views and visions, whilst aiming to produce tangible propositions, mindful of how they might be realised.
The studio is both professional and exploratory.
This educational experience is grounded in a strong studio culture of making and thinking, supported by regular lectures by practitioners, seminars and reviews.
The studio generates an atmosphere in which open, critical and reflective practice supports exploration and risk-taking where we test, discuss and present ideas.
We’re particularly focused in delivering studio-based and student-centred learning environment.
We offer shared facilities such as the workshop, fab-labs, the print room and the Drawing Studio.
The course will support your personal development towards a creative contribution to architecture and the wider world after graduation.
The final Thesis Design year gives you the opportunity to develop your own research design project that integrates making and collaboration through an ecological narrative.
What are the options?
What is at stake?
Are there really options?
How should we choose?
At the centre of the investigation is the body: architectural, institutional, corporeal; and the landscape: ecological, contextual, natural and man-made.
The Master of Architecture programme is for you if you are looking for something different and fresh in your route to becoming an architect in a changing world.
The urban density of the AUB campus has seen the insertion of a Drawing Studio by visiting professor Peter Cook.
This RIBA award winning building was opened by the late Dame Zaha Hadid in 2016.
You can download the programme specification or you can read more about any course costs.
Find out more about a recent Master of Architecture Research Project in collaboration with Burngate Purbeck Stone Centre and National Trust.
Browse our gallery of student work – you can find out more in our Student Stories , too.
Studying on the Master of Architecture course you’ll work in our dedicated studios and have access to 3D workshops with manual and digital manufacturing equipment.
Our unique location means we’re near dramatic, rolling and beautiful landscapes (New Forest and Jurassic Coast) and within a vibrant and energetic seaside town.
There’s also a proposed urban project by Zaha Hadid Architects which provides a great context and research for projects and interventions.
The campus itself is enhanced by our ‘very blue’ drawing studio with ‘exceptional light’ by Professor Sir Peter Cook RA, Honorary Fellow and visiting professor, and opened by the late Zaha Hadid.
You’ll be able to make use of our makers lab – a shared creative space also used by Modelmaking students – designed to give you the space to create.
In addition, you’ll have access to the printmaking room with is located with the Fine Art studios.
Over the years, we’ve gained a number of traditional presses, including letter press, etching, relief, lithography and silk screen printing.
There are dedicated areas for exposure, screen washing and acid etching – and new presses are added all the time.
The modelmaking, printing and workshop facilities encourage a culture of making and production.
Wireless computer access will help you integrate digital understanding and outcomes into the way that you work, and our specialised library also provides you with a range of relevant material in architecture and the arts.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/research-degrees:
Research degrees are awarded in recognition of significant contributions to knowledge and scholarship produced through the development of original research through supervised, self-directed study.
Research Degree supervision is offered within or across both theoretical and practice-based programmes in art and architecture; design including fashion and textiles; film and animation; and performance; where AUB can provide appropriately qualified supervision.
The MPhil/PhD Award at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is validated by the University of the Arts London (UAL).
If you'd like to find out more, book a call with the Research team now.
The format of study for a research degree (MPhil/PhD) is very different from a taught degree.
As a research student, you will engage in a programme of independent research and/or practice based work.
Following discussion with the Director of Studies you will be assigned one, or sometimes two, second supervisors with whom you will plan your programme of research and with whom you will have regular tutorials to support your study throughout your time as a student.
Your research may combine the practice, theory and /or history of your specialist area and you will be guided in your study to define clearly and persuasively what is original and innovative about your chosen topic and how best to present and disseminate your arguments and findings, whether this is substantially a written thesis or via a combination of practice (for example, exhibition, installation) and text-based critique.
Because of the individual nature of your study, your requirements (for example, for studio space or other specialist resources) will be discussed with your supervisor.
Students will register for full/part-time study, in the first instance for MPhil qualification and, following successful upgrade through Confirmation, for PhD.
The MPhil degree is awarded in recognition of a systematic, well documented and well argued study which demonstrates a degree of originality and critical awareness.
It should also demonstrate a distinct contribution to scholarship.
It is an award in its own right or, alternatively, it may be undertaken as preparation for a PhD.
The PhD is awarded in recognition of a significant contribution to knowledge and understanding.
The thesis should contain material which is worthy of publication or public presentation.
The doctorate must represent a more substantial individual achievement and demonstrate recognisably greater depth than an MPhil.
Research Degree supervision is offered within or across both theoretical and practice-based programmes in fine art; architecture; design including textiles; film and animation; performance; photography; and creative technologies, where AUB can provide appropriately qualified supervision.
The MPhil/PhD Award at AUB is validated by the University of the Arts London (UAL).
If you've got a question for our research supervisors, get in touch with the Research Office by email or call +44 1202 363334
Find details of our research degree supervisors below:
Dipl Arch, PhD
Find out more about what our current research students are working on.
The next deadline for entry to commence study in September 2025 is 30 May 2025.
Please note: Studentship and Bursary opportunities may have different deadlines.
You will normally be expected to have:
In some instances, applicants without this requirement may be considered if they can demonstrate appropriate alternative qualifications, professional experience or previous research and an understanding of research methodologies appropriate to their proposed programme of study.
If English is not your first language, you’ll need to meet our English language entry requirements by providing one of the following:
A recent AUB approved English Language Test (ELT) – such as an IELTS 7.0 with a 7.0 in writing and with no other component score lower than 6.0, or an equivalent test score.
Your qualification needs to have been awarded no more than 2 years prior to your enrolment date.
You can apply before you receive your English Language Test or MA certificate.
If you’re offered a place, you’ll need to show your qualification before enrolment.
Applicants should be aware that meeting the University’s minimum entry requirements does not guarantee entry.
This is only one of the factors taken into account when the University makes its decision.
Many other factors are also important, such as the availability of suitable supervisors and resources; suitability for research degree study at AUB; relevant experience; and references.
Full-time
Part-time
A PhD is awarded in recognition of a significant contribution to knowledge and understanding.
An MPhil degree is awarded in recognition of a systematic, well-documented and well-argued study, which demonstrates a degree of originality and critical awareness.
PGR students at AUB are entitled to the following contact hours with their supervisory team:
It's up to each supervisory team to agree when supervisory meetings take place.
Supervisory meetings don't all have to be face-to-face; some can, with the agreement of the supervisory team, be virtual.
Students studying in-country would normally be expected to maintain a presence at the University and to make every effort to play an active role in the research community.
This may include but is not limited to:
It's possible to attend training and events online, from a distance and also have supervision online if this is preferred.
But the University would encourage on-campus attendance where possible.
Research training delivered through the Research Network University of the Arts London can be accessed online and sessions are recorded.
This includes block weeks of training in the autumn, spring and summer and online study days that cover the key stages of progression.
You'll undertake your programme of study at AUB, with some workshops and presentations taking place at UAL as part of your PGR training.
As a research student, you'll engage in a programme of independent research and/or practice-based work.
Following discussion with your Director of Studies, you'll be assigned one, or sometimes two, second supervisors with whom you'll plan your programme of research and with whom you'll have regular tutorials to support your study throughout your time as a student.
Your research may combine the practice, theory and/or history of your specialist area and you'll be guided in your study to define clearly and persuasively what is original and innovative about your chosen topic and how best to present and disseminate your arguments and findings.
All research students will develop an original written thesis and practice-based candidates will also produce accompanying creative work (for example, a series of drawings or a film).
Enrolment
Enrolment takes place in September/October.
Registration
Once successfully enrolled at AUB, your supervisory team will advise you in developing a full proposal for submission to the University’s Research Degrees Committee, so that your research degree can be formally registered with the University of the Arts London.
In this submission you will indicate your intended degree (MPhil or PhD).
Research Degrees Committee will also consider the ethical dimensions of your project.
If your project is considered more than minimal ethical risk, approval of your registration will also need to be sought from the University of the Arts London Research Ethics Sub-Committee.
The application for registration will normally be submitted within two months for full-time students and three months for part-time.
Once these committees have approved your application for registration, you will be officially registered for an unspecified research degree with the intention to complete a programme of study for an MPhil or a PhD.
The degree for which you are ultimately examined is confirmed at Confirmation.
Students must not undertake any ‘field’ research until they've obtained ethical approval.
Confirmation After a probationary period (normally 12-18 months for full-time and 24-36 months for part-time students) your supervisory team will assist you in developing your application to confirm the degree for which you will ultimately be examined.
Final submission and examination Your final submission will be a written thesis.
Examination is by an oral examination or viva, and is with academics who are normally external to AUB.
Although we welcome applications for study towards a research degree throughout the year, the University has one point of entry at the start of each academic year normally the 30 May.
Full-time and part-time applications should be made directly to AUB through our online application system .
Applications are assessed for suitability for research degree study at AUB including the strength of the research proposal and supervisory expertise and capacity.
Applicants are normally invited to put forward a draft proposal in advance of making an application to ensure that AUB has expertise to supervise in the proposed area of study.
Draft proposals should be returned by email to the researchoffice@aub.ac.uk to include a brief outline of no more than 1,000 words to include your research proposal, reason for study and your relevant academic/professional background.
This will enable the University to make an initial assessment of whether your topic and experience are appropriate for research degree study at AUB before you make a formal application.
If considered suitable, the applicant is normally invited for interview.
Please use the guidance on writing proposals to help you structure your draft.
Selected applicants will be invited to attend a formal interview to discuss their proposal.
They may be invited to provide supporting material such as samples of academic writing or examples of their creative practice.
The interviewing panel will make a recommendation based on whether the project and candidate are appropriate for doctoral level study at AUB and the availability of appropriate supervision and resources.
Recommendations will be considered by the Chair of Research Degrees Committee/Director of Innovation and Research Degrees.
Applications that are approved will be made a conditional or unconditional offer of a place to study.
Studentships and bursaries, if available, are normally advertised in spring each year.
Due to the level of interest for these opportunities, it is not normally possible for us to offer feedback in advance of making an application.
If you are from the UK, you may be eligible to take out a postgraduate doctoral loan from the UK government.
The loan is paid directly to you and can be used for your course fees and living costs.
The loan will be divided equally across each year of your course.
Full details, including eligibility criteria and repayment terms, can be found on gov.uk/doctoral-loan .
International students can choose to study in their own country on a full- or part-time basis via the distance learning route.
Alternatively, students can study in the UK via a student visa on a full-time basis only.
Distance learning route
In addition to meeting the standard academic and language eligibility requirements, applicants to the distance learning overseas online mode need to demonstrate that they:
Students on this mode don't hold a Student Visa so cannot enter the UK for the purpose of study or access AUB physical resources or buildings.
Distance Learning Students have access to online resources available to all PGR students.
AUB recognises that embarking on a research degree is a significant undertaking in terms of both finance and time.
As a full-time student, you're expected to commit to an average of 35 hours a week to your research and so it's important to ensure that the number of hours engaged in any form of paid employment is not excessive.
As a part-time student you are expected to commit to an average of 17.5 hours a week to your research.
Paid employment may be undertaken within reason and such that it isn't detrimental to your studies i.e.
normally no more than 23.5 hours paid work per week during term time.
You may need to spend more time on your PhD at key stages of progression such as confirmation and submission.
Students requiring a visa in order to study at the University will need to check the terms and conditions relating to their eligibility to work.
If you have questions about research degree study at AUB, please contact the Research Office:
E: researchoffice@aub.ac.uk
T: +44 1202 363334
If you have questions about the regulations, please see UAL’s Handbook and Regulations for further information and guidance on research degrees.
MA Creative Teaching and Learning Design prepares you to be a learning professional with the knowledge and skills to design, deliver...
MA Film practice is for talented and emerging filmmakers seeking to learn through making, to look beyond the short film, to define...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/master-of-research:
MRes Arts (Master of Research) will no longer be accepting applications for 2025 and onwards.
You may still be interested in looking at related courses, such as our MPhil and PhD Research degrees .
If you aspire to know your subject in greater depth or make a significant academic contribution, a research degree could be the answer.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/pgcert-creative-teaching-and-learning-design-online:
The PGCert Creative Teaching and Learning Design is specifically tailored for those looking to enhance their skills in higher education settings.
This innovative course blends creative arts principles with cutting-edge learning design practices, equipping you with the tools to create engaging and effective learning experiences in higher education environments.
During PGCert Creative Teaching and Learning Design, you'll acquire the core knowledge and skills required to design engaging learning experiences in higher education.
This 60-credit course is delivered part-time over 30 weeks, allowing you to balance study with professional commitments.
You'll investigate the importance of inclusivity, accessibility, and digital technologies in learning design, while reflecting critically on the relationship between learning design, assessment, feedback, and quality assurance.
The course emphasises practical application, enabling you to develop a portfolio of work directly relevant to higher education contexts.
By the end of the course, you'll be equipped to design creative, inclusive, and effective learning experiences for university students, positioning yourself for roles in learning design and educational technology within higher education institutions.
PGCert Creative Teaching and Learning Design is rooted in the belief that effective learning design in higher education should seamlessly blend innovation and impact.
We foster the development of empathy, self-awareness, and technical skills to create engaging, inclusive, and transformative learning experiences.
Our approach encourages critical reflection on your beliefs about learning in higher education, promoting a deeper understanding of pedagogy.
By applying creative arts principles to learning design, we inspire innovative teaching methods that resonate with diverse student populations.
Inclusivity and accessibility are central to our philosophy, ensuring that your designs cater to varied student needs.
We explore the integration of digital technologies to enhance university learning experiences, always connecting theory with practice.
Recognising higher education's collaborative nature, we nurture a community where idea-sharing thrives.
This foundation prepares you for the evolving landscape of university teaching, equipping you to create learning experiences that are both academically rigorous and student-centred.
PGCert Creative Teaching and Learning Design comprises two core units: Learning Design Bootcamp (20 credits)
This unit introduces six fundamental pillars of effective learning: empathy, curriculum, inclusivity, facilitation, technology, and community.
You'll explore how each pillar underpins engaging learning experiences, and will develop practical skills that you can apply immediately.
Creative Teaching and Learning Design (40 credits)
This unit deepens your knowledge of pedagogy and learning design skills, and how to apply them in higher education.
You'll examine foundational and contemporary theories, develop critical reflection skills, and explore the use of digital technologies and AI to develop inclusive and engaging learning experiences.
The unit equips you with professional skills to navigate the relationship between learning design, creative teaching, assessment, feedback, and quality assurance in higher education.
Throughout both units, you'll engage in practical projects, critical reflection, and group presentations.
These activities culminate in assessments that challenge you to demonstrate your ability to design creative learning experiences for higher education contexts.
By the end of the course, you'll have developed a robust portfolio of work directly relevant to university settings.
The PGCert in Creative Teaching and Learning Design is designed to transform how we approach teaching in higher education.
We're equipping our students with the skills to create innovative, inclusive, and engaging learning experiences that meet the evolving needs of today's university students.
On the PGCert Creative Teaching and Learning Design course, you'll have access to a range of digital resources including:
While the course is delivered online, you'll also have virtual access to:
While PGCert Creative Teaching and Learning Design is an online course, you'll have opportunities to engage with industry professionals through guest lectures and workshops.
These sessions will provide insights into current practices and emerging trends in teaching and learning design.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduate-courses/pgdip-learning-design-methods-online:
The PGDip Learning Design Methods builds on our PGCert Creative Teaching and Learning Design or a similar PGCert to equip you with advanced skills for a career in the fast-moving world of 21st century learning design.
This course prepares you for leadership roles in learning, and ensures you’re ready for advanced roles in learning design, higher education, and the edtech industries.
On successful completion of this stage following a PGCert you will be awarded a Postgraduate Diploma in Creative Teaching and Learning Design Methods
The course emphasises practical application, from project management and UX design to harnessing artificial intelligence in education.
You'll learn to work as both an internal and external consultant, collaborating effectively with subject matter experts across disciplines to design creative, inclusive, and effective learning experiences for diverse contexts.
During the PGDip, you'll strengthen your practical skills in designing learning experiences and develop your abilities as a researcher.
This stage, delivered part-time over 6 months, allows you to balance advanced study with professional practice.
You'll develop a comprehensive toolkit of learning design techniques, preparing you for roles that bridge education and industry.
Our PGDip is founded on the belief that effective learning design can produce transformation in business and education.
We support and enable designers to create learning experiences that are both invisible in their seamlessness and profound in their impact.
We view learning design as an interdisciplinary art form, blending insights from psychology, technology, and creative arts.
This approach fosters a unique problem-solving mindset that sets our graduates apart.
The course encourages you to cross disciplinary boundaries, combining insights from areas such as user experience design, creative education, and digital technologies with learning design principles.
We challenge you to question assumptions, examine beliefs and assumptions about learning, and develop your distinctive voice as a designer.
The PGDip cultivates your originality in tackling and solving problems, preparing you to act autonomously in planning and implementing tasks at a professional level.
While embracing emerging technologies like AI, we balance innovation with established learning theories and human-centred design principles.
This ensures you have the knowledge and skills to navigate the rapidly evolving landscape of learning design, and prepared you to be a leader in learning-focused roles.
Our aim is to empower you to lead in the field of learning design.
We develop confident professionals who can articulate the value of creative learning design across various sectors to produce innovation through transformative learning experiences.
PGDip Learning Design Methods consists of two core units:
Learning Design Toolkit (40 credits)
This unit strengthens your practical skills and develops essential competencies for successful learning design.
You'll learn to work as both an internal and external consultant, collaborating with Subject Matter Experts across disciplines.
Learning Design in Context (20 credits)
This unit strengthens your ability to lead through research in creative teaching and learning design roles.
Our PGDip in Creative Teaching and Learning Design is where innovation truly takes flight.
We're preparing our students not just to enter the field of learning design, but to develop transformative learning experiences through creativity and leadership.
This PGDip stage allows you to top up your PGCert Creative Teaching and Learning Design or similar PGCert.
You will therefore need to hold a PGCert or equivalent qualification to enter onto this course.
On the PGDip Learning Design Methods course, you'll have access to a range of advanced digital resources including:
While PGDip Learning Design Methods is an online course, and you'll have opportunities to engage with industry leaders through guest lectures, workshops, and collaborative projects.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/our-stories/alumni:
Here you’ll find just a small selection of the names that have graduated from our creative campus, find out what they’ve been up to and the awards they’ve won.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/our-stories/opoa:
Some of the brightest AUB Alumni, Honorary Fellows and community have offered up their ‘One Piece of Advice’ to those starting out in the creative industries.
If you are alumni and would like to be featured offering your OPOA, send us a message through your dedicated alumni platform AUB& .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/top-tips-for-clearing:
With results day fast approaching, some of you might also be thinking about Clearing.
Get as prepared as possible with these useful tips.
Heading towards the end of the summer means that A Level results and Clearing are just around the corner.
First thing to know: Clearing can be a positive thing.
It may even lead you to make your best-ever decision.
Plus, if AUB has the honour of gaining a few more talented people off the back of it – even better.
“Clearing is a process that can be used by applicants that aren’t currently holding any offers,” AUB’s Senior Admissions Officer Matt Hill explains.
“Applicants might not be holding any offers for a range of reasons, and it gives those applicants the opportunity to secure a place at their desired institution, for their desired course.
Use the UCAS course search to check the availability of courses in your chosen subject to get an idea of the options open to you.”
Perhaps you’ve already had ideas about the university and course you’d like to apply for, that’s great!
And heading into Clearing, this is a good place to start.
But there are other things that you can get ready, even before you start to apply through Clearing.
“Applicants should have a personal statement – updated if necessary – related to the courses they’re interested in,” Matt says.
“Plus, anything relating to the usual entry requirements of those courses.”
Clearing sometimes gets a bit of a negative rep, and with that comes a load of myths and misconceptions.
Matt highlights two common ones that he wanted to bust right here and now, starting with the idea that only a handful of courses will be open in Clearing.
Nope, it's just not true.
You’ll still find plenty of choice for courses available - more than 22,000 of them in 2021.
The second misconception is that you can only speak to a university if you meet their published entry criteria.
“Universities are likely to show flexibility to students who really want to attend but who have a slightly lower grade profile than their advertised requirements.
It’s always worth calling that university; they may still be able to offer you a place.”
As results day comes closer, some of you might be a bit worried and stressed out about what’s around the corner.
And with this in mind, we have a few things for you to do, consider, and remember ahead of the big day.
If you’re thinking of applying to AUB through Clearing but have concerns about accommodation, you can put those worries aside.
Coming in via Clearing won’t put you at any disadvantage.
Our accommodation booking site is updated regularly and there’ll be options for both our Halls of Residence and house-sharing with other students.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/guide-to-bournemouth/where-to-go:
Guide to Bournemouth
There's a lot waiting for you in Bournemouth and its surrounding areas – so why not see it for yourself?
Bournemouth is more than just a seaside town; there's something for everyone, wherever your interests lie.
The area's performing arts scene, vibrant nightlife, stand-out restaurants, attractions and more keep things interesting all year round.
Bournemouth is rich with art showcases and cultural hotspots, all right on your doorstep while studying with us.
Our on-campus exhibition space, TheGallery , has been open for more than 25 years.
It's a great showcase of contemporary artists and designers from major galleries and museums worldwide, plus it's easy to get to.
Take a stroll into TheGallery while you're on AUB campus, or see what's coming up.
If you're looking for more classical inspiration, check out the Russell-Cotes Museum and Art Gallery .
It's located on Bournemouth's East Cliff and set inside a mansion that's over 100 years-old, frequently exhibiting a range of international collections, artefacts and unique artists.
Several of our courses have also collaborated with Russell-Cotes, catering to special evenings for the public.
Bournemouth is no stranger to the performing arts.
We host AUB Productions, a cross-collaboration between our Bournemouth Film School courses, at our very own Palace Court Theatre in Bournemouth town centre.
Be sure to check out what's on and our previous performances – if you're studying one of our BFS courses, you may even be involved!
There are some great local venues, with the Poole Lighthouse offering a symphonic concert hall, multiple theatre spaces, art galleries and a cinema.
For performing arts, you can also visit Bournemouth Pavilion Theatre for touring plays, as well as Christchurch's Regent Centre .
Meanwhile, visit Pavilion Dance Southwest (PDSW) for exceptional dance shows and classes.
Make sure to check out the Arts by the Sea Festival in late September.
It’s an extravaganza of expressive creativity with a full week of performative and interactive showcases including comedy, music, visual arts and literature throughout Bournemouth town centre.
When you need some light relief, Bournemouth has comedy for all.
The Bournemouth International Centre (BIC) and Bournemouth Pavilion are regular stops for big name comedians like Katherine Ryan, Romesh Ranganathan, Michael McIntyre and Joe Lycett.
There’s small-scale comedy too – Jaggers Comedy Club inside Cameo nightclub hosts Saturday night shows from March through to October, and Coastal Comedy put on regular stand-up shows at Canvas in Bournemouth, often featuring comedians fresh from Live at the Apollo .
For more great acts, head to the Tivoli Theatre in Wimborne.
You don't have to wander far in Bournemouth for great sound.
The Bournemouth International Centre is a regular stop for big artists like Declan McKenna, Christine and the Queens, and James Blunt.
For more intimate venues, there's the O2 Academy in Boscombe and the heart of the town centre is The Madding Crowd and Canvas, both intimate venues showcasing established acts and new talent.
If alternative and rock genres are your deal, check out Electric Boulevard on Holdenhurst Road with a late-night bar and live music downstairs, alongside Bear's Bar and Venue across the road.
There's also Chaplin’s in Boscombe , a beautifully eccentric venue with nightly live events, ranging from punk rock bands to reggae and blues.
If you're looking for festivals, check out Camp Bestival hosted on the Isle of Wight every summer.
University Music is a joint AUB and BU department that offers musical opportunities and performances to students and staff.
We have a concert band, three choirs, a string orchestra and various other ensembles, all of which rehearse weekly and give regular performances both on campus and in the local area.
All students can join our ensembles free of charge, with access to practising facilities too.
Contact University Music for more details.
For the latest blockbusters, Bournemouth's BH2 complex has a 10-screen Odeon cinema, while nearby Tower Park over in Poole features Cineworld.
Looking for something more intimate and indie?
With only 30 seats, the Colosseum Cinema and Bar in Westbourne is the smallest cinema in the UK, showing a diverse range of unique films as well as sports.
You can also catch the latest films as part of the events programme at the Lighthouse in Poole.
Bournemouth is filled with great clubs and nightlife.
Cameo is one of the most popular spots with a range of rooms from disco and house to R&B and hip-hop, as well as The Old Fire Station (Bournemouth University’s Student Union venue) with event nights and affordable prices – be sure to check out what's coming up.
There's also a thriving alternative music scene here too.
Alt and Sound Circus bar and nightclub is a go-to stop on student night Thursday with half-price drinks, music requests and quirky events.
Be sure to check out Sixty Million Postcards on Exeter Road, as well as Buffalo Bar in Winton, Chaplin’s in Boscombe and Electric Boulevard on Holdenhurst road – these are all great spots for live music and a few pre-drinks.
For live gigs, Boscombe is the home to O2 Academy , a fast–growing stop for UK tour circuit for well-known bands.
If you're looking for a more relaxed night out, Mr Mulligans features great student prices, an indoor mini golf course as well as Boom Battle Bar , where you can challenge yourselves with axe throwing, augmented reality darts, or play it safe with some karaoke.
It's all based in Bournemouth's BH2 complex, which is home to a wide range of popular chain restaurants like Nando's, Pizza Express and TGI Fridays, as well as Odeon cinemas.
In Poole, you'll find the Insanity Arcade , where gamers with a passion for retro consoles can enjoy set-payment sessions, as well as an in-house bar and grill.
There are plenty of great places to shop around Bournemouth.
You'll find plenty in the town centre, with high street chains like Primark, River Island and Zara.
Meanwhile, Bobby's department store is your go-to for all things health, beauty, art, culture and community.
Old Christchurch Road features some great shops, with The Arcade housing Waterstones and Space.NK.
Thrifting is growing in popularity and it's great fun.
You'll find plenty at charity, thrift and vintage shops in Bournemouth, with several local kilo sales nearby.
Check out The Den Emporium for vintage and antique retro goodies, as well as charity shop spots in Westbourne and Wimborne.
Around Poole, you'll find our very own #AUBMAKERS pop-up shop down at the newly developed Kingsland Crescent, as well as Boiler Room Records with two separate locations – one here, the other close to the Quay – for some great vinyl and CDs.
Boscombe features the Boscombe Arts Depot on collaboration with BEAF Arts Co in which you'll find Pen Gallery, a contemporary art gallery and store offering all kinds of goodies from over 100 local artists and makers.
Check out Vinilo while you're here for more records – they have a separate location in Southampton which hosts live artist signings too.
Castlepoint makes for a great day trip, featuring a wide range of stores to shop around at.
You'll find some great events around Bournemouth, Poole and Christchurch, no matter what time of year it is.
During summer, there's the hugely popular Bournemouth Air Festival in August and Bourne Free, Bournemouth’s pride festival in July, filling the town and gardens with creative costumes and live entertainment.
Bournemouth Arts by the Sea Festival takes place every Autumn, run by Arts Bournemouth, with over 60 events offering a mix of some of the best regional, national and international arts.
There's also Bournemouth Emerging Arts Fringe which takes place during Spring, showcase of local emergent artists and creatives, with a diverse and accessible range of events suitable for all audiences, including exhibitions, talks, workshops, performances, live music, poetry and even a film festival.
Meanwhile, sport and music festival, Bournemouth 7s takes place in May.
Seasonal events include Bournevaria Oktoberfest, Bournemouth's Christmas Market and the Cool Coast and SKATE ice rinks during the winter months.
Be sure to look out for AUB events too, such as the ones produced by our undergraduate courses, including BA (Hons) Events Management .
The Bournemouth, Poole and Christchurch areas all feature great places of natural beauty.
Notably, there's Old Harry Rocks, Durdle Door and Lulworth cove, all must-see spots along the Jurassic Coast.
These all make for a great day out with walking, cycling or a picnic overlooking the chalk formations.
It’s also popular with kayakers and if you’re really lucky, you might even spot a seal or Bottlenose dolphin.
The Jurassic Coast is also home to some incredible rock-climbing and bouldering spots.
Well-known crags include Portland, Winspit, The Dancing Ledge and Hedbury Quarry.
For indoor, visit The Project Climbing Centre in Poole or Rock Reef at Bournemouth Pier.
We'd also recommend the New Forest – it's perfect if you want to go wildlife-spotting on walking trails, grab lunch at a nearby country pub, try out a horse-riding lesson, or even plan a camping trip during the summer.
There are plenty of spots within walking distance of AUB.
Only a few minutes off campus you'll find L'arte Coffee House, a great spot for lunch (and the best hot chocolate) which also collaborates with AUB, hosting student art as well as open mic nights.
You'll also find great places in the Winton and Charminster area, with plenty of art cafés and coffee shops.
Conto Lounge is a popular classy spot offering a wide range of food, drinks and cocktails at great prices, plus a variety of lunchtime offers.
This is a part of Lounges , which has more Art Deco-style locations too: Ludo in Southbourne, Circo in Westbourne and Arcado in Christchurch.
Bournemouth is full of great places to eat.
If you’re looking for dinner and a film, head down to the BH2 Leisure Complex .
It features a state-of-the-art 10-screen multiplex ODEON cinema as well as a great choice of different restaurants, including ASK Italian, Five Guys, Nando’s, Pizza Express, T.G.I Fridays and Prezzo.
Some other local favourites we'd recommend around town centre include The Stable , Turtle Bay and Franco Manca .
Right by BH2 you'll find Sixty Million Postcards – a popular spot for events, burgers and drinks on-tap – as well as Brass Haus with digital darts, or head to The Goat and Tricycle for a great roast.
Be sure to look out for unique brewery experiences near the triangle at Brewhouse & Kitchen , as well as some great independent eateries like Mexican restaurant Ojo Rojo .
For vegetarians, vegans and coeliacs, Mad Cucumber Vegan Lounge , Twelve Eatery and Miiko have some delicious options.
If you're planning a day out, we'd recommend spots like Little Pickle Wimborne next to Walford Mill Crafts, home to local makers, creatives and artists.
There are some great spots around Wareham too, only a short train journey from Bournemouth station – check out The Salt Pig while you're there.
If you're looking for a dinner spot down the beach, Aruba is a restaurant by day and club by night with a prime location at the town-end of the pier.
If you're looking for a special date or occasion, West Beach offers an award-winning eating experience with a fine dining seafood menu.
Following the beach down to Boscombe Pier is Urban Reef , which has outdoor seating areas with fire heaters – the staff even bring out blankets as the chillier evenings come around.
Nothing spells the arrival of summer like an ice cream.
We'd recommend some well-renowned Purbeck Ice Cream, and there’s plenty to be had from the kiosks in the town centre gardens, on the seafront or at Sprinkles down Holdenhurst road.
If you're going on a day trip, why not sample some local gelato and artisan chocolate at Chococo in Swanage?
Bournemouth town centre has an array of places to do your weekly shop, with a Co-op a few minutes’ walk from Halls, a large Asda next to the train station, and Tesco and Lidl downtown.
If you’re looking for sustainable shopping, check out Sunrise Organics, located near the Triangle in town centre.
You can bring your own bags, jars and containers and stock up on all the essentials like oil, rice, pasta, flour, milk, grains and even cleaning products.
You'll also find fresh organic fruit, veg and baked bread.
Weekly bargains can be found at Boscombe’s Thursday and Saturday markets, open from 09.00 to 17.00.
Lining the pedestrian area of Christchurch Road you’ll find stalls selling fresh fruit and veg, meat and fish and clothing and handbags.
During winter, Bournemouth’s Christmas Market spans the high street with stalls for gifts, sweet treats, food and drinks.
Every December, you'll find wooden huts selling gifts and Christmas decorations as well as the two-storey Alpine bar.
Indulge in a hog roast, a Yorkshire Pudding wrap or traditional bratwurst from the street food stalls, then wash it all down with a mulled wine or tankard of beer.
There’s not a more festive way to see in the Christmas break.
Great coffee can be found at places like South Coast Coffee in Bournemouth town centre, and Boscanova , where lampshades are made from disposable coffee cups and regular coffee events are held.
We've also got plenty of high street regulars, like Pret A Manger, Costa and Starbucks.
Velo Domestique in Southbourne, run by AUB alumni , started out as a pop-up collaboration on 2014.
It now has a permanent base on Seabourne Road and combines repairing bikes with serving locally roasted coffee and fresh food.
You'll find Little Perth here (with a location in Westbourne too) for coffee and hot drinks alongside stunning flowers, eats and gifts, plus local artisan bakers Wild and Ginger and BakeHouse24 for sweet and savoury treats.
One of the most eccentric attractions in Bournemouth is the Pause Cat Café , where you can sip your cup surrounded by rescue cats.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/accommodation/halls-of-residence:
We offer a variety of halls of residence for first-year students.
The halls of residence are located on campus or in the Lansdowne area of Bournemouth town centre with excellent bus and public transport links to enable students to easily access the university campus and town centre.
Rooms in our halls of residence are for students in their first year, or for students who have completed their Foundation Diploma and are now entering their first year of an undergraduate course.
We're unable to accept accommodation bookings from part-time students.
Madeira Road Halls is located within a five-minute walk of Bournemouth town centre...
Campus Halls has 299 rooms arranged in three blocks, a mixture of rooms in...
Home Park halls of residence are for foundation, first year undergraduate...
The first wave of room release opened on Monday 3 March 2025 at 10.00.
The second wave of room release opened on Wednesday 18 June 2025 at 12.00.
AUB usually only provides accommodation for students in their first year of study.
For subsequent years, you're expected to find accommodation in the private sector.
AUB recognises that you may have difficulty finding suitable private accommodation if you have a disability and require one or more of the following:
* You must be in receipt of the higher rate of the mobility part of PIP (personal independent payment), DLA (disability living allowance) or a blue badge for physical, cognitive or mental health conditions.
If you believe that you meet one or more of these criteria, you're required to have a formal Disability Disclosure with AUB and to submit your request for returner halls accommodation, in writing, to the AUB Accommodation Team by 1 December.
All requests for returner accommodation will be reviewed by a panel in January and notification of the outcome will be provided to you by the end of February.
There's no right of appeal against the panel decision.
*Eligibility criteria applies
At AUB, we're committed to ensuring that all students have access to accommodation that meets their needs.
If you're a disabled student requiring specific adjustments or adaptations in your university accommodation, we have a clear process in place to support your application.
Step 1: Indicating Your Requirements When completing your AUB Accommodation room booking, please tick the box to indicate additional needs and enter details of any specific requirements related to your disability, including necessary adaptations/adjustments needed.
Step 2: Providing Supporting Evidence AUB's Disability Team will contact you to discuss your needs.
To help us assess your needs, we require supporting documentation from a medical professional, or relevant specialist.
This should outline the nature of your disability, and the specific adjustments/adaptations recommended for your accommodation.
Step 3: Assessment by the Accommodation Panel Once your application and supporting documents have been submitted, they'll be reviewed by a panel.
This panel consists of senior university staff from student support services and accommodation services.
The panel will carefully consider all applications to ensure that reasonable adjustments are made to provide the most suitable accommodation.
Step 4: Allocation Decision The accommodation team will contact you as soon as possible with the panel decision, and details of next steps required.
Please note, allocation is at the sole discretion of AUB; there's no right of appeal against allocation of rooms in AUB Accommodation.
Step 5: Further Support If you have any further questions about disability support available to you as an AUB student, we encourage you to reach out to our disability support team at disability@aub.ac.uk
We understand the importance of having a comfortable and accessible living space during your time at university.
If you have any further questions about disability support available to you as an AUB student, we encourage you to reach out to our disability support team at disability@aub.ac.uk .
We're here to support you to ensure you receive the best possible accommodation to suit your needs.
First steps
Log into the Accommodation portal
3.
Available rooms will now show
Our Accommodation team will receive your booking and will email you to confirm your room allocation.
At any time, you can log into your accommodation portal to check your booking, induction process, statement and your accommodation T&Cs.
You’ll be able to book your arrivals directly with your halls team and notification of this process will be in the Induction, which'll go live on your accommodation portal approximately one month prior to the start of your residence period.
For any queries at any time, please contact AUB Accommodation via email or alternatively call them on +44 1202 363 392.
As part of the AUB Accommodation booking process, we’ll require you to confirm you don't have a relevant unspent criminal conviction which may prevent you from living in AUB accommodation.
You'll be asked to do so in order that we may discharge our safeguarding obligations, for the benefit of all students residing in AUB accommodation.
We’ll only ask you about unspent, relevant convictions, as follows (or comparable offences that resulted in a conviction from a legal system overseas):
Only unspent convictions are required to be disclosed to AUB.
Convictions that are ‘spent’ – as defined by the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 (as amended) – or will be spent at the point of taking up the offer of AUB accommodation, don’t need to be disclosed.
If you’re uncertain whether to disclose a conviction or not, please seek confidential advice from AUB’s Designated Safeguarding Lead at safeguarding@aub.ac.uk .
Having a relevant unspent criminal conviction isn't an automatic bar on being able to apply for, or being allocated/offered or staying in, AUB accommodation.
However, if you unreasonably fail to formally disclose a relevant unspent criminal conviction as part of your booking request, this could amount to serious misconduct under the student disciplinary rules and procedures and affect your accommodation allocation or contract.
Evaluation of your criminal conviction disclosure will be undertaken by AUB’s Designated Safeguarding Lead (or nominee) to ensure that all processing relating to your disclosure is in accordance with our data protection policy and privacy notice .
The Designated Safeguarding Lead will inform you if your booking request is accepted or declined.
We operate a Welcome Weekend for all residents in AUB Accommodation, which takes place during the first 48 hours of each tenancy.
Arrivals are from 08.30 on the first day of the tenancy.
Arrival slots are bookable directly with your halls of residence, upon completion of your online Accommodation induction.
During AUB Welcome Weekend, you'll get to meet all your new flatmates, learn all about your new home and its facilities.
There'll be an introduction to the local area and a programme of inclusive, creative activities and events to help settle you into the AUB community.
It can be difficult knowing what to bring with you and what not to bring.
It’s really essential that you make your new room feel like a home away from home, but you don’t want to double up on items that are already included.
Look out in your inbox in July as you'll be invited to a Pre-Arrival Webinar that is relevant to your halls of accommodation.
In this webinar you'll meet team members from your accommodation and student services, learn more about your new accommodation, what's included and your bed size.
You'll also hear about UniKitOut , a site where you can order all your essentials for your new room online and have it sent direct to your accommodation, plus AUB students get a 10% discount using the code AUB10.
There's no parking on any of our halls sites, unless you're a blue badge holder.
However, parking options for arrivals will be outlined in your halls induction.
Of course, we have bike stores in each of our halls of residence, and Bournemouth is also a cycle-friendly town with lots of routes to explore.
Once a month on campus, we welcome the Cycle Surgeon, who's able to look over your bike and assist with any necessary repairs.
Please be aware that electric bikes and scooters can't be charged or kept inside flats and studios.
If you do wish to bring your electric bike or scooter with you, please notify your halls team in advance to discuss charging options.
Pets of any kind aren't permitted in any AUB halls of residence.
For further details about assistance dogs and support animals, please read our policy .
Or for more information, contact our Disability team via email .
All your utilities bills are included within your accommodation, but you'll need to purchase a TV licence if you're bringing a TV or plan to stream BBC iPlayer.
This means all you'll need to think about is your day-to-day costs, which includes food and drink, travel, going out and socialising.
You may be able to access support via the AUB Access and Participation Plan or Foundation Bursaries , and Student Advice offer practical information, advice and guidance on budgeting.
You can either pop in for a chat or book an appointment via AUB Bookings with the team.
You can also check out our Student Budget Calculator to help with your planning.
Check out this flyer for more information on financial support .
When you move into your new AUB accommodation, you automatically become eligible to get involved with AUB ResLife .
This is our Residence Life programme responsible for creating a sense of home and welcome at your accommodation.
Events organised and facilitated by the ResLife team – including our AUB Student Ambassadors, who are students who've previously lived in AUB halls of residence – take place from the start date of your tenancy and they're great ways to meet new people, mingle with your flatmates and get involved in fun activities.
Make sure to follow @aubreslife on Instagram for event updates, and check out our termly newsletter WORD , which focuses on all things AUB ResLife.
If something in your room or kitchen is broken, you'll need to report this to your halls team.
When you complete your induction prior to moving into your new accommodation, you'll be invited to download your relevant halls app.
On this app you can meet your fellow residents, receive updates from your halls team and you can also register any faults/defects/breaks in your room or kitchen.
However, if there's an urgent or emergency issue with your room or kitchen you'll need to go and speak to your halls team directly in the reception of each halls.
The halls teams are available 24/7 for you to contact.
Occasional overnight guests are permitted at the goodwill of AUB.
All guests must be signed in to the halls of residence and halls staff reserve the right to require any person to leave the halls if they aren't signed in.
Halls staff reserve the right to exclude any visitor in accordance with Schedule 2, clause 3 of the AUB Accommodation Contract.
Please remember that you're responsible for the behaviour of your invited guests, including any loss, breakage, or damages they cause, as well as any breaches of the AUB Accommodation Contract.
Overnight guests aren't permitted during the Accommodation Arrival Weeks.
If you have family or friends who are accompanying you to Bournemouth to help you with your arrival, don’t worry.
Bournemouth is buzzing with lots of hotels and Airbnbs to look after them while you're settling into your new home.
We strongly encourage you to register with a local doctor as soon as you start your studies with us, to make sure you can see a doctor quickly if you fall ill or need routine medical care during the course of your studies.
AUB’s Student Services work in partnership with the local Village Surgery (located next to Campus Halls) to provide a dedicated medical surgery each week.
To register with the local surgery head over to the Campus Doctor website .
If you do feel unwell during your time in halls of residence, it's important to make sure your course team is aware.
Contact your course leader and team, as well as Student Records, so they can monitor any necessary absence due to illness.
It's also highly recommended to inform your halls team so they're aware of any additional support you may require and can also keep an eye on you until you're on the mend.
If you require support relating to your mental health, our halls team is on site 24/7 and available to assist you.
AUB offers a range of student support services including Wellbeing, Counselling and drop-in sessions Monday to Friday on campus.
You can also access University Retreat , located next to Talbot House, which is a crisis walk-in centre open from 14.00 until 21.00 Monday to Saturday.
We also have a number of external support services – you can refer to this page for more information .
Living with people is hard especially when you don’t know them and sometimes conflicts come up.
Don’t worry, this is totally normal and, most of the time, an issue can be resolved by following a few simple rules:
There's support available when you need it.
In the first instance, we always recommend that you have a chat with your halls team.
They can often work with you and your flatmates to resolve any issues.
You can also contact the AUB Accommodation Team for advice and we offer support for managing household difficulties via the AUB Conflict Resolution Service , which is an informal non-judgemental and voluntary support service.
Applicants will be emailed a link and notification when the Accommodation Portal goes live.
For more information, please contact one of our Accommodation Advisors at accommodation@aub.ac.uk or by calling 01202 363 392 .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/barney-bell-i-have-to-thank-the-clearing-process-without-it-i-wouldnt-have-had-the-best-year-of-my-life:
Until I had actually stepped foot on AUB Campus, I didn’t think I’d be going to university at all.
I’d spent Year 13 ignoring the UCAS applications, going to as few university Open Days as possible and enjoying my time in blissful ignorance.
My journey to being a part of the AUB community 100% relied upon the Clearing process.
My original plan was to take a gap year to study a fifth A-Level.
My friends were baffled at that, and it’s safe to say my school thought I was a bit insane.
But hey, it was what I wanted to do.
I was happy with that decision.
Happy.
That is, until I found out it would cost me over £900 just to sit the exams.
I’d rang every local school but there was simply nowhere to go.
With that, the dream of a fifth A-Level died, and I was faced with 440 days of doing absolutely nothing .
I had to do something .
I couldn’t just sit around, find a small local job in a café or on the beach.
That’s where Clearing stepped in.
Nobody ever really talks about Clearing – it seems to be a secret little process, often overlooked.
In my case, I hadn’t even heard of it before my mother told me about it in late August.
I had good enough results to get in, and after a period of umming and ahhing about applying, I just decided whatever, let’s call to check if there’s space on the courses I wanted to do!
Judging by the fact you’re reading this – there was!
I checked availability for both Photography and Creative Writing and ended up applying to both.
The whole process was surprisingly easy: a five-minute call, some email exchanges and there I was – applying to university!
The whole concept that I’d become so ignorant towards just six months before was now in my hands, and to be completely honest was a lot easier than I expected.
I chose BA (Hons) Creative Writing, meaning I now had to write a personal statement and then send the application across to finally apply for a real university course.
I did have to ask for an extension since they only gave me 48 hours to send my personal statement, and I personally felt that I needed more time to write one that truly reflected me, so my advice would be to prepare that a lot sooner.
I was ready now to wait… a whole, long… 10 hours!
It was incredibly fast and extremely easy, and I’m almost glad I went through Clearing rather than directly applying, as the process was fully complete within a week or so.
After acceptance, I had to sort my student loans and the financial aspects of university, and thanks to Martin Lewis for help on that front.
AUB has been the perfect destination for me.
I’m a BCP local anyway, so for my first year, staying at home has been a great experience and removed a lot of stress, but hearing from others who took the same route I did from further afield, they’ve been just as happy.
More than anything, I found a community at AUB that I’d been missing.
The campus is vibrant and creative, full of people who fit into the same box I once thought I occupied alone.
Within the first week, I’d already made friends on my course, and even a few from others.
I’ve been able to participate in so many things I hadn’t considered before, from writing outdoors and crafting a screenplay to going to independent theatre shows and performances.
Life at AUB has been exciting, creatively fulfilling, and overall, very stimulating – I don’t regret a thing coming here.
I’ve realised after reflecting on my first year at AUB and writing this that I’ve gained a lot of confidence in both sharing my ideas and receiving feedback from others, and I’m so pleased with my decision to study here.
AUB has been there to foster my growth, and I’ve loved the freedom that my course brings; being fully coursework-based means I’ve not had to worry about exam revision, instead hours upon hours of drafting, writing, re-writing and editing.
It’s been such a pleasure to study at AUB, and I have to thank the Clearing process for all of it.
Without it, I wouldn’t have had the best year of my life.
If you liked this post you might be interested in applying to AUB through Clearing.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/why-apply-to-university-through-clearing-in-2025:
If you’re still making up your mind about applying to university, you aren’t confined by the 30 June deadline.
That may be the cut-off point for direct applications, but Clearing opens shortly after, on 5 July.
And if you decide that you’d like to study a degree after all, Clearing will be a viable option.
For one thing, you’ll be able to explore a range of courses and universities.
Following the original application stages at the start of the year, you’ll have had more time to consider your future aspirations – to decide what you want to study and where – giving you a clearer idea than you may have had when you first looked at UCAS.
There may also be interests and passions that you’ve discovered more recently that you now wish to explore at degree level.
You'll also be applying, most likely, with your final grades to hand, and at a time when you can expect a quick answer on your application.
Firstly, please don’t panic if you’re not holding a place.
While Clearing can be daunting, over the past decade, more and more applicants find their place at University through Clearing.
It’s become an opportunity for many applicants to reconsider their choices and make changes to attend a university they were initially interested in, but chose to decline in the first instance.
If you apply after 30 June, you’ll automatically be entered into Clearing, which means you’ll only be able to make one choice at a time, and only after you’ve submitted your application through UCAS.
You’ll find that many popular courses are closed at universities, so do your research and keep an eye on university websites and UCAS for application opportunities.
You can register your interest for a course on the AUB website , and the Admissions team will be in touch with you regarding your application.
UCAS gives you the chance to register with Clearing Plus – an enhanced search tool that allows you to register interest in up to five different courses at the same time, just as you can during the main application cycle.
It gives you personalised course matches and a one-click interest that tells us, AUB, that you’re interested in one of our degree courses.
Later, on Results Day (14 August 2025), the lists of courses that are available on university websites will be updated as institutions update their availability.
You should check with the university you’re interested in if you meet their entry requirements before you do anything else.
Check to see what additional requirements the university has, if any.
If you’re not holding a place at this time, don’t panic.
While it can be a daunting process, thousands of applicants get university places through Clearing every year.
Make sure you have evidence of your results to hand and can provide everything you need to quickly and easily.
Contact the universities that you’re interested in directly, as it could be the conversation that opens the door to your future career!

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/catfords-local-hero-ryan-calais-cameron:
"It's good to be home: it's good to be in Catford.
It's good to be at the theatre, and it's good to be on Broadway!”
Double Olivier Award nominee Ryan Calais Cameron cuts an unassuming figure, sat alone on stage at Lewisham’s historic Broadway Theatre.
But for the up-and-coming writer, actor and director, the scene is set.
The Broadway is ground zero, and Catford is home.
"This is down the road from where I grew up.
It's that massive homecoming, you know?
I feel like I've been privileged enough to have flown around the whole entire world in the last ten years, but to come back and to be bringing, you know, parts of my craft, people that I've met, a whole entire community into our backyard, is just a dream come true for me."
For Ryan, who describes careers advice at his school as ‘locking’ him out of his dream career, coming to AUB to study a creative subject like Acting was a brave step.
“Before AUB, I trained as an electrician and I said to myself, I can do this for the rest of my life, but I don't know if I'm going to be happy.
You know, coming from working class roots, it's embedded that you need a job, so get a job, get a trade and you'll be fine.
And I'm like, what if I want more out of my life than that?
What if I want to be happy.
When the career adviser at school told me that I could never make it as a theatre artist or actor, it wasn’t coming from a negative place, it was coming from a realistic place – these things don’t happen.
It just happened that I’m stubborn!
“With AUB, I wanted to get some insight.
I was at 19 at the time, never been outside of my neighbourhood and was like, hey, how about going to a seaside town for the next three years?
Meet some different people and get some different life perspective and see how that can add to my artistic value.
And I did, man.
I met people from all over the world that really gave insight into the kind of work what I wanted to make, and myself as a young man.
I graduated, I came back to London geared up, really, really geared up, to try and show the industry something.
"So, I went to the industry, and they said “Who's this guy?
We’ve never heard of you.
Everybody we’ve been taking note of went to Central, RADA…we just don't know who you are.” But I was determined, and I got a lead role in a Royal Court play in 2011.
That was about two months after I graduated."
But after using his skills to build his acting profile, Ryan soon found himself struck by a barrier commonly experienced by Black British actors – he describes it as the ‘Jamal role’.
“I got an agent, and I spent the next five years acting.
I was doing well as an actor, but I still felt frustrated in the fact that roles got to a point where I had played the same character so many times… I was getting bored.
“The cheeky Jamal character.
You know, the guy that does drugs on the side, but he'd also say a couple of jokes.
I’m friends with another actor who’s really made it now, and we used to have this back and forth where he would say “Oh did you get the part?
Cheeky Jamal role?”.
You'll get a couple of lines, and that’s all.
Something that I always used to question was where's that backstory?
How did you get to that point?
Otherwise, the narrative is that all boys that look like this are just that way."
Despite the misjudged appearance of success it gives, for many Black British actors, the way forward often lies amid the palm trees, sun-soaked boulevards, and supposed glamour of Hollywood.
"Most people I knew were like “Okay, right, it's time for you to go to America.
Now.” Even my agent was like, “Okay, cool, we're going to send you out to pilot season in March.
Go out there to the US.
But it’s just so sad that young British black actors must leave their home to find work, when there's so much creativity here in the UK.
I was like, I know people that are smart, people that had a little bit of money, and people that had loads of creativity, so how about we see what we can do about this?
“From that, we started a company called Nouveau Riche, and that was six years ago now.
We set out to create more narratives for young black actors specifically.
We grew that vision.
How do we give life to every character on every walk of life?
How do you understand if somebody is a gangster or a drug dealer; where did they come from?
What are the conditions?
How is society playing a part in this?
We just really needed to get audiences to understand things much better.
“Can we look back at how people were telling stories a thousand years ago?
How stories have been told in Botswana, in Ghana, in Nigeria?
How do we just add more value to what we are getting as actors?"
Ryan’s company Nouvelle Riche was initially planned as a small side project, in between acting jobs – something to tide things over further work came calling from elsewhere.
But six years passes in the blink of an eye and Riche is on the rise.
Keen to speak for the communities that had a hand in his upbringing, it made a lot of sense for Ryan to start crafting his stories from the richly diverse tapestry of Inner London narratives, voices, and cultures he grew up a part of.
“I live in those communities.
I hear those conversations, you know, so when we made Queens of Sheba, about misogyny and racism, we made the show whilst people were having those conversations.
The MeToo movement happened about six months after we started Queens of Sheba.
So, by the time we had this show, and the movement came out, we were ahead of the game.
We made the shows because we knew we were in those communities, and we knew that this was going to come.
This was bubbling up.
It was the same thing with what we all went through in 2020 with George Floyd and the Black Lives Matter movement.
We made a play called Typical just six months before that had happened, about a young black man died in police custody.
“These were the conversations that we were having on base level.
These were the things that were bubbling up.
And then you have that happen and then you go, you know, these are the shows that our community want because this is what's affecting their lives on the outside.
You turn on the TV and you go “I want to get into someone’s life that I can relate to…”.
I’m hoping people can now see people they relate to; whether that’s race, sex, socio-economic backgrounds – people that look like you, that are doing the things that you dream of."
So are things really changing?
Is it easier to ‘make it’ as an artist now, and what principles guide forward the next generation of authentic voices, faces, narrators, and storytellers?
“The time we are in now is very different to when I grew up.
Being in Catford with my company and the artists we bring here, the ambition of that is that anyone can walk down the street, get coffee here and see artists that are working at Paramount, AMC in New York or LA, in this community.
OK, I’m not that old, but we didn’t really have YouTube growing up… You couldn’t just search “How do I?” and find something.
If you can think it, then it can come to pass.
"A lot of the time, when you see an artist’s journey, you only see where they’re at now, and people think they can leave their job and the next day be running Broadway.
But it took me six years.
"Four of those, I worked nights with young people.
It was an amazing job, but it was always part of the plot and part of the plan.
I’d get to work early, I’d make sure everyone was checked in, I’d do all my work, and then I’d have about two hours in the office with a computer and a printer writing scripts.
The plan was that, even though this was great, I was going to create professional work that I could eat off.
And if that day never came, those two hours allowed me to express myself as an artist and creative.
"Nowadays, people don’t often give themselves time, it’s all about the glory.
But are you an artist?
Do you really want this?
If you do, take your time, find out what’s unique about what you do and what you can give to the world that no-one else can."
Just like Ryan, the journey for Olivier-Award nominated For Black Boys Who Have Considered Suicide When The Hue Gets Too Heavy wasn’t quick nor easy.
In fact, the play grew and developed alongside him over the course of a decade.
“It's taken ten years to write For Black Boys, and that’s come from so many perspectives; finishing university, having children, getting married, leaving a community, and coming back to it, to being poor and having some money.
"The first draft was done in 2014, but I put it in a drawer because I didn’t know enough.
I came back to it five years later because questions that I couldn’t answer then, I could answer now.
And when we played it to 80 seats at New Diorama Theatre, 80 per cent of audiences were working class and black.
But when you talk about it going to the Apollo Theatre in the West End, you go “that can never happen”.
Yes, it can.
If you make the work, the people will come.
"It took us a year to get it to the West End because a show like this, which isn’t just about having black people in it, is unique in its Black Britishness.
It doesn’t relent from that, and it’s in one of the West End’s most prestigious theatres.
It’s unheard of, but audiences are showing up, they’re saying that if we make the work that speaks to them, they will come.
"That’s a message to everyone on the outside to everybody on the inside; expect to see more stories like this that showcase you in these wonderful ways, because we’re not going to stop!”
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Acting

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/the-rise-of-zack-of-all-tradezzz-amelia-gaughan:
Make-up alum Amelia Gaughan may have found their feet in prosthetics at AUB, but it’s also the birthplace of their alter ego and a burgeoning career as a Drag King…
“I’ve always liked changing appearances.
As a child, I’d go to my friends’ birthday parties and do face painting on other kids .”
It’s the love of changing appearances that brought Amelia Gaughan to AUB, to study BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance in 2017.
They’d already been cosplaying for a few years by this point.
But one day, in their halls of residence, Amelia found the name for their alter ego, Zack of all Tradezzz.
Not exactly a Drag alter ego, at first, as Amelia admits:
“I’d been dressing as a man for years.
Even though I call myself a Drag artist, I guess I’m more a performance artist.
It’s so ingrained in me that it’s less like a completely different persona.
I’d been dressing up in my halls, and I remember thinking, ‘What’s a good name of all this?
I want something like Zack of all Trades ’.
And then I thought, ‘That’s a brilliant name!
Why don’t I do that?’”
For the first year of Zack’s life, Amelia just did photo shoots, all the while developing the make-up and overall aesthetic for the persona.
But they soon decided that the performer in them wasn’t getting any fulfilment, while doing make-up on other performers.
Which led Amelia to take Zack to the public in early 2019, when they won a lip sync competition at DYMK in Bournemouth and were rewarded with the opportunity to support Drag Race star Latrice Royale.
Amelia describes Zack as “everyone’s emo heartthrob crush from 2007 come to life.”
“He’s a massive edgelord… very angry a lot of the time.
It’s a very specific aesthetic, but with a sense of irony.
The emo subculture is fantastic – I love it.
But there are a lot of negatives to it, a lot of toxic masculinity.
Zack is almost like a supervillain in a sense.
Think of JD in ‘Heathers’… any sort of emotionally unstable teenage boy.
They’re not very nice people, but they do look cool, even though the things they do are horrendous.
There’s a lot of eyeliner, skinny jeans, a lot of ‘my parents don’t understand me’.
Even though, in real life, my parents are lovely, and they love what I do.”
The image and persona of Zack of all Tradezzz has been well clarified and refined.
But just how common is it to find Drag Kings on the ever-popular Drag scene?
“A lot of my career, I’ve been the token Drag King,” says Amelia.
“There’s nothing wrong with that; in the last year or so, it has expanded a bit more, and I’m grateful to be around other Drag performers in general.
Drag Kings are out there; people just don’t know we exist.
Shows like RuPaul’s Drag Race have done a lot for the community, but they’ve also been damaging, because it’s a very narrow-minded view of what Drag is, what gender identity is.
It’s a double-edged sword – it did a lot of good, but now people think, ‘Oh, that’s what Drag is.’ People think you have to be a certain gender, shape, ethnicity or gender identity to be a Drag performer, which isn't true.
It is so different.
The London Drag scene, specifically, is so diverse.
And shows like Dragula , which rival competitions like Drag Race , have had a lot of Drag Kings on.
Landon Cider, who won Dragula , is a huge Drag King now.”
Since creating Zack all those years ago, Amelia has achieved a number of successes of their own.
Reaching international levels; most recently appearing in a show in Japan.
“My parents lived in Japan before I was born.
I love Japan – I’ve got a lot of friends over there, it’s really fun to visit and I love the culture and everything.
I’d been planning to go back for quite a while, and last year, my partner and I decided we’d go for an entire month.
In the October, I was curious about what the Drag scene was like in Japan – specifically in Tokyo – so I had a look on Instagram and found Angel Heart, a Drag Queen who works in Shinjuku.
I messaged her, explaining that I was planning to visit and was curious about the scene.
She was so lovely and helpful, and basically asked me, ‘When are you here?
We’d love for you to be part of our show’.”
April 2023 arrives, and Amelia and Zack of all Tradezzz are part of the line-up to appear at Club SCIENCE in Shinjuku.
It’s primarily an international Drag show, at which they held a unique honour.
“There were a lot of American and Swedish performers,” Amelia explains, “Plus a couple of Brits that I was chatting to.
But everyone in the show lived in Japan, apart from me.
Angel Heart told me, ‘We never have guests from outside the country.’ Even in rehearsal, the Drag Queen Endigo, who was on Drag Race Sweden , came up to me and said, ‘You’re the one from England, right?’”
Amelia’s performance at Club SCIENCE made a definite impression.
Many told them they’d have them back as soon as they returned to Japan, while some photographers lamented that they weren’t based in Japan, wanting to work with them again.
These days, Amelia fills their time doing wig commissions for Drag and cosplay connections, among other things.
Since leaving AUB, their credits include work on DC’s The Flash and Meg 2 , and they’ve also been successful on the catwalk, as a professed lover of alternative fashion.
“I have so many different things going on in my brain – cosplay, wigs, make-up, fashion, Drag, film… it’s exhausting.
I’m struggling to pick one, and I don’t really want to.”
With all these experiences behind them since graduating from AUB in 2020, our chat with Amelia ends with their one piece of advice:
“Don’t put yourself down one path.
Don’t think, ‘I’m doing an animation course… or a make-up course… this is the only thing I can do.’ I got stuck in that at university, and then found Drag as my way out.
Work hard, but also fulfil yourself creatively outside your degree.”

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/exploring-the-work-of-frankie-turner:
Since graduating from BA (Hons) Commercial Photography at AUB, Frankie Turner has become an Association of Photographers (AOP) Gold award winner in the Food and Drink category, working with the likes of Disney+, Greggs, Heinz, Just Eat, Lidl, McDonald's, Sainsbury’s, Starbucks, Uber Eats, Whole Earth, Waitrose and more.
I met Frankie and her blue whippet Fig in her studio, a converted perfume factory in Peckham.
Tell us a bit about yourself
Day to day I work closely with advertising agencies most of the time, working with their creative teams to fulfil what they’ve promised clients.
Broadly I suppose I work under the spectrum of food photographer but with that comes beverages, products, even people.
I think there are certain food photographers who very much focus on plated food, but I’ve tried to expand what I do to be about the way we interact with food as well.
I don’t always believe in the perfect serve either, things are a bit messy with what I do sometimes.
How did you know you wanted to be a photographer?
I always hate the cliché of being the one with the camera growing up, but that really is how it started.
I’m not part of the gorgeous storytelling side of finding an old film camera and discovering photography – I was a digital girlie taking pictures of my friends and that’s really where it started.
It was about recording stuff.
The final goal wasn’t Photographer, it was to not have a desk job.
Now I’d probably let younger me know that photographers do actually spend a lot of time at their desks retouching – I probably would’ve saved myself a lot of backache!
I knew photography existed as a career, but only around weddings and sports.
We all have to choose these options at such a young age, but broadly speaking it really was about how I could end up not stuck at a desk.
It was also about finding out what else is out there, not just going for the obvious choice.
When you’re at school and you’re studying Maths, English and Science the world feels quite limited.
I knew there had to be something else.
After my GCSEs was the first time I’d seen other subjects.
I remember seeing A Level Photography and thinking.
‘Wow, I get to study something practical’.
What were you doing before AUB?
I was at college doing a BTEC in Photography.
I was amazed that a course existed where I could just study photography.
Moving to college was my first big step away from everything I knew, like my school and my friends.
It’s something I’ve done a few times now, the jump to university, the jump to London.
The decision to go to college without my support network was fundamental to becoming who I am.
How did you realise you wanted to work with food?
I knew I wanted to work with photos and at some point, I realised I wanted to work in advertising.
It wasn’t something in my world, but it’s something we’re all so used to seeing.
When we look back and think about the photos that inspired us, so much of it is in magazines, it’s things you see in the supermarket, it’s a billboard down the street.
It was all there, I just hadn’t really pieced it together yet.
I’d been running a fairly successful blog on the side.
I used to bake monstrous cakes for my housemates on special occasions and built a following on Tumblr.
It was actually the rest of my course who were saying, “Frankie, submit some food pictures!” I rehashed my coursework to lean more towards food and still life and I submitted my first food piece.
It was the first time I was actually hooked on a project.
I think most people have that moment with photography where their hobby becomes their job, I hadn’t had that yet.
Taking food and making it my job was the joy moment.
What’s the benefit of a creative education?
Time.
It was less about honing a skill and more about the gift of time.
Creativity is intuitive.
People often message me asking about the creative side of my work, the business side you can always find other people for, but creativity really is personal – it’s yours.
I came out of university with my voice.
What did you think you’d be doing after graduation?
I’d been working at a coffee shop in Sandbanks alongside my course and loved it.
I had plans in place to move to Brighton and run a coffee shop over there.
By chance a food photographer came into the shop one day.
I never understood the phrase it’s who you know until it happened to me.
I just didn’t feel like I knew anyone.
My manager pointed him in my direction, and I got to see a London studio.
That was it.
I moved up to London with no job and no plan four weeks later.
Tell us about the time between graduation and where you are now
It’s quite blurry, what sticks out is a lot of assisting, and a pandemic.
Fundamentally, it was a period of time when I just said yes to things.
I wanted to know everything.
Part of that is knowing the bad side so you know the best side.
I’ve been on shoots that overran until 11 at night, so now that’s something I don’t allow to happen in my business.
I took on uncomfortable assisting jobs and took advantage of everything that came my way.
That time helped me to understand the world I’m in and my position in it.
No one had taught me advertising, so I did a lot of learning through doing.
Joining as an assistant for a shoot meant becoming part of the same team for the day – it was such an opportunity for learning.
I didn’t know what a producer was or what an account manager does.
Mad Men was an educator at that time in my life – I’m happy to report there’s been a lot of change since the ‘60s, especially for women.
There’s still room for more though.
What are some challenges that you’ve faced?
I massively struggled with imposter syndrome, especially as a woman.
Like I said, it’s not the ‘60s anymore, but advertising is still cut-throat – even if food tends to be the lovelier side of it.
Being an assistant means acting as a technician a lot of the time, and I felt like the men were being relied on more heavily for the techy side.
I could feel myself being pushed down, I didn’t feel ready because of this perceived idea that I couldn’t do it.
When I started assisting, I was always seen as this young, small thing.
I’m not the biggest person in stature, I’m 5’3” and I’m often the smallest person on set.
I was always the youngest in my year and the baby of the group.
There was something in the air that was telling me, ‘probably not’.
When it comes to imposter syndrome, there’s always something in the system that’s making you feel that way.
You have to find what that is and make yourself realise if it’s truly happening or not.
You deserve to be there.
These things follow you around.
I believed I was too young to be doing what I am.
I thought no one wants a 20-something shooting their ad campaign.
I wanted to be older so I was deemed old enough.
Now I feel like I wished away most of my 20s.
The only time I haven’t felt like a student was the other week in Sainsbury’s.
There were a bunch of Goldsmiths students doing a big shop with no plan and no shopping list, baskets overflowing, cans of beer under their arms.
I wanted to tell them, “get Google calendar, it’ll change your life!”
What do you love about what you do?
People always assume it would be the food, but when you’re in the middle of it you can’t even think about eating.
When I’m staring at food all day it’s almost feeding me.
You’re using all of your senses to make a good picture.
You’re thinking about how the audience will consume the image and you end up doing that yourself.
It gets to lunchtime and I can’t think of anything worse.
There’s always a half-eaten croissant on the side from breakfast.
What I love is the process.
I work with amazing people and I’m happiest when everyone’s in the room.
Everything good comes from the team working together and nothing is ever solely anyone’s idea.
There are all these little conversations going on about the tiniest of details.
Taking pictures is just a really small element of it.
So is the food real?
I think I always say that it’s food at its best – why would you take a picture of it if it wasn’t?
We’re never out to mis-sell or trick anyone.
We sell them the happiest version.
Often that involves pulling something apart and rebuilding it again, but it’s never as cynical as the stuff you see online.
The internet is obsessed with food secrets and they’ve really taken it to the extreme.
The biggest secret is that there isn’t just one person.
People think these things happen in a vacuum but it’s only possible with all of these specialists commenting and collaborating.
What does success look like for you?
Success is longevity for me.
I think last year I would’ve been happy just to call myself a food photographer, but it’s so much bigger than that.
I’m the director of a company, it’s my business and that’s really weird.
I get to work creatively every day and that’s the most fulfilling thing you could do.
I went from thinking I have this degree, but I’ll work in a coffee shop and maybe I’ll take some pictures for some local brands, and now I’m registered on Companies House, I pay people and I have a really lovely team I get to work with every day.
It’s very strange – it’s not quite a flat white!
What would you tell your younger self if you could?
Don’t give up your hobbies because they’ll be the things at work that connect you to people the most.
I started pottery when I moved to London and met my two best friends in the basement of a pottery studio.
One’s an art director and the other taught me to play drums.
Hobbies keep you connected to people and remind you that you’re a person, not a photographer churning out work for companies.
I had to stop doing pottery when I got a dog, but my dog became my hobby.
Hobbies are promises to yourself that you’re going to do something.
Learning that kind of time management and delegation is so important for people in a professional setting too.
What’s your one piece of advice for creatives unsure where to go?
The one piece of advice that changed my direction was from one of the lecturers on my course, Martin Coyne.
It was a tiny conversation we had outside the Photography building, almost just in passing.
At the time I wasn’t sure about moving to London and he told me London’s a big place but it’s full of small villages.
You’ll go and you’ll build your village.
So I moved to London.
Everyone you talk to; you’re talking to everyone they know.
You’re never just talking to one person at a time.
It’s all a network and it’s all people-based.
The piece of advice I give to people now is to get the damn dog.
It sums up my general attitude to being in the industry.
Before I got Fig, I’d been wanting a dog for years.
Everyone told me I was crazy to get a dog so young, crazy to get a dog so early in my career, crazy to get a dog when I work with food – you can’t bring a mischievous little whippet on set with you.
One day I think I must’ve just been feeling extra stubborn.
I’d had enough of being told no and I just did it.
I got the dog.
It doesn’t haunt me, if anything I think, why didn’t I do this sooner?
There’s always something telling me now’s the right time to cause a problem, and to go with it – I don’t care what you’re saying, I’m getting the dog and 21-year-old me would be very happy.
I think you can apply that to anything in your life.
Visit Frankie's website for more information.
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Commercial Photography

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/an-interview-with-lydia-reeves:
Lydia Reeves graduated from AUB in 2014, after studying Fine Art.
She lives in Brighton, near her studio, where she works as a female body casting artist.
Content Warning: Themes of sexual assault, sexual abuse and negative body image are discussed.
Arriving at Lydia’s studio, we were met with the façade of an old workshop in the heart of an industrial estate.
Lydia answered the door in her colourful Lucy & Yak dungarees and led us up to the studio.
It felt as if we were transported into a safe space, a haven – surrounded by colourful and glittery boobs, bums and vulvas.
As we set up the equipment, the colourful busts that lined the walls, reflected the morning light around the room.
They all held such similarities but showed off every bit of uniqueness, right down to stretch marks, piercings, tattoos and scars.
All beautiful in their own right.
How did you get into body casting?
On my foundation course at AUB , we learned all sorts of different things, one of which was body casting.
It was an hour’s lesson on how to cast a hand – the most basic introduction into body casting and I just found it really interesting.
I’d always focused on bodies in my artwork, and I liked that it was no longer my interpretation of someone’s body.
On my undergraduate degree , I learned a little bit more and just dabbled in it.
All my friends volunteered for me, bless them.
Casting all my friends boobs and vulvas… it was a great bonding experience!
What’s been your favourite casting?
I literally couldn’t choose.
I love them all, but particularly the pregnant bellies.
They make really special casting sessions and the end result is just beautiful.
Would you do any male casting?
If you scroll back far enough on my Instagram, you’ll find a lot of dicks on my profile – it’s where I started out.
It’s funny thinking back, at AUB people called me the dick girl.
One of my final pieces was a penis with loads of flowers painted all over it.
It’s just not my bag anymore and it’s much nicer working with women…
You’re an author, too.
Can you tell me more about My Vulva and I?
The book came from my vision to create something that I wish that I’d seen when I was younger.
It’s a collection of 100 stories and 200 beautiful photos of vulva casts.
I wanted to create something permanent, not just on the Internet, which people could flip through and hopefully see a part of themselves in there.
It’s got so much diversity, the stories are all so unique with different experiences.
I wish that I’d had that growing up, so that’s why I created it.
I’d done about 10 vulva casts and when I started putting the book together, I quickly realised that I wanted to do a book and an exhibition.
I didn’t want to have the casts and do nothing with them.
I wanted them to have permanency.
So, this became a mission to cast 100 vulvas for the book, which then quickly turned into 200 vulvas for the book.
It took me a year to cast them – I don’t know how I did 200 vulva casts in a year, but I did!
I worked with an incredible book designer and my friend who’s an art director.
It took us another year to put the book together – a lot longer than we all thought.
But it was so worth it, because it’s absolutely beautiful.
Getting to know you
So usually, people come in and I always make sure we chat lots before they take any clothes off.
When we get casting, I make sure everyone feels comfortable – we go through their intention for the session and what they might have been through to lead them to wanting this – I talk them through everything.
...and relax
I work with everyone individually; some people want to really open up and talk quite a lot and some people don’t want to talk very much.
I don’t move on to the actual casting part of it until I feel like they’re completely relaxed.
Casting
What we make in every session is a mould – we make the inverted version of whichever body part is being cast.
Later, I cast into the mould to create a positive version, and then work on that to create the finished piece.
Materials
For materials it’s always resin and fibreglass.
Unless you’re getting a vulva cast, then there is an option of having it created in plaster too.
Anything bigger than a vulva, I don’t offer in plaster just because it’s so fragile.
Finishing
For colours, it’s up to the client; we’ve got loads of options in the studio, including glitter.
I can also do hand-painted illustrations – there’s so much choice.
Why is it important to challenge perceptions on vulva diversity?
I just don’t think we see them very much.
Especially growing up as a straight woman, I literally saw no other vulvas apart from my own.
The only ones I did see were in porn and they weren’t – at the time – the most diverse selection.
I’ve spoken to people around my age, and they’ve all said similar things – porn was their education source.
Which is terrible!
It doesn’t show a proper variety of vulvas.
I think this where it all started for me.
I came across porn when I was around 12.
I grew up thinking that my vulva was completely different from everyone else’s in the world, so and I booked into get labiaplasty when I was 18… luckily, I ended up cancelling my appointment last minute.
Did you know that labiaplasty is the fastest growing cosmetic procedure in the world?
It’s super shocking, and it’s mainly down to lack of education.
If people actually had more education around vulva-diversity and were able to access things like My Vulva and I , I don’t think it would be as prevalent as it is now.
And that’s how my passion has grown, I just want to help women and people with vulvas to just really see that they don’t need cosmetic surgery.
Everyone is so unique and so different and that’s what makes us all so normal and so beautiful.
Shouldn’t this kind of education start much earlier?
Having education like this in schools would have completely altered the way that I thought about myself.
It would have given me so much more confidence about my body going into teenage years and early adulthood.
My hope is that schools can use my book in sex education classes or PSHE.
I did have a school recently commission a few vulva casts, which honestly made me cry because that is 100% what I would’ve wanted to see when I was younger.
Imagine seeing real vulvas?
I think starting this kind of education at the source, before kids can create any kind of narrative around their own bodies is incredibly important.
It takes a long time to unpick negative thoughts, so the ideal would be to not develop them in the first place.
Your Instagram is quite a safe and educational space, how have you found that?
I don’t really know how I fell into the space of the more sex education vibe online, but I think it suits me.
I’ve always been quite confident and passionate talking about things that other people haven’t been comfortable to talk about.
Your work isn’t just empowering, it can be healing.
Do you often work with sexual assault survivors?
I do work with survivors of sexual assault quite a bit.
People come to me for all sorts of reasons, but that is one of the big ones.
I think a lot of people use my art as a way of reclaiming their body.
I also have people that come to me if they’re going in for breast surgery, either for breast reductions or if people have got the BRCA1 gene and they need mastectomies or reconstruction, or people who have been diagnosed with breast cancer.
They come to me pre- and post-surgery – it’s a really nice way to remember their boobs up to this point and then they’re going on to their next part of their journey.
And for people post-surgery it’s a way of celebrating their new body; being able to look at themselves with love and with celebration.
It’s really nice to be able to offer that to people.
Sessions like this must be quite hard on you, how do you work through this?
It’s definitely more of a positive outcome.
So even if people come to get cast and are initially quite sad, anxious, or insecure – they’ve been through quite a big thing to get themselves here – they leave feeling so positive.
It just feels amazing to be able to run the casting session and see the change in the person.
I try really hard not to take any of the negativity home with me, just so I can keep that sense of positivity all around.
I think that’s such an important thing to be able to offer people.
Tell me about your collaboration with Marks and Spencer.
They contacted me out of the blue, to take body casts of M&S staff for an installation on London’s South Bank.
The campaign was all about the uniqueness and diversity of boobs in support of their bra fitting services.
It was an amazing thing to be a part of.
I love it when big brands want to do things like this because I feel like people really stop and listen to big companies.
It was just so nice to be able to show the public how diverse we are, especially as a lot of the casts were of women who run the bra fitting services being promoted.
Going for a bra fitting shouldn’t make you feel anxious – we’re all normal and different.
Finally, what’s your One Piece of Advice?
Keep.
On.
Going.
If there’s something that you’re really and truly passionate about and means a lot to you, just keep on persevering.
It might not happen on the first go, or the second or third, and you might get knock-back after knock-back, but just keep on pushing at it.
You’ll look back and be grateful that you did.
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Fine Art

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/knitting-for-change-craft-forward:
They’re free, they’re fun, and you don’t have to have any prior skills to get involved.
You’ll find all stages of knitting ability, from complete novices tentatively picking up the needles for the first time, to knitting extraordinaires pulling yarn at lightning speed from rolls carefully balanced on top of their heads!
Everyone’s smiling, everyone’s knitting, and everyone is working towards one goal; to create positive change.
Among the packed room of keen crafters in Brixton are six (yes six!) AUB alumni.
Zoe Larrad, AUB’s Alumni Officer, sits down with founder and Fine Art alumna, Elena Lo Presti, to hear how her philanthropy work developed from an Instagram call-to-action in her living room to a multi-disciplinary craft-based not-for-profit, serving the city.
I have always had a love for craft.
During my BA I worked with ceramics, using zines, writing and other types of lo-fi media.
I had been living with my grandma in Italy to care for her through the 2020 lockdowns and she taught me how to knit.
Knitting was such a good way of connecting with my grandma, especially at such a difficult time.
It also really helped me process what was happening in the world.
I came back to Lambeth to start a job at a pottery studio and finish my MA in Fine Art.
In yet another lockdown I heard of night and day shelters being shut down for fear of new cases.
It was a very tragic time because everyone was asked to stay at home, but what do you do when you don't have one?
I just realised that I don’t need another jumper, I don’t need another scarf, I don’t need to be knitting for myself, but it really helps, and I want to keep knitting.
I took to Instagram with a post ‘Let’s knit blankets for people experiencing homelessness in Lambeth.’ People donated spare yarn or knitted squares and I would assemble them into blankets to donate.
To be honest I thought I’d make a couple because it was just me in my living room, but surprisingly, loads of people got interested and were really passionate about it.
In the end we had 14 blankets assembled.
And Blankets for Lambeth was born.
After distributing the blankets through a local charity, I received a handwritten letter.
It said how important the gift was, not only from a practical perspective but also to receive something so beautiful, so thoughtful.
In all the conversations I’ve had with people that are unhoused, the real issue is feeling like they are not being considered as people.
You don’t get given gifts anymore, right?
It’s about survival, it’s about making it to the end of the day, to the end of the week.
I guess it was a great opportunity to make someone that’s in a very vulnerable position feel special.
When I got that feedback, I realised that I had actually made a positive impact on someone’s life and however small that impact was, I knew that I had to continue and to do it again but do it better.
There was this amazing community of makers that formed around the project, it was surprising and needed, especially in such a period of isolation.
People messaged me asking me to teach them how to knit so that they could contribute.
I set up these very weird Zoom calls where I would try and teach knitting.
I would have people waiting outside my house to give me yarn and knitted squares which was also a bit crazy.
It really made me understand that there were loads of people locally that wanted to build on this type of community, on this type of creative output and creative way of making and giving back.
You know how words like ‘community’ and ‘care’ are used by so many, and so often they become this abstract concept where ‘community’ is just this buzzword and it’s not about people and ‘care’ is just this thing and it’s not an action.
I really wanted, with this community that I had created, to have a space for people to come together for a purpose in this non-judgemental creative environment.
In the workshops we make beautiful blankets.
But the workshops aren’t really about making.
They’re more about connecting and creating, holding the space for people to come as they wish and bring in the energy they wish to bring.
We have a lot of people that come on their own and make friendships there.
Some people come because they want to learn the skills.
Some people come because they want a chat; crafting can become very lonely and solitary.
It is possible to hold an educational yet non-judgemental space where you can be creative, you can make something beautiful, but you can also have a laugh and a cup of tea.
The second year we made around 19 blankets, and it was still very much me in my living room.
Year three saw a record of 44 blankets and then, after restrictions were lifted in 2021, I started hosting monthly knitting clubs and meet-ups in Brixton.
Aided by funding from the National Lottery and now Lambeth Council.
We have 60 completed blankets this year already which we now distribute across four boroughs.
Blankets for Lambeth has become Blankets for London .
By happy coincidence, we’ve got other AUB alumni involved.
I knew Brit from AUB, we moved to London at different times, I taught her how to knit and now she’s a facilitator at the workshop, teaching others.
Tobias is our photographer, videographer and works on social media.
And the others just came to the workshop.
It’s funny – I’ve always had AUB alumni around me, even in previous roles.
A big challenge was securing funding to make things happen.
I’m constantly striving to make Craft Forward self-sufficient so we can continue to provide free, creative, and accessible spaces.
You’ve got to have a business mind but keep your not-for-profit heart.
Making peace with these two ways of thinking is a constant learning and struggle.
Overcoming your own bias is a big one too.
You suppose that you’re doing good and, because you’re doing good, it’s natural to forge ahead and do what you think is best without consulting the community you are hoping to serve.
So, the very first thing was to completely unlearn everything I thought and to come first as a member of the community, not as the leader.
To approach very humbly with questions before formulating a plan.
There are other things to take into consideration.
A lot of the people that we help don’t have the space to carry these types of things.
People have different necessities, which I think is important to understand.
We now make small blankets that can be used for children, because there are a lot of families in temporary housing, which is the homelessness that we don’t see.
It’s also easier to carry if you’re sleeping rough and you don’t want to carry a full-size blanket.
We are expanding our workshops, having more of them and in more locations.
They’ve been popping up across London!
Also becoming more multidisciplinary, expanding our crafts will expand our impact.
The common denominator, really, is that everything we make during these workshops goes directly towards helping a cause rather than selling things and donating the money.
The goal is to make as many creative processes as possible accessible to as many people as possible.
I’m aiming for a more open, diverse curriculum of crafts.
Expansion outside of London is a bit far off, but, in the future, across the whole of England is not impossible.
So in the future, mostly expansion and more blankets.
Like, tonnes of blankets!
Art can take very different forms.
You can find art in your nine to five, and you can find art in community acts.
You can find it in conversation, in relationships, and in activism, in loads of different things.
So, try to have an open mind about all of this.
Especially coming out of an art education.
Don’t think that you have all the answers.
Don’t think that you know exactly what you want to do because you will surprise yourself.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/an-interview-with-elliott-trent:
After a career in the media industry, he’s now living in Poole and making electric guitars in his workshop.
His guitars have seen critical acclaim after being named as both the Editor’s Choice and a nominee for the Gear of the Year at the Guitar.com awards in 2021.
His Model 1 guitar has been played on stage with Hester Chambers, Wet Leg – playing to thousands as part of Harry Styles' Love on Tour tour – and on television at The BRITs.
Writer’s note: As Elliott’s girlfriend, I’ve been part of his journey into guitars, and having this reflective conversation with him has been both enriching and emotional.
The momentum since he decided to make guitars ‘for real’ during the pandemic has been non-stop, I don’t think he’s really had a moment to sit back and look at what he’s achieved.
I’m so grateful to be able interview him and share this conversation with you.
How did you go from making films to making guitars?
I’ve always liked making things and I found that what I was doing before the guitars, making things that weren’t tangible, quite unfulfilling.
After university I went straight into commercial filmmaking and was doing it for about three or four years.
It was fine, but it didn’t have any kind of permanence to it – I felt like the work I was doing was a bit vapid and not for anything.
From studying at AUB, I always wanted to try and make something that actually meant something, whereas in filmmaking you can’t really do that simply.
Most of what I did was working for corporate companies and agencies.
I fell out of love with it and found myself turning to old hobbies.
I’ve always been into DIY and making bits and bobs – I started wondering if I could be a carpenter or a woodworker.
I was lucky enough that my mum’s husband was a builder and a furniture maker, so he helped me get started.
That progressed to spending a lot of my free time learning how to make small pieces of furniture.
I practiced more and more until I could get to the stage of being able to charge for it.
I then made furniture for the next five or six years.
So, when lockdown started, I bought a cheap guitar; I’d played a bit when I was younger but wanted to get back into it.
I modified that guitar; I had all the equipment in my workshop.
From there I thought I’d have a go at making my own, it’s just a funny shaped piece of furniture – it has a lot of the same elements – especially in the way you break it down from raw materials through to a finished product.
So, it wasn’t too much of a transition, to learn how to make them, I just had to work out some idiosyncrasies.
What started out as a personal project turned into a viable business for me, it just snowballed from there.
I’m at the stage now where I’ve made more than one hundred of them and I’ve got plenty more to make.
It’s fulfilling the dream I had all along, but I didn’t necessarily know what it would be.
I don’t have this like profound musical background.
I just really enjoy making them and I enjoy playing them.
You had to build a product and a brand from scratch, how did you manage it?
I made the website, with the help of a friend, and started an Instagram account – I only had a handful of followers to begin with.
In the early days, I’d look at the website analytics almost obsessively and see where my hits were coming from, because I’d only get like 20 visitors a day.
One day I saw that I’d been posted about on a forum, and it turned out to be a relatively large UK-based guitar forum.
I followed the thread and introduced myself, this is before I’d even sold any of them, I’d just made like one demo guitar (the original model) which I’d spent about six months designing and prototyping.
The forum was great, I was able to talk to this big group of people, they were all really positive and happy to see somebody making what I was making.
I offered them a discounted price to buy one, almost at cost so I could get some feedback and to get them out there.
From there I launched my Model 1 and sold five in the first few months.
I also sent one off to Guitar.com to be reviewed and at the same time I had a couple of placements on YouTube – I’d reached out to a few well-respected YouTubers to see if they were interested.
And since then, it’s just been going from strength to strength.
I’ve also given them to a few artists that I like.
It really makes you feel good about what you’re making.
As your partner, I’ve seen you spend years trying to carve a niche for yourself.
It’s brilliant to see you making guitars and doing something fulfilling, how does it feel for you?
With the furniture, it was good, but I was never going to make a piece like a Hans Wegner or Arne Jacobson.
And the income was tricky, it was very much feast or famine.
I could do really well one month and the other, I wouldn’t have anything to fall back on.
The guitars have been much more consistent, and I’ve managed to gain a lot of critical acclaim for what it is as a designed object.
People consider my Model 1 to be familiar but unique – there are a lot of guitar makers out there who do mainly find success in cloning old designs and there’s nothing wrong with that – but coming in with a novel shape of guitar is much more difficult and the fact that I have managed to succeed doing that, yeah it does feel really good, I guess.
Your guitars have gone on to see a lot of success, I remember watching wet leg perform at the brit awards 2023 with you, and Hester was on stage playing your guitar.
It was such an exciting moment.
What’s it like seeing an artist play something you’ve made?
It’s always a buzz, there’s a certain level of ego in the reason we make things.
I’m not afraid to say that the reason I liked making furniture and the reason I like making guitars is that people see the object, and you can say ‘I made that’.
To just see it being used, and for the artist to then go on and make their path through music with it, it’s like no other kind of high really.
How do you want your guitars to be perceived in the industry?
I know that you take a lot of inspiration from mid-century styles, is that how you see it?
I want them to feel like tools and I mean that in the most flattering way possible because to me – as a maker of things – tools are everything, they’re the most important things to me.
You can’t build the thing without the tools.
The idea is that they’re building music, so the guitar is their tool.
It should be function above all else and not give in too much to the wants of the maker.
It should be simple, attractive of course, but it shouldn’t ever get too complicated, and I think they are the designs that persist in a lot of industries.
If you talk to anyone about a guitar, they’ll probably think about a red Fender Stratocaster.
That’s the shape that when you think about a guitar, that’s what it looks like – even the emoji for a guitar looks like one.
That’s testament to the design, what other industries can you name where something designed in 1952 still looks current 70 years later?
It doesn’t look dated, it looks timeless, and my hope was to emulate that with what I’m doing.
And I think that my design strength is that it’s simple and it serves the musician.
It doesn’t steal the show.
It’s simple, dependable, well-made, and that’s all you can ask for really, especially in a market like this, that’s completely swamped with options.
One of the big questions on a lot of people’s lips is around sustainability.
Is that something that’s really important to you, and how do you work that into your process?
That fits nicely with my previous point about design, there’s sustainability in design, as in making something that’s timeless and doesn’t fall out of fashion, that’s able to remain current for its lifetime.
For example, companies and designers like Dieter Rams with Braun, objects like that are timeless, they become sustainable because you keep it.
If you can make something like that, you’ve done well.
But in terms of my personal commitment, I have a big interest in sustainability, and it appears over time that the people who buy the guitars have also valued that.
Starting from the beginning I’ve only ever used water-based finishes rather than the industry norm of either a polyurethane or nitrocellulose finish which are solvent-borne and are worse for the environment.
I’m also careful where I source the timber from.
As time went on with making my guitars, I started to develop my own hardware that’s made locally, rather than bought from further away, reducing the carbon milage.
I’ve then gone further, and I’ve developed a model that uses nearly all reclaimed or recycled materials that doesn’t look reclaimed.
I think that’s quite an easy hole to fall down, making something look rustic, I like the beauty of making something from reclaimed materials that doesn’t look rustic.
I want it to look like something new, when in fact it’s made from nearly all non-virgin materials.
I think that if you’re making something that isn’t essential to everyday existence, like a guitar which is often considered a luxury item, you should be mindful of where it comes from.
Sustainability is very much at the core of what I do, and I’m committed to doing even more.
Has it always kind of been at the core, or has it been something that’s just developed over time?
I thought about it less before, mainly just through being naïve.
When you’re younger you don’t tend to really think as much about these things.
But as I’ve become older, I believe more and more in buying used where I can.
I’m trying to sell something that’s brand new, so for it to fall in line with how I feel about consumer culture and the world, if I can make it from old things, that makes me really happy because at least now I’m repurposing something directly.
It’s not just going to some carbon credits or offsetting somebody else’s carbon spend.
It does just feel really cool.
And to be honest with you, if I could, I’d do them all from repurposed materials.
You have to be feasible because the available material is difficult to come by.
What type of timber have you been able to use for your recycled guitars?
This initial set is from a nuclear research facility and apprentice training school in Winfrith, Dorset.
When it closed in the early ‘90s, they had a load of old Honduran mahogany workbenches and I’ve managed to get a hold of that, it’s wonderful wood to work with.
It’s exactly what you hope for – it’s perfect for an instrument.
Honduran mahogany is a classic Tonewood and it’s rare to get these days.
The fretboards also have a story too, as the timber was used on a marina in its previous lifetime.
A lot of the timber in the UK used on piers, groynes and jetties are exotics from our imperial period that we brought over because of their exceptional durability in water.
So there’s loads of stuff like that you can get, even things like Burmese teak, you just have to pick through all the pallet wood to find the stuff that’s actually useful.
I don’t have this like, profound musical background.
Did you always want to be a maker?
Since I was a kid, AUB has been a part of my life, bizarrely.
I grew up in like a low economic background.
And when I went from primary school to secondary school, I got put forward for this gifted and talented programme, which was for kids like me – single parent with not much income.
The programme meant that over the summer holidays for two weeks, we got to go and do animation in the animation studios.
My twin brother and I made a paper animation about the Chernobyl disaster.
And it was life changing.
That was the moment I realised that I wanted to do something in the arts.
I didn’t know what, but I knew it was something creative.
After Brockenhurst College I applied to AUB, well it was the AIB then.
Anyone who’s studied at AUB knows it’s a place like no other – it’s full of really, really cool people doing something weird or something cool and making these connections.
It just confirms that you’re doing the right thing.
I may not be in the field that I was in, and what I studied, but it doesn’t matter, because without the experience there I wouldn’t be the person I am now.
It makes me emotional thinking about it because you won’t get an experience like that anywhere else.
Looking back on it now and considering where you’ve got to, would you do something different, or pick a different course?
For me, it doesn’t matter what course I did, but it does matter where I went.
I had a great time at AUB, I’m glad I didn’t go to some corporate farm, you know?
So, starting up a business and making everything by yourself from the ground up takes a lot of time, how do you balance it all?
One of the reasons I’ve been able to get where I am is because I have a really supportive network of people around me.
I’ve got a ridiculously understanding girlfriend.
We don’t have children, so I’m in a fortunate position where I’ve been able to maximise my time spent on it, but I do need to balance it a bit more because it’s a lot of work.
Do you think you’ll expand the business?
Essentially, it’s difficult.
It’s a relatively hard environment to hire in because the cost of manufacturing in the UK is high because workers’ rights are very good.
If I hired someone, I’d have to pay their pension and other numerous things, which I’d love to be able to do it’s just the money has to make sense.
The cost of living and the cost of doing business is very high at the moment, but there’s definitely room for making it bigger than just me, it would have to be right, and you have to hire the right people.
I’d love to have an apprentice, but I’d want to make sure they’d get value out of it.
A lot of luthiers will be solo their whole career, and I could very well be.
What’s your current lead time?
Probably a year.
Wow.
That’s crazy, to think that you’ve got that many guitars to make.
It must be so satisfying to know that people are ordering and believing in you enough to wait that long.
Yeah, it’s an object that people want to not only make things on but have it forever.
It gives you a sense of permanence and tangibility that I didn’t have with making films.
Do you think you’re almost rebelling against your younger self, focusing on something that’s handmade?
I think it’s my old-fashioned side maybe coming out a little bit.
I like craft and crafted things and skills, I guess it’s quite interesting that I did pursue a career in the intangible when I am so obsessed with the tangible.
Like, I’m a self-professed collector, not hoarder, but I like things.
From living with you, I’d say that they’re particular things you collect, it’s not just anything and everything.
Yeah, I’m very much of the ‘buy once cry once’ mentality.
Even if I only need something to do a job once a year, I’ll usually invest in it, I’ll never buy the cheaper option because I like things with a bit more permanence to them that will actually last.
Aside from guitars, what are your other special interests?
Well recently I’ve been modifying motorcycles.
I really like repairing and I like engineering.
I recently got a lathe and a mill at the workshop which initially started as a hobby in engineering, but it’s turned into me making parts for the guitars now.
I’m a particular type of person where my first thought when I want something is ‘could I make it instead?’ Like I’m looking at an amp that I made, I didn’t need to make a guitar, but I did.
I’m just obsessed with the idea of making things.
So, I’ll make anything I can, whether that’s knives and tools.
I think I’m going to be the old man who can just fix anything, one day I’ll have a garage full of all the knickknacks or a workshop.
Dead or alive, who would you want to play your guitar?
Thom Yorke, Radiohead.
So finally, what’s your one piece of advice?
Everyone should know how to hang up a picture.
Essentially, it’s a metaphor – it teaches you about the parts that make up a house.
It’s something that you can look at and be like ‘yeah I hung that, I didn’t call the guy on Gumtree or get mum or dad to come and do it.’ I’m not trying to be like ‘back in my day’ or any bollocks like that, I just mean people have had their confidence taken away from them and hanging a picture is a good place to start.
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Sustainable Design

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/the-skys-the-limit-how-ba-hons-photography-alumna-chloe-davenport-went-from-art-school-to-aerospace:
Now she’s working in aerospace as a Senior Continuous Improvement Analyst for a leading supplier of Air-to-Air Refuelling (AAR) working directly with aircraft manufacturers like Boeing and Airbus.
It's funny to think that I didn't even know what Continuous Improvement (CI) was until it became my job.
If you’d told me as a first-year Photography student I’d be doing this I wouldn’t believe you, I was too busy trying to figure out how to put cyanotypes on plaster heads!
In short, CI is about working smarter not harder.
It really started out in Japanese car manufacturing.
If you imagine all the elements that go into making a car on a production line, then CI is the magic that makes sure it all comes together as smoothly as possible every time.
Simple things like a clear workstation or having the tools you need right where you can reach them helps things to flow so time isn’t wasted and steps aren’t missed.
CI isn’t just for manufacturing; in an ideal world it’s applied across the whole business to improve everyone’s work life.
In my team, we oversee how things are done on every level and figure out ways to make it all work more cohesively.
Not every day is about coming in and making big changes, maintaining the improvements is an important part of it too.
I got into CI I think out of frustration more than anything.
When I was working part-time at B&Q as a student, I found that barcodes kept falling off products.
Customers would come to my till and I’d have to run halfway across the store to find the price of a plank of wood or whatever they were holding.
Everyone would complain about it, but no one had a solution.
I started taking the early shifts to make time to catalogue some of the problem-barcodes when it was quieter.
I put them into a handbook with a picture and the price so we could scan them at the tills.
The results were pretty much instant, no more running after products, happier customers – it was really rewarding.
I wasn’t sure what I wanted to do straight out of uni.
I got a job at Neptune as a Design Assistant which felt like a good fit; I always loved interior design and it was inspiring to be surrounded by beautiful things.
As a franchise store, we didn’t have access to the same resources as other branches, so we had to make do with some outdated processes.
The familiar sense of frustration crept in and I started mocking up some changes.
It needed to work for everyone, so I talked to designers and customers to see what would make their lives easier.
We made change after change and it just kept getting better.
It’s funny because I always thought design would be the creative part of the role, but it actually turned out to be CI.
It sounds silly but my turning point came when I put the word ‘improvement’ into Indeed.
I figured there had to be a job where I could do what I was doing at Neptune but full-time.
This vacancy popped up for Continuous Improvement and I finally had a name for everything I’d been doing.
I reached out and asked if they’d look at my CV to see what experience I needed to get a job like that.
As a Photography grad with no official training in CI or a background in engineering, I was really only hoping for some notes pointing me in the right direction – if I was really lucky, maybe a “come back in a few years” kind of thing.
I met with the Continuous Improvement Lead who wasn’t remotely put off by my arts degree or my lack of formal experience.
In fact, she thought my degree would be an asset.
She told me it showed her I’m technically minded, that I can pick up software and I have experience working with people.
Whilst CI is all about processes and efficiency, you have to be able to communicate and empathise with people.
She was much more interested in who I was as a person and reassured me that I was already exhibiting all the right behaviours for a career in CI.
I went back a couple of times to meet other members of the team there, and it became clear how much CI I’d been doing in my previous roles without realising.
After a few visits, they asked me if I’d like the job!
For me, studying Photography was really about learning how to see.
We had amazing tutors.
Hitesh Ambasna, one of our Senior Lecturers who doesn’t teach on the course anymore, really shaped the way I look at the world.
He taught us by showing us.
I can still hear him in my head telling us to triangulate our sources.
There was so much emphasis on being informed and bringing together different perspectives.
Because art can be so subjective, we spent a lot of time learning how to explain our decisions.
I've always been a perfectionist, but I had to learn that art is never finished.
You can never get there, but that means that you can always get better.
If that doesn’t say Continuous Improvement, I don’t know what does.
I studied Photography at college and absolutely loved it.
In hindsight I think that course was almost too good, because I spent a long time trying to find a degree that could follow on from it, not rehash what I’d already learnt.
I thought I’d found one in London but when I started, it felt like a step back.
I left in my first year and took some time living in the city.
I was hungry for life experience and trying to figure out what I was going to do next.
After some time in the ‘real world’ I decided to go back to uni and grab the opportunity with both hands.
I loved the freedom a creative course afforded me.
I could do anything, so I did.
For one of my first projects I was working with specialists, learning about materials and methods and applying process in new ways.
One day I’d be in the workshop making these 3D plaster heads and the next I was in the darkroom trying to figure out how to put cyanotypes on them.
I developed all sorts of transferable skills that I’ve taken into my career.
I got so sick of people saying, “What are you going to do with a creative degree?”.
Anything I want!
I wish I could go back and tell my younger self not to worry so much.
You’re not always going to know what the future looks like, but you’ve got to trust that you’ll find the answer through doing.
It’s good to be impatient but don’t put yourself through it in the way that I know you will.
I’ve always wanted to know everything and be prepared for what’s coming, but it’s just not possible – I still tell myself this now!
I think I’d got it in my head that I needed to go straight into the perfect job after uni.
When what I actually needed was to find a job I enjoyed and then go from there.
My one piece of advice for graduates would be to trust your instincts.
If you’re finding something easy it probably means you’re good at it.
Lean into it.
Don’t limit yourself because something doesn’t feel like a viable option.
Everything’s a viable option.
Just try the thing you want to do and see if you like it.
You learn a lot about yourself in any job that you have.
There are things that will line up from having different roles.
It’s about the stuff you can’t help but do.
At B&Q and Neptune I couldn’t help but make improvements, I’m just lucky that they let me!
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Photography

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/an-interview-with-tom-massey:
For his final major project as an undergraduate studying Animation at AUB, Tom Massey made a rotoscope film of his elderly grandfather reading the John Masefield poem, Sea-Fever.
The poem is a paean to living life on your own terms and captures the joy and freedom of travel, where change is the only constant.
This seems entirely appropriate for an educational journey and a career that is characterised by reinvention.
So, when award-winning landscape designer, Tom Massey, suggested that we conduct this interview in the depths of Cornwall, I jumped at the chance.
By any account, his journey from animation to landscape design is an unusual career path, and I couldn’t wait to understand how it had evolved – but the prospect of doing this in the landscape that since childhood had inspired him, in high summer, was too good to miss.
The photographer, Bill Bradshaw, also an AUB alumnus, and I, arranged to meet Tom by a farmgate on a quiet Cornish lane in the Roseland Peninsula.
We had followed Tom’s instructions but both of us were beginning to think we had gone wrong when we rounded a bend and saw him.
We pulled over, introduced ourselves and set off on a clifftop path, the azure Atlantic sparkling below the beetling cliffs.
So how does an animator become a garden designer?
The journey was more complicated than I thought…
After a false start studying conventional academic A Levels, Tom had dropped out of Esher College and took a job for six months working as a labourer with a landscape gardener.
An art Foundation followed where he discovered animation, this led him to enrol on the BA (Hons) Animation Production degree at AUB:
“[At AUB] we did a lot of observational and life drawing as well as learning about traditional animation techniques.
This really encouraged me to engage with and study the landscape and people in the landscape.
But what I think I liked the most was the creative side of animation, imagining a world, developing a narrative, telling a story and setting a mood or an atmosphere through the medium of animation and film."
After AUB, Tom started freelancing, doing animation jobs for advertising agencies “mainly digital, using Maya, which is the software that we learned on the course.
So I got that whole grounding in using computer aided design software...” But something was missing, he missed making things for himself, and also making something physical and tangible “so I quickly realised it wasn’t really what I wanted to do long-term… but a lot of what I learned from the course could be transferred into other occupations, that’s when I started to think about what I could do, that would be a longterm career.
And that led me to start thinking again about landscape design.”
By this time, now in a long-term relationship, Tom and his partner had taken on a lease on a warehouse in Hackney and converted it into a co-working space for people working in creative industries… “it had a nice community feel.
And we had a small garden space at the front.
We didn’t have much money, so we just used whatever we could find to knock up some planters and designed it on a shoestring budget.
And the design of the interiors, we did all that on a real shoestring too.
But I really enjoyed that whole process of designing and then seeing it built, creating something real and physical, then seeing people use it and enjoy it.”
Far from his animation training being irrelevant to this new interest in 3D space design, Tom naturally started designing physical spaces, using similar CAD software.
“My animation training was really useful for designing.
Or just being able to sketch something out to show this is what we could do, let’s try this.
So that’s where I realised that the animation training would actually be really useful for a career in landscape design.”
Now 28, Tom thought that the moment had come to harness the interdisciplinary skills he had learned.
“Me and my wife sold our shares in the co-working business and I used literally all of my money, all my savings, to fund doing a year diploma course in garden design (at the London College of Garden Design).
I took a bit of a risk on it really, just to say, actually, I’m going to do this and just go for it.”
Following the diploma Tom worked for two years with his tutor, landscape designer Andrew Wilson, and his partner Gavin McWilliam, who both had more traditional training as a landscape architects.
At that point, Tom knew he had a lot to learn, particularly about plants, and hard landscaping, but found his strength was the “conceptual side of garden design and the realisation of the concept.”
His training as an animator “translated really well into designing landscapes, particularly show gardens, where you need to have a concept or a theme.
So I started out doing the RHS shows, and that is where the client is either a charity or a brand that has a story that they need to tell.
And the medium of your storytelling is plants and landscape and creating emotion through that physical space.
I found that process very rewarding, drawing a design on a computer or on paper and then seeing that turn into 3D physical space.
And to see it come to life and actually plant physical plants and then watch people walk through it and see how they respond or react emotionally to that space was a great experience.”
Tom’s work as a landscape designer cannot be easily categorised – rather each garden is characterised by the stories he tells through it for his clients.
Whether that be creating a “border control” inspired garden for the UNHCR that used concrete and razor wire alongside plants – “Obviously border control is referring to borders of countries but also the way that we in this country are very obsessive about the plants that grow in our garden borders.
The design used a metaphor of native and non-native plants to represent residents and refugees.”
Or his recent award-winning Chelsea Garden for the Royal Entomological Society (RES) that highlighted the vital but endangered contribution of insects to ecosystems, biodiversity and supporting wildlife in general, including mankind – “the garden allowed RES to tell a story and used horticulture to showcase how gardens and insects interact.
It created a dialogue, between entomologists and gardeners and to give the charity a brilliant platform to get their work known to a wider audience.”
Tom is also a recently published author, his first book ‘RHS Resilient Garden’ talks about how gardeners can come together and react to the challenges of climate change.
"A weed is not a plant growing in the wrong place.
It’s actually a plant growing in exactly the right place because it’s seeded itself there and it’s probably doing very well.
You might try and plant something else that might fail, but we’re going to need to learn to be more accepting of weeds because the way the climate is changing, the way that our landscapes are shifting, the vegetation is going to change quite quickly in this country and in all countries across the world.
It’s going to look very different in 50 years, Cornwall will look different from how it looks today.”
If I had to ask your one piece of advice for the next generation of creatives, what would it be?
“I think for people thinking about or studying in a creative field, I guess it’s important, to find what you really want to do, to be willing to be adaptable and experiment.
I think what I found though doing the art Foundation, the animation BA, then doing bits of building and construction and the time I worked with a landscaper – they are all important.
Just taking a wide pool of inspiration from all parts of your life and then working out how you can best channel that into something that is creative and fulfilling and allows you to achieve what you want to do.
Not being afraid to just park something and switch to something else and see if it works, that’d be my piece of advice."
"Don’t ever be afraid to just stop doing what you’re doing if it isn’t working out for you.
Try something else, and maybe that will be the thing that really resonates with you… I think you never get to a point of knowing everything.
You’re always learning."
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Animation Production

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/from-one-designer-to-another-navigating-the-freelance-world:
AUB's Senior Graphic Designer, Lauren Bowling, sits down with freelance illustrator and BA (Hons) Graphic Design alum Tegan Price – that's Megan with a T, by the way – to chat about her freelance journey, the tenacity to succeed and how she’s snagged collaborations with some of the biggest brands on the planet.
LAUREN: So, take me right back to the beginning.
Have you always liked illustration?
TEGAN: Yes.
Even as a child, I was always drawing.
I really liked the Groovy Chick style, and I was always doing bubble writing.
It’s just something that I’ve always loved.
And then in school I loved art.
LAUREN: Since you were constantly drawing, were you encouraged at school to pursue art?
TEGAN: (Laughs) I found out a few years ago that, at a parents’ evening, my art schoolteacher said that I wouldn’t have a career as an artist.
That really shocked me because I was always creating or drawing when I got the chance.
LAUREN: What year were you in when your art teacher said that?
TEGAN: I think around year six, so when I’d have been 10 or 11 years old.
LAUREN: I’m shocked!
But considering where you are now, I’m sensing that attitude didn’t deter you?
If anything, it’s made you more determined to succeed.
TEGAN: Absolutely.
When I went to college, I decided I wanted to do a BTEC in art because all I wanted to do every single day was create and draw.
Then throughout my time at AUB I just wanted to illustrate everything.
I even considered changing to study Illustration halfway through first year, but after a conversation with my tutor, Alice Stevens, I decided to stick with Graphic Design because it was clear I could incorporate illustration into my graphics work whilst still learning valuable principles and techniques such as layout and type, which I wouldn’t necessarily cover if I specialised in illustration.
LAUREN: How did you find life post-graduation?
TEGAN: Honestly, it was a tough time for me.
My portfolio was full of illustration work, so I found it a challenge to get a graphic design-based job.
I remember feeling it was going to be hard to follow the same path as my classmates, I couldn’t get a ‘typical’ job in the field I studied in, so felt myself being pushed in the direction of being a freelance illustrator, which I did briefly from graduation in 2017 until the following April.
LAUREN: If it was a challenge to find a job, how did you get involved with Nike?
TEGAN: It was the summer of 2017; out of the blue I received an email from Nike.
At the time I didn’t know if it was real or not – I wondered if it was a scam because I couldn’t believe it!
LAUREN: That’s pretty incredible.
If it happened to me, I don’t think I’d believe it either.
How do you think they found you?
TEGAN: I was producing illustrations every day and posting them to Instagram.
My posts were performing incredibly well, and I did a lot of stuff around sneakers and fashion, which is still very much prevalent in my work.
There’s a huge movement now where more women are getting into sneakers and there’s a strong female-led sneaker community on Instagram who share artwork.
It’s because of these accounts that your work gets shared around and people in the relevant places see it.
That’s how my collaboration with Nike came around in 2022.
LAUREN: So, you’re saying that social media is a valuable tool for you?
TEGAN: Yes!
As well as Instagram, LinkedIn for me is massive.
I’m always keeping an eye on people who are in a similar industry to me; if they post and shout out other people in their captions, I’ll take note of their names and aim to get on their radar.
LAUREN: I’d say that’s a good tip.
If you want to be working with a certain brand, then you need to try and get in the eyeline of the people in charge of making decisions around design and product.
TEGAN: I remember doing this.
I connected with the relevant people at Nike, and after a while they responded saying that they liked my work, having seen it elsewhere.
LinkedIn is my big one, I would say, for just getting out there.
LAUREN: You’re collecting these amazing collaborations.
I’ve seen them on your website: you’ve got another one coming up – Speedo.
You don’t stop, you’re on fire.
TEGAN: Thank you.
It’s funny because a lot of time it just comes in waves; I think that’s just the nature of freelancing.
I’ve found that once you do one collaboration, it’s a ripple effect.
You’ve got to be your own hero and shout about it so much on socials.
It’s a bit surreal.
When the next brand reaches out, I sometimes have to pinch myself.
It’s another chance to make something cool with them and reach a new demographic or audience.
LAUREN: You had a role as a Junior Creative at The Sole Womens for several years, but after leaving what made you take the step to permanently go freelance and how did you feel about it?
TEGAN: It was something that I didn’t anticipate doing again.
But I wanted to try a new challenge, one that would be different every day and not repetitive.
Something in me just twigged one day: I want to do my own thing.
It was a big decision, but something that I was excited to do, and I’ve never looked back.
I think if it’s something you really love and you’re really driven by, then you’re going to be so much happier.
Even if you loved your old role for a long time, sometimes it’s just time.
LAUREN: I guess there’s no chance of falling out of love with it because it’s a new challenge at every step.
TEGAN: It’s the ideal situation for me and is probably why I switch it up so many times as well.
I just love making things that are super colourful, fun, and playful.
For me, that’s why freelancing is always so interesting.
A lot of the time I’m on this wave of wanting to try new things.
And who knows if I’ll settle down in a specific medium or whether I’ll continue to experiment?
LAUREN: Now, tell me about Gucci.
TEGAN: I first worked with them in 2020, and it was the most incredible experience.
It came about through an agency that I’d worked with before; you see how important connections are.
They reached out because they needed an illustrator.
It was for a live drawing event in the store.
I was there for four days, and I was kindly gifted two Gucci outfits, head to toe, to wear during and to keep after – it was a bit of a Pretty Woman moment!
LAUREN: I can imagine the illustrating element was a big draw to work the event, but did you land any other projects as a result?
Like you mentioned the ripple effect earlier.
TEGAN: I did meet a very lovely woman who took my contact details, and she commissioned a piece from me.
It was quite insane – that was my first commission of that level, she was a woman of influence, so there was pressure.
She also didn’t say what she wanted, just to create something for her.
She asked me how much I wanted for it, and at this point I hadn’t sold any of my art that way; I didn’t know anything about pricing my work or its value.
So, I learned a lot from the experience!
LAUREN: You also run workshops, like the ones you’ve done for Nike.
How did you come about that?
TEGAN: Yes, the first workshop I did was for Nike.
I have a series of four canvases featuring the heels of sneakers and they approached me to ask if I’d be able to run a workshop featuring them.
I suggested a painting workshop where people could do their own sneaker heel paintings.
And it all really stemmed from that.
I’ve since done six workshops with Nike over the last year and a half at their HQ with their team.
I love talking to people, so it works well for me to have that interaction and it’s nice to meet all the different people.
LAUREN: I can see that you’ve run lots of different workshops outside those with Nike.
How have you been able to get word out about these?
Has social media played a role again?
TEGAN: Oh yes.
The LinkedIn post I shared about my first workshop with Nike went viral, which is something I haven’t experienced on LinkedIn before.
It had so many eyes on it.
The more I post about the workshops on social media, the more interest I get from agencies approaching me for their clients.
LAUREN: Do you always lead the same workshop?
TEGAN: I love to switch it up; it keeps me energised about the individual projects when each one has a different angle to it.
I’ve since led a workshop for Timberland, which was another canvas painting workshop, but I’ve done other ones with tote bags and plant pots.
In the pipeline is a sock embroidery workshop with ASOS and New Balance, which is cool because I have done a lot of embroidery in my projects, but never hosted a workshop on it before.
I’m always happy to mould to whatever the client requires, which adds even more excitement to projects.
LAUREN: You seem to have quite a versatile canvas for your work.
I’ve noticed that you’ve painted on tennis rackets, ping pong bats, footballs, and vases.
TEGAN: (Laughs) Yes, I do like to change it up; I see things and think ‘yeah, I could paint on that’.
As far as objects go, I recently brought a motorcycle helmet to paint!
LAUREN: What’s your favourite canvas to work on?
TEGAN: I love mural work for the sheer scale of it; I love seeing my work on such a large canvas.
For me, that’s one of the best things as a creator, to be able to see my work making an impact.
LAUREN: Your work can be quite intricate.
Have you done many murals and how did you find it?
TEGAN: I’ve done two murals now.
I did one for The Edit LDN in their Shoreditch office.
That was of Michael Jordan doing his signature jump shot.
It was such an intricate design with lots of interesting shading, which I really enjoyed.
The second mural was for Shrubs & Dubs, a concept shop that champions small businesses run by women, also based in Shoreditch.
Most of my designs are block colour, and I use the same techniques that I’d use on a digital piece.
I illustrate the mural designs on my iPad and then project the image onto the wall and trace the outline ready to paint.
LAUREN: I’m sure the brands that you’ve worked with already would have been your dream brands to work with, but who’s next on your ‘wanting to work with’ list?
TEGAN: Apple.
LAUREN: There was no hesitation there!
TEGAN: They’re just top of my list, the winner!
They’re the tech brand I use and love the most, I always adore the colourful campaigns they create.
A massive bucket-list for me!
LAUREN: Have you tried to get on their radar, like you have the other brands?
TEGAN: I’ve reached out to one or two people associated with them [Apple], but I could reach out more for sure, and hit it from multiple angles.
As for other brands, it would be cool to collaborate with Beavertown or Drunk Elephant.
I love seeing brands that have a distinct illustrative style and has colourful, fun vibes like my own work.
LAUREN: Speaking of fun, your typographic work is very vibrant and positive, they’re very chill and feel very uplifting.
TEGAN: I’m a very positive person.
Some of my favourite quotes are “do what makes you happy, great things are coming”, “slow progress is still progress”, and “do it for you”.
And there’s no better feeling than the feeling of accomplishment.
It’s very easy to procrastinate but think how good you’ll feel once you do that thing you’ve been putting off.
LAUREN: Why do you feature these kinds of quotes in your work, is it a personal link?
TEGAN: A lot of the quotes in my work do relate to me, but I’m glad when they resonate with other people as well because I think a lot of people go through these same struggles.
I think that sometimes all you need is a quote or a phrase to remind you and instil in yourself a sense of wanting to succeed; do better and do it for yourself and achieve.
LAUREN: What would be your one piece of advice for future artists or people that want to pursue a creative career?
TEGAN: I’d say if you have the means, just put your all into it.
Even if you must work at it on the side, do that.
As a creator, there’s nothing as gratifying or fulfilling in your life than being able to do what you love and having the freedom to do it.
It’s all about perseverance and getting it done however you can.
Drop your pride at the front door because you’ve got to experiment and be prepared for failure or things not going the way you want them to.
Keep going.
Try everything you can to get where you want to get.
You never know where you’re going to land and every single thing you do leads up to what you’re meant to be doing.
Stick with it, because everyone starts somewhere.
LAUREN: That’s very good advice.
Finally, what do you think your 18-year-old self would think of you now?
TEGAN: I think if my 18-year-old self could see me now, she’d probably not believe it!

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/a-love-letter-to-romany-culture-and-a-lesson-for-us-all-jacob-parvin:
Jacob Parvin studied BA (Hons) Film Production at AUB and graduated in 2023 after producing his feature documentary, Our Gypsy Blood.
In just 15 minutes he manages to amplify the voice of a stigmatised yet vibrant community and in doing so rekindles his love for his Romany culture and identity.
The excitement for this interview is palpable as Jacob and I cheerily greet each over Zoom, with the classic “hello?
Hello, can you see me, can you hear me ok?” salutation that’s become a hallmark of virtual meetings.
Any nerves that I had for what was my debut interview were instantly quashed by Jacob’s chatty and warm personality and we quickly fell into easy conversation about our respective weekends as if we were old friends.
Jacob looks like he means business with an impressive microphone set-up – truth be told, he looks like a seasoned podcast host, settling down to interview me for his latest episode, rather than the other way round.
His creative streak is evident as he later tells me that he actually uses this professional mic when he’s producing music on the side – most recently for a rock garage artist, akin to the early Arctic Monkeys.
In fact, his creativity is something he’s always been aware of, as he started making films when he was just nine years old.
He recalls how as a kid he’d spend time at his grandma’s house cutting cardboard boxes into TV sets and present the news to her.
He tells me that his entire family has always been supportive of his pursuit of film production, but as we talk it’s evident that it’s his grandma that’s been his biggest cheerleader.
She brought him his first camera when he was nine, and he went on to make films with his friends at school.
It was just a few years later that he realised filmmaking was his passion and what he wanted to do in the future.
In Jacob’s own words, studying film production was “inevitable”.
Delving into his graduate film, Jacob tells me that the title, Our Gypsy Blood , was taken from a poem that was anonymously left at a Romany church.
He poignantly explains that,
"It represents the pride that we [Jacob’s family] have for being part of the Romany community.
And especially, as well, the Gypsy blood that me and my nan share."
There’s no doubt that his grandma is the leading lady of the documentary.
Jacob smiles affectionately as he recalls how his grandma was keen to pin down the filming dates so she could get her hair done specially and plan her outfits.
I can attest that she is indeed an incredibly stylish lady.
When I asked what her reaction was to the project Jacob grinned as he proudly told me she “was ecstatic, absolutely thrilled”.
He confides that “it was always my intention to get her into a film as she was the one who inspired me to get into film.
And I knew that for my entire career every single film would be dedicated to her.
Telling her that she was going to be in the first film I direct was an emotional experience in all the best ways.”
Our Gypsy Blood is an exploration of the Romany Gypsy community, as told through the lens of Jacob’s family, in light of the passing of the divisive Unauthorised Encampment Bill in 2022 and the associated stigmatisation of the culture.
The narrative is peppered with the family’s rich history, including artefacts and photographs, that the family has held onto to preserve their culture.
This includes a black and white photograph of Jacob’s great, great, great, great grandfather taken 250 years ago.
I gasp when Jacob tells me this, as it’s so rare and special to be able to trace one’s family history back so far without the assistance of a genealogy company.
Jacob admits that seeing the photos for himself was an emotional moment, one of many throughout the process.
Make no mistake, this documentary is deeply personal, and you can tell that it’s been made with a lot of heart; a love letter to Jacob’s Romany heritage, if you will.
That’s why it’s rather heartbreaking to hear that Jacob’s not always been so comfortable with his identity as a Romany Gypsy.
He confides that “I used to be more open about being part of the community, but due to stigma experienced in my younger life, I kind of shut that part away from me.” He elaborates by telling me that whilst growing up he had to move schools frequently as a result of the severe stigma he faced.
I ask whether through the process of creating this documentary he’s been able to rekindle his love for his community and identity.
The joy is evident on his face when he confirms “yes, one hundred percent.”
My personal highlight from the documentary was Jacob’s grandmother regaling the audience with stories of Romany life.
One story in particular stands out to Jacob – when his grandfather set a washing line on fire because of a cultural faux pas.
In Romany culture you never mix what you use in the kitchen with what you wear, so when his granddad spotted tea towels drying alongside clothes on the line, he burnt everything.
We laugh as Jacob recounts this story, but all joking aside this is one of many Gypsy traditions that the average person on the street wouldn’t be aware of.
And it’s clear to me, in this moment, how Jacob is at once using this documentary to safeguard elements of Romany culture and also to educate people about his community.
I confess to Jacob that I know little about Romany culture, or Traveller culture in general.
He does not seem surprised.
He confirms that one of his aims of producing the film was to create “a great tool for education and show how much you can normalise the community and show the beauty of it to help people de-stigmatise their own unconscious bias.
And that’s why we made the film like we did.
We didn’t want to create a film that makes people feel upset and make them feel like they’re in the wrong for what they think.” The conversation takes a deeper turn as we address unconscious bias that can be fostered by simply not learning or talking about something.
Persecution due to cultural difference and ignorance is a tale as old as time.
Jacob muses, perhaps if Gypsy culture was more readily discussed at school level and the culture was normalised as part of society, then the stigma would dissipate.
The irony is not lost on us that by doing this interview Jacob is, in a small way, raising awareness of his community by educating me.
And in turn, this article will educate others.
Moreover, the education process started with Jacob’s colleagues working on the film.
He tells me that “a lot of them in their own time were sending me articles updating me about the Romany community and they were actively going to their own events to study more about the community.
It really meant a lot [to me].
For them, it was not just a film.
It was an experience and a chance to learn about a culture they didn’t know much about.” This in itself is incredibly inspiring, and I tell Jacob as such.
He agrees with me, and confirms “that has a knock-on effect because they will challenge that stigma and it just spreads the word about the community and the beauty that it has, and hopefully helps my generation feel more and more comfortable being proud about being Romany.”
Our Gypsy Blood has been several years in the making.
Jacob tells me that it began as a personal project that stemmed from his grandma telling him stories of her past, which sparked Jacob’s own research into the Romany community.
It wasn’t until he started telling people about the idea that it clicked for him – this was the perfect pitch for his graduate film.
Unsurprisingly, the team at AUB, his friends and classmates loved the idea, too.
Of the experience, Jacob gushes about his film team:
"The whole team was fantastic.
It really felt like one of those things where everyone just fit the project perfectly and were extremely passionate about it."
The intention was to live with a travelling family and document nomadic life.
But as any creative will tell you, you must be prepared to adapt and follow the story.
About two months into production the controversial Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 was passed.
This Act has been criticised for the impact on freedom of speech, freedom of expression, and undermining the nomadic way of life.
Section 4 of the Act – the Unauthorised Encampment Bill – means that for Travellers, residing or intending to reside on land without the permission of the owner or occupier is now a criminal offence, and if convicted comes with prison time and the risk of their homes being repossessed.
The passing of the bill forced the production team’s hand, and the concept had to be reworked.
Not only for practical reasons – the family they were due to stay with pulled out of the project due to fear – but it changed the team’s attitude towards their project, in what they were trying to achieve.
What started out as a “bigger, biting look at the community and what’s happened to it,” became a more nuanced platform to force the viewer to look in on themselves, reflect on both their own and societal prejudice and question why the stigma towards the community exists.
In Jacob’s own words, “we want to show them the beauty of the community so that they can make their own judgment.” In short, this film was created to educate and make a difference.
In a twist of irony, the bill passing “was in the same breath both the worst thing that could have happened to the community and to the film, but it also helped shape the film and turn it into what it is today.”
Everything about the documentary is powerful – the words, the stories, the stylisation.
On the surface it’s a first-hand commentary on the Romany Gypsy culture, bursting with family anecdotes.
However, each choice has been carefully crafted to pack a punch.
The opening features an extended interview between Jacob and his grandma that has an almost whimsical, dreamlike quality about it, as they discuss their personal Romany Traveller experience.
The reverie is abruptly shattered by cutting to the day that the Unauthorised Encampment Bill is passed.
I come to learn that the purposeful sharp juxtaposition is one of Jacob’s signature stylistic choices.
Upon describing his own filmmaking style, Jacob tells me that whilst his style is ever evolving, he aims to takes the viewer on a subconscious journey of self-reflection.
He does this by “never shying away from the harsh realities, but also never letting that bog down the film and more letting you simmer on that whilst the film takes you on a more whimsical journey.”
Jacob’s a natural storyteller.
When I asked him what specifically draws him to documentary filmmaking, he tells me that it’s the “lived experience you can get from it, whether it’s personal or more detached,” coupled with how he finds “getting the chance to tell someone else’s story is endlessly fascinating.” And it seems he’s found his passion, as he confesses that he’d “love to keep doing documentary, purely because of the lived experience aspect… Documentary is just, I think, the best way to present real-world topics, real-world stories, and situations to the most receptive audience possible.”
"Some of the best stories that can be told are the stories that are happening in our real world, just waiting to be told."
This is very much the case for Our Gypsy Blood , as he reveals that he’s currently planning a follow-up with producer Jack as there’s still so much story left to tell.
He tells me that now he’s become more “comfortable revisiting and re-loving the culture.”
"I want to be able to go out there and start looking into the community on a wider scale.
And when I say wider, I mean, multiple people’s experiences in the community and how the bill has affected them, but also how they keep the community alive in themselves and in their own families."
Our Gypsy Blood is very much Jacob’s story and is the gateway to what’s sure to be a thoughtprovoking, educational and eye-opening series rooted in his love for his culture.
I for one can’t wait to see the second instalment.
Commenting on life after AUB, Jacob says “the post-uni experience has almost been just as good if not better for networking with Angels and Demons [BA (Hons) Film Production graduate network] and AUB& which is an incredible platform for meeting new people and networking.
All of the support that I’ve received from AUB afterwards has been paramount in getting me more comfortable with getting my foot into the door of the industry.
AUB& has been one of the best things I’ve gotten out of university.
It’s been an essential tool, basically.”
What’s more, it seems that Jacob’s already followed his own advice for future AUB graduates and filmmakers.
He tells me his “one piece of advice would be trust your own stories.
I think that if you write from the heart and write about something you know, then you will be able to make something which will exceed any expectations that you have.
Writing from your own emotions and from your own heart is the key to really locking in and maturing as a filmmaker and as an artist.” Jacob laughs and tells me that he doesn’t usually speak that poetically, but I suspect it’s the result of his passion for documentary and a sign that he’s going to continue to tell poignant, human-driven stories that aim to make a difference in the world for years to come.
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Film Production

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/apply/foundation:
Our Foundation Diploma course offers an excellent transition between A-Level (or equivalent) and more specialised degree courses by allowing you to explore a wide range of disciplines.
We've broken down the steps to applying below.
Applications for September 2025 are open.
We recommend that you apply by 31 March 2025 for Foundation.
We'll consider applications received after this date, but places may be limited.
Before starting your application, make sure to read through our Portfolio Guidelines , English Language requirements and entry requirements.
If you're looking to study Foundation Diploma, you can apply to us directly online
We have Educational Agents all over the world to help guide you through the application process
We accept a wide range of qualifications.
The requirements for entry in 2025 are outlined below.
Entry to a Foundation course usually follows two years of sixth form study, but we also consider relevant and equivalent Level 3 qualifications.
You’ll need to achieve a Level 3 qualifications as listed here:
Due to government funding rules, home fee paying applicants who are under 19 when the course starts must hold GCSE/IGCSE Grade C/4 or above in English and Maths to be able to enrol onto this course.
If a student doesn't have GCSE/IGCSE Maths and English at Grade C/4 or above and they're under 19, then we'll not receive funding.
We're unable to enrol applicants who don't hold these qualifications or an acceptable equivalent.
We're unable to accept Functional Skills, Key Skills or ALAN (Adult Literacy and Numeracy) tests in place of Maths or English from applicants who'll be under 19 when the course starts.
If you're a home fee paying applicant from the EU, you must also hold equivalent Level 2 qualifications in Maths, as assessed by NARIC, and an appropriate English Language qualification.
Please note that AUB doesn't request information about criminal records from our applicants.
Austria – Successful completion of the Reifeprüfungzeugnis or Matura with an overall average grade of 4 or better.
Bangladesh - Successful completion of the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) with a GPA of 3.5/5 or above.
Belgium – Successful completion of the Diploma van Secundair Onderwijs, with an overall result of 5/10 or 11/20.
Bulgaria – Pass Diploma za Sredno Obrazovanie with an overall average mark of 3.5 or better
Canada - Achieve an average of 55% or better on the Canadian High School Diploma.
China – Successful completion of the Chinese Senior Secondary School Certificate with a minimum overall pass mark of 65% OR Pass CAFA International Foundation Year with a minimum of 70%.
Cyprus – An overall score of at least 13 in Apolytirion of Eniaio Lykeio or Greek Cypriot Apolyterion.
Czech Republic – A score of 4 or better in the Maturita.
Denmark – Successful completion of the Studentereksamen with an overall result of 6/12.
Egypt - Successful completion of Hanawiyya al-A’aamaI (General Secondary Education Certificate) with an overall grade of 80% or above.
Estonia – Successful completion of Gümnaasiumi Lõputunnistus with an overall average result of 3.0 or better in all subjects.
Finland – Successful completion of the Ylioppilastutkinto/Studentexamen with a result of 2/6 (Approbatur) or above.
France – A good pass (grade 10 or above) in the Baccalaureate.
Baccalaureate à Option Internationale/Baccalaureate de l’Enseignement du Second Degré.
Georgia - Successful completion of the Certificate of Full General Education (Sashualo Ganatlebis Atestasi) with a minimum average grade of 8/10 or above.
Germany – A minimum overall grade of 3.0 in the Abitur Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife/Zeugnis der Reife/Reifezeugnis.
A minimum grade of 10 on the English component of the Abitur will meet minimum English Language requirements.
Ghana – Successful completion of the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) with at least five subjects at grades A-C.
Greece – A minimum overall score of 13 in Apolytirion of Eniaio Lykeio or Greek Cypriot Apolyterion.
Honduras - Complete the Bachillerato/Bachiller with a minimum score of 70% or above.
Hong Kong – Successful completion of the Hong Kong Secondary Diploma of Education (HKSDE).
Hungary – 3.0 or better in the Erettsegi.
Iceland – Successful completion of Iceland Studentsprof with minimum of 5 or better.
India – Achieve 55% or above in Standard 12 from a recognised exam board.
Indonesia - Successful completion of the Ijazah - Sekolah Menengah Atas/Madrasah Aliyah (SMA/MA)/Certificate of Graduation from Academic/Islamic Secondary School with average grades of Baik/Good or 70% or above overall.
Iran – Successful completion of High School Diploma with a GPA of 13/20 or above.
Ireland – Pass FETAC: 3 subjects with Merit.
Or Irish Leaving Certificate (Irish Highers) grades H3, H3, H4 one of which must be in a relevant Art, Media or Design subject.
Italy – A minimum of 60 points in Diploma di Esame di Stato (formerly Diploma di Maturita).
Japan – Successful completion of the Japanese Upper Secondary School Leaving Certificate with a minimum overall pass mark of 3 OR successful completion of JCFL Study Overseas Art and Design college program.
Kenya - Achieve A-level grades CC or above OR successfully complete the Kenyan Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) with an average grade of B or above
Kuwait - Successful completion of the Shahadat Al-Thanawaya Al-Aama/General Secondary Education Certificate with a minimum overall score of 75% or above
Latvia – Achieve an overall grade of 5 or better in the Atestats par visparejo.
Lithuania – Brandos Atestatas overall grade 6 plus 50% overall grade at state examinations.
Malaysia – Successful completion of Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia (SPM) with an average grade of B4 or above.
Mexico – Successful completion of the Bachiller/Bachillerato with a grade of 70% or above.
Netherlands – Successful completion of the VWO Diploma with an overall result of 6/10.
Nepal – Successful completion of the Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSSC)/Intermediate with an average grade of 60% or above.
Nigeria – Successful completion of the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) with at least five subjects at grades A-C.
Norway – Achieve an overall grade of 2.5 or better in the Vitnemal.
Oman – General Education Diploma with a minimum 60% mark.
Pakistan – Successful completion of the Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSSC)/Intermediate with an average grade of 60% or above.
Paraguay - Complete the TItulo de Bachillerato with a score of 60% or above.
Peru - Complete the Certificado Official de Estudios de Edcuacion Secundaria with a final grade of 14/20 or above.
Philippines – Completion of Senior High School Diploma with 90% or above.
Poland – Successful completion of the Matura with an overall result of 45% or above.
Portugal – Diploma de Ensino Secundário / Certificado de fim de Estudios Secundários with an average score of 10 or above in all subjects.
Romania – Pass Romania - Diploma de Bacalaureat with grade 6 or above.
Russia – Successful completion of the Attestat with grade 3 overall.
Slovakia – Slovakia-Vysvedčenie o Maturitnej Skuske with a minimum average grade of 4.0 (chvalitebny) or better.
South Africa – Successful completion of the South African National Senior Certificate with grades 55544 or better.
South Korea – Successful completion of the South Korean High School Diploma with grades above mi (70-79).
Spain – Pass Título de Bachillerato with an average mark of 5.5 or higher.
Sri Lanka - Achieve grades of CC or above in the Sri Lankan General Certificate of Education
Sweden – Minimum grade of D/12.5 or better in the Högskoleförberedande examen.
Switzerland – Pass Cantonal Maturity Certificate or a Federal Maturity Certificate, or a professional Maturity Certificate at grade 3 or above.
Taiwan – Successful completion of the Taiwanese Senior High School Leaving Certificate with a minimum overall pass mark of 65%.
Thailand - Successful completion of the Certificate of Basic Education (Maw 6) with grades of 3/good overall.
Turkey – Successful completion of the LISE Diplomasi with an overall grade of 60% or above.
Ukraine – Successful completion of the Certificate of Complete General Secondary Education with average grades of 10/12 or above.
United Arab Emirates – Successful completion of the General Secondary Education Certificate with grades of 80% or above.
Uruguay - Complete the TItulo de Bachillerato with a final grade of 8/12 or above.
USA – Successful completion of a High School Diploma with a GPA of 3.0 or above.
Vietnam – Successful completion of and evidence of Tot Nghiep Pho Thong trung Hoc (Upper secondary School Graduation Certificate).
We understand that applying to university can be a confusing time.
We've answered a few of our frequently asked question below but if you have any unanswered questions about any stage of the application process, including the AUB applicant portal, you can contact our Admissions team on admissions@aub.ac.uk .
You can also call us on 01202 363225 or 01202 363228 .
We recommend applying before 31 March 2025 as we may close the course to new applications at this point.
You'll receive a confirmation email and login details to the AUB applicant portal when we receive your application.
Admissions will contact you with a portfolio request and once this has been reviewed we'll send you our decision.
If you’re successful, you'll most likely receive a conditional offer.
If you're 16-18 and living in Wales, Scotland or Ireland and looking for the UK Government to fund the Foundation Diploma course, their advice is to study in the college or University close to where you live.
There are rare circumstances where you can choose a course in a different area, please contact admissions@aub.ac.uk to discuss you eligibility before making your application.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/apply/undergraduate:
There are several routes that you can use to apply to one of our undergraduate courses depending on your circumstances.
If you're applying from the UK or Channel Islands, you'll need to apply to us through UCAS.
If you're applying from the EU or overseas there are other options available besides applying through UCAS, like applying directly or through an agent.
We've broken down each of the different application options and when you should apply through them, below.
Before starting an application, make sure to read through our:
You can apply to study one of our 28 creative degree courses via UCAS, including entry to second and third year
If you're an overseas student looking to study at AUB, you can apply directly to us
International students can apply through The Common Application if you're not applying through UCAS or direct application
We welcome students from all areas of the world into our creative community.
Please note that the entry requirements below are for 2025 entry.
All applicants must have Level 3 qualifications, which will normally include at least one creative subject.
We're looking for between 104 and 120 UCAS Tariff points.
You can use the UCAS Tariff Calculator to work out how many points you have.
The standard offers for degree courses include:
AUB welcomes applications from students who have completed, or who are soon to complete, a T level in a relevant subject to their chosen course of study.
Applicants will be required to achieve an overall grade of Merit or above.
Applicants with VTCT qualifications who've the ability to achieve the minimum stated entry requirements of between 112-120 UCAS points will be considered.
For BA (Hons) Architecture , the standard offer is ABB at A-Level (128 UCAS) Tariff points.
IB (International Baccalaureate) Diploma – score equivalent to 104-120 UCAS tariff points and these can be made up from a range of qualifications including but not limited to: Standard Level, Higher Level, BTEC, Cambridge Technical.
We'll consider applications from students who haven’t enrolled in the full IB Diploma Programme and have completed independent subject courses/certificates.
Students who've chosen not to enrol in the IB Diploma Programme will be expected to achieve 104-120 UCAS points from a minimum of three Higher Level subjects.
Australia - Successful completion the Australian Senior Secondary Certificate of Education and ATAR with a score of 85 or higher
Austria – Successful completion of the Reifeprüfungzeugnis or Matura requirement with an overall average Grade of 2
Bangladesh – Successful completion of a recognised foundation course or one year of degree level studies
Belgium – Successful completion of the Diploma van Secundair Onderwijs, with an overall result of 6.5/10 or 13/20
Bulgaria – Pass Diploma za Sredno Obrazovanie with an overall average mark of at least 5.0
Canada - Achieve an average of 65% or better on the Canadian High School Diploma
China – Successful completion of the Chinese Senior Secondary School Certificate with a minimum overall pass mark of 70% OR Pass CAFA International Foundation Year with a minimum of 70%
Cyprus – Achieve a minimum overall grade of 17 Apolyterion
Czech Republic – A score of 2.9 or higher in the Maturita
Denmark – Successful completion of the Studentereksamen with an overall result of 8/12
Egypt - Successful completion of a recognised foundation course
Estonia – Successful completion of Gümnaasiumi Lõputunnistus with an overall average result of 4.0 or above in all subjects, and Riigieksamid (National Exams) with average result of 70% in tests taken
Finland – Successful completion of the Ylioppilastutkinto/Studentexamen with an average grade of 4 or above (Cum Laude)
France – A good pass (grade 12 or above) in the Baccalaureate.
Baccalaureate à Option Internationale/Baccalaureate de l’Enseignement du Second Degré
Georgia - Successful completion of a recognised foundation course
Germany –Achieve a minimum overall grade of 2.7 in the Abitur Zeugnis der Allgemeinen Hochschulreife/Zeugnis der Reife/Reifezeugnis.
A minimum grade of 10 (Gut) on the English component of the Abitur meets our English language requirements
Greece – Achieve a minimum overall grade of 17 in the Apolytirion
Honduras - Successful completion of a recognised foundation course or achieve Título de Técnico Universitario/Título de Grado Asociado with GPA 3.0/4.0 or Bueno or higher
Hong Kong – Successful completion of the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKSDE) with grades of 333 or above
Hungary – A grade of 4.0 in the Erettsegi
Iceland – Successful completion of Iceland Studentsprof with a grade of 7 or better
India – 65% or above in Standard 12 from a recognised exam board
Indonesia - Successfully complete the SMA (Certificate of Completion of Academic Secondary School) with a minimum score of 80% or above or Diploma III (D3) with an overall minimum grade of 3.0 out of 4, or successfully complete the first year of study in Indonesia
Iran - Achieve an average grade of 14/20 or above in the High School Diploma (Certificate of Completion of Secondary Education) and have completed the Konkur examination or associate degree
Ireland – Pass FETAC: 3 subjects with Distinction and 2 with Merit.
Or Pass Irish Leaving Certificate (Irish Highers): H2, H3, H3, H3, H3 or equivalent
Italy – A minimum of 70 points in Diploma di Esame di Stato (formerly Diploma di Maturita)
Japan – Successful completion of a recognised foundation course or successful completion of JCFL Study Overseas Art and Design college program
Kenya - Achieve A-level grades BBB or above
Kuwait - Successful completion of a recognised foundation course
Latvia – Good grades (7–8) in the Atestats par visparejo videjo izglitibu, plus a Grade 8 for English
Lithuania – Brandos Atestatas overall grade 7.5, with grade 8 for English
Malaysia – Successful completion of Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (Malaysia Higher School Certificate) with grades BBB
Mexico – Successful completion of a recognised foundation course
Netherlands – Successful completion of the VWO Diploma with an overall result of 7/10
Nepal – Successful completion of a recognised foundation course or one year of degree level studies
New Zealand - Achieve NCEA Level 3 with Merit endorsement including 24 Level 3 credits at Excellence
Nigeria – Successful completion of a recognised foundation course or one year of degree level studies
Norway – Vitnemal (with four in key subjects including English)
Oman – General Education Diploma with a minimum 80% mark
Pakistan – Successful completion of a recognised foundation course or one year of degree level studies
Paraguay - Successful completion of a recognised foundation course
Peru - Successful completion of a recognised foundation course
Philippines – Successful completion of a recognised foundation course or two years of completed study at degree level
Poland – Successful completion of the Matura with an overall result of 60%
Portugal – Diploma de Ensino Secundário/Certificado de fim de Estudios Secundários with an average score of 16.0 in all subjects
Romania – Pass Romania - Diploma de Bacalaureat with Grade 7 or above
Russia – Successful completion of a recognised foundation course or one year of degree level studies
Singapore - Achieve grades of BBB or above in Singaporean A-levels or a recognised polytechnic diploma
Slovakia – lovakia-Vysvedcenie o Maturitnej Skuske with a minimum of Grade 2.0 (chvalitebny) in all subjects with the majority at grade 1.0 (vyborny)
South Africa – Successful completion of the South African National Senior Certificate with grades ABBBB/76666
South Korea – Successful completion of a recognised foundation course
Spain – Pass Título de Bachillerato with an average mark of 7.0 or higher
Sri Lanka - Achieve grades of BBB or above in the Sri Lankan General Certificate of Education
Sweden – minimum grade of C/15 in the Avgångsbetyg/Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola
Switzerland – Pass Cantonal Maturity Certificate or a Federal Maturity Certificate, or a professional Maturity Certificate at grade 4
Taiwan – Successful completion of the Taiwanese Senior High School Leaving Certificate with a minimum overall pass mark of 70%
Thailand – Successful completion of a recognised foundation course or one year of degree level studies
Turkey – Successful completion of the LISE Diplomasi with an overall grade of 70% or above
Ukraine – Successful completion of a recognised foundation course or one year of degree level studies
United Arab Emirates – Successful completion of a recognised foundation course or one year of degree level studies
Uruguay - Successful completion of a recognised foundation course
USA – For direct admission, prospective applicants are urged to follow a college preparatory programme in high school, taking a senior course in fine or applied art where possible.
We'll accept any one of the following:
We will consider applicants who present a US high school diploma but who have not completed additional SAT, ACT, or AP exams.
Applicants without those external exams will still be considered on the strength of their portfolio/audition and/or personal statements and are expected to demonstrate a profile of academics and experience related to the creative arts.
Vietnam – Successful completion of a recognised foundation course.
We've answered a few of our frequently asked question below but if you have an unanswered question or are unsure about whether your qualifications meet our requirements, you can email our Admissions team on admissions@aub.ac.uk .
You can also call us on 01202 363225 or 01202 363228.
The UCAS equal consideration (on-time) application for September 2025 entry was 29 January 2025.
We're still open for applications.
Applications directly to second or third year can be made via UCAS.
As a general rule, you’ll need to meet our entry requirements and the content of the degree you’re currently studying needs to be very similar to the course you're transferring to.
We’ll also need you to provide a course specification and an academic transcript from your current University.
Once we receive your application, we'll contact you for more information about your current course and we may request a digital portfolio or invite you to an audition for our BA (Hons) Acting course.
If we're unable to make you an offer for Year 2 or Year 3 then we'll automatically consider you for entry into an earlier year.
We can currently only accept applications for first year and second year on the following courses:
We can currently only accept applications for first year on the following courses:
Conditional offer – this means that you must fulfil certain criteria before you can be accepted onto a course.
Usually, this will be passing your current examinations at a certain grade.
The details of the offer are printed in your offer letter and can be viewed on MyApplication and via UCAS Hub
Unconditional offer – this means that you've already satisfied the entry criteria and have secured a place.
UCAS defines mature students as applicants over 21.
If you are a mature student and you meet the entry requirements above, please apply through UCAS.
If you don’t meet the entry requirements, we may still consider your application.
We can assess your formal qualifications and also take into account relevant work experience.
We're very interested in applicants who have relevant experience in the creative industries, so make sure you give details of this in your application.
We might advise you to take a Foundation Diploma course at AUB, or to consider an Access to HE course.
Unfortunately, we don't offer Access courses at AUB, but you can find out more here .
If you're unsuccessful, you’ll be able to view feedback on the UCAS website.
We’ll also send you a message on the AUB applicant portal , giving you further information.
If you'd like to request additional feedback, you can email admissions@aub.ac.uk – Please note that only you can request this feedback.
AUB will only consider overseas applicants through The Common Application who haven't already applied through UCAS.
Applicants submitting applications via The Common Application must be liable to pay overseas fees.
Contextual data: We may flag some contextual data in your application.
This helps us to understand more about you as an applicant.
You can read more about contextual data .
Transparency data: Information on the number of applications, offers, registrations and attainment of different groups of AUB applicants and students is available on the OFS Transparency page .
Further information about our contextual offers can be found in Section 6 of our Admissions Policy and on our Contextual Offers page .
If you have any questions about our contextual offers, please email the Admissions team.
BA (Hons) Acting is the only course where you'll be asked to attend an audition; if you're invited to one, you'll have at least 10 days notice to prepare.
If you're unable to attend an audition in person (for example due to living outside the UK) then we'll request a link to a recorded audition.
Many of our other courses will require you to submit a link to your online portfolio or showreel.
Some of our courses are designed to accept students with suitable qualifications and for these courses we'll be able to make a decision based on your application without the need to submit a portfolio.
If you apply for one of these courses without the qualification subjects we're looking for, don't worry!
If we can't make a decision based on the information in your application then we'll request a link to your online portfolio.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/apply/postgraduate:
An MA or postgraduate degree is a chance to build on your achievements and study at an advanced level.
Our MAs will deepen your understanding of a subject; giving you the chance to critically approach your work and hone your practice.
You can apply for our postgraduate courses using our online application form.
If you're looking to study a Postgraduate course, you can apply to us directly online
We encourage application from students with a broad range of qualifications and we welcome students from all educational backgrounds.
We'll take into account the knowledge and skills that you've developed outside the classroom as well as your previous qualifications.
Academic entry requirements You'll usually have BA (Hons) degree graded at 2.1 or above, or an equivalent UK or international qualification in your chosen subject or a related discipline.
Alternative Qualifications/Experience
Applicants with other than the required academic qualifications will be considered for entry if there is sufficient evidence to indicate that they have the potential to fulfil the objectives of the course of study and to achieve the standard of the final award.
Applications are also welcomed from those with other qualifications or with work experience which demonstrates appropriate knowledge and skills to study at postgraduate level.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/apply/research:
We
offer research programmes, leading to an MPhil or PhD in and across the areas
of art, design, architecture, media and performance.
Research degrees can be
awarded for theoretical or practice-based subjects.
A research degree entails a programme of self-directed independent study with the support of an experienced supervisory team.
Research degrees are doctoral level awards which are the highest level of academic degree.
A PhD is awarded following successful completion of a research project and thesis which offers a significant new contribution to knowledge in the chosen subject area.
An MPhil is a postgraduate research master's degree that is awarded following completion of a research project and thesis.
AUB’s research degrees are awarded in partnership with University of the Arts London.
Please note, students who need a visa to study in the UK must study full-time.
2-4 years
3-8 years
MPhil
15 months - 3 years
2-6 years
The minimum entry requirement is an upper second class honours (2:1) degree or equivalent from a recognised higher education institution.
However, you'll normally be expected to have a Master’s level qualification in an appropriate subject.
A Master’s is considered to be a particularly valuable preparation for the academic and intellectual demands of an MPhil or PhD.
In some instances, applicants without the minimum academic requirement may be considered for a place if they can demonstrate appropriate alternative qualifications, relevant professional experience, or previous research and an understanding of research methodologies appropriate to their proposed programme of study.
Applicants should be aware that meeting our minimum entry requirements does not guarantee entry.
This is only one of the factors taken into account when we make our decision.
The quality of your research is the most important element of your application.
If English isn't your first language, you'll need to meet our English language entry requirements by providing one of the following:
External tests (such as IELTS or TOEFL) must be taken in the three years before the start of the course.
If you're offered a place, you'll need to show your qualification before enrolment.
Students on this mode don't hold a Student Visa, so can't enter the UK for the purpose of study or access AUB physical resources or buildings.
Distance Learning Students have access to online resources available to all postgraduate students.
Please check that the distance learning route is recognised in your home country before submitting your application.
Using the guidelines in the downloads button, draft a research proposal.
Your research proposal is the most critical component of your research degree application.
It will form the basis for discussion at your interview, and if your application is successful your proposal will also be used as the starting point for the Registration process, so do take your time with this.
You can submit your proposal for initial consideration to the research office researchoffice@aub.ac.uk or +441202 363334.
The research office is also happy to answer any questions or provide an initial discussion about your MPhil/PhD topic and/ or application.
Please apply via our online Application Portal .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/apply/portfolios:
Sometimes we'll need a portfolio submitted quickly, if there's a UCAS set deadline approaching, but if you need more time, just let us know and we'll try to help.
If you've applied to study an online postgraduate degree, please refer to the AUB Online portfolio guidelines .
The only course requiring an audition is BA (Hons) Acting; if you're invited to one you'll have at least 10 days' notice.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/apply/short-courses:
We believe in and strive to encourage lifelong learning.
That's why we're proud to open AUB’s doors to the wider community through courses and initiatives designed for learners that wish to study outside a 'traditional' undergraduate degree.
Whether you're looking to nurture existing talent or discover new ones, we've got a short course to help you harness your creativity.
Our courses cater for all age groups, from our part-time evening and weekend courses that are suitable for anyone over the age of 18, to our Saturday Art School that's tailored to a younger age group, and to our summer courses that are suitable for students aged 8 and over.
Whether you’re discovering, developing or nurturing your creative talent, AUB's Evening and Weekend Courses could be the key to unlocking your true potential and unleashing your inner artist.
You’ll be taught by our expert tutors and benefit from our specialist resources and facilities.
Our courses are suitable for students aged 18+ and we cater to all abilities.
With a wide range of subject areas, there's something for everyone.
Check out our courses below or get in touch with the evening and weekend team if you have any questions.
Our courses for aspiring young artists allow budding makers, designers and artists to explore creativity outside regular school art classes, guided by our expert tutors.
Saturday Art School caters ages 7–18, though please note each course has a specific age range that it's suitable for – please check the course information on your chosen course's webpage carefully.
Check out our courses below or get in touch with the Saturday Art School team if you have any questions.
If you’re looking to add value to your art portfolio, experiment and learn new skills or simply have fun with your creativity then a summer course is for you!
Our summer courses cater for ages 8+, though please note each course has a specific age range that it's suitable for – please check the course information on your chosen course's webpage carefully.
Check out our courses below or get in touch with the summer course team if you have any questions.
We cater for all abilities.
You'll learn in a safe and encouraging environment where there's no right or wrong way to be creative.
With that in mind, we have no formal academic entry requirements for any of our short courses.
We just ask that you come with lots of enthusiasm and are eager to learn and practise new creative skills.
For some of our courses it's beneficial to have previous experience in the subject area, but this isn't mandatory.
Please check your chosen course page carefully.
If you're unsure, get in touch with the team and we'll be able to advise you.
You can book your place on your chosen evening or weekend course via AUB’s secure online store .
You’ll find a ‘Book Now’ link at the top of your chosen course’s webpage.
Simply click the link to be taken to the dedicated booking page for that course.
When using AUB’s secure online store you’ll be required to create a username and password to proceed with your booking.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/apply/direct-entry-ba:
We recommend applicants for entry into second and third year of our BA degrees apply through UCAS .
We’ll also need you to provide an academic transcript from your current university.
In addition, we can currently only accept applications for first year and second year on the following courses:
Furthermore, we can currently only accept applications for first year on the following courses:
If you're an EU or Overseas student and you're only applying to us for a full-time undergraduate course, you can apply to us directly.
Please note we can only consider direct online applications if you haven't applied through UCAS and you won't apply through UCAS for this year of entry.
If you're applying to more than one university in the UK, you should apply through UCAS .
You'll find links for each entry year for our courses on the direct application page – click on the link for the year you're entering at and you'll be taken to our online application system.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/international/english-language/english-language-requirements:
International
To apply to AUB, you'll need to have an English language qualification at the required level for the course you would like to study.
You can find guidance about which qualifications we accept below – this depends on the course you are applying for and whether you need a visa to study in the UK .
Unfortunately, we can't accept a letter from your school confirming your English Language proficiency.
If you need to take an external test, we recommend that you take this as soon as you can, ideally between March and May.
We also offer Pre-Sessional English courses for those who do not quite meet the scores for the BA and MA courses.
Qualifications and tests that are accepted for admission will normally need to have been completed within three years of the application submission.
Some exceptions to the three-year expiration may apply including the following:
All English qualifications used to obtain a CAS for a Student Route Visa may only be used within a limited window:
If you struggle to book a suitable test or are unsure which test is best for you, please contact us for advice .
Please note: we do accept IELTS One Skill Retake scores that meet our minimum stated entry requirements.
Though English is your first language, you may need to provide us with an English language qualification.
If you apply for the Foundation Diploma and are under 18 then we require that you have one of the following qualifications:
This demonstrates that you have the English language skills necessary to succeed at university.
If you don't hold one of the qualifications above, we'll request that you gain one of these as part of any Conditional offer that we make to you.
By gaining this qualification, you'll also learn transferrable skills which will strengthen your CV and skill set for the future.
If you’re a national of one of the countries listed below, we can accept English studied as part of your English Language high school qualifications.
We would expect to see English studies in every year of your high school qualifications, including the last (graduating) year with a grade of C or above.
Find more information about exemptions .
*Canadian nationals educated in Canada must be educated in English.
Canadians educated in French will be asked to demonstrate English proficiency via an accepted qualification.
All applicants who require a Student Visa to study the Foundation Diploma must submit a Secure English Language Test (SELT) as defined by UKVI, that's been completed within two years of the start of the Foundation Diploma.
AUB won't be able to issue a CAS in support of a Student Route Visa without the appropriate SELT result.
Tests that AUB will accept include:
Applicants for Foundation who don't require a Student Route Visa may submit either a Secure English Language Test (SELT) or a normal academic version of the tests listed below.
All qualifications that are accepted for MA will need to have been completed within three years prior to the start date of their course at AUB, apart from if the following applies:
All qualifications that are accepted for MPhil/PhD will need to have been completed within three years prior to the start date of their course at AUB, apart from if the following applies:
The accepted national and international qualifications may only be used when they've been completed within five years of the scheduled start of the course and may not be used when a Secure English Language Test is required to obtain a Student Route Visa.
Please check the categories above or email the Admissions team to confirm if your qualification is acceptable for your level of study.
Austria
Reifeprüfung/Matura
Grade of 2 (Gut) in English
Brunei
Cambridge O-level in English language (syllabus 1120)
Grade C or above
Canada
High School Diploma
Grade of 60% or above in grade 12 English
Denmark
Bevis for Studentereksamen (STX)
Grade of 7 or above in English
Finland
Ylioppilastutkinto/Studentexamen
Grade of Magna Cum Laude (5) or above
Germany
Abitur
Grade of 10 or above in English
Hong Kong
Hong Kong Secondary Diploma of Secondary Education (HKSDE)
Grade of 4 or above in English, to include a minimum of 4 in each section
Iceland
Studentsprof
Grade of 8 or above in English
India
Standard XII (CBSE, CISCE, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal)
Grade of 70% or above
Ireland
Leaving Certificate
Grade O5 or H4 in English
Malaysia
Cambridge O-level in English language (syllabus 1119) or SPM CEFR English
Grade C or above in O-level English or SPM CEFR B2 overall
Netherlands
Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO)
Nigeria
WASSC (West African Senior School Certificate)
Grade C6 or above in English
Norway
Vitnemål
Grade of 4 or above in English
Singapore
Cambridge O-level in English language (syllabus 1127)
South Africa
National Senior Certificate
Grade of 3 or above in English
Sweden
Avgångsbetyg/Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola
Grade of C/15 or above in English
Switzerland
Matura
Grade of 5 or above in English
United Kingdom
GCSE/IGCSE or A-level
Grade of 4/C or above in English for GCSE and A*-E at A-level
United States of America
Grade C or above in grade 12 English
*Completed onshore in the English-speaking country (see UKVI list ).
International Baccalaureate Diploma
English A: Minimum grade of 4 or above at Higher Level and 5 or above at Standard Level.
English B: Minimum grade of 5 or above at Higher Level and 6 or above at Standard Level
European Baccalaureate
Grade of 7.5 or better in English as a First Foreign Language L2 or First Foreign Language Advanced L2A
Bachelor’s degree from a majority English-speaking country*
Complete a bachelor’s degree
GCSE/IGCSE English as a first language
Grade of C/4 or above
Our International Team is here to guide you through the process of becoming an AUB student from the start to the end of your course

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/schools-hub/widening-access-to-aub/contextual-offers:
At Arts University Bournemouth (AUB), our mission is to be the leading professional arts university, dedicated to turning creativity into careers.
We aim to create a student body that is balanced and diverse in terms of cultural background and experience and recruit students who have the ability to successfully complete their chosen course.
AUB will achieve these aims through:
As part of the application process, we receive information through UCAS for our undergraduate courses, which include contextual information about an applicant.
These factors are considered in the assessment of an application.
Applicants are eligible for a contextual offer if they:
To get in touch with any questions you have about contextual offers, email admissions@aub.ac.uk .
Eligibility for the TUNDRA LSOA measure can be checked on the OfS website .
Eligibility for the Index of Multiple Deprivation measure can be checked via the IMD postcode checker.
Applicants who meet the eligibility criteria above will be offered a grade-reduction of up to two grades below the minimum entry criteria in their offers.
For example:
Applicants who meet the eligibility criteria and our academic entry requirements as listed above will be guaranteed a portfolio review for the course that they've applied for, if relevant.
In addition, applicants for BA (Hons) Acting will be guaranteed an audition.
If your application for an undergraduate course is unsuccessful, you'll be offered a place on the Foundation Course if you meet the entry requirements for it, including in GCSE English and Maths.
Those with the potential to benefit from higher education, deserve the opportunity to do so.
At AUB, we’re committed to making that happen.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/register-open-day-hub:
Our Open Day Hub is your gateway into the creative community at Arts University Bournemouth.
On our online hub, you'll find everything you need to know about AUB.
Here, you can sign up for events, watch our live and recorded course talks, chat with current students, explore our 360 virtual campus and more.
We've got everything you need to decide whether we're the university for you.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/apply/ofs-transparency:
The information published on these pages shows:
The number of students who attained a particular degree or other academic award, or a particular level of such an award, on completion of their course with us.
It shows these numbers by reference to:
For full details, please see the Transparency Tables document .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/saharah-butt:
Creating a space that embraces sustainable practice and suggesting ways to better our environment, Earthwise Studio is a zero-waste education centre that serves as a hub for promoting sustainable innovation and practice within the design industry.
Starting a movement within the design industry and promoting the changes that must be undertaken, it stands as a collaborative and instructive centre for the public and professionals.
Earthwise Studio opens opportunities to a network of individuals to address and combat waste pollution and the overuse of resources with the use of artificial intelligence.
I plan to take a break over the summer to travel and make some money for myself.
Then I plan to find work in an interior architecture practice in London.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/lucy-rose-hutchinson:
Throughout her final year at AUB, Lucy performed as Sylvia in The Wolves of Willoughby Chase , adapted by Russ Tunney and directed by Tamsin Fessey.
More recently, she played the witty Lucietta in La Casa Nova , the classic Italian farce written by Carlo Goldoni, directed by Kenneth Robertson.
As well as performing on stage, Lucy discovered a love for working behind-the-scenes, working as the deputy stage manager on Spring Awakening , directed by Craig Norman and an assistant stage manager on A Midsummer Night’s Dream , directed by Aileen Gonsalves.
Following graduation, Lucy plans to move home, to South London, to continue developing her acting skills, and resume her acting career.
Whilst hoping to be cast as a professional actor, she will remain busy writing and devising her own work with colleagues from AUB.
Namely, she wants to continue developing a current work-in-progress piece with Auriga Theatre Company, comprised of six AUB actors!

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/kitty-king-murrison:
After reading Nightbitch by Rachel Yoder, I was horrified by the reality of loneliness that many mothers face during their pregnancy and after birth.
I wondered if there was a way to connect mothers of all ages through fashion and communication, filling a gap in the market for a haven of maternal connection and sustainable maternity wear.
Through research, I found that the majority of women were either donating or discarding their unwanted maternity wear; however, with the over-saturation of charity shop notions, most clothing passed on is actually then placed in landfill.
Courtesy was created to give users the opportunity to directly sell their unwanted maternity wear, collecting income and enabling users to responsibly part with their items.
Alongside this, I wanted to create a space for mothers to connect to each other outside of motherhood, creating a digital third space that celebrates womanhood, art, and culture.
My concepts have always been heavily inspired by society.
With a problem-solving mindset, I have always loved and been inspired by reading; how books have the power to expand your imagination, create empathy and raise questions.
I always aim for my work to create similar feelings and give a space for people to think and feel something new.
When working on anything, I normally have thousands of ideas and find that mood/style boards help to keep my ideas together.
I use these boards as a point of reference so that I can then reflect my work on and keep my ideas in a space that scratches my brain.
I love using Photoshop and Pinterest on my iPad to create these boards, merging digital innovation with artistic expression.
I also enjoy using software such as Adobe XD and InDesign as they allow complete creative freedom without too much complication.
To further develop my maternity wear community brand, Courtesy , in hopes of launching the business within the next couple of years.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/ela-kenchington:
I promise we’ve grown up is the recreation and resurrection of my childhood memories.
The bike, made from found items and a denim jacket (featuring our club name, Curly Girl Kitten Club), is representative of my time in Scotland as a child and young adult.
I spent most summers away from home in Scotland, building memories and inventions with my immediate family, including my Aunt Bear.
The amalgamation of memories that is I promise we’ve grown up represents a chapter in my life that shaped me into who I am.
By reconstructing this tandem bike that we made when I was younger, completely from memory, it feels as if I have come full circle with my art practice, encompassing then and now into physical form.
I am still undecided on whether I want to continue in the arts or try something new!
I plan to transfer my skills learned from the Fine Art course into set design and prop-making within TV and film.
There are whispers in the Scottish winds that an opportunity working on the set of Outlander could arise.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/asia-grodecka:
I'm a creator with a passion for storytelling in all forms, from TV and film productions to comics and games.
In animation, my primary jobs of interest include those of a background and layout designer, visual development artist, character designer and writer.
Having spent many years improving my skills in digital painting and story construction, I pride myself on my capacity to work in a variety of production departments.
This portfolio consists of various pieces from my time at university, ranging from layout designs produced for Meet Me in The Woods , to miscellaneous character designs and digital illustrations.
After graduating from AUB I plan on relocating to London to pursue a Master's degree in game design.
In the aftermath of receiving my full education, I will aim to secure a job position in a challenging environment of equally passionate art industry professionals.
Katie Rosenberg
Director, storyboard lead, character designer, animator, clean up animator, background artist
Desirée Scheper
Producer, animation lead, storyboard artist, character designer, clean up animator
Lisa Chen
Environment lead, layout artist, background artist
Ermis Pasia Antarti
Layout artist, background artist
Chrissie Payne
Josie Lindsay-Smith
Layout artist
Kai Conlon
Lucy Playford
Maya Gan
Background artist
Nat Coghlan-Jasiewicz
Sky Stephenson
Madeleine Hitchcock
Character design lead, animator, clean-up animator
Mia Bradshaw
Character designer, prop designer, animator, clean up animator
Luli Bafano
Storyboard artist, animator, clean up animator
Abbie Stiller
Typography artist
Charlotte White
Daniela Alvarez Lebedeva
Digi S.
Mercedes Velasquez-Sanchez
Azira Whitehorn
FX animator

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/emily-gorst:
From vibrant shops to derelict buildings, how can we reignite life back into our high streets?
I plan to join an agency within the design industry.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/charlie-goacher:
I'm an illustrator driven by organic formations, mutations, and my own existential neuroses.
I make comics, design creatures, and whatever else takes my fancy.
Working in illustration or publishing.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/phoebe-skinner:
My project focuses on luxury fashion fabrics, combining print and embroidery techniques.
This personal approach stems from my love for visiting historic places like Bath and Kingston Lacey and my passion for old films.
Inspired by Audrey Hepburn's elegance in Sabrina and Dior's couture heritage, I use black and white to merge timeless charm with contemporary fashion, creating sophisticated, haute couture -inspired designs.
Working towards my portfolio, although I am interested in gaining experience in broader creative roles within fashion and interior design.
Lola Tyler , BA (Hons) Photography

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/karolina-bawol:
Karolina Bawol’s work centres on creating emotionally and psychologically charged interior spaces.
She focuses on generating strong moods and atmospheres that captivate viewers, encouraging them to make personal connections with what they see.
By taking everyday objects and guiding the narrative towards specific emotions, she ensures her intended feelings are explored by the viewers.
Karolina employs a variety of mediums, including acrylic and oil paint, watercolours and printing techniques.
Pushing the boundaries of each and often combining mediums.
The artworks Silence , Limbo , and Exit each depict moody, dark interior spaces that evoke a sense of the 'in-between.' Rendered in deep shades of green and cloaked in night-time shadows, they create an unsettling atmosphere that draws the viewer into the environment.
These paintings delve into themes of the uncanny and evoke personal memories, acting as windows into these rooms along a disorienting path through the house.
One feels lost in these liminal spaces, uncertain of what might be lurking in the darkness.
Karolina is excited to start her Art and Design PGCE at University of the West of  England.
She plans to teach art in secondary schools in Bristol, while still working on and developing her practice.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/abbie-stiller:
I’m a Bournemouth- and London-based illustrator who works both traditionally and digitally.
I specialise in children’s illustration and enjoy finding creative compositions to tell stories.
I find my passion in creating which leads to a varied practice; from murals to publishing, I enjoy it all!
I spend my free time reading, painting, and playing killer Sudoku.
This is My Rock is the story of a boy, Dorian, and his rock, which he has to carry everywhere.
The book follows how he deals with his rock and makes a friend who has one along the way.
The rock stands as an allegory for anxiety but also works as one for grief, invisible disabilities, etc.
Contact me or find more of my work via the links below!
Working in a creative field alongside freelance work.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/harvey-carter:
D3M0N1C is an eccentric monster truck hearse made for the fictional stop motion animation show Graveyard Raiders .
It blends 1980s American gang culture, lowrider aesthetics, and the eerie history of body snatching, featuring articulating suspension, functional doors and illuminating headlights.
Trainee modelmaker at BGI Supplies Ltd.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/ed-allen:
I am a keen maker who enjoys a challenge in problem-solving.
I thrive to test and examine my models to produce the best I can.
I enjoy machining and incorporating electronics and mechanical systems into my models.
My final major project consisted of a full replica Boeing 737 throttle quadrant capable of working in a flight simulator, and a fully 3D-printed F1 car.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/naz-gümüşlüoğlu:
I am a Turkish character designer and visual development artist aspiring to work in the animation, film and games industries.
I was the lead character designer, lead compositor, producer and an animator on the student film Sweet Troubles .
I am passionate about storytelling and world building and my goal as an artist is to represent my culture and heritage in my designs and stories.
Staying in the UK to find a job as a concept and visual development artist, animator or compositor in the animation and film industry.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/abigail-shore:
Emotive Sans is a variable typeface reactive to emotion.
Both happy and sad variations are included with increasing extremities of emotion.
This typeface helps bring humanisation and emotional resonance to digital type design.
BA (Hons) Visual Communication is now known as BA (Hons) Communication Design and Strategy.
Explore BA (Hons) Communication Design and Strategy at AUB.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/rosie-studdert:
In this project, I looked into the Whale Dolphin Conservation; how whales and dolphins cope in captivity and how cruel the conditions are.
I wanted to create awareness for them.
I looked into the Blackfish documentary, which gave me insight to how these places really work and how small and lonely the tanks are.
I created two adoption packs, one for adults and one for juniors.
Both packs include an adoption certificate, an information booklet and socks.
For the adult pack, there is a bookmark, postcard and a tote bag, while the junior pack has stickers and a plush toy.
This project was really interesting and I learnt so many new facts and started to understand more of how it all happens and the real details.
It made my original views stronger.
I plan to experiment and discover illustrative jobs near me in London.
I also want to travel.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/annabelle-keyes:
Sacrality Index: Hengistbury Head is an interdisciplinary, site-responsive installation, which presents an amalgamation of information from various fieldwork visits and pilgrimages, while simultaneously envisioning the merging of boundaries between romance and research.
Through these mergings, I am inviting a meditation on the religious impulse and where our capacity for belief may reside in an increasingly technological and scientific world.
These ruminations emerge from interrogating understandings of knowledge and land in academia, and which colonial foundations might underpin standardised forms of enquiry.
Exploring a blend of both devotional and academic processes, I have created an index, or shrine, to the sacred encounters during my time learning this historically and ecologically rich land local to Dorset, Hengistbury Head.
I will pursue a career within curation or research while continuing my artistic practice.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/yingjie-yu-sio:
Yingjie Yu is a freelance illustrator and visual artist currently living in Bournemouth.
Her artistic focus is on experiencing art and connecting with the world.
Her main areas of study are the relationship between materials, mediums, and people, along with experimentation and research in traditional painting.
She is particularly interested in animals, surrealism, tranquility, and critical themes.
To become a freelance illustrator and a visual artist.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/nicole-cullinane:
Nicole has a variety of work, consisting of editorial and prosthetic work.
Her specialist practice project titled Out Of The Woods showcases her prosthetic work and her love for casualty affects.
In her major project, she created her first two hand-knotted wigs in the style of 1960s hair trends, celebrating different cultures through the use of flowers for an editorial shoot.
Her other works feature different collaborations and projects which she has worked closely on with other students and courses at AUB.
Nicole found a passion for editorial, film and TV, which is what she hopes to pursue upon graduating from AUB.
She then hopes to begin looking for work and further courses to build up her experience and skill set when returning home to South Wales, through BBC Wales and similar agencies.
Esme Taylor
Model (Out Of The Woods)
Katie Beadon
Model (Jurassic Park Mutation); Photographer (Out Of The Woods)
Kashish Bhuwalka, Mariam Yaya, Carmen Holloway
Models (Major project)
Charlotte Ridette
Photographer (Major project, Jurassic Park Mutation)
Sasha Gemmill and Fatima P.
Models (Sister of Mine)
Melissa Pieri
Photographer (Sister of Mine)
Ella Dowling
Model (Sustainability editorial shoot)
Ruth Virgo
Photographer (Sustainability editorial shoot)

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/yue-zhan:
Difference is a children's picture book for 3-5 year olds.
The main theme is: the world is wonderful and interesting because it is different, everything in the world has its own charm, it is because of these differences that our life is rich and colourful.
Therefore, the illustrator has collected a lot of common things from life in this picture book, so that people can feel that different objects have their own characteristics and uses, but when they are combined, they are another kind of beauty.
Become an illustrator who create more interesting and vivid illustrations.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/amalee-marsh:
Privacy In Plain Sight and Comfort and Chaos offer intimate glimpses into personal spaces through the depiction of everyday, private, and taboo objects.
Privacy In Plain Sight features a cluttered chest of drawers covered with clothes, dirty dishes, polaroids, underwear, alcohol bottles and intimate items like sex toys.
Comfort and Chaos depicts a spilled bag revealing personal items such as a driving licence, make-up, and sanitary products, suggesting accidental exposure and vulnerability.
Both pieces, created with oil paints on plywood, achieve a lifelike quality through layering and lighting.
The addition of polaroid photos, attached with sticky tack, adds texture and connects the two pieces.
Their disorderly arrangement and realistic style emphasise the relatable, lived-in nature of the scenes, inviting viewers to explore themes of privacy and intimacy.
These works challenge the boundaries between private and public by openly displaying personal items, encouraging conversations about sex, vulnerability, and the messiness of everyday life.
They highlight how private moments are universally shared and shouldn’t be sources of shame.
By juxtaposing the intimate with the public, the paintings invite us to embrace our vulnerabilities and find comfort in the everyday chaos.
I plan to continue my art practice within an art collective and studio space in my hometown, Andover, and hoping to start commissions for paintings, portraiture and still life.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/amber-grace-jackson:
In her final year Amber partook in a plethora of opportunities involving both stage and screen.
Performing as the mischievous Michaud in Fiona Ross’ contemporary, genre-bending adaptation of Émile Zola’s Thérèse Raquin .
Following this, debuting the re-opening of Bournemouth’s Palace Court Theatre, Amber played the callous Lady Cooke in The Ballad of Maria Marten , written by Beth Flintoff and directed by Luke Kernaghan.
During their time at AUB, Amber has found a passion for Screen Acting and has collaborated with both the BA (Hons) Film Production and MA Film Practice courses and has been featured in a multitude of short and mid-length films.
Alongside this, Amber had the pleasure of being the Deputy Stage Manager of AUB Productions’ first dual-cast piece, Goldoni’s comedy La Casa Nova , working closely with the cast and director Kenneth Robertson.
Finally, in collaboration with Emily Tamar, she devised a 10-minute multimedia physical theatre piece inspired by Shakespeare’s Sonnet 57 and techniques of Frantic Assembly .
After graduating Amber will return to Manchester, where they will continue to create and develop theatre, whilst auditioning for roles in film, theatre and radio.
Alongside this, Amber and the other members of Auriga Theatre Company will finish their play about the life of Alan Turing.
This play is ensemble-based, aiming to educate and retell the story of Alan’s unimaginable life.
In collaboration with set designers, costume designers and hair and make-up artists, the company are on their way to creating an hour production and hoping to take it the fringe festivals in the summer of 2025.
During their time at AUB, Amber has also discovered a passion for writing, they will continue to write plays with the natural urge to bring justice and light to true stories with people who have been treated unfairly by situations out of their control.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/tara-hay:
I am a fine art landscape photographer driven by a deep passion for nature and the profound influence it has on human health and well-being.
I experiment with and adapt traditional analogue chemical processes to fully embrace our contemporary eco-friendly ways of thinking.
I am motivated by a sense of feeling, space and a respect for our reciprocal relationship with nature.
Using a 5x4 large format film camera, I cherish the slow process that allows me time to reflect within the landscape; I attempt to express a deep connection to the timelessness of the land by exploring both its vastness and its intimacy.
I use foraged botanicals to make new eco-friendly developers, thereby creating a physical bond between place and form within the very fabric of the negative and the print.
Through this approach I hope to inspire a new generation of analogue photographers that both appreciate the beauty of nature but also feel a deep responsibility to preserve it.
Whilst considering progressing to PhD level study, I plan to exhibit my work, and explore the potential of book publishing.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/eliza-naden:
Eliza Naden is a British photographer who explores the connection between herself and landscapes.
Within her practise, Naden experiments with a range of photographic processes to create an archive of visited places, and objects found.
Her current project, Collected Curiosities focuses on the way she documents visited landscapes through found objects.
Photograms are made to represent scientific and personal documentation of places.
In addition to photograms, other processes such as Polaroids, as well as traditional landscape photography are used to create a documentation of the objects and the landscapes that they are found in, and to communicate the idea of exploring to the viewer.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/showcase/anita-scudamore:
Influenced by the extravagant allure of the Rococo era, my final major project attempts to reimagine the grandeur of 18th century France through a contemporary prism.
I aim to capture the intricate beauty of Rococo fashion and art while acknowledging the chaotic regency of Marie Antoinette's time.
By fusing traditional motifs with modern techniques like digital embroidery and print, I aspire to craft textiles that evoke the opulent essence of the Rococo period.
To convey the project's whimsical and dreamy aesthetic, I have taken inspiration from designers such as Vivienne Westwood and Alexander McQueen.
After university, I plan to move to London to gain industry experience, focusing on digital print and embroidery.
I aim to work with established brands to hone my skills and gain invaluable industry knowledge.
Additionally, I aspire to improve my Photoshop skills and continue developing my craft in crochet and embroidery.
My ultimate goal is to start my own business, creating unique, high-quality textiles that blend traditional techniques with contemporary designs.
Lola Tyler, BA (Hons) Photography
Project photographer

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/open-day-september-2025:
Join AUB on campus for our Foundation and Undergraduate Open Day.
This is a fantastic opportunity for you to get a feel for studying with us, hear from students and staff, and ask all your burning questions.
Bookings for this event are now open.
If you liked this post you might be interested in Open Days

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/short-courses:
As part of AUB Academy, you’ll learn in a friendly and encouraging environment where there’s no right or wrong way to be creative, and uniqueness is celebrated.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/study-at-aub/arts-and-communications:
Be part of a leading creative community.
Work with other like-minded individuals in our collaborative, studio-based environment to inform, inspire, entertain and provoke the world around you.
With so much talent in one place, whichever subject you choose to study, you’ll collaborate with other courses to bring creative visions to life.
Entitled "The Story of Where We Stand", the mural is a timeline honouring the rich heritage of Talbot Village...
This year’s cohort of AUB undergraduates saw an impressive 71% of students graduate with a higher degree; either a first or a 2:1.
Chris Duffy, a third-year student on the BA (Hons) Illustration at Arts University Bournemouth is celebrating as his short film...
BA (Hons) Illustration students from Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) have been creating illustrations for four stories...
Dan Bowhay, a final-year student on BA (Hons) Photography at Arts University Bournemouth, has made headlines up and down...
An end-of-year exhibition celebrated the creative achievements of first-year students from the...
Past Event
AUB would like to invite you and your guests to the formal opening and private view for our Undergraduate Summer Shows 2025.
Recent rapid development in the field of AI has created a ground swell of interest from artists and designers in the potential...
This summer, AUB Campus will be transformed into the most extensive gallery space in the southwest of England, as we celebrate...
AUB would like to invite you and your guests to the formal opening and private view for our 2024 Undergraduate Summer Shows.
From typography to TikTok, we empower you to be heard.
We’ve invested in building a campus like no other – whatever you want to create, we have the space and technology to make it happen.
Supported by industry-standard equipment and a studio-based culture, you can graduate with the skills and confidence to step into the creative industries.
AUB reflects professional practice with a strong emphasis on collaboration and innovation.
You’ll be taught by visiting professionals, as well as have the opportunity to take part in live briefs, and become part of our network of award-winning industry alumni.
Discover AUB for yourself at an Open Day.
They're a fantastic opportunity for you to get a feel for studying with us, whether you attend an on-campus Open Day or watch a virtual talk from the comfort of your own home
Take me back to

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/study-at-aub/bournemouth-film-school:
Being a part of AUB puts you at the heart of a community of artists, designers and makers.
Our purpose-built, industry-standard studios make you perfectly placed to find answers to real-world challenges.
With so much talent in one place, whichever subject you choose to study, you’ll work with other BFS students on multiple productions.
The Rivals Make-Up and Hair Design team, led by Jill Sweeney, and consisting of AUB alumna Natalie Allan, along with colleagues...
The two-day event included workshops with professional actors and the opportunity to shoot a pre-written scene on a bespoke...
Time Between Us, written and directed by Issy Campbell back in her second year at Arts University Bournemouth recently topped its list...
Ethan Horne, a final-year BA (Hons) Creative Writing student at Arts University Bournemouth is set to release his debut album...
A trio of films created by BA (Hons) Film Production students at Arts University Bournemouth have come away with top marks...
You’re invited to our online informal introduction and Q and A sessions, to get to know more about the courses we offer at AUB.
We exist to empower and inspire the next generation of performers, storytellers and technical specialists.
What goes on behind the scenes is just as important as the finished piece.
We use industry-standard equipment in every production, giving you the skills and confidence to work with the latest technology.
We equip you with more than just a degree.
We help you develop the skills and experience to pursue your dream career, and go on to become part of a network of award-winning industry alumni.
We’re creating a platform of rolling funding schemes for filmmakers, creatives, artists and innovators that reflect the range of disciplines at the heart of Bournemouth Film School.
Our first fund has been created specifically for our Alumni, but we’re planning to open to funds for regional, national and global applicants, too.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/study-at-aub/design-and-architecture:
Designed to support the growth of early-stage creative projects, the incubator programme offers desk space in the Innovation Hub...
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is launching the UK’s first Modelmaking Degree Apprenticeship, titled Modelmaking for Industry...
Students at Arts University Bournemouth are celebrating a suite of successes at this year’s Batsford Prize, a prestigious...
To encourage an inquisitive and open-minded approach, each course is designed with collaboration at its core, and a curriculum built to challenge.
AUB has one of the best specialist campuses in the UK.
We’ve worked with world-leading architect Sir Peter Cook to create unique spaces where students are never stuck for inspiration or space.
Allowing you to gain the skills and confidence to step into the creative industries.
AUB mirrors professional practice with a strong emphasis on innovation.
Courses are supported by a global network of industry professionals and alumni, giving you a head-start before you even graduate.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/study-at-aub/arts-media-and-creative-industries-management:
The creative industries never stand still, so at AUB we'll challenge you to think big.
You'll be placed in real-life and industry scenarios, where you'll develop your leadership, problem-solving and strategic skills.
This is where creative and management skills intersect.
Whichever subject you choose to study, you’ll collaborate with other courses to bring creative visions to life.
You'll become a leader, a storyteller, a project manager, a curator, a problem-solver.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aspect-ratio-moving-images:
Date and time: Thursday 16 October 2025, 18.00–20.00
Location: Palace Court Theatre, Bournemouth
Moving Images is the first iteration of Aspect Ratio , the annual screening of graduate work by students of the MA Film Practice (Online) with Arts University Bournemouth (AUB).
Encompassing narrative fiction, artists' moving image, biographical and experimental film, the works shown in this screening have been made by students from throughout the UK and across the globe.
Taking place at the beautiful Palace Court Theatre , this free event is open to the public and will feature the work of eight of the first students to graduate from MA Film Practice (Online) with AUB.
Spanning narrative fiction, documentary, artist moving image and biographical reflection, seven short films will be screened in the theatre auditorium by:
There will also be an abstract three-channel moving image work by artist and filmmaker Patricia Smith (UK), which will be in the Club Room of the Palace Court.
The audience will be able to view the installation both during the event's interval and at the end of the auditorium screening.
Please note: the bar will be open for drinks.
Palace Court Theatre
Hinton Road, Bournemouth Dorset BH1 2EN United Kingdom
Find the Palace Court Theatre: what3words: ///steep.turns.keep
The MA Film Practice (Online) course at AUB integrates filmmaking and theory through intensive online study.
This Master’s degree offers students an opportunity to develop and realise their creative ambitions while exploring moving image in the context of an international learning community that foregrounds peer feedback and research driven experimentation.
If you liked this post you might be interested in MA Film Practice (Online)

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/andy-earl-see-or-be-seen:
Dates: 7 November 2025 – 12 February 2026
Location: TheGallery, AUB Campus
We're delighted to launch TheGallery’s 2025–2026 Exhibition Programme with an international exhibition of work by Andy Earl, artist, photographer, filmmaker and AUB Honorary Fellow.
Andy Earl’s portraits are always about the ‘picture.’ His work is diverse and often incorporates dramatic natural backdrops and architectural elements to create a surrealistic effect.
He's had a hugely successful career within the international music business with over 120 creative memorable covers and album sleeves, working with artists such as Pink Floyd, Johnny Cash, Robbie Williams, Madonna and Prince, as well as a portrait session with HRH Prince Charles.
He's also worked on twenty videos for musicians such as the Rolling Stones.
Read more about Andy Earl's work.
Join us for the formal opening and private view of the Andy Earl: See or be Seen exhibition.
If you liked this post you might be interested in TheGallery

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/andy-earl-see-or-be-seen-private-view:
Date and time: 6 November 2025, 17.30–19.30
Location : TheGallery, AUB Campus
Join us for the formal opening and private view of the Andy Earl: See or be Seen exhibition in launching TheGallery’s 2025–2026 Exhibition Programme.
Please note: this is an open event and all are welcome – no RSVP required.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/we-want-you-to-see-ma-painting-postgraduate-summer-shows-2025:
Dates: 19–26 September 2025
Location: B.A.D.
(Boscombe Arts Depot), Sovereign Shopping Centre, 616–622 Christchurch Rd, Boscombe, BH1 4BP
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is delighted to work with B.A.D.
(Boscombe Arts Depot) to feature work from our MA Painting students.
The work will be exhibited as part of AUB's 2025 Postgraduate Summer Shows .
Painting defines its practice through the particularities of the painted field: the making materiality of the unique object, a globally acknowledged cultural history and the dedicated and dynamic relationship of the painted object to the painter.
From large-scale canvases to miniature works, the exhibition showcases the breadth and depth of AUB's MA Painting course and the vitality of painting in 2025.
"Encompassing the contemporary and traditional in making and thinking, the works are compelling, current and highlight the passions and concerns of an international and diverse group of students.
"The exhibtion is the final stage of the journey here at MA Painting but the very beginning of exciting and professional careers for them all in the future.
Through these paintings on show, aesthectically and critically, they highlight the huge development, confidence, leaps of faith, commitment and level of professionalism they have achieved."
Aniia A | Christina Phillips | Freydis Christopherson | Ruth Fuller | Steve Pill | Coralie Braddock | Bonnie Beevor | ZhenZhen Li | Salma Adi
MA Painting defines its practice through the particularities of the painted field.
The MA Painting course explores this innovative and expansive territory in depth, dedicating itself to specialist study at postgraduate level.
AUB and TheGallery were delighted to work with Lighthouse, Poole, previously in 2022 and again in 2024 , also exhibiting the work of our MA Painting students.
You can view the highlights of the 2022 exhibition below.
Join Arts University Bournemouth at B.A.D.
(Boscombe Arts Depot) for the private view of our MA Painting Summer Show.
If you liked this post you might be interested in MA Painting

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/study-at-aub/postgraduate-courses:
Our postgraduate degrees will deepen your understanding of a subject; giving you the chance to critically approach your work and hone your practice.
We’ll enable you to understand and observe your specialism in the context of culture.
Our courses are between one and two years in length, depending on the subject and mode of study, with most of them offering full- or part-time study options.
We also have a range of courses specifically designed to be taught online, perfect if you'd like to study at your own pace.
Are you ready to push boundaries and enrich your professional practice?
We have an exciting portfolio of postgraduate courses, created to develop your expertise and boost post-graduation employability.
While each course is as specific or discipline-focused as can be, the interdisciplinary approach to learning encourages you to tailor your own creative journey.
We also have online postgraduate courses, which are perfect for people who want to study at their own pace, in their own space.
Explore our postgraduate courses:
Discover stories and work from our current postgraduate students and recent graduates.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/the-art-of-creative-careers-mapping-connections:
Dates and times:
Location: Urasando Garden (裏参道ガーデン) Second Floor 4-15-2 Jingumae, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, 150-0001
Join graduates, students and staff from AUB for an exciting three-day event in Tokyo showcasing UK art and design, higher education and career opportunities within the creative industries.
Hosted by over 15 of the AUB’s Japanese alumni from courses including BA (Hons) Animation Production , BA (Hons) Fashion , BA (Hons) Illustration , BA (Hons) Fine Art , BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance , BA (Hons) Textiles Design , our Preparation for Master's course , MA Graphic Design , MA Illustration and PhD Painting , they’ll also be joined by AUB’s Senior International Officer for Japan, South Korea, Thailand, and Vietnam, Haruyo Nelien.
Over the three days, there will be a series of interactive creative sessions, demonstrations and talks, as well as an exhibition of graduate work including a film and animation showcase.
If you're interested in finding out more about studying a creative arts subject abroad, there’s also the chance to attend presentations and talks about AUB and learn more about British creative education and graduate opportunities.
Featured events include:
Register your interest to receive information including a daily timetable of the planned sessions and event updates.
For any questions, please get in touch with Haruyo Nelien .
Graduated from BA (Hons) Textile Design (2020)
Graduated from MA Illustration (2020)
Graduated from BA (Hons) Illustration (2023)
Studied BA (Hons) Fashion (2025)
Graduated from BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance (2024)
Studied MA Graphic Design (2025)
Studying MA Graphic Design from 2025
Graduated in BA (Hons) Animation Production (2025)
Graduated from BA (Hons) Fine Art (2020)
Graduated from BA (Hons) Animation Production (2025)
Studying PhD in Painting (2022–present)
Graduated in BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance (2022)
14.00–16.00
Interactive workshop in Fine Art, Illustration and Textiles
16.30–17.30
Presentation: Creative Careers and AUB Career Support, Admissions Q+A
17.30–19.00
Alumni career talk
10.30–11.30
11.30–12.00
13.00–14.00
14.30–15.30
Presentation: "How to create a good portfolio" and Career opportunities Q+A
16.00–17.00
Reception party
13.00–13.30
13.30–15.30
16.00–16.30
* AUB’s Senior International Officer, Haruyo Nelien will be at the venue all day on Friday 31 October and Saturday 1 November if you want to meet her and ask her questions in person.
If you liked this post you might be interested in International opportunities at AUB.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/fees/foundation:
Fees and financial support
Unlike Undergraduate degree fees, the tuition and registration fee for our Foundation course is dependent on your age on 31 August of the year that your course commences and whether you’re a UK or EU/International Student.
If you're under 19 and a new student, you won't have to pay tuition fees or a registration fee.
For new students over the age of 19, the tuition fee for the course in 2025/26 will be £5,421 (full-time) per annum.
2025/26 Applicants (16-18)
£0
£300
2025/26 Applicants (19+)
£5,421
£160
n/a
If you're from the Channel Islands or Isle of Man, under 19 and a new student, you won't have to pay tuition fees or a registration fee.
If you're an International/EU student, you'll have to pay tuition fees and a registration fee.
2025/26 Applicants
£14,750
Student Loans
Please be aware there's no maintenance loan available for Further Education applicants.
The Advanced Learner Loan will only cover tuition fees.
If you're ordinarily a resident of Scotland, Wales or 
Northern Ireland, we may ask for further information regarding your 
intention to study in England as you may not be able to secure funding 
to undertake this course.
16-19 Bursary Fund and Learner Support Fund
If you've lived in the UK for at least three years, the 16-19 Bursary Fund and the Learner Support Fund may be able to support you while you study.
The 16-19 Bursary Fund and the Learner Support Fund for students over 19.
All sources of funding are based upon your household income.
Please note that funds are limited and eligibility doesn't guarantee that funding will be available.
Further information about financial help contact Student Services on +44 1202 363780 or email: studentservices@aub.ac.uk .
Students from the Islands are subject to different funding arrangements and support to mainland UK students.
Guernsey
The state of Guernsey offers higher education student grants to help with the cost of tuition fees, living and travel.
The amount of funding available depends on a number of factors – including an assessment of your parents’ income.
Bursaries may also be available to independent students who have no support from parents.
To find out more, please visit the Guernsey Government website .
Jersey
The state of Jersey offers funding for higher education students to help with living costs and tuition fees.
The amount of funding available depends on an assessment of your parents’ incomes or, if you’re an independent student, your own household income.
The amount of funding you can receive for tuition fees also depends on what type of course you’re taking and where you’re taking it.
Find out more on the Jersey Government website .
Isle of Man
Students from the Isle of Man aren't eligible for a loan from the UK Student Loans Company, but the Isle of Man government offers higher education students a grant (Student Award) to help with living cost and tuition.
The amount of funding you can receive is dependent on your parents’ incomes or, if you’re an independent student, your own household income, as well as the type of course you're taking and where you're taking it.
Find out more on the Isle of Man Government website .
If you normally live in Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales, you can follow the links below to find out what funding support is available to you.
The support available varies, so it’s important that you check the correct country.
Northern Ireland
Students who normally live in Northern Ireland may receive financial support for university from the Northern Ireland Executive.
For more information, students should refer to the student finance for Northern Ireland website .
Scotland
Students who normally live in Scotland may receive financial support for university from the Scottish Government.
For more information, students should refer to the student finance for Scotland website .
Wales
Students who normally live in Wales may receive financial support for university from the Welsh Assembly Government.
For more information, students should refer to the student finance for Wales website .
If you are unsure whether you should be classed as an ‘International/EU’ or a ‘Home’ student, please complete and return the fees assessment form .
Further advice on fee status can also be found on the UKCISA website .
International Scholarships
We aim to have a diverse student environment with the best creative talent in the UK and have several bursaries and scholarships available.
These are awarded for every year of your course, giving you financial support throughout your time studying with us.
You can see the full range of scholarship on our International Scholarships page .
International Loans
American students are eligible to apply to the US Department of 
Education’s Direct Loans Programme as Arts University Bournemouth has 
been authorised to certify applications.
Full details of this can be 
found in Loans for American Students .
Norwegian students are eligible for financial support from The 
Norwegian State Educational Loan Fund, administered by Lanekassen, which
 provides student loans and stipends for higher education.
Arts 
University Bournemouth is on the list of UK institutions where students 
are eligible for supplementary funding (Tilleggsstipend).
For further 
information on the Loan Fund visit The Lanekassen website.
Icelandic students can borrow loans via The Icelandic Student Loan Fund (Menntasjodur).
Visit the Menntasjodur website for more information about Icelandic student loans.
For more information about financial support, please contact our International team .
Students from America will be pleased to know that United States Federal Loans are available for you to study at Arts University Bournemouth, just as they would be if you were studying in the US as AUB has been authorised to certify applications.
You can see the full range of scholarship on our EU and International Scholarships page.
To make things as easy as possible for you, we have two online payment gateways to help you pay any outstanding fees.
You can use a variety of different methods including:
Mastercard, Visa, Visa Debit, Visa Electron, and Flywire.
To make a payment you'll need:
To get started, please click one of the links below:
Payers can now pay in their home currency, please see the download.
How to Update your Card Details on your card repayment plan
If you would like your next card payment to be debited from a different card, please click on the following link to change your card details on your plan:
If you have any questions or queries, don’t worry, we’re here to help.
You can contact our Finance team on income@aub.ac.uk or call +44(0)1202 363356.
We’re open Monday – Thursday between 08.45 and 16.30.
On Fridays, we’re open from 08.45–16.00.
Why use Flywire?

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aub-continues-to-be-an-outstanding-provider-according-to-ofsted:
The Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) has received an outstanding result following a recent Ofsted inspection.
The Ofsted report highlights the excellent teaching that students receive from industry experts, which prepares them for further study or employment.
AUB’s lecturers are also described as ‘highly ambitious’ in the way they challenge students and help them create high-quality work.
The report emphasises the support AUB students receive, including those with additional educational needs.
The University’s new drop-in mental health retreat hub is also mentioned, as is the mental health first aid training staff have completed.
Professor Paul Gough, Principal and Vice-Chancellor, shares his congratulations on this exciting news:
"We're delighted at the outcome of the recent Ofsted inspection of AUB.
We have an outstanding team of staff and students here; our popular Foundation course attracts hundreds of students from the region and all over the world.
Our teaching, facilities and equipment are amongst the very best in the UK, bringing opportunity and creativity to a wonderful collection of learners.
Truly an outstanding result for an outstanding university."
At very short notice, Ofsted can carry out a deep dive, which involves talking in depth to students and staff.
They really want to see what's going on behind the scenes.
“I've always maintained if you're doing it right, and you're doing it well, no matter when Ofsted comes, they’ll get to see how you truly work," Joshua Read, Creative Team Lead, explains.
"It's absolutely fantastic to get outstanding again.
It's very unusual for institutions to achieve this consistently,”
Ofsted recognises the innovative approach AUB takes to the Foundation course.
The report states, “Lecturers combine the use of traditional techniques such as drawing and handmade fabrication, alongside new digital, virtual reality and artificial intelligence tools effortlessly.”
Perhaps most importantly, the report confirms that students enjoy their studies here and take ownership of their learning.
And, thanks to the AUB’s well-equipped workshops, can bring their ideas to life.
Ofsted described students as working ‘purposefully and diligently’.
Joshua highlights, “At the end of the day, it comes down to the students’ positive attitude to work.
I'd say some of the work has been on par with what BA students produce.
“This Ofsted result is off the back of everyone across campus making the atmosphere feel so friendly, warm, and inviting.”
The Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media is a one-year course that gives students the chance to explore different creative areas before choosing a subject to take a degree in.
“Foundation students get the freedom to experiment and see what our BA and MA students are creating, as well as all the other wonderful things going on here," says Joshua.
"A lot of our foundation students naturally want to stay with us and progress through our courses.”
Joshua wants to say to prospective students, “Come and see us!
We’d love to meet you at an open day or a live event.
Once you’ve experienced AUB, you'll discover that it’s simply fantastic here, and there are endless reasons why people want to be a part of our community.”
If you liked this post you might be interested in Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/millie-preston-collaborating-across-foundation-specialisms-to-create-a-short-horror-film:
When I started my Foundation year at AUB , I went in with a lot of uncertainty about what I wanted to specialise in within the arts.
I’d spent the majority of my GCSE and A-Level years only exploring fine art and although I had a real passion for it, it didn’t feel like the right degree for me.
I chose to do a Foundation year to give myself time to figure out what it was that I wanted to study.
The first term allowed me to get a feel for all the specialisms foundation had to offer.
I found I connected most with the 3D and film specialisms.
Ultimately, I chose to specialise in 3D and spent the majority of the year focusing on make-up for film and TV, more specifically the prosthetics side of make-up.
When it came to deciding on my final project for Foundation, I knew I wanted to make a film that would showcase the make-up techniques I’d learnt.
This would also mean I’d get more of an understanding of the film specialism too.
Luckily, my flatmate, Emily Ferguson, specialised in film, so we decided to collaborate.
We wanted the film to emphasise both of our skill sets and concluded that a horror film would give us that freedom.
One of the biggest issues we faced early on was finding actors willing to work with us.
We knew the film was going to be a very time-consuming project, so finding someone who had that time to spare was never going to be easy.
Fortunately, one of our friends, Alma Boldrick, was really keen to participate; she was on the film specialism with Emily.
However, we really struggled to find anyone else.
We asked around to see if any other Foundation students were interested, and sent out an email to all BA (Hons) Acting students, but nothing came of it.
Eventually, we decided that instead of allowing this to hinder our project, we’d make it an intentional part of the plot.
We spent a lot of time discussing plot ideas and writing scripts, before landing on our story, Liminal .
The film follows art history student Maeve Campbell, who after a beach day with her friends starts seeing disturbing hallucinations of herself.
Presumed to be suffering from Cotard’s syndrome, she descends into madness as her hallucinations become all too real.
At the end of the film, it’s revealed that Maeve drowned during her day at the beach and the hallucinations were her way of coming to terms with her death before she could move on to the afterlife.
The lack of other actors emphasised how everything we were seeing was a figment of her imagination.
Once we had a rough plot, we began writing the script, creating storyboards and making time plans for ourselves and Alma.
As well as this, I had to ensure I found a photography student who would be interested in helping me take some professional photographs of each of my make-up looks.
I got in contact with the Foundation photography technician, who introduced me to Jasmine Beusmans.
Thankfully, she was keen to help me and was really open to ensuring she captured what I’d envisioned, as well as getting photographs for her own portfolio.
This collaboration really helped relieve some of the pressure I had during this project and meant I had some high-quality images of my work for my portfolio and the Summer Show.
However, like any project, there were a few problems along the way, especially when it came to planning time to film the scenes involving make-up.
Emily and I had to ensure that both Jasmine and Alma were free.
Both of them had their own projects to do, so finding days when they were available wasn’t always easy and meant we’d have to be quite flexible with our time too.
It also put a lot of pressure on me to have the make-up ready for a specific time, so I wasn’t holding anyone up.
Unlike every other big project I’ve done, this wasn’t a personal project.
Therefore, I had to be open to taking on other people’s ideas who were involved in the film.
Although initially I thought I’d find this a challenge, hearing lots of different ideas coming from people with different specialisms is ultimately what made the project so exciting.
It also meant we were all showcasing our own strengths.
Doing this collaboration project was so impactful for me.
It pushed me out of my comfort zone, where I’d limit myself to exploring only what I knew and forced me to try new things.
I was able to get a feel for what directing was like, got to use filming and photography equipment and even tried voice acting.
It also really helped me develop my organisational and leadership skills, but most importantly, it allowed me to get a taste of so many interesting courses and fundamentally led me to picking BA (Hons) Modelmaking for my degree.
Watch Liminal on YouTube.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/emily-hogg-progressing-to-ba-textiles-from-foundation-sustainable-inspiration-and-collaboration:
My passion for sustainability has largely influenced my creative process, pushing me to experiment with various natural resources such as food waste and seaweed.
My journey at Arts University Bournemouth began back in 2022 when I enrolled onto the Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media .
This course allowed me to explore various exciting pathways, leading me to discover my passion for textiles.
In particular, I developed a keen interest for the sustainable textiles industry.
Over the first year and half of my degree, my thirst for knowledge and understanding of new sustainable techniques has flourished with the help of course leaders and the fantastic array of resources the university has to offer.
Moreover, being surrounded by such an abundance of creative, like-minded people has massively increased my enthusiasm for both my personal and professional practice.
My creative process has certainly become more refined and professional due to the experiences and opportunities I have been given at university.
Having the chance to listen to guest lectures and hear about real industry experience has been a wonderful opportunity.
We have also been encouraged to go out and gain industry experience for ourselves.
In the summer of 2024, I completed a six-week placement at a renowned fashion design studio in London.
This gave me a chance to obtain a deeper understanding of the industry and help make informed choices on which area of the textiles world I can see myself in.
The opportunity also gave me lots of drawing practice and largely improved my skill set.
A project I am particularly proud of so far in my degree is the collaboration pieces I produced alongside a small cohort of other BA (Hons) Textiles Design students at the end of our Level 4 practice.
Das SPEZIAL, led by artist and producer Shahab Notghi, is a collective which strives itself on being expressive, focusing on promoting independent musicians and artists in the local area.
We were set the exciting brief of creating two customised couture items of clothing for the brand, with the end goal of them being sold at a high-end retailer in Bournemouth town centre, Richmond Classics.
The AUB Textiles X SPEZIAL collaboration was not about commercial gain, but instead focused on creativity and exposure, for both the brand and us as individual artists.
This meant we had artistic liberty to express ourselves and display our creative practice freely to the public.
The two garments I produced were inspired by a trip I took to Barcelona, gaining influence from the spectacular architecture and lively culture.
I used techniques such as free hand machine embroidery and digital experimentation with Photoshop in order to create my final outcomes.
The whole project was marvellous, from working alongside my peers and Shahab to seeing our pieces come together and be presented in a professional context – I enjoyed every second.
I often use my surroundings as a catalyst for my work, which is why I have found walks in nature a fantastic source of inspiration.
Having easy access to places such as the New Forest and the Jurassic Coast offer heaps of opportunities for me to fulfil this outlet and gain valuable primary sources.
Photography is an important part of my practice and something I thoroughly enjoy.
In the future, I wish to incorporate this skill further into my work.
As for the future, I am excited for an opportunity to achieve more industry experience with a self-initiated internship in London this coming summer at an interiors print design studio.
I am also keen to keep my options open within my practice, making sure I make the most of the freedom and resources given at university.
I wish to continue my role as a course representative as this gives me the chance to gain important insights from fellow students and communicate any questions within the faculty.
Furthermore, I hope to be selected to display my work at New Designers at the end of my third year, as this would be a fantastic opportunity to further increase my industry connections.
Discover more of Emily's work
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Textiles Design

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/a-progression-journey-foundation-to-ba-hons-graphic-design:
For as long as I can remember, I have been eternally curious.
As a child, questioning everything from nature to human behaviour was at my core.
When I grew into these curiosities, I figured: why not have a little fun while exploring them?
Before I entered high school, I knew that I wanted to go past the confines of America and study abroad.
While California provided tremendous opportunities, I couldn’t get past the transactional people who felt more overwhelming than the snakes of highways through concrete jungles in political disarray.
When I would go abroad, I knew that I had to make the most of my passions.
I had a specialism in agricultural science, a healthy background in American history, but a dream in the arts.
I had been accepted at many different universities, but the one I hoped to get into was AUB.
The location, running a course that produced amazing work, at an art school with a real presence in the UK.
I knew that I needed to come here.
I applied to the BA (Hons) Fine Art course and was counter-offered a year on the Foundation Diploma in Art and Design.
While my portfolio was more geared towards illustrative work, they enjoyed a video of me burning a painting I made of the Australian wildfires, and pushed me in the direction of graphic design.
A year to experiment and learn more about the world and myself.
A degree leading to a field and a way to explore my interests in science, history, and human questioning through the lens of art and design.
When I started Foundation, I felt like a fish out of water.
What was I doing here?
I was at these fancy computers, creating art on this nice campus where everyone talked funny, a million miles from home.
It was a challenge I was keen to overcome.
While I took time to understand everybody’s accents, I spent most of my time on my coursework.
Foundation was divided into two parts across three trimesters: Art, Media and Design, and a specialism.
During the first couple of months, we developed concepts into individual projects.
When I started the Art, Media and Design unit, I didn’t know what type of artist I wanted to be.
What was the purpose behind my artwork?
What was I trying to say?
Coming out of the pandemic in America, being shut indoors for five months, and then living in another country for four-and-a-half, my world and sense of self were completely upside-down.
I had to reinvent myself using what I had – ideas.
I looked inwards, and the same questions kept bubbling up.
What am I doing?
Why am I here?
What am I trying to answer?
I came out of that unit with ideas in the form of answers for myself.
I began defining my future through abstract shapes and colours.
Tackling human interconnectivity through political fashion conceptualisation, room energy maps, and landscapes defining balance between positivity and negativity.
I grooved emotions into paper with a pencil to create my own interpretations of words.
This whole time, I had questioned what I wanted to say, but when it came to creating a message from the core of my being where I thought there was nothing, I found something.
That something always pushed me to bring people together, to have fun, and to let other people see the best in themselves by becoming the best version of myself.
Once I started spending most of my time on campus, I learned just how much of an extrovert I am.
When making art or walking around during lunch, I would almost always make a new friend.
Despite my home being far away, I felt a new one forming.
I had come out the other side stronger, with friends and some artwork and ideas under my belt, proving to myself that I could be an artist – not just as a job, but as a lifestyle.
When choosing my specialism, I realised graphic design was where my ideas had the most room to grow.
My strong ideas to visualise human interconnectivity would take any form necessary, and I was willing to grow with them to see them through.
After coming home for the holidays, COVID-19 really hit the UK and I spent the rest of my Foundation year online.
When I finished, I submitted works surrounding the aspirations of positivity within the human body, a font empowered by a quote from Martin Luther King Jr., and a design undermining technology’s false perception of beauty.
While those six months were difficult because of the time zones, I couldn’t wait to get back and give it my all with nothing holding me back.
Coming onto the BA (Hons) Graphic Design course, I hit the ground running at 200%.
Before university started, I met with the course leader Marion Morrison, and Andy Vella, who was leading the upcoming unit.
This was it.
I was ready to put everything I’d felt and experienced into this moment.
I would prove my worth and be the best at everything I did.
That level of ambition was overwhelming, and the beginning of the course was like a tsunami – a calm wave that would grow into a gigantic force of nature.
In America, it’s a meat grinder.
I was used to starting at 07.00 on the dot.
Now, I was in a new environment.
Slowly, I felt the flow of the class, and after meeting the amazing staff, I became keener to learn about my peers – who would be ahead of the bell curve, who were the smaller voices that would grow, and who could I learn from the most.
Being a designer is like baking.
First, you get your ingredients: paint strokes, pencil sketches, drawings, sculptures, materials.
Then, you get your mixing bowl; you transform the ingredients with qualities you desire: friendly, creative, fresh, new, alluring, exciting, whatever you fancy.
Next, grab your baking tray: Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Blender, After Effects, and you cook up a cool design.
Finally, you put it in the oven with a tray: make it into a poster, a moving image, a campaign, a zine, a video, a format of media which a process makes it into a finished product!
When I finally realised my design process, everything clicked.
That moment was priceless.
When I initially came to BA (Hons) Graphic Design at AUB, I carried with me a sense of purpose, made of two halves.
Half of me wanted to make personal and universal design; the other felt that I needed to build skills towards representing marginalised groups through creative platforms.
If I wasn’t doing everything I could to support people who were worse off than me, what was I even doing?
Eventually, by the end of first year, it felt like I had accomplished everything I set out for myself.
For Superpeople , I collaborated with BA (Hons) Illustration and Bournemouth and Poole College to create business cards that would get people with disabilities their dream job.
For the In a Pot of Hot Soup exhibition, I closely worked with my course, as well as Dr Paula Callus, Dr Charles Gore, and Nigerian artists to create a zine for the event’s launch.
I made such a massive leap from where I was at the end of Foundation.
I had become a designer who didn’t dream up concepts but made a real-world impact on people’s lives.
I wasn’t asking, “What am I doing here?”
After being on Foundation, and then coming to the BA, I had completely levelled up.
My design process was streamlined.
I was able to handle bigger workloads and shorter turnarounds.
I was able to put others first, empathise, and produce work that ignited their passions and enabled them to grow to new heights.
First year was extremely fulfilling, but I was still hungry.
I couldn’t help but wonder: what’s the next best thing?
What were the steps I could take to becoming the best designer I could possibly become?
Were the briefs I accomplished now what I would do for the rest of my career?
Had I really accomplished everything I wanted to do?
What other expressions of art were out there, and who were the artists making them?
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Graphic Design

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/25-local-schools-recognised-for-photography-skills-in-annual-competition:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) has co-sponsored the 12th annual inter-school photography competition hosted by Ringwood School.
The one-day event, taking place on Tuesday 11 March, saw more than 900 entries from 25 schools across Hampshire, Dorset, and Wiltshire in three different age categories, from Years 1–13, with an additional adult category for parents and teachers.
“The competition started 12 years ago when the Ringwood Rotary Club sought to work with us to produce a calendar for charity with photographs from the New Forest," explains Stuart Fielder, competition organiser and Head of Art at Ringwood School.
"This turned into a competition for the students with the winning shots being used for the calendar.
“Over the next couple of years, other schools found out what we were doing and asked to be a part of it, and it’s just grown and grown from there.
The Rotary are still very supportive but we don’t make a calendar any longer and the photos aren’t restricted in terms of subject.”
Judges included Mrs Emily Weston, Photography Course Leader at Ringwood School; Dr Geoff Ridgway and Trevor Pogson from Ringwood Rotary Club; Dr Barry Senior from the Royal Photographic Society (RPS), and Joshua Read, Course Leader of Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media at AUB.
The theme this year was ‘layers’, with the overall winning shot of the day awarded to Billy Dixon-Clarke from Trafalgar School.
“All the entries were of an incredible standard, and it was very difficult to choose a winner in our category," says Joshua Read.
"The winning shot for me was by Lily Cunningham-Davis from King Edward VI School with her piece, 'Silent Layers of Life'.
The composition and lighting in the photograph were exceptional and the idea that that the layers were within the story rather than just in the image impressed the team.
It was beautifully and skilfully captured with such incredible detail, a fantastic photograph.
“We were delighted to present Lily with a prize from AUB of a £500 voucher to spend at our AUB Academy.
The Academy has a range of evening and weekend courses, summer courses and Saturday Art School, all taught on campus, which are perfect for aspiring young artists, makers, designers, and photographers like Lily.
We are very much looking forward to welcoming Lily on campus soon and seeing what she creates next.”
The winners of the three student categories received vouchers for photographic equipment.
The Royal Photographic Society also awarded a certificate to their own choice of best image in each category.
The ‘Young Photographer of the Year’ received the MLW Shield and a Camera Kit prize.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/laurels-for-foundation-grad-trio-as-short-film-debut-makes-official-selection-at-three-international-film-events:
The final film project of three Foundation graduates from Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) has turned heads on the film festival circuit, having been accepted into three events across the world.
Students Daniel Banchik (screenwriter, director and producer), Mya Akhina Woranithiphong (production designer, cinematographer, editor and VFX artist), both studied the International Foundation Diploma (IFD) at AUB, while Alfie McTigue (editor and producer), studied Foundation Diploma in Art and Design ; all finishing their courses in 2023.
For their final project, the students adapted Andy Weir’s short story The Egg , about a man who, following his death, meets and speaks with his creator to understand the meaning of his existence.
“The original idea for the final project was a ‘talkie’ short film where two celestial beings argue opposing opinions on the state of the world and what its future should be over a game of chess,” explains Daniel.
“During the research period on the course, I encountered the story of ‘The Egg’ and thought it was an incredible idea.
I really wanted to bring this story to the screen, mixing parts of it with the original idea.”
The making process of any film is notoriously unpredictable and challenging.
However, Daniel, Mya and Alfie had the extra challenge of writing, producing, shooting and editing The Egg in the space of just 10 weeks on a limited budget.
They explain the challenges they faced and how they overcame them:
“The weather was not very kind,” says Mya.
“Even though I planned out the shots quite thoroughly in the storyboards, a lot had to be changed to accommodate the difficulties of that specific day.”
Alfie adds that editing took longer than expected as they had to use their free time to edit and refurbish the set scene after scene, this coupled with the limited timescale made the project more intense for the team.
“We started the project as early as we could and even continued the post-production after the deadline.
We squeezed as much time as we could out of the project, working all day, every day,” says Daniel.
For this determined trio, their hard work has definitely paid off.
The Egg has since gained Official Selection status at three international film events, namely First-time Filmmaker Sessions (hosted by Lift-Off Global Network); Corto Creativo Short Film Festival, and Kurzfilmfestival Kufstein.
Daniel says, “After all the work we put into it, we believed that having the opportunity to get advice from new eyes and maybe even better our portfolio by adorning the poster with laurels was something we had to do.
“Upon receiving the news, we were all very excited and thankful to AUB for giving us the opportunity, and proud that the work we did in the Foundation course has put us a step closer towards our goals.”
Mya adds, “Being relatively new to Film Production and an international student, I'd say the training in Foundation deepened my love and appreciation towards filmmaking.
All the tutors and technicians were beneficial and helped motivate me to pursue film even further.”
Now all three study on the BA (Hons) Film Production course at AUB, Daniel says he plans to specialise in producing, with secondary specialisms in directing, screenwriting and non-fiction.
Meanwhile, Mya is currently torn between editing and production design.
“After attending the specialism workshops, I think I'm leaning more towards production design,” she says, “Purely because I find it the most difficult to wrap my head around.
I like to challenge myself, and that’s one of the reasons I chose to work on this project – because it is so ambitious.”
Alfie’s interest in producing and editing pre-dates his work on The Egg .
“I very much enjoy editing as you’re directing the film for the second time,” he explains.
“And producing gives you a chance to find good and well-performing actors and people useful for perfect roles.”
In addition, the film's striking poster was designed by fellow IFD graduate Katie Mirai Frost, who has since progressed onto AUB's BA (Hons) Graphic Design course.
Rob Amey, Progression Leader on AUB's Foundation course, says: "It's fantastic to see our Foundation filmmakers earn their first laurels so early in their careers, a feat that speaks volumes about their remarkable potential and the dedication and skills these students already have.
"To write, produce, film and edit such a powerful short in just a couple of months is something that they should be incredibly proud of.
We can’t wait to see what they do next and how they continue to craft their storytelling and bring their visions to the screen."

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/foundation-student-designs-logo-for-grantham-government-drive:
Millie Whitlock, a student on Arts University Bournemouth (AUB)’s Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media has won a competition designing a logo for a new government drive in her hometown of Grantham.
“The brief was to create a logo for ‘Grantham Together’,” explains Millie.
“The logo had to include the word ‘Grantham’, work well on their social media platforms and be representative of the town.
“I spent a long time perfecting the shape of my logo, producing many slight variations, playing with colours (which were taken from the landscape of Grantham), making sure it was scalable and unique enough to be recognisable.
I also created a bespoke typeface for the branding and really luxuriated in the process of refining it – type is a keen interest of mine.”
Millie also created button designs to be used for social media purposes, which she says helped her to create a fully realised visual language.
This included a heart icon to be used for the campaign’s charity work.
While she says it’s something she’s always been interested in, Millie had never done any logo or graphic design until starting AUB’s Foundation course.
Prior to this, her background had been more textiles and fine art-based.
And while winning the competition earned her a prize of £500, Millie says her victory hasn’t quite sunk in yet.
“I don’t imagine it will until I start seeing the logo actually being used,” she says.
“The whole process has given me a massive boost in confidence.”
“Before Foundation, I had no experience of graphics and was somewhat worried this may hold me back.
The longs hours of getting to grips with Illustrator and going over what we’ve done in workshops have been worth it.”
Steph Horan, lecturer in the Foundation Diploma’s Graphic Communication specialism, commended Millie’s proactivity and the sensitivity with which she approached the live competition brief.
She explains: “The Foundation course encourages idea generation and experimentation, which was evident in this project brief from the handmade typography, to print making, and Millie’s ability to reflect and evaluate her design decision-making as part of her creative process.
“We hope the skills learned on the Foundation course will lead students to unlock their potential and build their confidence for their future careers.
Well done, Millie – we’re so proud of your success!”
Foundation Diploma course leader Joshua Read added praise of Millie’s conscientiousness and dedication, as well as her “exceptionally high standard” of work and her “keen eye for the design aesthetic”.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/seg:
Our Level 1 and Level 2 Qualification short courses are designed for passionate creatives.
Whether you want to learn the basics of hands-on, intricate making in your desired medium or up-skill your current practice, these will enable you to develop your knowledge and kick-start your career.
Our courses are accredited by Skills Education Group (SEG) and can either be studied across 30 weeks or part-time, allowing you the flexibility of studying alongside employment or other life commitments.
Available subjects include Art and Design, Graphic Design, Interior Design, Jewellery and Photography to name a few, all of which also offer pathways to our Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media – or even our undergraduate courses .
Discover our full list of SEG-accredited Level 1 and Level 2 Qualification courses below.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/3d-modelling-visualisation:
The world of design is high-energy.
Whether you’re rendering up animated scenes in Blender or drawing up products in real-time, you’ll grow adaptable and independent in making your own fun projects.
Maybe you’ll create the next Chilly’s water bottle – or have the potential to work on the next Marvel blockbuster.
With state-of-the-art technology at your fingertips, the potential for creating in 3D has never been more accessible.
On this selection of short courses, you’ll explore hands-on, practical techniques giving you the freedom to create – whether it’s crafting intricate models from professional laser cutting and our high-tech 3D printers, stunning visuals through digital software or stop-motion, and even interrogating and harnessing AI for responsible creative use.
Find out more about our 3D design, animation and AI courses below.
In this hands-on 10-week course you'll be introduced to Fusion 360 and guided to design and develop your own 3D models and print them.
In this practical 10-week course you'll gain specialist insight into the world of professional modelmaking and develop your skills.
On this innovative 10-week course you'll discover how intriguing AI technology can be harnessed to expand your creative possibilities.
This 10-week course introduces you to specialist 3D design software Blender and provides you with the tools to elevate your design skills.
Unlock your creativity and enhance your design skills with this new course focusing on CNC machining and laser cutting techniques.
On this 8-week course you’ll delve into the fascinating world of stop motion animation and learn how to create stunning animated content.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/acting:
Our acting courses show you what it takes to turn natural talent into a career and make dreams of performing on stage or film a reality.
Whether you’re a proud musical thespian with a passion for amateur dramatics or want to build up your experience while aiming for the big screen or Shakespeare, you’ll learn how to channel characterisation through physical performance.
At the heart of any form of acting is a story – and how you decide to tell it.
On these exciting, hands-on 10-week courses, you’ll learn how to embody characters, express across screen and stage and learn the core skills of improvisation, writing and physical theatre.
Modelled around our BA (Hons) course, these are all about doing it for real.
Discover more about each of our acting, performance and dance courses below.
In 10 weeks, this introductory course will provide you with the fundamental skills to act as a believable character in any medium.
This advanced, exciting 10-week acting course will enhance your skills of improvisation, writing and physical theatre.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/life-studies-drawing-painting:
Becoming a versatile, well-rounded artist means being inspired by the greats and even becoming one of them.
Perhaps you’re a fan of the classics like Van Gogh or Picasso or maybe you’re inspired by contemporary pioneers – Banksy, Yayoi Kusama, and David Hockney.
You could even be the next world-renowned creative, selling your own work or featuring in galleries.
There’s no right or wrong on our art, design and drawing courses, with freedom and experimentation are at the forefront of what you’ll create.
You’ll explore a wide range of mediums from painting, sketching and watercolour to life drawing and fine art, developing key skills to become competent in your chosen medium and confident in your abilities.
It all starts with taking the first step.
Find out more about our art, design and drawing courses below.
This 30-week Level 2 accredited course will equip you with the tools and principles to develop your creativity in art, design, and crafts
This 20-week course gives you the chance to develop your creativity and a comprehensive introduction to a variety of art forms.
Over 10 weeks you’ll discover and develop your unique creative voice as you explore the techniques and skills needed to be a fine artist.
On this course you'll explore your creativity in a relaxed and encouraging environment where there's no right or wrong.
This new 10-week course will equip you with the sight-size life drawing skills you need to unleash your inner creativity or enhance...
On this 10-week course, you'll have the chance to simply learn how to draw!
You'll develop your skills and artistic ability.
This exciting 10-week hands-on approach to sketching is deal for all abilities.
Explore the fundamentals of watercolour and sketching.
In this 10-week course, you'll build on your existing drawing skills and become a well-rounded and more confident watercolour artist.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/marketing:
Brand identity and innovative marketing sit at the core of any successful business.
On our business, marketing and e-content creation courses, you’ll explore the different processes involved in bringing great ideas to life.
Marketing is an ever-evolving industry that’s always answering to what consumers want to hear.
You’ll learn how to harness social media channels like Instagram, TikTok and YouTube to generate engaging, short-form content.
On the larger scale, you’ll learn the essential behind-the-scenes knowledge of how to keep a business running.
And after completing one of our courses, you may want to start your own, inspired by iconic campaigns like Spotify Wrapped or aesthetic visuals from cult-favourite fashion brands like Glossier.
Whether you’re interested in social media marketing and content creation with digital media, developing your own effective campaigns or mastering visual merchandising, our unique set of marketing-focused courses will have something for you.
Find out more about each one below.
In this practical 10-week course, you'll learn the skills needed to plan, and execute effective digital marketing campaigns.
Over 10 weeks, this course will introduce you to creating exciting, meaningful content for social media, digital marketing, and more.
In this exciting 10-week course, you'll gain the fundamental skills needed to create effective social media content for your business.
This 10-week course will introduce you to the essential elements of visual merchandising, including how it works within a store context.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/creative-writing:
There’s always a blank page that needs to be filled and a story waiting to be told.
Writing is all about channelling the inner voice, and to quote Margaret Atwood: ‘A word after a word after a word is power’.
Whether you’re aiming to explore a subject you’re passionate about, tell sublime narratives through dramatic world building, bring your truth to speak out loud at an open mic, or write the next Netflix hit – there’s a space for everyone.
On our creative writing courses, you’ll learn how to master the pen and page across a range of genres.
No matter what style you’re interested in pursuing, you’ll develop essential techniques and your confidence as a writer.
Discover the stories you’ll tell with our courses below.
This 10-week introductory course will help you develop essential techniques for crafting compelling stories.
This 10-week advanced course in creative writing explores specific writing techniques and takes you from beginner to an experienced writer.
In this 10-week short course you'll have the chance to develop your writing skills to take your first steps into writing an autobiography.
This exciting and industry-focused 10-week course explores all the major elements and craft components of dramatic scriptwriting.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/design-print:
These unique, practical courses are perfect for experimenting with print techniques and equipment.
No matter where your passions lie – from experimental, bold pattern-making, textile design with fabrics and materials or becoming a confident screenprinter – our design and printing courses offer a hands-on experience with this unique medium.
Mastering your creative style is just the beginning.
Why not try your prints on a new summer dress, or on canvas to create stunning multi-layered artworks?
Printmaking can even breathe new life into old clothes and products; it’s all about the story you decide to tell through the skills you develop, whether traditional or contemporary.
Discover our design and printing courses below.
In this practical 10-week course you'll explore techniques, printing methods and develop imagery through traditional printmaking processes.
This exciting 10-week course explores bespoke textile design, pattern and print-making using a hands-on creative process.
On this 10-week course you'll learn to produce multi-coloured designs and finished pieces of artwork through the art of screenprinting.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/fashion-accessories:
If you’ve ever wanted to create your own clothes, master sewing techniques or simply get hands-on with material, this range of short courses is for you.
Fashion, textiles and accessories cover a wide range of skill sets, from learning basic, practical skills such as stitching and pattern making to advanced industry-focused techniques like leathercraft, digital textile design and even visual merchandising.
Once you’ve adopted the basic skills involved in this intricate craft, the world of fashion design has plenty of opportunities to explore.
You could plan, stitch and sew together a dress for summer, create a capsule collection based on your favourite designers or even work on starting your own small business and selling miniature creations – the perfect chance to channel your inner Vivienne Westwood or become the next Maison Margiela.
Find out more about our fashion, textiles and accessories courses below.
This 10-week course is the perfect introduction for machine sewing – learn the skills needed to stitch your projects to life.
This practical 10-week beginner course will equip you with the skills needed to design and make your own garments with confidence.
This 10-week hands-on course gives you the essential skills of pattern making so you'll be able to create your own clothes with confidence.
On this innovative 10-week course you’ll explore the creative possibilities that technology brings to textile design for fashion.
In this hands-on 10-week course you'll be introduced to the creative process and professional techniques used to make leather products.
This hands-on 10-week course gives you the opportunity to explore a popular style of embellishment through bead embroidery.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/film-production:
Film is the art of telling stories and capturing the raw, human experience through moving image.
On our filmmaking and post-production courses, you’ll discover how.
These exciting short courses are perfect for any creative wanting to learn more about one of the largest creative industries, from getting behind the camera to colour-grading the final details in the editing stages.
You could be contributing to the next BAFTA-winning hit – and even find yourself walking the red carpet with the stars.
You’ll have access to powerful software and tools such as Adobe Premier Pro as well as industry-standard equipment, learning how to develop your skills in a professional environment alongside actors, set designers, directors and producers, all working towards creating stunning cinema.
Discover our courses below.
Over 10 weeks develop your knowledge in film editing and compilation using Adobe Premier Pro, a powerful and industry-standard tool.
Aspiring filmmakers will gain hands-on experience in writing, filming and editing in this 15-week creative course.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/visual-communication:
Dive into the world of identity through design with our graphic design, illustration and visual communication short courses.
You’ll be expertly guided on each course through a specific medium and focus, including developing your unique style with illustration, using cutting-edge contemporary software, understanding the evolving nature of visual communication in today’s industry and bringing fresh ideas to life.
Studying one of these short courses is the perfect way to master your design language.
Whether you’re passionate about telling stories through typography, creating vibrant visuals or learning the intricacies of product design, it’s the perfect chance to dive headfirst in this ever-evolving industry.
Plus, you’ll develop a creative edge part of your essential toolkit for future projects – or even for starting your own business.
Discover the full list of graphic design, illustration and visual communication courses below.
This 10-week course will give you a full introduction to the world of illustration, with the aim of developing your personal style.
This 30-week Level 2 accredited course explores the creative possibilities of graphics in print, publishing and digital practices.
This practical 10-week course is ideal for anyone looking to learn and develop their skills in digital design using Adobe Creative Suite.
This new 10-week course gives you the opportunity to explore the world of visual communication and realise your inner artistic potential.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/interior-design-garden-design:
Plan, design and create innovate spaces with interior and architectural design.
On each of our courses, you’ll have the chance to master the essentials interior knowledge and the technical aspects of this field, using computer software to bring your plans to life and turning drawn sketches and ideas into rendered, immersive spaces.
A short course in interior design is the perfect chance to get hands-on with material, technical talent and aesthetics.
Through developing skills and knowledge surrounding the psychology of space, colour theory, historical and contemporary influences and ultimately, presenting your finalised briefs to clients, you’ll develop a strong passion for re-shaping these spaces for the greater good – and learning how to design your own.
Find out more about our interior and architectural design courses.
This 10-week course is perfect for beginners looking for an introduction to AutoCAD and SketchUp for Interior Design.
This practical 10-week course will give you an overview of the fundamental skills and theories required for interior design.
This comprehensive 30-week level 2 practical course will give you the skills needed to design interior spaces with flair and imagination.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/jewellery:
Exploring the fascinating process and experiment with specialist materials.
On our jewellery short courses, you’ll learn how to master specialist equipment and work with unique materials such as metal clay, wirework and silver to create your own stunning jewellery pieces.
These courses are highly technical and hands-on, making them perfect for creatives who love to get practical and stuck into their projects.
Want to take it further?
There’s the chance to study Stage 2 accredited courses in silversmithing and jewellery design to elevate your craft to a professional level.
Plus, as Bournemouth is home to a range of local art markets, there are plenty of opportunities to showcase and sell your creations.
Discover our full list of jewellery courses below.
Our new 10-week wirework jewellery course gives you a perfect start if you're looking for a new hobby or a step towards a potential business
In this 30-week Level 2 accredited course you'll develop essential skills and build your confidence to create your own jewellery designs.
In this exciting 10-week introductory course, you'll learn how to work with metal clay to design and create beautiful silver jewellery.
Learn how to design and make your own unique, stunning silver jewellery in either five or 10 weeks with this highly practical course.
This advanced 10-week silversmithing course gives you the chance to elevate your skills and become a more accomplished jewellery maker.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/make-up:
Think about where films like Avatar and Star Wars would be without make-up artists.
On these practice-based short courses, you’ll master how to become one.
Taking place in our award-winning BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance studios, you’ll develop your skills at the highest possible standard.
Whether you aspire to apply looks to actors for the screen or stage, create your own through unique materials or even showcase your style on socials and build a following – there are plenty of avenues to explore.
You’ll learn about make-up application techniques and styles through specialist modules and various mediums, applying stunning looks with confidence to a diverse range of faces, skin tones and complexions.
Discover our make-up courses below.
Unlock your creative potential with AUB's SEG Level 1 accredited Make-Up for Media course.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/adobe-creative-suite:
Find inspiration with our selection of publication and design short courses.
The world of publishing is full of opportunities.
Perhaps you have a love for illustrating and telling stories through children’s books, or maybe you want to showcase your latest photography project in a sleek, professional way.
No matter where your passion lies, you’ll learn essential, unique skills in publication and design that’ll ground your creative practice for future projects.
On these short courses, you’ll learn to harness some of the most widely used Adobe applications, including InDesign, Illustrator, Photoshop, Animate and After Effects, and develop a clear sense of style through publishing mediums and evolve your design potential.
Discover our publishing and design courses below.
This 20-week course gives you the opportunity to develop a sound understanding of desktop publishing and unleash your inner design potential
This 15-week programme covers all the essentials of working with Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign specifically for designers.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/photography:
Take control of your camera and establish yourself as a true specialist with our photography short courses.
Capturing images is more than just tapping the shutter button.
It takes time, practice and skill to discover what drives your passion for photography, how you document moments and why.
On these short courses, you’ll learn essential techniques such as shutter speed, aperture and ISO to snap those perfect initial shots, followed by creative editing through software like Adobe Lightroom and Photoshop to develop your style and practice further.
Some of photography’s most recognisable names studied photography at AUB, such as Nick Knight and Wolfgang Tillmans – a short course here could be the start of your photography journey too.
Find out more about each of our photography courses below.
In this 10-week practical course you'll learn professional techniques exploring Adobe Lightroom and Photoshop for post-production purposes.
On this 20-week course, you'll develop an understanding of technical and creative processes, practices, and the photo-imaging industry.
Master your camera, take creative control, and learn to take photos with confidence with this practical course.
This 30-week Level 2 accredited course gives you an understanding of photographic processes and practices in the photo-imaging industry...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/aub-academy:
Welcome to AUB Academy, the home of your creative journey and the key to unlocking your creative potential.
Everyone is welcome.
At AUB Academy we empower our learners and equip them with the tools and confidence to succeed in their creative journey – be it personal or professional.
Study at a leading specialist university.
We're the creative experts, so we know what we're doing when it comes to providing an unparalleled selection of short courses.
Each year we're thrilled to welcome hundreds of students from across the globe to AUB's community, and be part of their creative journey.
At AUB you'll have the chance to develop your artistic voice.
We’re proud to cater to all abilities; whether you’re a complete novice or a seasoned pro we’ve got the perfect course to spark your joy through the power of creating.
Not to mention you'll have fun and meet like-minded people!
All our tutors are industry professionals and experts in their fields, so you know you'll be learning from the best.
You'll also benefit from our incredible campus and its industry-standard studios, plus use state-of-the-art equipment and software to unleash your creativity.
Some of our courses offer opportunities for day trips and on location studying, so you can take inspiration from the beautiful south coast scenery (including the Jurassic Coast) and connect with the local area.
Bournemouth has great transport links, so you don't have to worry about travelling to us from further afield.
Our campus is easily accessible by bus from Bournemouth, Poole and other neighbouring areas.
Plus, Bournemouth train station is a short taxi or bus ride away.
We also offer an optional airport taxi pick-up from any London airport for our residential summer courses.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/animation:
This exciting course gives budding animators aged 12-15 an insight into the world of animation, focusing on hand-drawn 2D animation.
To book your young artist’s place today, simply click the 'Book Now' button to be taken to AUB's secure online store, where you can complete your booking.
You can also sign up to our newsletter for Saturday Art School updates.
Autumn term 2025
Every Saturday, 27 September – 29 November 2025
Please note , there are no sessions on 11 October and 8 November due to AUB Open Days.
8 Saturdays
09.30–12.30
This course has been developed for aspiring animators aged 12-15.
No.
This is an introductory course, so your young artist doesn't need any previous experience, just be prepared to bring lots of energy and enthusiasm!
This course is suitable for any youngsters with a passion for animation – both complete beginners and those with previous experience.
Yes of course!
If you'd like to discuss if this course is suitable for your young artist, get in touch with us: email academy@aub.ac.uk or call +44 (0) 1202 363222.
£259
This exciting course has been specifically developed for young animators aged 12–15 that are either taking their first steps into the world of animation or have some previous experience.
With expert guidance from their tutor, we’ll help them harness their creativity, artistic knowledge, and gain confidence in creating and sharing their work.
This is a perfect opportunity for your young artists to push their ideas and let loose with their creativity.
Animation has no limits, and through this course, young artists can launch themselves into the amazing world of animation.
Each week students will learn new skills using industry standard equipment and techniques that are vital in the world of animation.
Skills covered includes 2D animation, character design, storyboarding, as well as a comprehensive introduction to the fundamental principles of animation.
Your young artist will use our specialist studio spaces that have been home to our award-winning graduates, using tools and equipment that the creative industries rely on.
Your young artist will learn alongside up to 16 other like-minded youngsters, make friends, and have fun along the way.
At the end of the course, your young artist will leave with an increased confidence in their abilities, have a wealth of new skills that they can apply to their everyday life and beyond, and an excitement for future art and design studies.
At the end of the course, your young artist will:
Sahra Jalalinasab completed her MA in Animation Production at Arts University Bournemouth, specializing in 3D animation...
This could just be the start of your young artist's creative journey!
After this course, your young artist could further their animation skills with our stage 2 course, continue to harness their creativity and explore alternative Saturday Art School subjects, look forward to the future and the next step(s) in their creative journey by exploring AUB's Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media.
This exciting stage 2 course gives budding animators aged 12-15 the chance to develop more advanced and technical animation skills.
Study Foundation Art, Design and Media at Arts University Bournemouth.
Find out about the course, fees, how to apply, and more...
At Saturday Art School we encourage your young artists to be themselves; there's no right or wrong way to be creative.
If you have any questions about our Evening and Saturday Short Courses, you may find the answers in here.
Please read our terms and conditions carefully before booking your young artist onto our Saturday Art School courses.
Looking to book onto one of our Evening and Saturday courses?
You’ll find everything you need to book your place here.
Information about resourcing specialist materials/consumables that you may need to bring these with you

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/animation-advancing-skills-stage-2:
This exciting stage two course gives budding animators aged 12-15 the chance to develop their animation skills and learn more advanced techniques.
To book your place today, simply click the 'Book Now' button to be taken to AUB's secure online store, where you can complete your booking.
You can also sign up to our newsletter for updates.
Spring term 2026
Every Saturday, 31 January – 21 March 2026
This course has been developed for aspiring animators aged 12–15.
This is an advanced course to allow young artists to further develop and practice their animation skills.
It's beneficial if your young artist has already studied Animation – an Introduction (stage 1) or has some previous experience with animation.
Animation has no limits, and through this course, young artists aged 12-15 will develop more advanced animation skills to create more dynamic and technical work.
This course has been specifically developed for animators aged 12–15 to foster and advance their personal skills, understanding, and development in the field of creative animation.
With expert guidance from our specialist and experienced tutor, Isabel Rentoul, your young artist will expand and develop their creativity and technical skills, and gain confidence in creating and sharing work.
This is a perfect opportunity for young animators to refresh their animation knowledge, learn a wider range of animation techniques, and develop their creative skills.
With a focus on storytelling and emotion, this course allows young artists to develop their own ideas, creativity, and bring them to life through animation.
Each week your young artist will learn new skills using industry standard equipment, software and techniques that are vital in the world of animation.
Skills covered includes 2D animation, story development, storyboarding, concept art, and using digital animation software.
At the end of the course your young artist will:
After this course, your young artist could further their digital skills, continue to harness their creativity and explore alternative Saturday Art School subjects or look forward to the future and the next step(s) in their creative journey by exploring AUB's Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media.
On this exciting course, young artists aged 11-14 have the chance to master computer generated art.
In this creative course young filmmakers aged 12–15 will gain hands-on experience in writing, filming and editing their own material.
On this cutting-edge course young artists aged 12-15 will learn skills used by ﻿creative game designers.
This 2-week summer course is perfect for students aged 15-18 who are passionate about the world of animation and production design.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/mixed-media:
In this experimental course, young artists aged 12-15 will explore a range of different mediums and discover new ways to create.
09.30-12.30
This course has been developed for aspiring artists aged 12-15.
This is an introductory course, so your young artist doesn't need any previous experience, just buckets of enthusiasm!
This exciting and hands-on course offers budding young artists and designers the opportunity to develop their natural creative interests within a structured taught programme.
Your young artists will have time to test and experiment their creativity within a professional studio environment, to fully engage and craft their ideas into final real outcomes.
Your young artists will explore the potential of their own creativity using a range of methods and materials, from painting and drawing, print making, 2D and 3D work, idea exploration and much, much more.
This’ll give them the chance to develop a range of skills and techniques that’ll allow them to work in a variety of different mediums and combine them to create truly expressive pieces of work.
This course has been designed especially for young artists that wish to develop independent skills and advance their own creative journey through a range of materials and techniques, some of which may not be covered in their school art classes.
Your young artists will be supported to fully explore their creative talent and future potential, with the aim of helping them discover the art and design discipline that they wish to specialise in.
They’ll be expertly led by their tutor Julie James, who comes from diverse creative professional background in art and design practice.
Julie James is an accomplished art and design practitioner in both an academic teaching setting and in a professional capacity.
After this course, your young artist could further their artistic skills with alternative Saturday Art School subjects or look forward to the future and the next step(s) in their creative journey by exploring AUB's Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media.
In this exciting fine art course students aged 12–15 will experiment and explore a wide range of creative techniques, plus learn new skills.
On this course young artists aged 12-15 have the chance to develop both their 2D and 3D artistic skills.
On this practical course, students aged 14-17 will prepare and develop a robust portfolio for future creative arts studies.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/photoshop:
On this exciting course, young artists aged 11-14 have the chance to unleash their imaginations and master digital creation using digital mediums.
This course has been developed for budding digital artists aged 11-14.
This is an introductory course, so your young artist doesn't need any previous experience using Adobe Photoshop, just buckets of enthusiasm for all things digital and a willingness to develop skills.
This brand-new course has been specially developed for young aspiring digital artists aged 11-14 years to unleash their creative expression and learn how to generate unique and distinctive images through the digital medium of Adobe Photoshop.
This course is ideal for young artists who wish to explore future creative options and trends, and those considering future studies incorporating digital imaging and post-production methods.
On this fun, inspiring, and imaginative course, your young artist will be introduced to essential editing skills and techniques using a wide variety of digital Photoshop tools.
This'll allow them to edit and create their own individual digital art and also develop their unique visual voice along the way.
They'll explore AI in Photoshop and how it can offer a revolutionary way of working.
Your young artist will be taught in one of our specialist digital design suites using the latest generation of Apple computers that's equipped with the most up to-date version of Adobe Photoshop software.
They'll learn the fundamental knowledge and skills essential for generating digital art through a series of exciting and stimulating projects designed to both challenge and provide them every opportunity to flourish as young creatives.
Through a series of stimulating interlinked talks, demonstrations, and fun hands-on mini-projects, they'll be encouraged to develop ideas, think creatively, and build their very own collection of digital art that demonstrates essential art elements with flair and imagination.
Eleni Dimitriou is a Graphic Designer based in Bournemouth.
She has studied Graphic Arts at UWCN and she has a MA in Interactive Media.
After this course, your young artist could further their creativity and explore alternative Saturday Art School subjects, look forward to the future and the next step(s) in their creative journey by exploring AUB's Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media.
In this dynamic course, young designers aged 12–15 will harness their creativity, gain confidence and develop their graphic design skills.
Our creative digital photography course teaches students aged 11–15 years-old fundamental photography skills in a fun and inspirational way.
In this advanced edition of Saturday Art School, artists aged 11-15 will explore photography and creative post-production editing.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/young-artists-10-12yrs:
A utumn term 2025
This course has been developed for aspiring artists aged 10-12.
Please note, we can't accept young artists below 10 years old on this course.
We also offer this course tailored for 7-9 year-olds.
Yes, of course!
£245
This exciting course has been specifically developed for blossoming artists aged 10–12 to help them harness their imagination and gain confidence in creating and sharing their work.
All projects and learning undertaken is tailored to the older age group and will be more advanced.
On this course, young artists will learn and develop new art and design skills in an inclusive, supportive, and vibrant environment, where they’ll set their imagination free and find their creative voice.
They'll explore surrealist exquisite corpses, watercolour painting for picture books, tonal plein air painting, cartoon character art, character and creature design, character and creature sculpting and portrait painting.
Your young artists will be expertly led by friendly teaching staff dedicated to supporting young learners.
They’ll learn in our state-of-the-art studio spaces and have access to our industry-standard resources, so they get a taste of the creative industries.
During the course students will share and talk about their work, in an encouraging and compassionate environment.
Returning students: Our tutors are made aware of any returning young artists.
Although our lesson plans remain the same for each term, our tutor will ensure returning artists have the chance to explore new creative avenues within their projects and will be introduced to additional techniques to develop their learning and creativity following their previous terms.
It's safe to say, there's never a dull day with our young artists!
Toby Fox Drew is an illustrator and educator living and working on the south coast of the UK.
Toby’s work is largely character-driven...
After this course, your young artist could continue to harness their creativity and explore alternative Saturday Art School subjects for youngsters aged 10-12.
This hands-on course is perfect for budding artists aged 7–9 to explore their creativity whilst having fun at the same time.
On this course young artists aged 10-12 will develop digital drawing skills to create exciting characters.
This exciting course encourages young artists aged 10-12 to be curious, playful, and unleash their creative voice.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/digital-photography-s2:
On this course, young artists aged 11-15 have the chance to advance their digital photography skills and explore the creative possibilities using post-production.
This course has been developed for aspiring photographers aged 11-15.
Your young artist doesn't need any previous experience, just buckets of enthusiasm!
However, your young artist will especially benefit from this course if they already possess some photography skills.
Taught in and around AUB's visually inspirational campus, on this course your young artist will conduct a series of immersive practical photographic projects to advance your knowledge and skills.
They'll learn new progressive techniques and undertake captivating post-production exercises in one of AUB's specialist digital suites, using the latest generation of Apple computers all fully loaded with the most up-to-date version of Adobe Photoshop software.
Your young artist will accelerate their photographic knowledge and the skills essential for generating technically proficient and creative photography, through a series of exciting and stimulating projects designed to both challenge and provide every opportunity to develop their visual voice.
Each week, aspiring photographers will be tasked to undertake a variety of unique and challenging assignments to build their visual awareness of seek opportunities to input their individual flair and style.
Combining fun and advanced post-production technique using Adobe Photoshop, your young artists will complement and enhance their imaging by producing captivating and illuminating images to add to their portfolios.
They don't need any previous experience, but ideally will have attained some previous experience to obtain the best results from this course.
Although we supply the cameras and all essential photographic accessories, your young artists are very welcome to bring their own photographic equipment if they wish.
They'll be expertly led by their tutor, who'll provide talks, demonstrations, and highly practical activities delivered in a fun and interactive fashion that provokes student interaction, sharing of ideas and collective appraisal of work produced.
Taruun is a photographer and filmmaker based in Bournemouth, with over 12 years of experience behind the camera...
After this course, your young artist could continue to harness their creativity and explore alternative Saturday Art School subjects or look forward to the future and the next step(s) in their creative journey by exploring AUB's Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media.
We're a first-choice provider of art and design short courses for anyone wishing to engage in art and design subjects in their spare time.
There are plenty of reasons to consider studying a creative short course.
Perhaps you want to retrain, learn new skills, or just have fun...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/creative-futures-fe:
This practical course has been specially designed for young artists aged 14-17 to prepare their artwork and portfolio for applying for Further or Higher Education studies in the Creative Arts.
Every Saturday, 27 September – 29 November 2025 (8 sessions)
Continuation in Spring term 2026
Every Saturday, 7 February – 21 March (7 sessions)
15 Saturdays
This course has been developed for aspiring artists aged 14-17.
It has been designed for aspiring artists who have a keen interest in the creative arts and personal portfolio development.
Students may already be studying creative arts GCSEs or A Level or equivalent level 3 qualifications, are home schooled, or are studying at a STEM-focused school and are seeking to expand and explore their creative potential.
Even though your teenage artist may be considering applying to study the Creative Arts at Further or Higher Education it’s not a requirement for the course to have an application in progress.
We welcome any teens that keen to prepare their art portfolio.
£369
This highly practical 15-week course is suitable for aspiring artists aged 14-17 who wish to build and develop their personal portfolio to complement their existing creative studies.
It'll also support teens who are considering applying for Further or Higher Education studies in the creative arts.
Delivered by specialist portfolio development tutor, Claire Flexen, this course will be delivered over two terms where your teen artist will explore the creative process and develop their personal identity through a series of stimulating and challenging assignments, projects, and problem-solving exercises.
Each week artists will be introduced to new skills and techniques through a series of practical-based workshops using a range of equipment, experimental techniques, and different mediums, that are vital in the art world and creative industries.
This will all be underpinned with informative talks and ongoing feedback to keep them updated as they progress their creative portfolio development.
Subjects and skills covered includes experimental and observational drawing, collage, printmaking, 3D work, mixed media and illustration, as well as covering fundamentals such as colour and composition and exploring surface and texture.
Your young artist will gain confidence in displaying and sharing their personal work, and they'll be supported to fully explore their creative potential and learn how best to display, and share completed work.
In the spring term, artists will consolidate skills-development through personal assignment work will be encouraged to undertake any personal projects that they may wish to progress, all under close guidance and support from their tutor.
They'll also receive a number of informative talks from AUB Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media tutors to explore the creative pathway options in Further Education and have the opportunity to receive a personal portfolio review.
Claire Flexen is a practising designer and Illustrator with a BA (Hons) Degree in Printed Textile Design, and a Postgraduate Diploma...
After this course, your young artist could look forward to the future and the next step(s) in their creative journey by exploring AUB's Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/character-design:
Saturdays, 27 September – 29 November 2025
This course has been developed for aspiring designers aged 10-12.
This course gives young artists aged 10-12 the chance to broaden their creative horizons by exploring the world of digital art – an increasingly popular discipline within the creative industries.
On this course they'll learn how to design and generate compelling digital characters, taking inspiration from iconic animations such as Disney.
As a starting point, your young artist will take inspiration from animated films, and from this, create initial sketch concepts.
They'll then be guided to transform their design concepts using Adobe Photoshop and handy digital imaging tablets.
Your young artist will explore what makes a character endearing and engaging, as well as what makes them odious or off-putting.
This understanding will feed into character design to make them realistic and credible.
Using Adobe Photoshop to digitise their designs, your young artist will learn about a variety of techniques and tools to aid the creative process, including making selections, use of layers and how to use different digital brushes and pens for different effects.
By the end of the course, your young artist will have created at least two digitally generated characters to add to their artistic portfolios.
Throughout the course, your young artist will explore a variety of different genres, including Disney princesses, loathsome baddies, and creepy characters.
Your young artists will progress to digitising their creations through the medium of computer post-production applications and equipment in AUB's specialist digital suites.
Camilla has an MA in Illustration from AUB and her first children’s book is due...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/digital-film-editing:
This fun and practical course gives young artists aged 12-15 the chance to develop the skills needed to develop their ideas into the final cut of a film.
This course has been developed for aspiring filmmakers and editors aged 12-15.
This fun and extremely practical course offers budding young filmmakers aged 12-15 the opportunity to develop the essential filmmaking skills needed to make short films, from concept to final cut.
Throughout this course your young artists will explore a wide range of filmmaking elements, including storyboarding, story, and character development, shooting and editing.
To do this your budding filmmakers will use a range of methods to give them a taste of developing a short film from scratch.
Each session, your young filmmakers will be expertly guided by their tutor, Celeste Engel, who brings a wealth of experience in theatre, multimedia storytelling and film.
Your young artists will be working in our university specialist studio spaces that have been home to our award-winning graduates, using tools and equipment that the creative industries rely on and become a part of our creative community.
Celeste Engel studied Theatre and Drama at Australia’s La Trobe University before embarking on a career in the Melbourne Fringe theatre.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/digital-modelmaking:
8 weeks
This course has been developed for aspiring digital designers aged 12-15.
This is an introductory course, so your young artist doesn't need any previous experience, just buckets of enthusiasm and keen to try new things!
This cutting-edge and inspiring course gives young artists aged 12-15 the chance to broaden their creative horizons by exploring the world of digital modelmaking and design – an increasingly popular discipline within the creative industries.
We'll introduce budding designers to specialist digital skills used by game designers, product designers and animators in the industry, using programmes such as Cinema 4D, Blender, Photoshop, and more.
This course will take your young artist on a design journey similar to industry professionals, from super creative 2D digital designs to fantastic 3D models that could be used as game assets, model figures or in animation.
They'll have the opportunity to design imaginative characters and creatures, create realistic objects and unlock the possibilities of 3D modelmaking.
During each session, your young artist will gain a new set of skills and create a unique piece of work that they can be proud of.
Each task will be linked to a professional area within the industry.
All materials are provided as well as tips on how to practise digital 3D modelling at home!
Your young artist will be expertly guided in learning a wealth of new skills by their tutor, Jessica Tipper, who's an artist and teacher specialising in digital and sculptural art and design.
All young artists will have the chance to use creative freedom outside a traditional classroom setting.
Aspiring artists interested in exploring the new generation of art and design technology will thrive on this course and will be supported by their tutors to use creative freedom outside a traditional classroom setting.
Jessica Tipper is an artist and teacher with a wide and varied practice that bridges the gap between digital and traditional art forms.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/photography-1:
This exciting course gives young photographers aged 11-15 the chance to learn how to take and edit photos in a fun, engaging and exciting fashion.
On this course, your young artist will be supported to fully explore their creative talent and future potential as a photographer.
They’ll develop the key skills needed to take extraordinary photographs, including getting to grips with the camera controls and the creative possibilities that these can bring to their photos.
This course is perfect for youngsters that are new to photography.
It offers project-based classes for anyone wanting to learn photography in a fun, engaging and exciting fashion.
Each week your aspiring photographers will learn a variety of new skills from the basic camera controls through to more advanced techniques whilst building their awareness of the visual elements and components of composition.
Throughout the course your young artists will be guided to understand the technical elements of photography.
Taught in easy-to-understand stages, they’ll be encouraged to employ their own creative ideas and personal perspectives to produce both technically proficient and visually exciting images.
They’ll also be introduced to the basics of digital post-production using one of the most popular industry-standard software, Adobe Photoshop.
Your young photographers will be expertly led by their tutor through weekly projects, which will include talks and demonstrations delivered in a fun and interactive fashion that provokes interaction, sharing of ideas and collective appraisal of work produced.
After this course, your young artist could further their photography skills with our stage 2 course, continue to harness their creativity and explore alternative Saturday Art School subjects or look forward to the future and the next step(s) in their creative journey by exploring AUB's Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/fashion-design-and-styling:
This exciting course gives young fashionistas aged 12-15 the chance to develop their skills needed to confidently turn ideas into creative design concepts.
This course has been developed for aspiring fashion designers and stylists aged 12-15.
On this fashion course, young designers will explore the full fashion design process experience, from idea to styling the final concept.
Their confidence will develop whilst experimenting with design, working on idea generation, and focusing on creativity while also developing their technical skills.
At every turn their own personal and explorative approach will be celebrated and encouraged.
Budding designers will be introduced to key concepts in fashion design and will be encouraged to develop their own visual identity and showcase their creative voice through their fashion designs.
Young design artists will explore the fundamental skills and techniques needed in fashion and textiles and have the chance to experiment with a wide range of fabrics, accessories, and textile techniques.
Along the way young designers will utilise sketchbooks to better understand colour palettes and fabric manipulation as well as record fashion shapes.
They’ll take part in practical workshops to translate ideas and consolidate their knowledge and put newfound skills to the test.
Please note: This is not a ‘clothes making’ course.
Students will focus purely on fashion design and styling.
Chloe Scrivener is a professional Milliner with more than 20 years experience working in the fashion industry...
On this course young artists aged 12-15 will explore and practise eco-fashion and sustainable practices.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/eco-fashion:
On this highly engaging and practical course, young fashion designers aged 12-15 will immerse themselves in the world of sustainable fashion and set their imagination free.
However, it will be beneficial if they've already completed our Fashion Design and Styling (Stage 1) Saturday Art School course or possess some fashion design skills that they'd like to develop.
This course focuses solely on eco-friendly and sustainable fashion where pre-loved clothing items and surplus materials are repurposed through the process of deconstruction and then redesign and styled to produce innovative, green, fashion concepts and fully functional items of stylish clothing.
Throughout this course, your young artist will examine approaches in reconstructing valuable materials and fabrics, explore the design process and experiment with individual styling methods.
This'll include prototyping designs fitted and draped on mannequins to produce a range of distinctive, exciting garments ready for the catwalk.
They'll explore numerous construction methods and design techniques, and experiment with a wide variety of fabrics and materials to transform their ideas into actual repurposed fashion prototypes.
In doing so, they'll develop their creative personal identity, widen understanding of design approaches, expand abilities, and explore methods in which to support sustainable fashion, now and into the future.
Your young artist will undertake a series of projects that explore the best working practices and methods in creating sustainable clothing, and how to readapt from today’s throw-away fashion culture, so-called 'fast fashion'.
This hands-on course gives budding fashion designers aged 12–15 the chance to learn the fundamental skills of fashion design and styling.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/fine-art:
This hands-on fine art course has been specially designed for budding artists aged 12-15 to experiment and explore a wide range of creative techniques.
This hands-on fine art course has been specially designed for budding artists aged 12-15 to experiment and explore a wide range of creative techniques in drawing, painting, collage, 3D work and other inspiring artistic methods in an encouraging and creative environment.
As well as finessing a range of creative skills, your young artist will also learn key skills necessary for pursuing further education in a creative field, such as the ability to discuss their own work and the work of others with confidence.
Self-motivated projects and development will be encouraged.
At every opportunity your young artist will be given support and advice to enable them to engage fully and push their creative boundaries and free their imagination.
They’ll be working in our specialist studio spaces that have been home to our award-winning graduates, using tools and equipment that the creative industries rely on.
Intern (Graduate in Residence) – Fine Art...
After this course, your young artist could further their fine art skills with our stage 2 and stage 3 courses, continue to harness their creativity and explore alternative Saturday Art School subjects, look forward to the future and the next step(s) in their creative journey by exploring AUB's Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/fine-art-2d-3d:
On this unique course young artists aged 12-15 have the chance to develop their 2D fine art skills and progress to create 3D art forms.
Saturday 31 January – 21 March 2026
However, it will be beneficial if they've already completed our Fine Art Saturday Art School course or possess some previous art and design skills that they'd like to develop.
This extremely practical course gives young artists aged 12-15 the chance to broaden their creative horizons by exploring the world of fine art.
They'll learn a range of new, exciting skills to elevate their 2D artistic abilities and progress to creating 3D art forms.
This course is divided into two distinct specialities.
Firstly, your young artist will explore 2D art forms, covering a variety of skills such as accurate drawing, how to build tone, depth and the importance of mark making.
The second part of the course allows them to progress into 3D art skills where they'll gain an understanding of texture, form, and space.
Your young artist will have the chance to experiment with a range of materials such as charcoal, water and oil-based paint, clay, wire, and much more to allow the exploration of both traditional and contemporary methods.
Sessions will take place across AUB's campus, allowing your young artist to take advantage of a range of specialist facilities and different architectural structures and textures to offer inspiration.
This approach means each week will be different and exciting, and will offer your young artist the chance to create fine art in a visually appealing and creative environment.
Plus, your young artist will have the unique opportunity to draw and paint the human figure (dressed model) and face in AUB's award-winning, specialist Drawing Studio .
Our drawing studio is the first purpose-built drawing studio to be constructed at an art school for more than a century.
Your young artist will be supported and expertly led by their tutor, Aaron Peever, who takes a less formal approach to teaching and encourages the development of skills with the ethos that art is for everyone, regardless of their ability.
Where possible Aaron adapts sessions to meet the needs of his students.
This course is about encouraging a supportive, inclusive, and positive creative experience.
At the end of each session there'll be a supportive ‘reflect and share’ of the young artist's work, to discuss what has been practised.
This enables our young artists to gain an understanding of critical language in art.
After this course, your young artist could further their animation skills with our stage 3 course, continue to harness their creativity and explore alternative Saturday Art School subjects or look forward to the future and the next step(s) in their creative journey by exploring AUB's Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media.
This action-packed, practical course gives aspiring fine artists aged 12-15 the chance to explore mediums and develop new techniques.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/graphic-design:
This course has been developed for aspiring graphic designers aged 12-15.
This dynamic course has been specially developed for young designers aged 12-15 taking their first steps in graphic and digital design, to spark their curiosity and introduce them to the fundamentals of this exciting discipline.
Throughout the course your young artist will harness their creativity and learn how to apply that to a brief, whilst gaining confidence in creating and sharing their work.
They’ll study the full design process, from initial idea to final result, and will explore the fundamental principles of graphic design.
Along the way they’ll work on a range of different projects including posters, logo design, and typography.
During the course your young artist will master the tools, explore, and experiment with the most popular industry-standard graphic design software, Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop, Illustrator), to create their designs.
They’ll work in our specialist studio spaces that have been home to our award-winning graduates, using tools and equipment that the creative industries rely on.
Your young artist doesn't need to be proficient at using Adobe Creative Quite or have any design experience.
All we ask is that they come with plenty of enthusiasm and a keen interest in graphic design.
After this course, your young artist could further their digital skills, continue to harness their creativity and explore alternative Saturday Art School subjects, look forward to the future and the next step(s) in their creative journey by exploring AUB's Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/model-making:
This exciting course has been specially designed for young modelmakers and lovers of 3D creations aged 12-15 to take their first steps into the world of modelmaking.
This course has been developed for aspiring modelmakers and 3D artists aged 12-15.
This course has been specially developed for young modelmakers or lovers of 3D creations that are taking their first steps into the vast and exciting world of modelmaking and 3D design.
Throughout the course our budding modelmakers will receive valuable and specialist insight into modelmaking and the many varied opportunities available within it.
Each eight-week term offers brand-new projects providing your young artists the chance to experiment with a wide range of materials and gain confidence with making and creating unique work.
Each week, your young artists will learn a variety of new skills in modelmaking and 3D design using industry-standard specialist equipment, materials and techniques.
Your young artists don’t need to already be expert makers; all we ask is that they come with enthusiasm for learning new things and creative ideas.
Your young designers will be expertly guided by their course tutor, Jessica Tipper, through set exercises each week, alongside demonstrations and presentations of prepared examples from sculpting, casting, moulding and much, much more.
We understand how important young creative artists are – they've so much potential, untapped abilities, and enthusiasm.
On this course they’ll be supported to fully explore their creative talent and future potential as a modelmaker or 3D designer.
We encourage our young artists to be themselves, and as such we harness a budding artists’ natural style and flair, therefore enabling them to utilise existing creative interests and acquire new skills in the development of their own unique creative visual language.
It goes without saying, too, that we ensure all our young learners are included, respected, and supported every step of the way on their creative journey with us.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/simply-drawing:
This new course has been specially designed to focus on observational hand drawing, slowing down the process of learning to draw what you see by simply using pencil, pen, and charcoal.
This course has been developed for aspiring artists aged 11-14.
Please note, we can't accept young artists below 11 years-old on this course.
For any students under 11, we offer the below:
Young Artists – AUB – Arts University Bournemouth
Creative Artists – AUB – Arts University Bournemouth
No, your young artist doesn't need any previous experience, just buckets of enthusiasm!
In a relaxed but structured course students aged 11-14 years will take a steady pace to learn basic techniques, and each week young artists will practise and build upon essential techniques through a variety of observational drawing projects.
There isn’t a magic recipe to learning to draw but anyone can do it, so why not surprise yourself, as this course will fully support you on your drawing journey.
In a relaxed but structured course students aged 11-14 years will take a steady pace to learn basic techniques, and each week young artists will practice and build upon essential techniques through a variety of observational drawing projects.
We'll start with mark making and learn about the weight of the line, shading, contrast, and tone, how to make something appear 3D, and explore light sources, how to consider simple composition, depth of field, and basic perspectives.
As the course progresses, you'll be introduced a myriad of drawing techniques, styles, different mediums, and inspiring projects that'll accelerate learning, specialist skills and techniques to foster confidence and individual creativity.
It goes without saying, we ensure all our young learners are included, respected, and supported every step of the way on their creative journey with us.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/special-effects:
This highly creative and practical course gives aspiring make-up artists aged 12-15 the chance to explore the wonderful world of special effects make-up.
This course has been developed for aspiring make-up artists aged 12-15.
This highly creative and practical course has been designed especially for budding make-up artists aged 12–15, to provide an insight into the make-up skills needed to play a key creative role in performance, fashion, film and television.
Young make-up artists will be introduced to a wide range of make-up skills and special effects, perfect for young artists that are interested in prosthetic, casualty and creative make-up.
Throughout the course, your young make-up artist will receive a broad introduction based on the many different methods, applications and specialist techniques surrounding make-up, particularly special effects make-up for all types of media and performance.
Delivered in our state-of-the-art make-up studios, your young artists will be expertly led by their tutor, Julia Carter, who has over 10 years of experience stemming from her time teaching across AUB’s BA (Hons) make-up for Media and Performance .
Your young make-up artist will receive a well-rounded experience of the creative side to make-up and special effects.
They’ll have the opportunity to work in a professional environment and have the real experience of working on each other.
They’ll also develop good communication skills as they learn about the importance of health and safety and gain the confidence to apply make-up on another person.
Julia has had a varied career in the Arts, and has taught sculpture and life drawing as a visiting lecturer in further education and at...
After this course, your young artist could further their make-up SFX skills with our stage 2 course, continue to harness their creativity and explore alternative Saturday Art School subjects, look forward to the future and the next step(s) in their creative journey by exploring AUB's Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media.
On this hands-on course young artists aged 12-15 will let their imaginations free as they explore make-up special effects for film and TV.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/sfx-makeup-alternative-applications:
This highly tactile course is an extension to our Special FX Make-up (stage 1) course.
It gives aspiring make-up artists the chance to deepen and widen their knowledge and skills and have fun doing so!
It's ideal for young artists who are interested in exploring prosthetic, casualty, and creative fantasy make-up, and those who have some previous experience but wish to cover new ground and explore new and alternative techniques.
This alternative and highly practical special effects make-up course has been designed for aspiring make-up artists aged 12–15.
They’ll unleash their imaginations and gain hands-on experience creating a range of exciting, special effects looks that wouldn’t look out of place in performance, fashion, film and TV shows.
Throughout this course, your young make-up artist will receive a broad introduction to creative make-up design and application.
This’ll be based on the many diverse methods, applications, and specialist techniques surrounding special effects make-up for media and performance.
With access to our cutting-edge professional make-up studios, your young artist will be expertly led by specialist youth tutor Julia Carter, who has over ten years of make-up experience teaching BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance at AUB.
Your young artist will receive a comprehensive overview of the creative side of make-up, concentrating solely on special effects.
Some of the themes they’ll explore include prosthetic, casualty, and creative fantasy make-up.
They’ll have the opportunity to work in a professional environment and will work on looks in pairs that’ll be rotated each week.
During their time with us, your young artist will be supported to fully explore their creative talent and future potential as a special effects make-up artist.
Along the way they’ll develop positive communication skills, learn about the importance of health and safety, and gain the confidence and experience to apply make-up on another person.
After this course, your young artist could continue to harness their creativity and explore alternative Saturday Art School subjects, look forward to the future and the next step(s) in their creative journey by exploring AUB's Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media.
This highly creative course gives aspiring make-up artists aged 12-15 the chance to explore special effects and learn new make-up skills.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/young-artists-7-9yrs:
This course has been developed for aspiring artists aged 7-9.
Please note, we can't accept young artists below 7 years old on this course.
We also offer a course tailored for 10–12-year-olds.
This hands-on course is perfect for budding artists aged 7–9 years to experiment and explore their creativity whilst having fun at the same time.
Young artists will learn and develop new art and design skills in an inclusive, supportive, and vibrant environment where they’ll set their imagination free and find their creative voice.
This exciting course has been specifically developed for blossoming artists and mini-makers aged 7-9 to help them harness their imagination and gain confidence in creating and sharing their work.
All projects and learning undertaken is tailored to the younger age group.
Experienced primary school youth tutor Gemma Garley specialises in bringing out the best creative potential of her students...
Kathryn Addis is a fine artist living in the southwest of England.
Having recently studied BA Fine Art at AUB...
After this course, your young artist could return to Young Artists next term to complete new and exciting projects or, when they're old enough, continue to harness their creativity and explore alternative Saturday Art School subjects for youngsters aged 10-12.
This practical course has been designed specially for 10–12-year-olds to have fun with their creativity and learn new art and design skills.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/vr:
This cutting-edge and futuristic course will introduce artists to the world of virtual reality (VR), augmented reality (AR), and artificial intelligence (AI) and how it can be harnessed to enhance creative work.
This course has been developed for curious artists aged 12-15 looking to embrace creative technology.
Young artists will be introduced to the boundless possibilities that modern technology offers the creative artist.
No experience is necessary; your young artist doesn't need any previous experience, just buckets of enthusiasm and a desire to develop their skills!
This course will empower young artists to incorporate Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) into their creative processes while exploring different aspects of generative workflows used by leading industry experts and brands.
Whether your young artist is interested in gaming, digital art, 3D modelling, or future technology (painting, sketching, photography, graphic design, or illustration), this exciting new course will expand their understanding and allow them to experiment in the creative possibilities using exciting new technologies.
Through a combination of projects, your young artist will gain a solid foundation in understanding the design technology of the future and the potential as tools for creative artistic expression.
By the end of this course, your young artist will have developed practical skills to apply generative skills and produce unique artworks that blends human creativity with artificial intelligence.
This course aims to empower young creative artists to embrace the possibilities offered by top brands and contribute to the exciting and evolving field of emerging technologies driven creativity.
Your young artist will be expertly guided every step of the way by Ekaterina Savosina, a Gravity Sketch Certified Instructor and owner of Design in VR .
Ekaterina possesses a wealth of real-world expertise from her work with industry leaders like Adidas, Fila, and New Balance.
Under her guidance, young artists will develop the technical mastery and forward-thinking mindset to thrive as a trailblazer in the competitive design industry.
After this course, your young artist could further their art skills, continue to harness their creativity and explore alternative Saturday Art School subjects or look forward to the future and the next step(s) in their creative journey by exploring AUB's Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/summer-courses/cass:
Our five-day inclusive, supportive, and vibrant Creative Arts Summer School courses encourage budding artists to set their imaginations free and find their creative voices.
This vibrant course encourages young artists aged 7-9 to experiment and explore their creativity whilst having fun at the same time.
This high-tech course is for aspiring video makers aged 12-15 to learn the techniques used by filmmakers, show runners and YouTubers.
This hands-on course gives aspiring designers aged 12-15 the chance to explore the world of fashion design and styling.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/11-15:
On this fun and imaginative course students aged 12–15 will learn a variety of new skills in modelmaking and create unique 3D designs.
In this hands-on course budding animators aged 12–15 will let their imaginations free as they learn the fundamentals of animation.
In this advanced course, artists aged 11-15 have the chance to advance their digital photography skills and explore the creative possibilities using post-production.
This hands-on course gives budding fashion designers aged 12–15 the chance to learn the fundamental skills of fashion design and styling.
On this course, young artists aged 12-15 will explore and practice eco-fashion and sustainable practices.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/saturday-art-school/14-18:
This practical course has been specially designed for young artists aged 16-18 to prepare their artwork and portfolio for applying to study a Foundation Diploma .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/summer-courses/portfolio-preparation:
On a summer course at AUB you'll have the chance to experience life as an AUB student, meet fellow creatives from across the globe, progress your artistic abilities in a supportive environment and unlock your creative voice.
Perfect if you're considering further creative art and design study.
Explore our 2025 courses below, running 4-15 August 2025.
This 2-week summer course is perfect for students aged 15-18 who are looking for an unrivalled insight into Architecture and 3D Design.
This 2-week summer course is ideal for students aged 15-18 with a passion for creative arts that want to experiment.
This 2-week intensive summer course is perfect for students aged 15-18 looking to explore and expand their skills in digital art generation.
This 2-week summer course is perfect for students aged 15-18 who are looking for a comprehensive insight into drawing and illustration.
This 2-week intensive summer course is perfect for students aged 15-18 who possess pre-intermediate levels of English and wish to improve.
This 2-week summer course is perfect for students aged 15-18 with a passion for filmmaking and/or media-related studies.
This 2-week summer course is perfect for students aged 15-18 that want to design imagery and assets for games on a variety of platforms.
This 2-week course is perfect for students aged 15-18 who are looking for an unparalleled insight into the world of Interior Design.
This 2-week summer course is perfect for students aged 15-18 who have their sights set on becoming a make-up artist for TV, film and media.
This 2-week summer course is perfect for students aged 15-18 who are intending to apply for future Foundation studies in the Creative Arts.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/ba-hons-graphic-design-students-collaborate-on-new-underpass-mural-celebrating-talbot-village-history:
A new community-led mural at the Talbot Village underpass in Wallisdown was officially unveiled by a group of residents, schoolchildren, as well as staff and students from both Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) and Bournemouth University (BU).
Entitled The Story of Where We Stand , the mural is a timeline honouring the rich heritage of Talbot Village.
It begins with the vision of sisters, Georgina and Mary Anne Talbot, whose philanthropy in the mid-1800s led to the creation of farms, cottages and a pioneering rural community designed to support those in need.
The artwork moves through key moments in local history, including the WWI aerodrome, the region’s rare heathland wildlife, the construction of the school and church and the establishment and growth of the two world-class universities that shape the area today.
The mural was commissioned through CommUNIty, a collaboration between the Talbot Village Residents Association (TVRA) and BU, which aims to bring communities together through health and wellbeing.
CommUNIty invited AUB, the Talbot Village Trust and CC Infrastructures to help bring the vision to life, with BCP Council also supporting the project.
Students from the BA (Hons) Graphic Design course at AUB designed and painted the vibrant mural in just two weeks.
“I am immensely proud of the student team who worked tirelessly on this project," comments Senior Lecturer Marten Sims.
"They responded expertly to the live brief, taking on board dynamic feedback from a range of partners.
“This is their first time designing and painting a mural, and the install crew of students and staff have completely knocked it out of the park – in just two short weeks we’ve transformed this grimy subway into a celebration of Talbot Village history and cultural.
Long may it brighten up people commutes!”
Jo Keeling, Chair of TVRA and founder of CommUNIty, adds, “This mural is so much more than decoration, it’s an illustrated history of our village and a tribute to the spirit of community that has defined Talbot Village for two centuries.
It’s a beautiful, educational asset for the children, students and residents who walk through this subway every day and a wonderful example of what we can achieve when we work together.”
“The mural also showcases the immense artistic talent of the AUB BA (Hons) Graphic Design students.
It’s a colourful and inspiring reminder of the creativity that thrives when local institutions come together.
“Thanks also to funding support from the Talbot Village Trust, practical assistance from the culture team at BCP Council and professional skills funded by CC Infrastructure the once-bleak underpass is now a bright, welcoming and meaningful public space a fitting gateway to the village, past and present.”

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/drawing-studio:
Our stunning Drawing Studio was designed and completed by renowned architect and AUB alumnus, Professor Sir Peter Cook RA, and his office, CRAB.
This special building was officially opened by the late Dame Zaha Hadid in 2016.
The Drawing Studio was officially opened on 3 March 2016 by a special guest, the world-famous Dame Zaha Hadid, who closed her speech with, "I simply love this building."
The building was designed and completed by renowned architect, AUB alumnus and Honorary Fellow, Professor Sir Peter Cook RA and his office CRAB (Cook Robotham Architectural Bureau).
Not only is it the first purpose-built drawing studio to be constructed at an art school for more than a century, but it is also Sir Peter’s first building to be built in the UK.
The building is accessible to students from all courses across the University enabling all creative artists, working in any genre, to be in the same space together, from costume designers to architects, animators to teachers.
Every important space starts with a sketch.
Here are a few of our favourites from Sir Peter Cook and CRAB Studio.
In the spirit of a University that privileges drawing, we issued paper and a pencil to renowned artists in the UK, inviting them to make their mark on this project and help us celebrate the opening of the Drawing Studio.
We’d like to say a big thank you to all the artists who took part.
Take a look through the gallery below to see the artwork that we received, that was auctioned as part of the opening of the Drawing Studio.
Complex curved forms give buildings and bridges a unique allure.
These structures of steel or other metals also make them extremely strong when a self-bearing and monocoque construction is applied.
CIG Architecture appointed by AUB is the world leader in 3D forming of all types of metal plates and profiles and offers integrated solutions to international architects and engineering companies.
Central Industry Group (CIG) is an innovation-driven, technologically advanced industrial conglomerate engaged in shipbuilding, constructional design and production for complex architectural projects and the renewable energy industry worldwide.
Founded in 1972, CIG has been a trusted partner for the international shipbuilding industry.
Their expertise in 3D steel forming is unsurpassed; it enables them to provide us with steel constructional design and product tailored to our aspirations and conceptual designs.
The structure is an all-steel prefabricated semi-monocoque construction, imported from Germany and bolted onto the site slab, internally acoustically treated giving a continuous white surface.
The internal surfaces are white with a grey floor.
The exterior is a simple but deliberately identifiable and curvaceous form in blue, constructed from steel.
Our intention is to provide students with a new space in which drawing can be taught and practised.
We are also keen to reassert the centrality of drawing to the subjects we offer.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/the-library:
Reflecting the core values of the University, the purpose-built library is dedicated to supporting research and creativity in the disciplines of art, design, media and performance by providing high quality information, resources and services
The Library holds an excellent range of print, online and special collections and has staff who are happy to help you make the most of these resources.
It has a variety of study spaces for independent and group learning.
Facilities include loanable MacBooks and laptops, a bookable meeting space, and a silent reading room.
The Library prides itself on its customer focused approach and regularly reviews the services on offer to improve the student experience.
It consistently receives high scores in both the in-house and national student surveys which are carried out annually.
As well as supporting our students and staff we also provide access to users from the local community.
Find out more about who can use the Library here .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/theatre-dance-studios:
Theatre and Dance have been an influential factor in many of our students' lives.
Our purpose-built Theatre and Dance studios allow creativity to flourish, student collaborations and a means of self-expression that can be developed.
In our Theatre Studio and 'Black Box' style theatre, our students benefit from exploring the unexplored, but also shedding the inhibitions associated with performing in front of an audience.
Performers and set designer can also test their mettle for real in our 'Black Box' style theatre.
With flexible seating for up to 100, the studio theatre also boasts the latest in professional lighting and sound equipment.
Technical expertise is supplied by our dedicated team who can show you the ropes of our lighting, props and speaker systems.
Our purpose-built, state-of-the-art Dance Studios offer the perfect environment to bring your creativity to life.
All three studios feature the latest audiovisual equipment and professional Harlequin sprung dance floors, which offer to cushion and reduce impact, as well as offering greater traction to reduce slippage.
Our degree runs in partnership with Pavilion Dance South West (PDSW), the National Dance Development Organisation for the South West
Home of the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra, the Lighthouse is centre of excellence for live performance

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/guide-to-bournemouth/discover-dorset:
Dorset is home to some incredible areas of natural beauty, and three of the top beaches in the UK as voted by TimeOut .
While studying here, you’ll have easy access the UK’s most outstanding coastlines.
The Jurassic Coast is famous for the hundreds of fossils that wash up on its shores every year.
You can even find your own on Chesil Beach or on Lyme Regis Fossil Beach.
Around 15 minutes east of Bournemouth Pier, you'll find Boscombe Beach, the surf hub of the Dorset coast.
The waters around both piers provide some great surf, and when the seas are calmer, why not give stand-up paddle boarding a try?
At the other end of Bournemouth's sandy stretch, you'll find one of its best-kept secrets: Hengistbury Head.
This expanse of headland has spectacular views westward along the coast, as well as freshwater ecosystems, perfect for avid birdwatchers.
Along the western side of Bournemouth Pier, you'll find Alum and Durley Chines.
These are quieter sunny spots for a more relaxed day out, where you can bring a barbecue after 18.00.
Keep going and you'll be met with Sandbanks peninsula, which is perfect for kite surfing on windy days, off Sandbanks Road in Poole.
Even further along, you'll reach Poole Harbour, Brownsea Island and Corfe Castle – these are great historic sites for a day out.
Take the iconic Sandbanks Ferry over to Studland Bay, a beautiful National Trust gem, and Swanage, where you can hire kayaks or pedalos to get out on the water.
The Jurassic coast is home to the famous Durdle Door in Lulworth Cove , the UK’s only natural UNESCO World Heritage Site.
We'd recommend a train journey with South Western Railway , then hopping on one of the regular buses to and from the station.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/schools-hub/on-campus-activities:
Our campus is a hive of artistic activity and a microcosm of the creative industries all in one place.
We run a range of free on-campus activities throughout the year so that your students can experience life at a creative arts institution first-hand.
Bring your students to AUB's campus for a guided tour.
There are no set dates – you'll just need half a day
Years 12 and 13 | Full day
Each year, AUB Productions delivers a series of collaborative live productions, involving students from BA (Hons) Acting, Costume, Design for Costume and Performance, and Make-up for Media and Performance courses.
These productions include exclusive Open Dress Rehearsal shows open to school and college groups.
This is an incredible opportunity for your students to experience the thrill of live performance and learn about how many disciplines work together to create a production.
Join us to watch our exclusive matinée showings of our Acting Productions – see what shows we've got coming up
Join us to watch our exclusive matinée showings of our Dance Productions – see what shows we've got coming up

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/international/your-country-region:
If you're thinking of joining AUB and you currently live or study in a different country, you may have questions or need a little more guidance.
Choose from the list of countries below to meet your AUB country representative, find out how to apply and learn about specific entry or visa requirements for your country.
If your country isn’t listed below, please do contact us with any questions and a member of our international team would be happy to help you.
We're here to help students from China apply to study at AUB
We're here to help students from Europe apply to study at AUB
We're here to help students from Hong Kong apply to study at AUB
We're here to help students from Iceland apply to study at AUB
We're here to help students from India apply to study at AUB
We're here to help students from Japan apply to study at AUB
We're here to help students from Malaysia apply to study at AUB
We're here to help students from Middle East countries apply to study at AUB
We're here to help students from Russia apply to study at AUB
We're here to help students from Singapore apply to study at AUB
We're here to help students from South America apply to study at AUB
We're here to help students from South Korea apply to study at AUB
We're here to help students from Taiwan apply to study at AUB
We're here to help students from Thailand apply to study at AUB
We're here to help students from Turkey apply to study at AUB
We're here to help students from the UAE apply to study at AUB
We're here to help student from Vietnam apply to study at AUB
We're here to help American and North American students apply to study at AUB

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/international/international-scholarships:
We aim to have a diverse student environment with the best creative talent in the UK.
To support our goal of a multicultural campus, Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is pleased to offer several awards which may come in the form of bursaries, fee waivers and scholarships.
New for the 2025/2026 academic year, there will be a simple scholarship application form for you to complete.
This form will be available to you after you receive an offer of admission from AUB.
All AUB awards are offered on a first come, first served basis.
If you do not qualify for a scholarship or bursary, you can take advantage of the Early Payment Fee Waiver, which is available to all who qualify.
Each student will only qualify for one scholarship, bursary or fee waiver – they cannot be stacked.
If a student is enrolled part-time, scholarships, bursaries, and fee waivers may be pro-rated to the yearly tuition fees.
To help you plan and budget your finances during your time at AUB, as an international student, we've created a Cost of Living guide .
If you'd like to discuss any of these financial awards or discuss any financial matters, get in touch with our International team who'll be able to help.
Our international scholarships are awarded to recognise and support creative talent within the global international student community.
Progression Bursaries are available for all AUB students who wish to progress onto an Undergraduate or Postgraduate Programme
Available to students who have accepted their offer onto a Foundation, Undergraduate or Postgraduate course for every year of their studies.
This scholarship is available to support studies on our Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media.
This scholarship can support your studies on one of our postgraduate degrees.
Supporting your studies at AUB on one of our Undergraduate or Postgraduate degrees
BNO visa holders under 19 years of age may be eligible for Home Fees for our Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media.
In accordance with current UK fee regulations, many British Nationals who are currently resident in the EEA may qualify for Home fee status.
Partnered with the British Council and GREAT Scholarship Campaign, AUB is offering one scholarship to a student in France...
There are a number of external scholarships that you may also may be eligible to apply for:
Funded by the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office and partner organisations, Chevening provides fully-funded scholarships, leaving you free to focus on achieving your academic goals and enjoying the experience of a lifetime.
You will live and study in the UK for a year, during which time you will develop professionally and academically, grow your network, experience UK culture, and build lasting positive relationships.
Level: Postgraduate for any subject area
All students are considered for all AUB scholarships, regardless of nationality.
Please refer to the UKCISA website , which is being continually updated with information for Ukrainian Nationals about the Ukrainian schemes
Information on external global scholarships can also be found on the British Council’s Study UK website .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/international/english-language:
We offer a range of English Language support for international students, both in preparation for and during your time at AUB.
If you're unsure whether you need an English Language test to study with us or would like to know what of test you need to take, check out our English Language requirements.
If you’re applying to study with us but don’t think you will meet your chosen course’s minimum English Language requirements, you might qualify for one of our Pre-sessional English courses.
Current AUB students can enjoy a range of English language help, free of charge.
Our team of English for Academic Purposes tutors offer one to one sessions, group tutorials and workshops throughout the year.
Build the skills for success at university.
Our Pre-sessional English courses help you to build the English Language and academic skill sets required for university-level study.
With undergraduate and postgraduate course options, you can improve your understanding of English and prepare the skills for success at university.
AUB is pleased to announce the pre-sessional offering for students joining the university in September 2025 for postgraduate courses.
AUB has partnered with Oxford International Digital Institute, and courses will be delivered by OIDI.
16 weeks
IELTS 4.5 *(4.0)
IELTS 6.0 *(5.5)
£3,900
12 weeks
IELTS 5.0 *(4.5)
£2,960
8 weeks intensive**
6 weeks
IELTS 5.5 *(5.0)
£1,817
* No component below
** Students enrolling onto this course must use Visa Application Priority Service when applying.
IELTS 6.5 *(5.5)
Studying at university is an exciting challenge.
To help you succeed in your academic studies, AUB has a team of English for Academic Purposes (EAP) tutors who can help you develop your academic language and skills if you use English as an additional language.
Our EAP support is available to all AUB students who have English as an additional language.
We can help you improve your language and skills for academic study through the following:
You can book tutorials with an EAP lecturer for help with things such as:
One-to-one tutorials are a chance for you to discuss your own academic work with one of our EAP lecturers whereas Small Group Tutorials offer the opportunity for you to come along with coursemates to discuss issues while also developing and practising your communication skills.
You can book a 50-minute EAP tutorial online via AUB Bookings .
We don't usually accept more than one booking per student, per week, but you can book in advance to help you plan your workload and study time.
If you need help using the online booking system, or would like to discuss booking a one-to-one tutorial, please call Student Advice on 01202 363780 or email them directly at studentservices@aub.ac.uk .
If you're on campus, feel free to drop by Student Services reception and discuss how to book there.
Our weekly term-time In-sessional Course uses a Community of Practice 
approach (Wenger et al., 2002) to create a space for students studying 
in English as an additional language across all levels and subjects at 
AUB.
The aim is to meet and chat about your learning experiences, share 
useful ideas and strategies, and it's also a great way to practise your 
speaking skills in a friendly and relaxed environment.
Join the course 
through our Microsoft Teams EAP Team (more details below).
Our 
Microsoft Teams EAP TEAM is the place to find out what we’re doing, get 
reminders and access our courses.
You'll also find a wide range of 
academic and language-related study resources.
If you've not used Teams
 before, log in to your Microsoft account with your AUB credentials and 
click on the Teams icon.
Find the 'Join Team' button (usually in the top
 right-hand corner) and insert the code s2ktq7q to join up.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/international/visa-and-immigration:
If you're coming to study in the UK and you don’t hold a British passport or have an existing visa or immigration status, such as a dependant visa or permission under the EU Settlement Scheme, it's likely that you'll need to apply for a student visa.
We must ensure that all students enrolled at AUB have a right to study in the UK, therefore it's essential that you find out whether you'll need a visa and make sure you apply for the correct type to allow you to study before you travel to the UK, or you won’t be able to begin your course.
Depending on the length of your studies, there are two categories of visas suitable for students in the UK, Student Route and Visitor Route.
You can use the information linked below or the UKVI Visa Checker to decide which visa you need to apply for.
If you are unsure what it means to hold a Student Visa for the UK, we recommend that you read our guide ‘ Your Visa, Your Responsibilities ’ and UKCISA's guide to protecting your student status.
Here you can find a step-by-step summary of what you must do and prepare to apply for a student visa for your studies at AUB.
Arts University Bournemouth has Student Route Sponsor Status (Licence Number 2EAF7PTH3) on the Home Office-approved register of sponsors .
If you wish to see us on the register of sponsors, we're listed as Arts University Bournemouth.
We suggest that you take a look through the information available, including this guide on applying for a UK student visa , and contact us if you have any questions .
For more information on eligibility for a student visa, and guidance on SELTs and requesting a CAS.
For guidance on applying for a Student Route visa, including proofs of ID, financial evidence, academic qualifications and TB screening.
For further guidance on IHS, differentiation arrangements, credibility interviews, and bringing dependants.
In this section, we cover other types of visas and immigration permissions, aimed at those who are coming to AUB for a course of less than six months in duration and who may be entitled to study on a Standard Visitor Visa or ETA.
For students who would like to travel to Europe and require a Schengen visa to do so, we have also included information on the Schengen Visa Scheme and how we can help you apply for this visa.
Here we explain who can apply for a Visitor Visa and how to apply.
Here we explain the requirements for studying on an Electronic Travel Authorisation.
If you would like to travel to Europe during your time at AUB, you may need a Schengen Visa.
The EU Settlement Scheme allows EU/EEA and Swiss citizens who lived in the UK before the 31 December 2020 permission to remain here without having to apply for a visa.
The scheme is divided into two routes: settled and pre-settled status.
If you have settled or pre-settled status, you do not need to apply for a visa to study at AUB.
When you enrol, we will ask you for a share code that we will use to confirm your status.
If you have pre-settled status when you first enrol at AUB, and you later update this to settled status, you must email our Student Records team with details, including a new share code.
If you do not have either settled or pre-settled status already, it is unlikely that you are eligible to make a new application at this stage, apart from in a very limited number of cases.
Details can be found on the GOV.UK website .
If you will be studying a Foundation, BA or MA course at AUB, you should apply for a Student Visa.
If the course you will be studying is shorter than six months, and you are joining us for a short/summer course, or as a Study Abroad student, you should apply for an ETA.
Details on both are available elsewhere on this page.
UKCISA has published a useful guide , giving more information on the settlement scheme.
You can also read the Government’s guide to the scheme for further information .
The amount of work you can do while studying at AUB will depend on the type of visa you hold.
In general, Student Route visa holders studying a degree course can work up to 20 hours per week during term time, and those studying below degree level (Foundation Diploma) can work up to 10 hours per week during term time.
If you have a Visitor Visa, you are not allowed to work, do work placements or take an internship.
You will need to check your visa to confirm if and how much you are allowed to work.
You can work in the UK if any of the following are listed on your visa:
Your work limit should be worked out on a weekly basis; your allowance cannot be worked out as an average (e.g.
25 hours 1 week, 15 hours the next = 20 hours average) – you must not go over your maximum permitted hours of work in any one week.
If you have permission to work, you can work full-time during your holidays .
Please note, "Term time" refers to the dates published by AUB in our Term Dates .
You must not work if the words “No work” or “Work prohibited” are printed on your visa.
If you do work, it would be a breach of your immigration conditions and a criminal offence.
If your visa states that you can work 10 hours/20 hours, you must follow the guidelines above, but please note that you must not:
Further information on working during your studies can be found on UKCISA website .
You might want to do unpaid voluntary work.
There is a difference between unpaid employment and voluntary work, and you should always check with an employer who offers you voluntary work whether it might be seen as unpaid employment.
The time you spend doing unpaid employment counts towards the total number of hours of work you can do in a week.
You are unable to take a gap year and work in the UK.
If you defer your studies, your visa will be curtailed and you will be required to leave the UK.
If you would like to undertake a placement or internship during term time, you will need to make sure that it complies with the Home Office’s requirements and discuss with your course leader in the first instance.
Visa students studying at degree level or above can take up a full-time placement or internship during term time provided that:
AUB will still be responsible for you as your sponsor during your placement or internship, which means we will continue to monitor and record your attendance.
If you are offered a placement or internship outside of term time (such as during the summer holidays), you can work full time and AUB will not be responsible for monitoring your attendance, nor does the placement have to form part of your course.
When you graduate, you may wish to remain in the UK to work and develop your professional practice.
This page will give you an overview of the most relevant visa categories for after-study work.
If you need a visa to study in the UK, you'll also need a visa to work here.
The Graduate Route, Skilled Worker and Temporary Work visas are all suitable routes for recent or soon-to-be graduates.
We recommend that you look at the information below to see whether one of these categories may be suitable for your aspirations before contacting the Compliance team if you wish to discuss your options further.
For additional information and valuable resources on working after your studies, please visit the UKCISA (UK Council for International Student Affairs) website .
The Graduate Route visa gives students an opportunity to stay in the UK to work and develop their careers for up to two years after they graduate.
Full details on the application process are available on the government's website .
Eligibility and how the Graduate Route Visa works
Skilled Worker is a visa route for people who've been offered a skilled job in the UK.
In order to apply under the Skilled worker visa category, you must meet all the following minimum requirements:
You can find out more about the Skilled Worker minimum requirements, what you need to apply, fees and the application process on the Home Office website; we also recommend that you read the Skilled Worker section of the Immigration Rules in full before submitting any application.
In addition, UKCISA have published a comprehensive and helpful guide to working after your studies.
We're only able to provide students with basic advice on this visa category.
However, your employer should be able to confirm what's required to apply.
If you'd like more specialist advice, we recommend you discuss your application with an authorised Immigration Adviser before submission.
The Temporary Work visa is aimed at young people, giving them a chance to live and work in the UK for a limited time.
You can apply for a Temporary Work visa if you have an offer for a full-time internship that meets UKVI’s requirements.
The internship must be paid in line with the UK’s minimum wage legislation.
For more information about the visa, refer to the government's guidance .
You need a certificate of sponsorship before you submit your visa application.
Under the Tier 5 (Temporary Worker -Government Authorised Exchange), this can be issued by a government-approved sponsor.
Relevant schemes include AIESEC (Access Tier 5 scheme) , GTI (Tier 5 Intern Program) and BUNAC (Intern in Britain) ; refer to the full list of sponsors for more information.
We're unable to offer any guidance on this visa category.
We strongly recommend that you do your own research and contact an authorised Immigration Adviser or one of the approved sponsors linked above for further information.
The Innovator Founder visa has replaced the Start-Up and Innovator visas and is for individuals who want to start and run an innovative business in the UK.
In order to apply for this visa, you must be endorsed by an approved body; please refer to the full list .
You can read about the eligibility requirements for the Innovator Founder visa on the Home Office website ; we also recommend that you read Appendix Innovator Founder to the Immigration Rules in full before formally contacting an endorsing body.
We strongly recommend that you do your own research and contact an authorised Immigration Adviser or one of the approved endorsing bodies linked above for further information.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/international/webinars:
We regularly host webinars and virtual events about life at AUB, covering everything from tips to help you when applying, to information on our creative courses and your study options.
Don't forget to sign up to one of our virtual Open Days packed with live talks, Q&A sessions with staff and students, portfolio advice and online exhibitions.
Find out more on our Open Days page.
You may wish to visit our YouTube channel where you can view past course webinars.
The course webinars are aimed at anyone who wants to find out more about individual courses, including undergraduate and postgraduate.
Everyone is free to attend as many course webinars as they wish.
In order to join a webinar, simply go to the webinar link and sign up to register and be sent more details.
Please contact our International team if you are having trouble joining any of the virtual sessions via international@aub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/international/contact-us:
We're deeply proud of our international community and what we gain from our diverse student and staff population is invaluable.
Please contact us if you have any questions or would like more information about studying in the UK.
International Office Email: international@aub.ac.uk
Skype ID: AUB International – email international@aub.ac.uk to make an appointment
To find out more about life at AUB as an international student, have a look at some of our social media pages:
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/internationalAUB/ Instagram : @aubinternational
Email: international@aub.ac.uk
Kay Wilkinson Senior International Officer (Agent Partners) Email: kwilkinson@aub.ac.uk or agents@aub.ac.uk
Exchanges and Conversion Administrator Email: exchanges@aub.ac.uk
Email: studyabroad@aub.ac.uk
Arts University Bournemouth Wallisdown Poole Dorset BH12 5HH United Kingdom
Tel: +44 1202 363233 Fax: +44 1202 363378

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/sofia-mäkiniemi-there-was-no-test-to-be-taken-no-thesis-to-be-written-i-had-to-create:
I flew from Stockholm to London and then onwards to Bournemouth on 18 September 2023.
And to be totally honest, I was so scared and cried many tears.
I had to call my mother and partner several times so they could push me to keep going.
Today I am so thankful for that, because I don’t know who I would be today without this experience.
My year at AUB made me realise things about myself, and that in turn helped me build and nurture a practice that I feel very proud of.
I had an idea when I arrived at AUB that I wanted to be political and provocative.
I wanted to build installations using second-hand clothes and shoes, questioning the male gaze.
I wanted to be loud and strong.
So when the first term of MA Fine Art began I suddenly found myself with many ideas but no real plan on how to execute them.
I had no practice.
I was painting with acrylics, I had tried some sculpting in clay, I enjoyed drawing, but having a methodology?
Never heard of it.
I never studied practical art, my background is in music, art history and curating, and making art was something that had to take a more peripheral role in my life, until now.
And suddenly my creative choices were questioned.
Why do I want to do this?
Why is this material important?
Who is my inspiration?
Can I contextualise this?
I realised I was more of an academic than I had thought.
I was a little too square, not used to there being no right or wrong.
There was no test to be taken, no thesis to be written.
I had to create.
So I started small, using the themes we got every other week.
I listened to my course mates' experiences, my teachers' expertise, found confidants and role models.
I started reflecting in a new way.
I knew I had a year's time, so I wanted to make the most of it.
I took as many inductions at the workshops as I could, finding inspiration in processes I’ve never tried before: printing, woodwork, metal, bookbinding.
Just meeting the technicians and seeing their passion made me inspired.
I saw the possibilities, I could create whatever I put my mind to, and I had backup.
When the first term was coming to an end and I was piecing together my presentation, I realised something.
I came to AUB wanting to be that rebellious artist, but when looking through the pieces I’d made I saw an introspective journey.
There were drawings of myself looking in the mirror, a memorial for my grandmother, grief coming out in unexpected ways.
And so I decided that term two was going to be the start of a conscious journey into myself and what I had to share.
I realised that my experiences, my feelings and thoughts were relatable and that I could share them.
I finished my presentation that first term by presenting term two’s work: The Grief Project .
I introduced myself again, and along with me my grief from losing a sibling.
It was time to let my inner world out.
And that is when the actual construction of my practice began.
Content warning: some images contain nudity.
Getting to know myself was an integral part of getting to know my art.
Maybe having the distance to my everyday life in Sweden was what was needed, but having the support from my course mates and newfound friends was what really drove me.
As they were getting to know me, so was I, and not being alone in that journey was encouraging and inspiring.
I know my practice would not be what it is today without some of those people, and I am eternally grateful.
My third and last term really took the moulding of my practice to its peak.
I started finding my feet and seeing my own strengths, and that, in turn, made me dare to take some risks.
Having made a video piece and using photography in my second term, I found that medium really worked for my autoethnographic practice.
I decided to take it a step further during term three and got into analogue photography, specifically 35 mm film.
I bought a cheap camera at Boots (why does Boots even sell cameras?) and started bringing it with me everywhere.
The photography department was so nice and patient with me as they taught me how to develop and use their scanners.
And when I suddenly saw those black-and-white images on the screen for the first time, I just fell in love with the craft.
The long process of taking an image, rolling up the film, developing, scanning, etc.
gave me a chance to pause, breathe and reflect upon my practice.
Ideas could take shape whenever during the sequence of tasks, and it gave me the perfect balance between spontaneity and planning that makes my pieces a great imager of the everyday.
Because Everyday is the fundamental word for my art.
What is everyday and how does it differ between people?
By using the camera in an organic way it allows me to show my everyday life, but editing these images and processing them allows me to give them some further depth.
I thought about this process just the other day, and realised that I’ve always romanticised being spontaneous, but I am terrible at it.
I get anxious by not knowing what to expect; I am a nervous person.
The analogue camera gives me an outlet for that romantic view of spontaneity while still giving me space to process and contextualise.
As my year at AUB came to an end and I looked back and saw all that personal growth, I saw an artist.
Even taking the word in my mouth before felt uncomfortable, like I didn’t deserve it yet.
After AUB, I am confident in myself being an artist, because I know I have a practice that is founded in hard work and it is true to who I am.
I see my practice as a living entity, something that continues growing and changing, because it is tied to me and my experiences.
The more I learn, the more experiences I gather, the more my practice will continue to expand.
I am an artist, I am my practice, and my practice is my everyday.
If you liked this post you might be interested in MA Fine Art

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/bhavana-rao-art-exists-in-everyday-actions-objects-and-experiences:
I distinctly remember a moment during my second unit when I realised why I make art, or why I create anything at all, really.
It’s to make sense of life and to find meaning.
I ran a successful architecture design studio in Bangalore, India (where I’m from) for many years.
The pandemic brought an unwelcome pause to the practice, with all construction activity grinding to a halt across the country for eight or nine months.
This, in hindsight, was a blessing in disguise and an opportunity to take a long look at my practice and what I really wanted to do with my life.
I decided to study fine art to push my work in new directions and be more experimental.
Happily, I won a substantial scholarship to study at AUB (British Council GREAT Scholarship), which made things more affordable for me – so I packed my bags and came to this country!
I very consciously did not bring architecture or design into my art practice here for several reasons.
First, I wanted to try my hand at something new.
Second, I wanted to explore more embodied and experiential methods and mediums – unlike the digital 2D/3D work I do for architecture, which feels more disconnected from the lived experience of space.
Third, I wanted to break away from the structured and outcome orientated nature of design practice and let myself explore outside those constraints.
That insight led me to discover my preferred mediums and specialism: performance, text and drawing in the expanded sense.
I came to see that, for me, art exists in everyday actions, objects and experiences.
Performance art felt like the most embodied, present and immediate way of engaging with the world.
Language – or text – is something I constantly turn to in order to process experience.
And I’m genuinely drawn to exploring what drawing can be and questioning its boundaries in the expanded field.
My final project series of works, Meditations on a Wall , started with a drawing I made on the wall in my studio.
I picked up a pencil one day and traced around the bricks in the wall.
I know it’s a simple act, but it was such a uniquely textured wall that the pencil almost moved of its own accord.
It sped over the smooth bits and stalled in the bumpy bits.
It developed its own momentum with minimal guidance from me and I felt like I was on a journey.
It was exciting – there was a sense of discovery, and I think, importantly, it was a way knowing something I’d been seeing for months in a new way.
That moment of embodied drawing became a way of knowing the wall, not as an object, but as a lived, responsive site.
The idea of site – familiar to me as an architect – began to shift to include this experiential information.
I did a series of works in different formats based on this experience, all orbiting this expanded idea of site and ways of knowing: Ways of Seeing a Wall (an artist book), A Wall of Voids (a laser-cut drawing), Blind Lines (performance and drawing/sculpture) and What is this?
(performance and text animation).
Together, they reflect my ongoing inquiry into perception, language and meaning.
I move between disciplines to explore what’s elusive – what lies in the gaps between experience and representation.
Each piece is an invitation to pay close attention, to embrace uncertainty and to find clarity, not through answers, but through the persistent, poetic act of asking.
I thoroughly enjoyed the MA Fine Art course and found it truly transformational.
I appreciated that it welcomed people from all backgrounds – not just those with a fine art degree.
It really opened up my thinking and expanded my horizons in ways I hadn’t expected.
That being said, what you choose to do with it after graduation depends entirely on your own circumstances and goals.
I was fortunate to be in a position where I could take the time and space to pursue this shift.
Discover more of Bhavana's work through Umber , their sustainable architecture firm.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/mitsuki-kawase-aub-can-become-a-second-home-for-you:
I think it is quite unusual to come abroad to study acting.
Honestly, learning acting in a second language can be quite challenging.
But my love for acting is so strong that, even when things are difficult, it makes me want to try even harder.
Acting has always been something very special to me.
Ever since I was little, I’ve loved fiction – whether it was books, movies, or anything that offered an escape from my everyday life.
Those stories made my heart race and gave me a way to fuel my imagination.
For a long time, I was just someone who loved watching stories from the outside.
But that changed when I was in middle school.
We had to perform a Shakespeare play as part of a class project – Much Ado About Nothing .
It was a comedy, and when I saw people laughing at my acting, I felt a huge sense of happiness and achievement.
I found all those actors I loved watching weren’t living the stories – they were performing them.
And yet, those performances could make people cry, laugh and feel so deeply.
Something that isn’t even real can have a huge impact on people’s lives.
I thought, if I could be a part of that someday, and even make it my career, that would be a dream come true.
That’s when my dream of becoming an actor really started, and a big part of my creative journey comes from my theatre experience.
I became interested in acting in middle school and continued to major in drama classes and participate in the drama club in high school.
Although it was small, we put on several plays.
Just one person doesn’t make theatre – it’s the result of a group.
Directors, technical crews, actors, along with so many others – everyone plays a part.
Unlike some other kinds of art, where one person does everything alone, acting and filmmaking are all about teamwork.
Watching that process up-close taught me something: I love creating things together with other people.
It’s not about doing everything by myself – it’s about working together and building something even bigger and better.
The more people involved, the more exciting the ideas come out.
In my home country, Japan, acting and theatre aren't seen as very important.
It’s even harder to meet people who are as passionate about it as I am.
But at AUB, there are so many students who are passionate about acting, film, and all kinds of arts.
It’s the perfect place to throw yourself into what you love.
One of my favourite memories is a collaboration we did with the film students at the end of the first year.
We worked together to make a short film, following the same steps as professional filmmakers – from rehearsals all the way to post-production.
At AUB, you don’t just learn acting – you get real, hands-on experience.
The experience of collaborating not only within the theatre course, but also with other courses to create something together, is very meaningful.
Through this process, I believe that students will acquire the ability to think for themselves and adapt to various environments, not only as students but also as true actors.
It’s a wonderful experience that you can't get from just sitting in a classroom and listening to a teacher.
Plus, you get to explore all kinds of styles: Shakespeare, modern theatre, screen acting, even puppetry.
And we also study academic acting theorists like Stanislavski.
Since starting here, my love for acting has only gotten stronger, and I can really feel myself growing.
One of the toughest but most rewarding things was studying Shakespeare.
For someone like me, who didn’t grow up speaking English, it was a huge challenge.
But Shakespeare’s words and stories are so full of life and energy – they really force you to open up your heart and show what’s inside.
It was perfect for learning how to be truly real and present in my acting.
And because it was so tough, the sense of achievement afterwards was even bigger.
Right now, I’m also working on a student film project outside of class.
The director saw my acting in another film and asked me to be a part of it.
That’s the kind of thing that happens at AUB – people notice your work and invite you to new opportunities.
There are so many chances to collaborate outside of class, too.
I’ve also taken part in film workshops, acting masterclasses and even worked as an extra in real movies.
It’s amazing to be able to take what I’ve learned and test it in the real world, and it’s AUB that gives you the courage to step outside your comfort zone.
Like I said at the beginning, my dream is to become an actor.
I’ll probably go back to my home country to start looking for acting work.
Being able to speak English will be a huge advantage, and I hope acting will get more recognition in Japan, too.
My biggest dream is to work internationally someday as a Japanese actor.
And finally, to anyone out there thinking about studying abroad: AUB is such a wonderful place for international students .
Of course, moving to a new country is never easy – it wasn’t for me either.
But the community here is so warm and welcoming.
You don’t have to force yourself to change to fit in.
The teachers and students are all kind, and I believe AUB can become a second home for you.
It’s not a narrow or rigid place.
Here, you’ll find an open, wide space where you can spread your arms and walk forward, just as you are.
If you ever doubt about whether you can be good at acting in a second language, I want to share something my tutor once told me: “It’s not about the product – it’s all about the process.”

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/kasandra-marie-georgi-follow-your-intuition-and-you-will-land-exactly-where-you-are-meant-to-be:
Theatre is often a second home for those looking to find an escape from their reality.
Ever since first taking theatre as an extracurricular in school, I fell in love with the art of storytelling.
Being able to immerse myself in a completely different world and live the life of another soul, to empathise and understand them, is exhilarating to me.
I was raised in Orange County, California, and I was fortunate enough that the high school I was assigned to for my Bilingual (Spanish) programme had a phenomenal theatre company.
San Juan Hills High School Theatre Arts allowed me to flourish as an actor with the phenomenal teachings and guidance of my director, Cambria Graff.
Her love and knowledge of theatre were inspiring and I have the pleasure of dedicating my entire future acting career to her.
My love for theatre was unconditional; for every production I was not accepted into for acting, I signed up to be part of the technical crew, with technical director Thomas Pike.
My entire technical experience has given me a greater understanding and appreciation for theatre technicians.
I truly believe that this has made me a better actor to work with, for I now understand what is expected of an actor from a technical perspective.
After training in theatre for seven years in California, I decided to follow my intuition of going overseas for a Bachelor’s.
Though a degree in acting is not necessary for the industry, I had a hunger for more knowledge on the craft, curious about what another country could teach me.
The reason I chose Arts University Bournemouth was because of its virtual tour of the campus, friendly communication with staff (who even organised a virtual meeting with the course leader for me) and the collaboration between courses.
Making life-changing decisions can be extremely difficult, but I believe that if you follow your intuition, that gut feeling, everything will work out just fine.
And I couldn’t be happier with my decision.
Taking risks is fundamental for an actor, and that began with moving to Bournemouth by myself, as an international student.
BA (Hons) Acting has broadened my actor’s toolkit through practical work underpinned by theory, taught by staff who hold such wisdom.
Psychological realism is the most crucial fundamental aspect that I learned in the first year.
An actor not only portrays a character on the outside but also from within.
The inner monologue that occurs within a character is shown through the eyes, the breath, and the body language.
That is only a brief insight into all that I have learned in the past year – I could simply write a book on it all.
Throughout this course so far, I have performed a scene from Federico García Lorca’s Yerma , starred in Pandemonium by BA (Hons) Film Production , played Lady Macbeth in a scene from William Shakespeare’s Macbeth , and portrayed Louisa Anne Stuart at Highcliffe Castle.
The versatility of this course has made my experience here rewarding.
When it comes to my creative process, the two main components are character backstory and actioning the text with adverbs.
Whether it’s creating a character from scratch or building upon what is given through the script, an in-depth background is what breathes life into the character.
It varies to what the actor deems most useful, but it can range from describing their childhood to listing out their favourite hobbies.
Actioning the text is vital for every actor’s process, but personally, I have found that adverbs for each line of dialogue are more functional than simply using verbs.
Every artist’s process is different; however, incorporating a daily yoga practice is quite beneficial.
Acting is a very physical craft, and you must be in tune with your body, mind, and voice.
Yoga provides that clarity of mind and physical warm-up that every actor needs.
Alongside my course, I have modelled for various projects with BA (Hons) Commercial Photography .
It has been such an exciting creative outlet and a good opportunity to build up a modelling portfolio.
I have also starred in various student films in collaboration with BA (Hons) Film Production .
These collaborations have been extremely beneficial for my acting journey, as I am able to apply everything I have learned throughout my course and identify what methods work for me and which areas need improvement.
I recently wrapped up filming for 1046 , a student film directed by Edward Rastall that is based on a true mystery.
With my longest filming span of six days, the entire cast and crew were phenomenal to work with.
The story gave me an opportunity to explore my acting skills with a more timid character and the use of accents.
From what has been such an enjoyable experience overall, I eagerly await the film’s release.
Because of my extensive networking with other courses, I believe it will be beneficial for me to stay in England.
After I graduate, I will move to either London or its outskirts and begin auditioning for every stage production, video game, and film that piques my interest.
With the hopes of one day starring in a Victorian film, a horror film, or Avatar 5 .
If I were to leave any advice to fellow actors, I would say follow your intuition.
Write down everything you learned in the course that you deem useful to your craft in a notebook that you will keep forever.
Take advantage of the collaboration between courses, but do not overwork yourself too much.
Finally, I will leave you with something that my director once told me, that I will never forget: “Just because you did not get the role, does not mean you are a terrible actor.
It simply means that the role was not meant for you.
This industry is 99 nos and one yes.
Never give up”.
To see more of Kasandra’s work, visit her website .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/laleh-ghavami-ma-fine-art-aligned-perfectly-with-what-i-was-seeking-a-journey-of-exploration:
I still remember the day I decided to apply to the MA Fine Art course at AUB.
Having spent years in biophysics and scientific journalism, I was accustomed to structured thinking and methodical approaches.
But there was always this creative undercurrent in me, expressed through my private sculpture and jewellery classes.
I was technically skilled, but I craved something more profound – a space to explore, to think, to discover new dimensions of art.
A close friend who had studied at AUB would often tell me about the collaborative, engaging community there.
Their stories painted a picture of a place where creativity and experimentation thrived, where diverse perspectives and interdisciplinary approaches were not just welcomed but celebrated.
As an international student, I hoped for a place where I could not only refine my skills but also redefine my artistic voice.
What drew me to MA Fine Art specifically was how the course leaders described their programme.
Reading between the lines of the course description, I sensed a programme that valued the process as much as the outcome – a place where the act of questioning and reflecting was as important as finding answers.
It aligned perfectly with what I was seeking – not a rigid curriculum, but a journey of exploration.
I knew I wanted to be in an environment that encouraged exploration, challenged my perceptions, and gave me the freedom to shape my own artistic identity.
One of the most transformative aspects of MA Fine Art experience was learning to surrender to the process.
As someone with a scientific background, I was habituated to forcing circumstances and making things happen according to plan.
The course taught me the opposite – to immerse myself in materials and environments and see what emerged.
This wasn't easy.
There were challenging moments when I felt lost without my familiar frameworks.
But looking back, surrendering to this new approach was one of the best decisions of my life.
It was a complete turning point.
Instead of imposing my will on my art, I learned to listen to it, to allow it to speak through me.
The diversity of perspectives at AUB was invaluable.
Having access to different tutors expanded my thinking in ways I couldn't have anticipated.
The crit sessions, though sometimes intense, were incredibly formative.
Hearing how others interpreted my work often revealed layers of meaning I hadn't consciously intended.
We had special workshops with different artists and specialists that opened new possibilities.
The regular artist talks, especially during the first unit, were eye-opening.
Hearing established artists discuss their journeys and processes gave me permission to embrace uncertainty in my own work.
It was reassuring to see that successful artists didn't have everything figured out from the beginning – that art is an ongoing exploration.
As the course progressed, I began to discover a new way of thinking that I believe had always existed within me but never had the chance to emerge.
The MA programme didn't just develop my professional practice – it helped me uncover aspects of my artistic identity that had been suppressed for too long.
My final work was an installation that explored boundaries and uncertainty – themes deeply tied to my artistic journey.
It reflected the displacement I had felt but also the extraordinary journey that led me to that point.
Through various projects – exploring line, imaginary sanctuary, cover-uncover-discovery, 30-Day Breathing Project – I developed a visual language that was authentically mine.
This transformation extended even to my jewellery making, which evolved from technical craft to conceptual practice.
My process of working with wax before casting in metal became a perfect metaphor for my artistic journey – capturing fleeting moments in lasting form, balancing presence and absence, just as my installation work explored my boundaries and uncertainty.
What's remarkable is that my journey didn't end with graduation.
After completing the MA, one of my biggest concerns was how to maintain this momentum and continue developing as an artist.
This question soon found its answer through the SPUD residency –an opportunity that transformed my post-graduation anxieties into exciting new possibilities.
The SPUD residency became a critical bridge between my academic experience and my independent artistic practice.
It provided the space, resources, and community support to further explore the themes and techniques I had begun developing at AUB.
During this residency, I am able to refine my artistic voice while establishing connections in the broader art world.
An exciting development in my artistic journey has been the collaboration with the Bodyscape 2025 group, where my jewellery became an integral part of their costume design for a groundbreaking performance piece.
This unexpected partnership not only expanded my professional network but also allowed me to explore the intersection of visual art and performative expression.
The engaging community at AUB continued to embrace me, offering additional opportunities I couldn't have imagined.
Working with TheGallery provided valuable curatorial experience.
Being invited to curate the international exhibition of 2025, after participating as an artist the previous year, was an unexpected honour.
My involvement with the Drawing Research Group and my upcoming first solo exhibition in April represent the continuation of this journey.
When I look back at my decision to study Fine Art at AUB, I can honestly say I don't regret it for a moment.
What began as an educational choice has become a transformative life experience, opening doors to possibilities I never imagined before.
As I move forward as an artist, I carry with me not just new skills and knowledge, but a fundamentally different relationship with creativity – one built on exploration, openness, and the courage to surrender to the unknown.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/danielle-saldanha:
In my second year on the BA (Hons) Fashion Communication course here at AUB, we were given an industry live brief by Size?
in partnership with Salomon.
One year later, I was honoured to be invited to attend their awards ceremony in London, which celebrated the talent and creativity of students from various universities across the UK.
It was a pleasure to be highly commended in the Styling and Creative Direction category and to sit in a room with some of the future creatives in the industry.
It is always nice to see your projects and work being appreciated by others, but given that I’m an international student who enjoys incorporating my culture into the work that I do, it’s even more special to know that there is a place for minorities and for our work to be celebrated in the West.
I always enjoy reflecting on this project in particular, because it was the one that surprised me most.
The unit just before this one was a group project for Dr.
Martens, which was exciting for the final outcome we created, but traumatic in the way that group projects generally are.
Nevertheless, that is an experience that teaches you a lot about how to work with others.
So, moving from that unit to then finding out we were doing another one with shoes, did not seem too exciting to me since I am not much of a “sneakerhead” myself.
If you were to tell me at the start of that term that this Size?
unit would grow to become my favourite project I’ve done while at uni, I probably wouldn’t have believed you then.
But it’s true, over the nine weeks we had to work on it, I learnt more about the companies and the brief, and managed to find a way to create a project I would enjoy working on, which is the most important thing.
If you don’t enjoy what you’re doing, then there’s probably no point doing it at all.
The brief was straightforward – to create a multimedia marketing campaign for Size?
specifically aimed at promoting Salomon shoes.
This was the first project where we as students had creative freedom to come up with our own outcome, and I really enjoyed not being restricted by the brief.
My idea only came to me about four or five weeks into the term, but I put a lot of importance on research when doing my projects, allowing me to properly understand the task at hand.
This in turn aids in my brainstorming of ideas.
One of the things I found during my research is Size?’s interest in celebrating up-and-coming musical talent through some of their events known as ‘Size?
Sessions.’ I then had the idea to create a marketing campaign around a Size?
Session featuring Tamil-Swiss singer Priya Ragu – someone I had discovered in a magazine when I did some research at a magazine store in London.
I started listening to her music, and enjoyed it for the fusion of influences from both the East and West, the same fusion I find in my own work.
I initially started out with the proposal of an in-store musical event featuring Ragu, which would also highlight the brand Salomon with the launch of three new Size?
exclusive colourways for Salomon’s ACS Pro.
The Salomon XT-6 is their most popular shoe and cash cow, but I was drawn to the ACS Pro for its design and because I hadn’t seen it in much of the marketing that Size?
did particularly for their Salomon range.
As Salomon is an outdoor and trail brand, their colourways are usually more earthy.
However, my research showed me that Salomon’s previous collaborations with other brands featured brighter colourways, particularly seen with the ACS Pro, giving me some reassurance that a collaboration with Ragu might appeal to their consumers.
I was thus inspired by Priya Ragu’s music videos and her overall visual aesthetic and designed three new colourways, each inspired by one of her songs.
By the middle of the term, we had a member from the Size?
team visit us in Bournemouth, and we were given the chance to pitch our ideas and get valuable feedback on how to further develop our ideas.
I was really pleased by the feedback I received – they appreciated focusing on a musical artist who incorporates her culture so vividly into her work and appreciated the research I had done.
They also pointed out that realistically, a colourway collaboration would be too expensive to produce and that the idea was strong even if I just focused on creating an in-store event.
It was such a great learning experience gaining feedback from an industry creative and professional and it really helped me refine my idea before the deadline.
I chose to focus on creating an event because the market research I did showed me that consumers are seeking more real-life experiences in the post-pandemic world as we crave human connection and a chance to step away from the digital.
I produced a plan for the event, including the store design; who would supply the food and drink (I looked into Sri Lankan and Tamil restaurants to theme the whole event around celebrating the culture Ragu is so proud of); what the guest list would look like – making sure that it included a mix of South Asian creatives and creatives with an active interest in Salomon; an activation timeline for how to effectively market the event; a breakdown of how the campaign achieved an omni-channel approach; and a proposed campaign shoot idea to be used to promote the event.
For the photo shoot, the styling was inspired by Ragu’s personal style, which saw a lot of androgynous silhouettes, bright colours, and bold patterns.
The shoot was a studio-style shoot with a lot of fun and unconventional poses to bring in a tongue-in-cheek humour element that Size?
likes to include in their campaigns.
I then used these images to create some example social media content and posters that could be used for other forms of marketing.
It is this photo shoot that got me nominated for the Styling and Creative Direction award.
I clearly remember being on the phone with my mum and telling her about my idea and how my project was going.
She was worried that I was making my project too much about my culture and that it wouldn't be something the British audience would be interested in.
She later applauded me for staying true to myself and trusting my instinct, because it ended up being well-appreciated by the team at Size?
but more importantly, I ended up creating something that I could be proud of.
I’m mentioning this because I find that as an international student, it’s easy for the Imposter Syndrome to kick in and have you worrying that no one cares about the work that you do.
This is proof that you should trust your gut, stay true to yourself, and it will all work out in the end.
I took a project that I initially wasn’t excited about because I looked at it with too narrow a perspective, and turned it into something that I would be interested in.
I guess this is my way of suggesting being more open-minded with projects you’re given at university.
Part of the challenge is taking something you are given and making it your own – something that excites you.
I started looking at university projects differently from this unit, and it only benefitted me in the end.
I’m currently working on my Final Major Project, titled Nana’s House , which is a publication that documents the lives of the minority Indo-Portuguese communities of Mumbai, India.
This is a very special project, as it’s inspired by my memories of visiting my grandparents from this community, who’ve kept the traditions and history of our culture alive in us.
The publication aims to be interactive, promoting human connection and a break from the digital world that we are so tied to.
By visually communicating stories of individuals from within this community, I aim to archive and bring into the mainstream conversation, just one of the many diverse minority communities that are too often left out of the narrative of India.
It’s a sort of full-circle moment because I’ve spent my time at uni exploring the theme of transculturation, and the relationship between the East and the West.
Now, my final project aims to document my own transcultural history and heritage – the fusion of Indian and Portuguese cultures.
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Fashion Communication

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/xiaoqian-lexie-chen-my-ma-fine-art-journey-at-aub:
Bournemouth is a beautiful and charming seaside town.
It has golden beaches, a vast sea, and kind people.
The town is quiet and peaceful.
Life here is very relaxing.
My favourite place is the beach.
Before coming here, I often imagined what I would do if I ever felt sad or unhappy.
I thought about going to the beach.
Now, I know that the beach is the best place for me.
Standing by the sea, I can hear the sound of the waves and feel the fresh air.
I can touch the soft sand and watch the endless horizon.
The sea makes me feel small, but also free.
Nature has a special way of healing – it helps me calm down and feel peaceful.
I chose to study MA Fine Art because I love art, and I really like Arts University Bournemouth’s creative style.
The atmosphere here feels simple and fresh – it inspires me a lot.
The course has allowed me to experiment with different materials and techniques; I’ve been free to choose my own project and develop it in my own way.
I like this freedom.
It gives me space to explore and create.
The tutors are very kind and supportive, and they always give me useful advice, encouraging me to try new ideas and experiment with different artistic methods.
Their guidance helps me improve my skills and discover new artistic possibilities.
During my studies, I have learned many new skills, trying screen printing, metalwork, resin art, and letterpress printing.
These are all very interesting techniques.
I also learned about the use of technology in art.
For example, I studied VR and how to use it in artistic projects.
I also learned about curating exhibitions.
Very practical skills that help me a lot in my projects.
I feel more confident about my work now, but I also know that if I need help, I can always ask the technicians at AUB.
They are very experienced and always willing to support students.
One of my favourite experiences was a field trip, where we had the chance to learn about African tribal culture, listening to their stories and learning about their traditions.
I also got to experience African drumming, which was a very special and joyful experience.
I could feel the energy and connection between people through the rhythm of the drums.
It was amazing to see how art and music can bring people together.
The most challenging part of my course is keeping up with art exhibitions.
I always pay attention to new exhibitions and their themes, and I try to create my own artworks based on those themes.
This is not easy, but it is a great challenge.
It pushes me to think differently and explore new ideas.
Every time I take on a new challenge, I learn more about myself and my artistic style.
I create works that surprise me.
This is what makes art exciting.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/abeleeza-irsyad-becoming-a-part-of-aub-might-be-the-finest-phase-in-my-academic-record-so-far:
I always have a somewhat comical answer whenever someone asks why I chose the UK as my chosen country for study abroad.
The shortest answer would be likely: "Most of my favourite films are made here, featuring British actors, actresses, and producers, all of which tend to be unique and daring"...
...But it's true.
I grew up enjoying many excellent movies, serials, and animations which usually left a lasting impression, leading me to realise that there must be exceptionally skilled individuals behind those amazing productions.
It made me wonder: what would it be like to study and work in such a creative and supportive environment.
Speaking of studying abroad, it felt like an opportunity to break away from my predictable path.
While studying in my home country is also a privilege, many students – including myself – believe that certain experiences are best gained overseas .
That's why I was eager to seek out scholarships, and I am beyond grateful to have been selected as an awardee of the Indonesia International Student Mobility Award (IISMA 2024), which gave me the chance to spend my first three months in the UK.
More luckily, I found just the right institution for my vision of a creative and super-nurturing community in Bournemouth, which is AUB itself.
During my study period, I came to BA (Hons) Communication Design and Strategy while already grounded with some design skills from projects I had during the previous semester at my home college.
One of the first things I learned here was image-making.
Not just covering the visuals, but how to convey the message behind it.
At the same time, we learned the importance of experimenting with words and ideas and documenting them in a sketchbook.
Before coming to AUB, I found that the sketchbook was not doing much to my progress, since I rarely draw.
However, at AUB, everyone values our process.
The tutors continually emphasised that the sketchbook is not just about presenting polished results but also tracking how ideas evolve.
They encouraged us to make mistakes, experiment in different directions, and embrace trial and error as part of learning.
Feedback sessions were particularly valuable, helping us refine our concepts and gain a clearer direction for our outcomes.
I also admired the teachers for these reasons as well.
They are aces in their fields and genuinely passionate about what they are teaching.
One thing that stuck with me still is, how they always ensured no student was left struggling on their own.
The one-on-one tutorial session was particularly helpful, allowing students to delve deeper into their personal growth while receiving direct guidance from the tutors.
This was quite different from my experiences back home, where lectures often felt more distant and tended to encourage students to learn independently alongside their assignments and projects, which can feel less supportive at times.
Besides the academic commitments, the IISMA awardees are not only prepared to adapt to a new learning environment but also to embrace the cultural exchange, opening our minds to social diversity and expressing Indonesian culture on an international stage.
One of my most remarkable experiences was leading Indonesian Cultural Harmony, the first Indonesian cultural event at AUB at the end of October 2024.
Alongside my incredible team of 10 IISMA fellows, we brought a taste of Indonesian to Bournemouth.
The event introduces our National Batik Day, featuring our traditional attire like Kebaya and Batik.
We also invited students from every background to join a lively Maumere flashmob and participate in the traditional games we brought along to complete the nostalgic and joyful evening.
It was an honour to collaborate with such dedicated peers, as well as the supportive team of AUB who helped make it happen.
But what truly made it special was seeing everyone from every course – and even from Bournemouth University – enthusiastically joining in, having a memorable time and approving the homemade Indonesian dishes that we had prepared most of ourselves at Madeira Road halls.
Becoming a part of AUB might be the finest phase in my academic record so far.
From refining my design process to leading a cultural event, every challenge and opportunity has helped me grow in ways I never imagined.
Looking back, I would say that my 15-year-old self would be thrilled to know that I am living her dream, even if just for a short time through this scholarship.
I will make sure this won't be her last time – she has more dreams to thrive.
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Communication Design and Strategy

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/kheyal-roy-meighoo-the-year-at-aub-transformed-me-into-the-animator-that-i-am-today:
I am a stop motion animator with a passion for using the artistry
and magic of animation to tell stories about family, culture, and
history.
I came to AUB as a Fulbright scholar in order to pursue my
interdisciplinary interests in animation and history with the support of an
institution that encourages diverse methods of storytelling.
I have spent most of my life
in the United States and attended Emory University, where my undergraduate
degrees in Film and History helped me realise that filmmaking and social
justice are intertwined.
It was during this time that I began to make my
own animated films.
While I was encouraged to do so, I did not have all
the necessary resources to produce the work that I would have liked because I
was not at an arts institution.
This led me to apply for a Fulbright grant
to study abroad.
The Fulbright programme fosters international collaboration
through grants that allow students to receive degrees abroad, encouraging
cross-cultural dialogue and intellectual exchange.
I applied to the UK
Open Study spot, which is the only Fulbright grant that would have allowed for
an artistic project to be completed.
It was during the application process
that I found AUB.
I was attracted to the school because of the focus on
the interdisciplinary approach to animation and the degree’s focus on theory,
practice, and professionalism.
I quickly got in touch with Dr Paul Ward,
the leader of the MA Animation Production course, whose work in animated non-fiction
scholarship proved to be essential during my MA degree.
I was overjoyed to receive
the Fulbright and arrived in Bournemouth in the fall of 2023, with a plan to
make a short animated film during the year.
Alongside the coursework
assigned through the graduate course, I worked to create a film that would
further my goals of telling diverse stories.
Previously, I have made films
that deal with my own family history.
I grew up in Atlanta, Georgia, listening
to stories about my parents and grandparents when they lived in Canada, India,
and Trinidad.
My mother’s parents experienced the effects of the British Raj,
lived through Indian Independence and Partition, and immigrated to Canada in
search of opportunity.
My father’s parents, who also immigrated to Canada, are
Indo-Trinidadian, descended from indentured labourers who left famine and
poverty in India that was caused by the British Raj to work under slave-like
conditions in the British Caribbean.
As a third-generation Asian American, I am
caught between my ancestral heritage and my experiences in America.
I want to
explore this tension through animation.
With the support of Dr Ward
and my classmates, I ultimately decided to create a film that drew from my
personal experience of being part of a global Asian diaspora, and specifically
about the tension I feel between my ancestral heritage and my lived experience
in the global empires of the US and the UK.
The goal of the Fulbright
program is to engage in cultural exchange between the origin and host country.
I decided to draw these
connections through a semi-autobiographical story about an international
student who must reconcile her Indian, Trinidadian, and Canadian ancestry with
her American and British upbringing.
As my own family history reminds me, the
British Empire shaped the lives of many Asians in the US, Canada, and the
Caribbean.
Films about this diverse history are necessary because the
violent histories of anti-Asian hate are reappearing in our contemporary lives.
The COVID-19 pandemic brought to light anti-Asian sentiments in both the US and
UK.
Events such as the Atlanta spa shooting in 2021, where six Asian American
women were killed in my hometown, not only demonstrated how the pandemic has
heightened the racism that Asian Americans experience every day, but also
brought the impacts of gendered racism to the forefront.
In the UK, there have
been ongoing tensions between South Asian immigrants and the previous Conservative
government, creating a xenophobic climate that has only been exacerbated in the
past years.
In fact, during my last weeks at AUB, anti-immigrant mobs were
popping up to access the country.
With this context, I wanted
to create an innovative film that engages with critical forms of representation
and highlights how members of the Asian diaspora experience the tension between
their ancestry and lived experience.
It was an absolute joy to be able to work
on and receive encouragement about this project.
I was able to complete the
film, and it is currently on the festival circuit in the hopes of reaching
audiences who want to engage with diverse ways of storytelling.
While I spent the majority of my time at AUB working on this film, some of my favourite moments during the year were when I had the opportunity to take a break from my more serious story in order to make short, silly animated pieces, which helped me develop both my animation techniques and professional portfolio.
For example, I created a short film for an Aardman Academy event, which received the top award in the small competition.
I also had the chance to sit in on undergraduate animation courses with Gideon Bohannon, where I created several short animation exercises in walking, dancing, and stillness.
The ability to quickly create short films was inspiring and helped me become a more efficient and confident animator.
The year at AUB transformed me into the animator that I am today.
I appreciated the freedom to dive into the types of stories that I believe need to be told, and I was given creative licence to bring my own dreams to reality.
I am grateful for the support I received, and I have now made it my mission to create stories and characters that will resonate with my audience and show them the possibilities of diverse art.
To explore Kheyal's work and find out more, visit her website.
If you liked this post you might be interested in MA Animation Production

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/creative-reflection-with-ananta-sharma-i-wanted-this-project-to-not-only-be-seen-but-felt:
Reflecting on my journey as an MA Animation Production student specialising in Immersive Storytelling, I can’t help but feel a profound sense of growth – both creatively and personally.
My time at AUB has been a whirlwind of exploration, experimentation, and most importantly, a deeper understanding of how storytelling can transcend traditional boundaries to become an immersive experience.
When I first joined, I was unsure of what I would find, but I knew one thing for certain: I wanted to blend my love for art with my desire to tell stories that went beyond the conventional.
Little did I know that this path would not only transform my creative process, but also shape my perspective on life itself.
My first exhibition, AR Tales: Walk into the Canvas , allowed me to showcase some of my earliest projects from this year.
This was a set of personal projects and collaborations with MA Fine Art , where I was able to create a layer of AR over the paintings to simulate an immersive experience, so as to enhance the narrative of each piece.
While this exhibition presented several collaborative works like The Ripper , Death Distortion , Crowd of Nothing , Kunjuree and Scales to the Sky , it also encapsulated two of my personal projects – Bathing in Sunlight was one of my earliest projects.
Having recently left home and moved continents away, I felt a sense of disconnection that I knew many others would relate to.
This work became a visual metaphor for my own journey – holding onto my cultural identity and values while embracing new experiences and environments.
By the time I created One in a Lac , my work had taken a sharper, more experimental turn.
Inspired by the rich cultural heritage of Rajasthan, I sought to bridge tradition and technology.
The project was born from the deep, tactile world of Rajasthan’s iconic lac bangles, made from a natural resin secreted by the lac insect.
I wanted this project to not only be seen, but felt.
The materials I used – coconut oil, fine soil, and soft pastels – were tactile, creating textures and colours that echoed the resin’s warmth.
The project extended into the digital realm with AR filters, merging the physical with the virtual.
The experience wasn’t just about visual aesthetics, but about immersing the viewer in a multi-sensory world.
This fusion of tradition and technology was a pivotal moment in my creative journey, encouraging me to think beyond the canvas and consider how to engage the viewer’s senses.
Then came the 7 Seas Festival, where I exhibited an installation in collaboration with BA (Hons) Visual Effects (VFX) for Film and Television.
Titled Build your Beau , this installation allowed users to control movements of a hologram in real-time, using suit-free motion capture technology with AI integrations.
Beyond its visual allure, the installation served as a reflection on the relationship between human expression and its digital counterpart.
While suit-free mo-cap technology enabled impressive mimicry of movements, it underscored the irreplaceable creativity and emotional depth inherent to human performance.
My collaborations with other artists also shaped me in ways I hadn't anticipated.
Dashavatar: Reincarnation through Evolution was a project born from my partnership with MA Illustration , and it became a profound exploration of mythology through the lens of evolution.
As we worked together to interpret the 10 avatars of Lord Vishnu, each symbolising a key moment in the progression of life, I learned how to marry two worlds – ancient stories and modern ideas – into a cohesive narrative.
This was more than just about art; it was a reflection of humanity’s evolutionary journey, intertwining the divine with our own struggle for growth.
Collaborating with MA Historical Costume on Emerald Illusionist was another milestone.
This project reimagined Celia Bowen from The Night Circus ; not just as a character, but as a living, breathing entity whose costumes and magical essence told her story.
This project in particular taught me so much in terms of technique and process.
While there were a lot of challenges with rendering our vision to finesse, I was able to really explore the vast possibilities for real-time cloth simulation in AR interactions.
When I think back on my year at AUB, I see it as a journey of evolution, of stories told and retold, of challenges faced and overcome, and of endless experimentation.
Together with the International Collective Exhibition and the final MA showcase, I got the opportunity to contribute and participate in four exhibitions throughout the year.
From the early, deeply personal works like Bathing in Sunlight , to the boundary-pushing projects like Build your Beau , I’ve learned to embrace both the old and the new, the emotional and the experimental.
I’ve realised that storytelling is not just about telling others what you know; it’s about inviting them to see the world through your eyes and feel what you feel.
It’s about creating spaces where imagination and reality collide, and where both the artist and the viewer can discover something new about themselves in the process.
I cannot stress enough on how grateful I am to the faculty and friends I made here.
This past year changed me as a person more than anything and I will carry that with me forevermore.
As I move forward in my career, I’m filled with excitement.
There is so much more to explore, so many more stories to tell, and an ever-growing world of immersive possibilities awaiting me.
And to anyone who needs to hear this today: never stop experimenting, embrace the vulnerability in your work, and always strive to connect on a deeper level with those who experience your art.
Want to find out more?
Connect with Ananta on LinkedIn .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/ramona-spicer-on-her-first-term-at-aub-learning-from-passionate-people-makes-your-passion-grow:
My first impression of AUB was that it was a warm and welcoming community – everyone was so friendly.
I enjoy the campus; it's nice, clean, and easy to get around.
My favourite thing is the moss ecosystems that grow on the rooftops.
My course tutors also created a welcoming environment, which helped build a community for our course.
Being an international student, this was comforting.
I'm so far from home, so having this community was super important for me to find and has helped me adjust to living in England.
My first impression of the course was that our tutors were knowledgeable in what they were teaching; I love that they're also passionate about design.
Learning from passionate people makes your passion grow, which is one of the reasons I'm here.
On the BA (Hons) Communication Design and Strategy course, one of the topics we've been focusing on is typography, which I've enjoyed.
We had a workshop on the letterpress, which I found interesting and helped me better understand type essentials, like kerning and leading.
Understanding the original system behind these has helped me better understand type overall, benefitting my digital designs.
My creative process has changed drastically during my two months at AUB; I still don't have a solid process because I'm trying different methods to find it.
However, one fundamental part has changed, and that is research.
Research has always been part of my creative process, but learning more about good research and its project requirements has helped me.
Before, I would research one idea and write it on a sticky note, but now I dedicate time and pages in my notebook just to research.
I also make sure I research all my ideas instead of the one that I think is the best.
Doing detailed research has improved my final designs, which I'm proud of.
I love art, design, and crafting, so I have a million different hobbies.
One of these is embroidery – I've been working on embroidering words, which has turned out to be helpful on my course because it ties in with typography.
While embroidering, I look at the anatomy of different fonts and how the pieces work together to build a whole font, which has helped me appreciate type more.
There are so many things that I want to do that it's hard to narrow down, but I know I want to be an art director at an advertising agency or in the print industry.
I would love to work at a big agency like Ogilvy or &Walsh.
I would also love to start my own agency – I already have a name picked out!
I hope to narrow down what I want to do throughout the course.
One thing I know for sure is that I'm going to stay in the UK after I graduate.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/creating-an-animation-on-racial-injustice-a-reflection:
For this project, we focused on racial injustice; specifically, how the beauty industry has played a role in South Asian and African countries.
Our goal was to highlight how the use of skin-lightening products negatively impacts the perception of darker skin, while also promoting self-love and cultural pride.
We wanted to target teens and young adults, encouraging them to embrace diversity and challenge these harmful beauty standards.
During our research, we touched on issues like whitewashing, concerns about skin tone starting in childhood, and how darker skin can affect opportunities, such as job prospects and marriage.
Initially, we planned to explore the beauty industry, nationalism, and the film industry’s contributions to racial injustice.
However, after receiving feedback from our tutors, who advised that we were trying to cover too much within the limited time available, we decided to narrow our focus.
By concentrating on the beauty industry, we felt we could create a more impactful and personal piece.
We also looked into organisations that aligned with our message and found Dark is Beautiful, an organisation in India that raises awareness of skin-colour bias.
Their work really resonated with the themes of our animation and helped guide our approach.
As a team of three, we each took on different roles that helped bring the animation together.
I focused mostly on scriptwriting and shaping the story, making sure the message about racial injustice, especially in Asian countries, came through clearly.
Umika worked on the visuals, handling character design and background art, while Adi took charge of animating the scenes and timing the movement.
We collaborated closely throughout the process, constantly sharing feedback to ensure everything fit together smoothly.
Aside from our core team, we collaborated with a fellow student from our course, Nayanika Sengupta, who provided the voiceover.
Her contribution really brought the animation to life, adding an emotional tone that helped emphasise the seriousness of the topic and related to our audience.
Nayanika was great to work with and captured exactly what we needed for the narration.
The process was definitely a mix of ups and downs.
At one point, we had to redo the entire animation because our first version didn’t quite hit the mark in terms of tone and impact.
It wasn’t easy to accept, but it made the final result so much stronger, and I think we learned a lot along the way.
Another challenge was making sure we portrayed these sensitive issues in a respectful way without oversimplifying or relying on stereotypes.
In the end, seeing everything come together, hearing the voiceover match the animation and knowing that we’d successfully created an impactful video about a topic that deserves more attention, was incredibly rewarding.
We are really proud of how it turned out, and the experience has taught us a lot about problem-solving and persistence.
This issue resonates with many of us in one way or another, and we hope our video sparks important conversations around it.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/ione-sousa-embodying-the-metaphysical-with-digital-fashion:
Working at the intersection of art, technology, spirituality and culture.
Before starting my studies at AUB, I scouted universities across the country and made my way there to get a feel for the environment and energy of each place.
I was fortunate enough to meet the course leader (Penelope Norman) of MA Digital Fashion Innovation , who has a thorough knowledge of the field.
AUB struck me with its welcoming environment, for the technical equipment they possess, the vibrant creativity that flows and the deep understanding of the tutors that help direct the way forward and provide the necessary tools to evolve.
With a background in multimedia (3D, animation, filmmaking and game development) cloth simulation captivated me and I wanted to specialise in digital fashion.
As an artist at heart, the possibility to turn my 2D artworks into 3D animated works unlocked new workflows and new ways of thinking.
It’s fulfilling to me to see someone wearing the art and moving in it, rather than just owning a static artwork; nonetheless, I find great value in both.
As a forward-thinking learner, the fact that the title of the course has Innovation gave me the room to explore new territories in the field of digital fashion.
With the right supervision and encouragement, I reached stages that exceeded my expectations.
My passion for art and tech collides in harmony in digital fashion, which serves as a medium that I envision playing a crucial role with emerging technological advancements.
The project I produced started with the curiosity of bridging digital and physical fashion, as the project evolved and I developed new levels of thinking, my curiosity manifested itself in bridging the metaphysical to the digital realm.
By exploring spiritual concepts, I worked my way to translate these concepts into artistic expression and finally designed a fractal-themed collection.
It was innovation at its core, since it was something that hadn’t been done before and only achievable with digital tools.
My aspirations included creating a multidisciplinary project, and with the right collaboration the fashion collection was included as cover art and as a visual album for the mixtape Bout 2 Bloom , where each outfit corresponded to each song of the tape.
I’m truly grateful for the platform and experience that AUB provided.
Connect with Ione on social media: Instagram | LinkedIn
You can also view the Bout 2 Bloom visual album on Youtube .
If you liked this post you might be interested in MA Digital Fashion Innovation

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/miaozhu-huang-blending-tradition-with-3d-technology:
When I first discovered the MA Digital Fashion Innovation course at AUB, I wasn’t just searching for another academic pursuit.
I wanted something that would challenge me creatively, push my boundaries, and allow me to blend fashion with emerging technology.
I’ve always been fascinated by the potential of digital tools to revolutionise traditional design processes.
So, when I came across this course, I knew it would be the perfect fit for my passion for innovation and sustainability.
The decision to study at AUB came naturally.
The University is renowned for its forward-thinking approach to creative arts and design.
The energy and diversity of students and tutors from all over the world really appealed to me.
I wanted to be in a space where people were pushing the boundaries of creativity and thinking about the future of fashion – AUB felt like the right place to make that happen.
During my studies, I’ve worked on blending New Chinese Style fashion with 3D technology, but my inspiration started long before this course began.
Back in China, I had the opportunity to be involved in my family’s Xiangyunsha clothing store, which specialises in this unique traditional fabric.
Xiangyunsha, with its eco-friendly dyeing process and deep cultural roots, has always fascinated me.
At AUB, I’ve taken this heritage and sought to modernise it.
My vision is to combine garments with cutting-edge 3D tools, creating digital prototypes of these garments to explore how we can maintain traditional craftsmanship while embracing sustainability through technology.
This allows me to reduce waste by creating virtual samples, making it possible to experiment with designs and patterns digitally before committing to the physical production process.
This connection between the physical and the digital worlds is something I’m deeply passionate about.
For instance, I’ve used Twinmotion to create virtual showrooms that immerse viewers in my designs.
Last semester, I showcased my spring and winter collections in two distinct showrooms.
Spring was filled with delicate, flowing Xiangyunsha pieces in soft pastels, reflecting the lightness of the season.
Winter was a contrast of deeper colours and thicker fabrics, portraying the resilience of traditional materials and garments in harsher climates.
This semester, I’m working on expanding the seasonal collections with summer and autumn.
The summer designs are focused on vibrant colours and light fabrics that reflect the heat and energy of the season, while the autumn collection will showcase richer tones, layered textures, and a more mysterious, introspective vibe.
Working on these collections has not been without challenges.
Translating the tactile, physical experience of traditional fashion into a digital format requires a lot of creative problem-solving.
I wanted my New Chinese designs to retain their sense of tradition while feeling fresh and relevant in a virtual world.
Capturing the intricate details of fabric, the weight of cultural history, and the fluidity of garments through 3D modelling has been a tough but rewarding process.
One of the highlights has been seeing how my digital designs come to life in a virtual space.
With VR technology, viewers can now step into a digital showroom and fully immerse themselves in the designs.
They can experience the garments in motion, feel the atmosphere of the seasons, and engage with fashion on a level that traditional catwalks or lookbooks simply can’t offer.
It’s the fusion of art, technology, and culture that excites me more than anything.
A key aspect of my experience at AUB has been the opportunity to attend hands-on workshops and collaborate with professionals from the fashion and tech industries.
These workshops have been crucial in helping me develop my skills in 3D modelling, VR development, and digital fashion design.
What I love most is how practical the programme is – everything we learn can immediately be applied to our projects.
Beyond the technical skills, the connections I’ve made have been invaluable.
AUB attracts a diverse, talented group of creatives, and being able to work alongside them has really broadened my perspective.
From classmates to industry experts, every conversation and collaboration has been an opportunity to grow, both as a designer and a thinker.
To anyone considering the MA Digital Fashion Innovation course, my biggest piece of advice is to embrace the challenges.
This programme will push you out of your comfort zone, but that’s where the magic happens.
Don’t be afraid to experiment, to fail, and to rethink your approach to fashion.
The future of fashion is digital, and this programme gives you the tools and the freedom to explore what that future looks like.
I’d also recommend blending tradition with innovation.
For me, merging New Chinese Style with 3D technology has been a way to honour my cultural heritage while pushing it into new, exciting spaces.
Whatever your background or inspiration, use it to create something fresh and groundbreaking.
In the end, my journey at AUB has been about more than just fashion – it’s been about finding new ways to express creativity, to engage with technology, and to think sustainably.
If you’re passionate about shaping the future of fashion, AUB is where you need to be.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/ananta-sharma-immersive-storytelling-through-vr-ar-and-how-it-influences-creativity:
For me, it's important that any project that I do has a particularly strong narrative or a societal message to make people think.
I would describe myself as an immersive storyteller.
I'm originally from Mumbai and back home, there's this particular café that had this one section of a wall painted by an Indian mural artist.
The whole space had a QR code that, when you used it, made the whole painted space come alive, moving almost like a GIF.
That was very intriguing to me.
Storytelling is a really important aspect of my art, and I felt the mural I had seen in Mumbai, whilst beautiful, was missing a narrative – it wasn't telling a story.
Although animation is my interest and academic background, really, my work is centred around storytelling in an immersive environment.
I find inspiration in all sorts of places.
For example, before starting my Master's, I took a trip to Rajasthan with my family and was really interested in their traditional jewellery making, which involves a substance called ‘lack’.
It has significance, not just in terms of its material, but its history and cultural values, and this was something I wanted to try to recreate in my project.
I was able to source a type of resin that and incorporated alluvial soil to give it a particularly rich, earthy smell, so it really is immersive and engages your senses.
I love exploring new technology and modern ideas; blending them with my cultural roots and traditional art forms is something I find both inspiring and rewarding.
I’ve wanted to study AR/VR for a while now, so MA Animation Production at AUB was the perfect opportunity to do that.
My exhibition at AUB in the BUG Gallery, AR Tales: Walk into the Canvas , was my attempt at exploring this new area and sharing it with others.
Graduate School staff have been incredibly supportive during my time on the course.
So many of them are practising artists with their own studios or exhibitions, so they really understood where I was as an artist and helped me develop my practice.
I also feel the collaborative environment was so rewarding for me.
Everyone at AUB has their own specialism and a completely unique take on their subject, but it feels like we are all aligned with wanting to express our creativity in a connected, meaningful way.
For me, the process of collaborating and working with others can sometimes be more rewarding than the end product.
I think sometimes as a society, we can become very results-orientated, and certainly in India the creative arts can sometime come across as a bit more competitive, rather than fostering a supportive platform for artists.
I feel like at AUB, I had to re-teach myself how to breathe and enjoy the process, rather than focus completely on the end result.
My exhibition was a huge learning curve.
I was able to integrate parts of an AI network within my animations, which was a big exploration for me, and I learnt a lot.
I completely understand where the fear of AI comes from and it’s true that right now, the way it works is that it takes from existing art to generate new art.
I think we’ll find that this will change as new AI laws come about, and it will, hopefully, feel less unregulated.
Personally, I don’t see it as competition – it’s just a tool that I can use, a bit like a sculpting artist.
At the moment, I’m more interested in learning more about AR/VR concepts in filmmaking.
Film and theatre are huge parts of Indian culture and of course, like most people, going to the cinema was a really important and memorable part of my childhood.
I think it’s really interesting to explore how AR/VR can make a cinema film screening even more of an immersive experience.
Generally speaking, traditionally, a lot of technology has been about male spaces or the use of technology by men, especially when you think of areas such as gaming, engineering and coding.
Whilst the gender balance is being addressed, these areas are often largely dominated by men and so the look, feel and use of that technology can be very male-orientated.
It’s interesting seeing female artists coming through into VR/AI spaces; the look, feel and user approach is often quite different as I feel women’s brains are wired differently.
I think there are more opportunities for women to get on to the creative tech industry these days and the development AR/VR is forcing it to change too.
The reality is that there are lots of jobs that AI could create that we’re not really aware of yet, as we’re still really in our infancy as to how we use some of this technology.
It’s a case of grabbing it with both hands and seeing how it evolves over the next few years.
My plan at the moment is to base myself in the UK and grow my network – I’m going into this industry fairly blind, so I need to develop connections – but I think having an open mind and open heart is always the best approach.
For more information, connect with Ananta via LinkedIn .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/sasmitha-hettiarachchi-exploring-digital-fashion-and-the-gaming-space:
A few years ago, I became a self-taught digital 3D artist, exploring creativity in the realm of digital imagery.
With a passion for merging art with technology, most of my digital designs were created by leveraging tools like Blender, CLO3D and Daz Studio.
Later, I found out new opportunities in many different areas within the digital fashion space, such as DPC (Digital Product Creation), fashion animation, DPC for advertising, costumes for games and films, etc.
Seeing all that, I decided to pursue my Master’s to explore these different areas and come up with a project that adds value to the digital fashion space, while pushing myself towards the next step of my practice.
During my research for courses, I came across AUB, and after reaching out to them and having a small discussion, I decided to enrol on the MA Digital Fashion Innovation course.
Throughout the course I learned about digital fashion and its applications while exploring new digital fashion practices and software such as designing in VR with Gravity Sketch, digital pattern cutting, economics of digital products, zero waste fashion production and the use of Artificial Intelligence in creative fields, to name a few.
In my Master’s project, I explore the applications of real-time cloth simulation in the gaming space, and the idea of growing such spaces to a collaborative space between fashion brands, fashion education and a digital fashion economy.
With my research into how brands use digital fashion and the future trends of gaming, I built the idea of a collaborative gaming space and the proposed idea of players being able to design and create garments themselves for their playable characters.
To unlock this, having real-time cloth simulation is crucial, and my focus was on how to achieve real time cloth simulation within a game engine, specifically with Unreal Engine 5
The University's facilities and access to lot of software, and being able to have one-on-one discussions with our course leader, were central to helping me evolve my digital fashion practice, from generating static 3D renders to exploring dynamic real-time cloth simulation, and it has opened me up to a whole new area of digital fashion research.
In addition, I was also able to collaborate with students from multiple creative backgrounds such as animation, photography, etc., while also collaborating with teachers and businesses in The Innovation Studio , which sharpened up my soft skills and work ethic.
For more of Sasmitha's work, check them out on:

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/venice-biennale-2024-british-council-fellow:
The Venice Art Biennale is one of the largest cultural exhibitions held every second year, inviting artists from around the world to present work concerning a specific theme.
As part of the British Council’s Fellowship programme, I was given the opportunity to live and work in Venice for the month of August, alongside a group of other fellows that have been selected from institutions across the UK.
As a British Council Fellow, your role involves invigilating – guiding and welcoming visitors around the British pavilion.
However, the other half of the experience involves developing a project as part of your own personal practice.
This year’s exhibiting artist representative for Great Britain is John Akomfrah, Ghanaian-born artist and filmmaker, often exploring themes of post-colonialism, memory and narrative through audiovisual work.
Whilst the month in Venice is a huge opportunity to develop one’s practice and skill set artistically and professionally, there was already a lot to learn from the preparation leading up to it.
Firstly, to even be considered for the role of a fellow, you need to apply, writing a description of what you do, and why the experience would be worthwhile.
Applications can be daunting, especially when the position is sought-after – only two places are available from each institution.
But I believe this is one of the most valuable aspects of any role or opportunity, regardless of whether you’re chosen.
By presenting yourself and your work to someone, you learn to express your intentions with clarity and purpose, which not only helps you reach audiences effectively but also helps you realise what is important to you within your practice.
To prepare for your month in Venice, the British Council organises a series of weekly online induction sessions to get to know other fellows, as well as the programme.
Each session, a few fellows take charge and initiate some activities you complete with other fellows, giving you the chance to learn more about each other and the programme.
These sessions make a month-long programme feel less distant and daunting, and help you stay on top of the logistics of the trip, especially if it’s something you’ve never undertaken before.
I feel that I often struggle to give different aspects of my life equal attention, but because these sessions were already organised for me to attend, it was easy to remain informed and not forget about what was required of me as a fellow.
As a fellow, you spend half of your time in Venice invigilating, or working inside the exhibition to welcome, guide and observe visitors.
Having worked as an invigilator at a gallery before, it’s an interactive way to learn about the relationship between artist, gallery, and audience, as well as the artwork itself.
I love the possibility of interacting with people first hand – in a place like Venice in particular, every experience will be so different, which is what makes this job so exciting.
The other half of the time, the fellowship gives you the chance to explore Venice, as well as develop a project of your own.
This could be a development of your existing practice, or something originating from your experience abroad.
I’m currently really interested in correspondence through mail art, and as distance is focal in its significance, I hope to explore ways of sharing my experience in a place as multicultural yet isolated as Venice to people around the world.
It is a privilege to spend so long in a place many visit for a few days.
To become familiar with the maze of alleyways that you take each morning to work, and the cafés you stop by along the way.
There are an endless number of exhibitions and events to explore alongside the Biennale providing never-ending inspiration.
I was lucky enough to experience the first week of the Venice Film Festival in September, attending a few movie premieres and a surreal screening at the Cinema Galleggiante, a floating cinema on the lagoon.
Even without actively researching or producing work, every aspect of Venice propels creativity, and this Fellowship is all about absorbing it.
It's also quite a rare experience to be around a particular artwork for as long as a month and have your perception of it constantly change.
Having sat and listened to the work, spoken to different visitors and learnt about the history behind it, Listening all Night to the Rain became a body of work I developed an intimate dialogue with.
Being stationed inside the beautiful Giardini, you are immersed in the sounds and atmosphere of the 29 pavilions located there, making it a very enriching place to work.
One of the most valuable aspects of this course is the access it provides to opportunities to network and expand your practice, that would otherwise be quite challenging to find.
I’ve built relationships with creatives throughout the UK and Venice that have made this month, and BA (Hons) degree, so worthwhile (among everything else).
It’s easy to believe that opportunities such as this are too big or ambitious, and chances of being accepted are small, but there is absolutely nothing to lose in applying.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/qian-li-talks-sustainable-collaboration-and-how-to-execute-a-creative-vision:
My photographic journey began with a fascination for the intricacies of everyday life.
Initially drawn to the dynamism of street photography, I gradually shifted my focus to the quieter world of still life.
The first serious camera I got was a Nikon D7000 DSLR when I was a digital media MA student.
My focus was on videography, aspiring to become a music video director.
However, my career path led me into advertising account management, leaving the camera largely unused for years.
The renewed passion in photography rose during the COVID-19 years.
The world I had known suddenly stopped, and I learnt to appreciate the vibrancy of everyday life.
Not being satisfied with mobile phone photos, I rediscovered my camera, capturing the streets around me.
As I like making something out of nothing, I styled objects I owned and experimented with still life photography at home.
Through some online courses, I honed my photographic skills and realising the limitations of amateur photography, I decided to pursue an MA in Photography at AUB .
Through theoretical research, I develop a project brief outlining my intended expression.
Visual research encompassing books, magazines, photographers’ work, exhibitions, and social media, informs my practice, especially inspirations from other art disciplines.
My work is heavily influenced by paintings, from old master still life to abstract, alongside continuous experimentation and investigation, which brings my vision to life.
Prior to this, I collected random inspirations by taking pictures (sometimes mental pictures) and sketching, capturing unique and interesting elements.
My time at AUB was a rewarding, creative journey.
The course fostered individual expression, supported by supportive tutors and a diverse community of photographers.
Technical assistance from photo technicians enhanced my practical skills.
Collaborating with like-minded students from various courses further enriched my projects.
Despite the challenges, I successfully developed my unique visual style.
The Uncanny Fashion Project is the project that I have been working on this year for six months.
Initially, the idea started from my photographic prop-sourcing in local charity shops.
Shocked by a myriad of items in good conditions that can be found in a charity shop or a second-hand outlet, I wondered how much waste mass production and consumerism have brought to modern life, which cause irreversible harm to our environment.
As I always believe in the power of photography, I began investigating this problem and trying to solve it with photography.
I created a series of art/commercial balance images by leveraging the uncanny concept to seize the attention for local sustainable shops in Bournemouth, promoting the sale of their stock.
Still life and fashion photography were merged by the faceless, abstracted human bodies in these pictures, directing the viewer’s attention to the pre-loved commodities while highlighting the artistic expression.
The whole project was executed by medium format digital camera Phase One and in-studio software Capture One, which are industrial-standard.
Several final images were accepted and exhibited at the shop I collaborated with, and all the items used in the project have a second life, through donation back to the shops or gifting to models from BA (Hons) Acting , BA (Hons) Fashion , MA Painting , BU and stylists from MA Historical Costume and MA Fine Art .
Besides my major project, I explore street photography with medium format and 35 mm film cameras.
In terms of beneficial outlets to my creative practice, I would say the following have been quite important:
As for the future, I hope I can bring my visual language into both my personal projects and commissioned work, bridging artistic expression and commercial photography to create more meaningful beauty.
Find more of Qian's work on Instagram.
If you liked this post you might be interested in MA Photography

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/marco-gilot:
Growing up with a rather uneventful childhood, I found myself spending countless hours on the computer, exploring various skills that ranged from the useful to the obscure.
My journey into video editing began with simple slideshows on Windows Movie Maker and evolved to using Adobe Premiere Pro.
I vividly remember my first project: a slideshow set to Jethro Tull’s music, which sparked my fascination with video editing and solidified my career choice.
I pursued a degree in cinema with a major in video editing in Montpellier, France.
By 2023, I had graduated and faced a crucial decision: continue as a video editor in a French-speaking television industry or seek a new path.
My internships in television, particularly editing promotional clips for Le Meilleur Patissier (the French equivalent of The Great British Bake Off ), felt repetitive and uninspiring.
While proficient in video editing, my true passion had shifted towards VFX, captivated by its ability to bring imaginary worlds to life.
My interest in VFX grew alongside my self-taught skills in After Effects and compositing.
A turning point was watching Edgar Wright’s masterclass at Bournemouth Film School on YouTube.
This inspired me to apply to AUB, and to my delight, I was accepted, embarking on a new adventure in the UK.
The first year on BA (Hons) Visual Effects for Film and Television at AUB was filled with challenges and growth.
One of the most groundbreaking experiences was my first life drawing class.
Initially daunting, it helped me realise my ability to draw by observing and following what I saw, a skill I never thought I possessed.
The coursework introduced me to a variety of software, including Nuke and Houdini.
Learning to use nodes, code in Python, and VEX was both technical and exciting.
Projects like creating an environment from scratch in Houdini allowed me to explore and expand my creativity.
The diverse results from class assignments, like making Spider-Man beat a piñata, highlighted the freedom and fun in our projects.
A memorable project was the third-term hybrid animal creation, which involved designing, rigging, animating, and using software like ZBrush, Substance Designer, and Nuke.
Additionally, I collaborated with an MA Animation Production student on a MoCap stand at the Seven Seas Festival, using AI tools like RADiCAL and Unreal Engine to capture and animate movements, an invaluable experience for future virtual production work.
Towards the end of the year, I worked with BA (Hons) Film Production students to add VFX to a BFI-bound shot.
Using Nuke, smart vectors, and Copycat, I enhanced blood effects, showcasing my skills with the latest technologies like style transfer and machine learning.
This project, among others, helped me establish my name and work early on.
Finishing the first year has left me eager to learn more and engage in more collaborative projects.
I aim to specialise in Nuke and explore machine learning further.
My first year taught me technical skills, work ethics, and collaboration methods, providing a strong foundation for my portfolio.
For incoming students, my advice is:
Finally, remember to have fun.
Pursuing your passion should be enjoyable and fulfilling.
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Visual Effects (VFX) for Film and Television

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/elisa-zuo-on-abstract-painting-i-collaborate-with-nature:
My first impression of fine art seemed to be when someone said, "Wow!
This art is detailed, so fine." That buzz of a definition is how fine art occupied my head for my whole childhood.
When I really discovered my true love for fine art, it was in an elective class in which my previous respected art teacher told us to observe some objects such as shells, marbles and wine glasses.
I was into observing and exploring patterns, light, distortion and magnification effects.
That led me to discover my love for fine art.
When I discovered about my love of painting, I was in middle school.
I was creating a cubism piece called This is a transition age , according to Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque’s famous paintings.
I was starting to get into the use of different brushstrokes and the ideas of painting on canvas.
I started to explore abstractionism not long ago, after which I visited Tate Modern in London and saw Joan Mitchell’s abstract landscape pieces.
I’ve always wanted to create something like that.
I usually research an artist's style first when I start to explore a new painting style.
Then I study those styles by using sketchbook pages, at the same time conducting some experiments like scientists do.
To create bigger pieces, sometimes I use pencils and charcoal to draw the creative vision down on paper or sketchbook, then transfer them to the canvas.
Sometimes, when I’m really feeling my creative spirit, I just paint straight onto the canvas.
For some special scenarios, I make some clay sculptures, in order to better control the flows of lines and patterns on canvas.
My life at AUB thus far has been unprecedented, as I had never been to an art school in my life before.
I was surprised and excited to enrol at the University.
I have some new friends who always give encouragement when I feel a bit down.
Our Bath Christmas market trip was fun, as I was stunned by the size of the actual Christmas market.
I became a member of AUB’s walking and hiking club, which has brought me to some beautiful places and at the same time solved some of my health issues after high school.
Overall, I feel like I am in my new life now, because of AUB.
I am really into the kind of self-leading study that AUB offers.
It has forged me to become a critical, creative thinker and a clever problem-solver, which will be helpful to my own creative journey in the near future.
I am proud of an abstract landscape painting I made called Untitled (Scottish landscape) , a piece I made to commemorate my family trip to the Lake District and Edinburgh.
I was proud of this piece because it has made it to the Merge 2024 AUBSU x NUASU virtual exhibition.
Projects I have worked on within the course this year include three portfolios, two presentations and one essay.
Some projects I have done with my passion in abstract photography are called "abstract light within nature".
I choose digital drawing as my creative outlet by using the iPad.
Sometimes I draw realistic things with abstract meanings.
Sometimes I draw nature that seems like an abstract painting.
I saw my friend using Procreate and then wanted to try it myself.
I’m not that fluent in using it just yet, I still need time to learn.
I haven’t found friends to collaborate with me yet, as the majority of my friends are studying BA (Hons) Illustration and busy with their own projects.
However, they have given me lots of emerging ideas about what I could create when I’ve asked them.
I collaborated with nature this year in order to create my portfolios.
I plan to collaborate with the sea more to make even more emotional abstract pieces than what I have made this year.
I have ambitions to make a painting that covers my studio wall, full of brushstrokes, colours and mysterious patterns.
After graduating from AUB, I will probably pursue my Master’s degree in painting.
In the long run, I will work in the creative industry in China, and maybe in London as well.
See more of Elisa's artwork on Instagram .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/yena-cho:
When growing up, my main source of entertainment was reading books, due to the fact I had a grand total of one hour of TV time a day, shared between me and my two sisters (Asian parents – you know the drill).
Adventuring with all the exciting characters in their unique, vivid worlds was a big part of my childhood, and was big fuel for my creativity, leading me to express that through my own different character designs and stories from a young age, which continued developing into many different art styles, mediums and pieces, until now.
Having this background, when searching for different career paths at the ripe age of 17, the illustration industry caught my eye while going through many careers websites, and so I decided from then that I wanted to become an illustrator, just like the ones who designed the books I grew up reading and loving.
I went to a careers fair with my college, already set on a different university, and accidentally made eye contact with the smiling rep on the AUB stall, who after reeling me in for the promotional spiel, handed me one of the Open Day leaflets.
I didn’t think much of it, until I actually went to view the university that was my number one on my list in person and found that, to my disappointment, it didn’t match my hyped-up expectations.
That’s when I saw the AUB leaflet I’d left on my desk and I decided to give it a shot, snoozing the entire three-hour drive to the Open Day with zero expectations.
To my surprise, AUB was everything I’d been looking for that the other uni didn’t really offer – the lecturers were all lovely and really engaging (I think the beach was mentioned maybe six times); the campus itself was so colourful and open having that art school vibe, something the other uni was lowkey lacking; the area was so lovely (did I mention there’s a beach here?) and the course itself looked like so much fun.
So that's how I ended up coming all the way from the Welsh countryside to the beachside town of Bournemouth (the weather is a big plus).
The BA (Hons) Illustration course itself has been quite a journey.
A trait I had in my working process before was that once I had an idea, I just wanted to go for it, without much or any experimenting and changes, because I thought it was already good enough.
The many workshops and projects presented in the course, all of which I’ve really enjoyed, really forced me to come out of my box and start getting much more comfortable trying new things and challenging myself more.
The lecturers are all very easy and friendly to talk to, which is good for me because I ask around a million questions.
Many of them aren’t afraid to give the feedback you need to improve your work to you straight.
At first, a lot of the feedback stung – with the mindset I had then, I didn’t like being told that my work, which, in my eyes, was already perfect, needed more development and currently wasn’t quite good enough.
However, I know now that it was with the best of intentions and in hindsight, I’m much more grateful for the lecturers that were honest and straight to the point in their feedback, instead of glossing over my mistakes for the sake of my feelings.
In the industry, clients are probably going to be a lot blunter than that.
Due to the extensive feedback, I’ve really been able to grow as an artist, and have been able to try out many new ways of working and getting much more comfortable in experimenting and continuously developing my work to be even better.
The peak of the work during my first year on this course was the designs I created for our final Individual Project on a free 3D design website called Womp (I’m not a Blender level 3D artist yet – the donut tutorial makes my brain melt).
My first-year uni accommodation has been Campus Halls – any future students reading this, I highly recommend it!
Due to this, I decided to recreate the rooms in 3D to be used as promotional material for the residence, fully decorated and with a little bunny character living its best life, just like I did in my own room.
It took a lot of work, as it was my first time experimenting with 3D design, but with a lot of online tutorials and help from my tutors, I managed to make designs that I’m proud of.
It was another box I managed to break out of; with the majority of my work, I’ve been containing myself to the safety of 2D designs on programs such as Procreate, so it was very refreshing trying new things, and seeing it all come together well.
I’m excited to see what we’ll continue exploring throughout the Illustration course, and I'm very glad to have come here and made all the friends I have made so many precious memories with!
Explore more of Yena's work on Instagram .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/desirée-scheper-animation-is-a-team-sport:
25 frames per second (fps) doesn’t sound like a lot in a world where we have half our games run on 60 fps, but any animator hearing that number only sighs.
Computer animation may have made it easier to hit that 25, but most 2D animation runs on even half that.
For even just a two-minute film, doing 12 fps to round down, that’s still 1.440 frames.
For stop motion or CG, that is already quite a number, but now imagine having to draw a new picture for every one of those frames yourself with a deadline looming over your head.
You’d go insane before you even remember you also have to draw 50 backgrounds, storyboard a few dozen panels, and design every single character and tree that you’ll show on screen.
And that is still without considering the modelling, texturing, crafting, rigging, and lighting that comes from the other mediums.
Needless to say, animation takes a whole lot of time.
So it’s a good thing we don’t do it alone.
Save for the gutsy (and/or insane) few out there that choose to brave this field by themselves, most animation is done by studios.
You get your animators, character designers, layout artists, and every other specialist you need and let them all do what they’re best at for a while and, with enough caffeine, out pops a beautiful movie.
Part of the beauty in animation is the spirit of the sport, and that spirit comes from the fact that animation is a team sport.
Now unless you are particularly brave, you will at some point have to work in a team to get a film made.
Even, or rather especially, if you are intending to animate for game rather than film, you’ll find yourself in a group of insanely talented people there to make something great with you.
But as we all know from being booted with the majority of work for a group written assignment, or God forbid a presentation in our past, teamwork can be very hard to do.
As I’m writing this, I am in the middle of my graduating group project; nine of us, one academic year, and a two-minute film to make.
Knock on wood, it’s going very well for us and I have to thank that to exactly one thing – my team.
I like to think I’m a pretty decent animator.
I’m in charge of leading the rest of my team’s animators through the battle that is this year, and I’m producing the film as a whole alongside it.
But I’d be producing a whole lot of nothing if I didn’t have my team.
While I might be a decent animator, I am probably the worst layout artist you’d ever lay your eyes upon.
Lucky for me, I don’t have to do any layouts!
Here at AUB we are taught Animation Production – ‘production’ is the key word there.
There are so many departments in our field, it’s a miracle we specialise.
But at this university, we work with the same system that a studio would.
You kind of get a three-year head start on knowing how to work in a professional setting.
You both get to work on just the thing that makes you happy to do and learn tons about how to work with people in other departments.
You might be thinking, ‘Big deal!
Every animation course is run like that,’ but that’s where you’d be wrong.
I’ve had a few friends in my year that joined us after doing a year, or – if they were particularly unlucky, two years – at other universities with courses like ours.
I’ve also got a few friends across a few seas studying at some other pretty good universities that have filled me in on a little secret – AUB is remarkably unique in this.
My final film is the culmination of a lot of work from nine people, doing their best possible work in the things they are extraordinary at after years of training.
But according to my friends, in a lot of other places, you make your final film by yourself.
If you speak to anyone in the industry, they will tell you first and foremost that animation is something you cannot do alone.
Sure, you will have tutors and later mentors to guide you, but no matter what medium you chose this field, this craft, is a team sport at heart.
And in my experience, that’s the beauty of the whole thing.
I get to sit behind a desk with my crummy little tablet and draw dogs doing backflips all day.
What could be better than that?
If I had to also draw the floor, he’d backflip off, or design the dog 40 times over, it would take all the time out of my backflipping.
Knowing how to do many things in the field is great.
That is what we are trained to do.
But knowing that you don’t have to be flawless at everything, because the people around you are more than happy to do that for you, not only takes a lot of stress from your shoulders, but also makes you better to work with in the future.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/rithvik-arun-koundinya-exploring-ungoverned-states-through-graphic-design:
The world is full of chaos and uncertainties, and we just co-exist in such a place.
This realisation sparked an idea for Rithvik to explore the relationship between ungoverned states and chaos for his MA Graphic Design project.
Inspired by the Disorder Podcast , which highlighted places where government control is absent, he sought to draw parallels between metaphors of decay and governance.
Rithvik’s interest in exploring ungoverned states began while listening to a podcast on ungovernance and chaos.
The discussion about places without government control intrigued him, and he could draw parallels between the degradation seen in these states and natural decay.
R: The project was on primary metaphors, and comparing decomposition to the formation of ungoverned areas brought up an interesting metaphor that I wanted to explore.
This metaphor provided a unique angle for his project.
He initially considered other metaphors, such as ungoverned bodies being akin to cancer, with the idea of creating a motion graphic poster where cancer spreads across the text.
However, he ultimately preferred a physical approach that would resonate more deeply with viewers.
To solidify his design, Rithvik began with a digital version of the poster.
This step was crucial in helping him visualise and refine his concept before moving to the physical medium.
R: Initially, I made a digital version of the poster to help solidify my design.
I had to choose the final look to create a cutout file for the laser-cutter, and I had to refine the size and shape of some parts to ensure they did not break.
I also had to mark out the areas where the rust would look as thought it had completely eroded the metal, since I found out that the medium for rusting wouldn't completely dissolve parts of the metal.
This way, I was able to achieve the look I needed.
During the design process, Rithvik focused on refining the size and shape of the parts to ensure they wouldn’t break during the cutting process.
He meticulously marked areas where rust would simulate complete erosion, adding a layer of authenticity to the project.
R: I had only one requirement and that was to have it rust.
I found steel to be the best material for rusting as it was sturdy but also easily rustable.
R: Rusting was surprisingly easy.
I just had to brush diluted hydrogen peroxide on it and let the liquid act.
I created the look I wanted by choosing where the rust might have started in the visual and letting it sit for a day.
It was completely done by the next day.
Initially, I had assumed that metal would rust all the way through, but I realised that that would not be possible.
So, I laser-cut the areas where I wanted to mimic the complete erosion.
The typography for the words G overned States was a critical component of the design.
R: The letters are supposed to be completely taking over the area of the poster.
This is to represent the way governments generally have complete control over a piece of land.
I then created holes and erosion to show how governed states are rusting and falling apart.
The metaphor is not written in the text but is depicted visually.
I used a "Fit" font for the letters, with minimal changes to the type, to keep the area filled.
The final poster effectively represents the concept of ungoverned states and the metaphorical decay from rust.
Initially, Rithvik added more digital effects to the design, but decided to revert to a more realistic approach.
This decision underscored the authenticity of the project, ensuring that the physicality of rust and decay was accurately represented.
R: The biggest difference was that the entire letter form was rusted compared to my initial design, which only had part of it rusted.
I also missed considering the fact that steel will inevitably rust when exposed to air over time.
This has now made the entire poster permanently decay over time.
This, I think, is a really great outcome that I had not expected.
Reflecting on his project, Rithvik appreciated the hands-on approach over digital exploration.
Working on a physical project added unique value and a true-to-life outcome that digital methods couldn’t replicate.
The process of creating rust physically, as opposed to simulating it digitally, provided a more authentic and impactful representation of his concept.
This hands-on approach introduced an element of randomness and unpredictability, enhancing the project's overall message.
R: The biggest outcome of this project is, in my opinion, the idea of governmental breakdown due to ignorance of particular areas and acts by negative organisations.
Through this project, Rithvik gained valuable insights into the importance of incorporating physical elements in graphic design.
In an age dominated by digital tools, he emphasised that physical projects introduce a level of complexity and authenticity that digital methods often lack.
The process of working with physical materials, such as steel and rusting agents, added a tangible and visceral quality to the project, making it stand out from typical digital creations.
R: The project confirmed my idea because the speed at which rusting took place was very true to the metaphor I was trying to convey.
R: When working in graphic design in the current age, I really feel like most of our work happens with a PC.
This limits the randomness involved in complex design ideas such as this project.
I would never have been able to create such a different poster if I had stuck to making a digital artwork.
In conclusion, Rithvik’s exploration of ungoverned states through graphic design is a testament to the power of metaphors and hands-on creativity.
His project not only visualises the concept of ungoverned states, but also delves into the deeper implications of decay and neglect.
By choosing a physical medium and embracing the unpredictability of rust, he created a compelling and thought-provoking piece that resonates with viewers on multiple levels.
This project highlights the potential of graphic design to convey complex ideas and metaphors, offering a unique perspective on the consequences of ungovernance and chaos.
If you liked this post you might be interested in MA Graphic Design

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/eid-el-fitr-celebration-event-a-collaborative-effort:
This event was a true testament to the interdisciplinary and collaborative spirit of our university, bringing together students and staff from various backgrounds, fields, and interests to create a rich and engaging experience for international students.
Here, I share the highlights and key contributions that made our celebration a success.
The Eid al-Fitr Celebration aimed to unite the university community in commemorating the end of Ramadan with vibrant cultural expressions, traditional attire, and a delightful selection of North African, Gulf, Middle Eastern, and Southeast Asian sweets.
The event took place on 9 April 2024 at the Campus Halls Common Area.
As the project lead, I oversaw the entire planning and execution of the event.
My role involved coordinating with team members, managing the budget, and ensuring everything ran smoothly.
Additionally, I contributed my graphic design skills to create digital invitations, promotional posters, and infographics for the celebration.
These materials were essential in publicising the event and creating awareness among the University community.
Meanwhile, Klaudia from AUB’s International team played a crucial role in our planning process.
She was the primary contact for any questions and helped us navigate the University's resources and logistics.
Her support was invaluable in securing the venue, arranging necessary permissions, and facilitating communication with other university departments.
Karen, a BA (Hons) Animation Production student from Indonesia, brought a unique creative flair to the event with her character design and illustration skills.
She created vibrant and culturally relevant characters that were used in our promotional materials and decorations.
Her illustrations added a festive and welcoming atmosphere to the celebration, resonating well with attendees from diverse backgrounds.
And then illustrator and pattern designer Tabitha, a local MA Illustration student, contributed her expertise in pattern design.
She designed intricate patterns inspired by traditional Islamic art, which were used in various aspects of the event, including tablecloths, banners, and the DIY calligraphy station.
Her patterns beautifully complemented the cultural theme of the celebration and added an authentic touch to the decorations.
The event featured a Sweets Sharing Corner with homemade North African, Gulf, and Southeast Asian sweets.
The contributions included Palestinian black tea, Mamool (date-based sweets), Hala (MENA sweets), and other baked Eid sweets, all donated by members of the Muslim community.
Additionally, we decorated the venue with Eid Mubarak balloons, light decorations, and themed mini boxes for stickers, candy, and cookies.
Participants exhibited their best-dressed outfits influenced by various cultures.
A calligraphy set was awarded as a prize for the outstanding attire, encouraging a vibrant display of traditional and contemporary fashion.
We curated a playlist featuring traditional music from diverse Muslim and Arab cultures.
This added an auditory layer to the cultural immersion, creating a lively and festive ambiance.
Plus, a DIY station was set up with materials for attendees to explore Arabic calligraphy.
This interactive activity allowed participants to engage with the art form and create personalised calligraphy pieces to take home.
A self-serve corner with pre-brewed Arabic coffee and tea was created, providing attendees with a taste of traditional beverages.
The corner was a popular spot for socialising and experiencing authentic flavours.
The Eid al-Fitr Celebration was a testament to the power of collaboration and cultural exchange.
The diverse contributions from students and staff created a rich and inclusive environment, celebrating the end of Ramadan with joy and unity.
The event was well-received by attendees, who appreciated the thoughtful planning and effort put into making it a memorable experience.
Special thanks to the AUB International team for helping us get this set up and done, and Campus Halls for hosting the event.
A heartfelt thanks to Dr.
Farida Zouzou for writing the brochure information, and to Kheyal and Eleanor for volunteering to help with the organisation of the event.
We also extend our gratitude to the members of the Muslim community for donating sweets and event supplies, making the celebration even more special.
If you liked this post you might be interested in International

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/dala-ming-hieu-on-pursuing-his-dreams-of-illustrating-childrens-books-i-do-not-compromise-with-convention:
I was born and raised in a poor town where everyone contended with social stigmas.
I always questioned ‘why?’ yet found no answers that satisfied my curiosity.
Upon relocating to the UK, I realised that these issues are not confined to my homeland alone but are global in nature.
I want to advocate for global issues and culture via my illustration.
When my mum was pregnant with me, she drew a lot for a competition at the school she was teaching.
Between the ages of six and 15, I joined the competition for students every year and won some prizes.
When I entered high school, I wanted to go to art school, but my parents believed that business school would be a better choice for me.
I obeyed them and gave my best efforts to get the offer from one of the highest ranked universities in my country.
After graduating with a merit degree, I worked in marketing and advertising for almost six years.
Along with my dedication and efforts, I was promoted to a creative planning manager position two years ago.
A higher position also means higher responsibility.
My life at that time was like an endless loop, and I hadn’t drawn anything for years.
I had also forgot what my childhood dream was, until a client asked me about what I dreamed of – suddenly I started to remember what I dreamed of when I was 17.
After 10 years, for the second time, I wanted to fulfil my dream with illustrations.
I have to say, my experience at AUB has been fierce and amazing at the same time.
I’ve taken advantage of the facilities, and the course totally changed my mindset, my approach to art, my style and my audience.
I do not compromise with convention.
Normally, when I approach a problem, brief, or statement, I let my thoughts go with the flow first, and I ask myself questions like, “How many possibilities could there be?” and “Conventionally, how people will approach and tackle this?”
After that, I try to think differently and go against conventions.
Among the possibilities in terms of composition, colours and rhythm, I pick the best and the most suitable after asking for feedback from professional practitioners.
I used to feel self-deprecated because I didn’t have an arts degree or any professional experience, and now I’ve gained more confidence since I believe that practice make perfect.
From an artist going crazy with my use of colour negatively, to focusing on using colour more effectively and capturing the attention of viewers, I feel so grateful about this chance I’ve had.
I’m a workaholic.
I decided to give up my dream job to pursue and fulfil what I’ve not done since I was 17.
I didn’t want to let anything disrupt my study.
Within two units, I finished seven major projects, not including single pieces.
These involved narratives and works for the Green Fashion exhibition in London and so forth.
However, the most time-consuming and effort-requiring project must be my children book Noah Finds a Forest in the Sea .
The inspiration for this story struck me five years ago while I was sitting on the beach, marvelling at the beauty of the sea.
I observed a little girl collecting empty bottles around her, and her act of kindness stayed with me long after.
Back then, I shared the title of the book on my Vietnamese Instagram account, making a promise to myself to complete it someday.
I firmly believe that when you make a promise, the universe conspires to help you fulfil it.
I could never have imagined that I would end up studying at an arts university and illustrating this book.
As a copywriter at the time, I returned home and contemplated a plot based on what I had witnessed.
However, my skills back then were not sufficient to craft a lengthy story, especially a children's book.
Now, there are no more excuses – it’s time for me to fully execute this idea.
Through this storybook, I aim to convey the message that by keeping our beaches clean, we can also keep our oceans clean.
I thought up the story of a girl named Noah.
She wishes to go to the beach and sea when she turns four, and when her dream comes true, she can’t hide her excitement — she loses her parents and sits at the lifeguard hut.
She realises that there is no forest here, except for the forest of littering.
She decides to make the beach clean by collecting the empty bottles surrounding her.
Others see her act of kindness and join her to clean the beach.
And when her parents find her, they are so proud of her that her mum says there may be no forest in the sea, but there must be a seed of kindness growing up in her.
I was ambitious when, during the second unit, I signed up to four projects via my Course Leader and these were completed at the last minute within one month.
I had to test different compositions, colours, swatches and text placements to find the best ones and after that, I also got a lot of feedback from international authors and illustrators in terms of children's books to add and remove unnecessary pages.
At that time, I was extremely stressed, but my Course Leader told me I could leave it until third unit if I couldn’t complete it.
However, I wanted to wrap everything up and finally I completed it.
Right after second unit, I saw the Green Futures Competition and found the brief totally matching with my projects.
Hence, I submitted it as my entry for this competition and luckily, I was shortlisted.
Besides illustrations, sometimes I make films with acting roles as a scriptwriter.
I won Best Film in a filmmaking competition – I built a story about colours and meanings that people don’t usually associate with them, like how white doesn’t only represent purity.
It’s the best way to demonstrate what we’ve undergone – scars we have from the past.
And no matter what colour you are, it’s totally different from others.
In the near future, I still want to be a narrative and packaging illustrator.
In the far future, I want to be an art director or a creative director.
I want to use my skills and creativity to illustrate kindness to spread all around the world.
If you liked this post you might be interested in MA Illustration

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/ngan-nguyen-challenges-make-me-braver-on-the-journey-that-i-have-decided-for-myself:
I’m studying BA (Hons) Illustration at AUB as a level 5 student.
I chose AUB because it's a 100% art-focused environment.
I thought to myself, 'This is where I truly want to immerse myself.'
Alongside studying and pursuing within the field of illustration, I observe – and I am also inspired by – students in other artistic disciplines such as fine art, fashion, and acting, through student exhibitions at TheGallery, student performances, classes of language skills and study skills available to all AUB students, and participation in society clubs, extracurricular activities and events offered by the university’s different offices.
AUB is truly an artistic environment.
They respect your voice and your uniqueness.
I believe art students are encouraged to explore and express themselves in special ways.
Ultimately, I decided to apply based on the studying environment, educational values and also considering the tuition fees, which aligned with my family's financial capabilities.
Overall, it has been a valuable and meaningful experience for me.
In my first year, I immersed myself in exploring various themes of the course, which truly sparked my curiosity and desire to learn more.
In the second year, I focused on becoming more proficient, critical and open-minded in my field.
From the beginning of my studying journey at AUB, I have taken advantage of various educational resources offered by the university to promote my holistic personal development.
I usually attend English Academic Sessions (EAP) to enhance my English language skills for various purposes such as making friends, writing essays, emailing professors, presenting, and solving problems.
I also participate in online Study Skills sessions to learn effective time management and planning; this has made me more organised and logical in my thinking.
Moreover, I often make bookings to attend lectures organised by AUB Futures – Careers and Enterprise, where experts share insights on making art portfolios stand out and appeal to potential employers.
I have gained helpful tips and practical advice for my preparation process before becoming a professional illustrator.
In addition, I relied on feedback from my illustration teacher, an AUB MA Illustration alumnus, to gain an overall understanding of the university’s artistic education methods.
An important and interesting aspect of studying abroad are the challenges.
As a Vietnamese international student, I have faced difficulties speaking to and understanding native English speakers, especially during my initial period in the UK.
At first, during lectures, I often sat in the front rows to hear clearly, trying to concentrate on what the lecturer was saying, and avoiding distractions.
Then, importantly, I always revisited the digital lecture slides and online workshop materials posted on the course's learning resources to read and review the knowledge.
Tutors, especially, were always ready to listen and understand my ideas, and ready to explain or interpret them in other ways to hope that I could understand their feedback and comments clearly.
These are the methods I used to gain knowledge and skills despite my language limitations.
Furthermore, I utilised the online language-learning materials provided by the University to improve my grammar.
Gradually, I became more active in expressing myself in English.
I believed it was necessary to listen and communicate more to become familiar with British natives’ intonations and phrases.
Therefore, I participated in extracurricular activities and joined clubs within the University.
Also, some friends introduced me to volunteer opportunities and part-time work, which helped me interact more with native speakers and learn how they use their mother tongue – I’m also more understanding of British culture in this way.
I love the beach in Bournemouth and also the Christmas market there.
The town is not too crowded and suits my personality quite well.
During holidays, I often spent my time on outside activities such as hiking or travelling, exploring new destinations.
The challenge is also an interesting part of the ‘study abroad’ journey.
Sometimes, I get homesick, and I miss Vietnamese food, and I don't have any relatives in the UK, which can make me feel quite lonely.
So, I have reached out to the International office to seek some mental health support – a friendly chat has made me feel much better.
I have wanted to maintain a positive and optimistic mindset because I am very grateful for my study abroad experience, and I truly want to overcome difficulties.
Although everything seems new and hard, I can learn a lot and get better step by step.
Challenges are really meaningful because they make me braver on the journey that I have decided for myself.
Read more about AUB International and how they can help you adapt to studying abroad.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/nick-teo:
Although filmmaking was the original goal, I realised that commercial photography offered me so much more creative control and ability to explore deeper, more intimate stories.
After giving it a try and creating a couple of photo books, I was hooked!
I've always loved storytelling from a young age.
It started out with me watching The Lord of the Rings every morning before the school bus came, progressing to me making my own YouTube skits, and then studying four years in film school to make it all official.
The idea for I Am Not My Diagnosis came when I first sought treatment for my mental health in 2016.
I hail from Singapore, where mental health conditions are incredibly stigmatised and I remember feeling ashamed to see a psychiatrist.
It felt like I had a dirty secret to keep and I certainly didn’t embrace my diagnosis.
In this wave of emotion, I thought about an idea for a film where people just spoke about who they were on camera, describing the quirks of their personality and the things they love to do.
After that, they'd reveal that they each have a mental health condition, showing that people can live wonderful lives despite having a diagnosis.
Although I loved it, I kept the idea in the back of my mind for the longest time because I was still figuring out my own mental health and I didn’t think I was ready.
Throughout the project, my process always put the people I was lensing first.
I told myself that I wanted to make sure these people who were trusting me with their life stories felt comfortable and also respected.
The photography actually took a back seat because of this and I focused all my attention on showing genuine care for the subjects and listening to their stories.
Once we formed a close bond, everything else fell into place easily.
I'd ask each subject what they loved and how they wished to be seen, then I would suggest scenarios where their personalities could shine.
This approach led to some truly unique and wonderful shoots!
Some highlights include doing a shoot with the giant tortoises at Cotswold Wildlife Park, shooting portraits in the beautiful Montacute House, and a quirky but certainly memorable one was doing a shoot in a bathroom full of Lush products.
This extended to both the short film and the notes in the project, where I always allowed my subjects to be spontaneous and I told them to do whatever they liked!
Collaboration is one of the highlights within AUB and that has been the way I’ve been able to explore other genres within my work.
Even though I am in the documentary genre group on my course, I can still work on other genres through collaboration.
Since coming to AUB, I’ve already photographed 16 collaborative fashion, fine art and beauty projects so far.
My experience has been incredible.
I love how social the university is and how much the courses collaborate!
I think that's the true selling point of AUB – the network of students you can meet within the campus, not to mention the friends as well.
My lecturers and the photography technicians have supported me every step of the way with my crazy ideas and massive equipment bookings.
The amount of creative freedom I get is amazing as well; I have never been able to artistically express myself as much as on this course.
My final major project is going to be a massive piece on migration that represents my transition from Singapore to the UK.
My motivation for tackling the topic of migration comes from the struggles I had during this transition.
I felt like people hardly talk about how difficult the process is, as the highs of the journey always overshadow the lows.
Although most migrants, be it international students, high-skilled workers or asylum seekers, ultimately live better lives if they're successful in their transition, there's so much hardship that comes with it and that's what I want to help shed light on.
My ultimate post-graduation goal is to become a photographic entrepreneur and to start my own studio and equipment rental service, complete with analogue facilities as well.
But because I have to gain more experience and save enough money for a seed fund, becoming a successful freelance photographer is the first thing on my agenda post-graduation.
Watch Nick's film, I AM NOT MY DIAGNOSIS , which was awarded GOLD at the AOP Student Awards 2023, below.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/arts-university-bournemouth-hosts-council-of-europe-international-youth-arts-project:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) hosted Arts, Youth and A Shared Peace , a Council of Europe international youth arts project that's part of a 10-day cultural exchange pilot project in collaboration with Lviv-European Youth Capital 2025.
Attended by 30 young people from Ukraine and the UK, the one-day event, which took place on 25 June at AUB’s Innovation Studio, was led by Darren Abrahams, singer, facilitator and trauma therapist along with Eileen Haste, a community artist from Bridport.
The European Youth Capital for 2025 is Lviv, Ukraine – the first city in a country at war to hold this title.
The European Youth Forum awards the title to empower young people and boost youth participation.
Lviv's program focuses on resilience, recovery, and reconstruction, emphasising the role of young people in these efforts.
Organised by Opera Circus and their international youth arts programme, the event explored the use of creativity and the visual arts in self-care and trauma.
The project encourages collaboration and the fostering of cross-cultural friendships, creative expression, and solidarity through arts and music workshops with cultural activities and the use of the creative arts for collective healing.
Opera Circus is an artist-led performing arts company that produces and tours new works of chamber opera and music theatre nationally and internationally.
The company devises projects with children and young people using creative and cultural activities to explore issues of Equality, Inclusion and Child and Human Rights.
Facilitated via a partnership with AUB and Bournemouth University and led by AUB’s Dr Emma Shercliff and Professor Stephanie Schwandner-Sievers, the day prompted many thought-provoking conversations as Emma explains:
“It was extraordinary to see how deeply powerful carefully facilitated artistic expressions of voice, movement, music and image-making can be.
“As creatives here at AUB, we have a sense of this, but to see it in action with a group of incredibly brave young people really opened my eyes to the important role participation in the arts can play in trauma attuned leadership for social change”
The project continues till the end of July with a return visit to Lviv to discuss plans for the next iteration of the work, with an international youth event planned in Europe.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aub-collaborates-with-london-and-costa-rica-universities-to-launch-new-documentary-summer-school:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is collaborating with University College London (UCL), the University of Costa Rica and the University of Westminster to launch a new intensive summer school centred around documentary filmmaking.
Participants in the summer school, which will take place this July, will receive training in filmmaking (including research, storyboarding, filming, and editing) before producing an eight-minute documentary.
Dr Lorena Cervera, Senior Lecturer of AUB’s BA (Hons) Film Production course is one of the summer school instructors.
“The initial idea for this course was proposed by Professor Stephen Hart after he spent more than a decade running a similar summer course in collaboration with the EICTV, the film school in Cuba,” Lorena says.
“Professor Hart is also the director of the PhD Documentary Track, a practice-based PhD programme at UCL, which some of the other organisers of the Costa Rica Summer School completed.
“For over two years, we have been thinking about this intense, three-week documentary filmmaking course, and planning its logistics.
This year we were able to reach an agreement with the University of Costa Rica.
We began advertising the first edition of this course in early February but hope it will run every summer.”
The summer school will be open to applicants of all skill levels, including those without any experience in filmmaking.
But what opportunities can it bring for current BA (Hons) Film Production students at AUB?
“There are three opportunities that this course could bring to AUB students.
First, gaining experience in filmmaking.
We are only accepting a limited number of students, and they will be working in small groups.
“Throughout the exercises that we have set up and the making of the documentary, students will get a chance to practice with scriptwriting, camera, sound, and editing.
We have already identified potential communities where they could shoot the documentaries, but students will still have to conduct the research and decide what story they want to capture.
“Second, students will be forging relationships with people from different parts of the world.
Thus far, we are receiving applications mainly from the US and the UK, but the intention is to bring together students from different countries who are studying different disciplines.
We have conceived this course as a mind-expanding experience while also being an opportunity to gain documentary filmmaking skills.
“Third, Costa Rica is often referred to as the happiest country in the world.
Its natural landscapes are outstanding, the food is varied and delicious, and people’s attitude towards life is uplifting.
Thus, being immersed in this culture could help students broaden their horizons and expand their understanding of key issues in today’s society.”
For nearly 20 years, Lorena has worked making non-fiction films across Europe, the Americas, and the United Kingdom, in productions such as Dr.
Moisès Broggi: Ethical Science (TV3, 2010), I wasn’t always dressed like this (D-AEP, 2014), and Changing of the Guard (Telesur, 2018).
She’s also directed short films such as Pilas (2019), #PrecarityStory (2020), and Processing Images from Caracas (2022), which have been shown at film festivals, cinemas, museums, galleries, and activist events.
In addition, Lorena has published several articles and book chapters on documentary, film collectives, and women’s cinema, and her first book, A Feminist Counter-History of Latin American Documentary , is forthcoming.
The Costa Rica Documentary Summer School 2025 will be held at the Escuela de Ciencias de la Comunicación Colectiva, at the University of Costa Rica in San José from 5–25 July.
Application forms and further information can be found on the UCL website .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/generative-ai-exhibition-featuring-worlds-first-digital-supermodel-to-launch-at-aub:
An exciting new exhibition exploring how Generative AI is impacting on artists’ practice is launching at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB).
Design; Disruption; Divergence will be available to view in person at TheGallery on AUB Campus, and, in a first for the University, also in a virtual exhibition space for the duration.
The exhibition will explore Generative AI, a type of artificial intelligence used to create new content.
It'll also explore identity politics in digital representation and creative AI, authenticity, diversity, and ownership in digital spaces.
Jennifer Anyan, Director of the University's School of Arts, Media, and Creative Industries Management, curated the exhibition.
“ Design; Disruption; Divergence doesn’t just showcase what AI can make," she explains.
"It interrogates what AI means for the act of making itself.
“There's been a surge in the Generative AI technology that's available to the general public; if artificial intelligence can generate ideas that have so far been the preserve of creative people, what does this mean for the practice of creatives, of designers, for artists?”
Alongside photography, film, fashion, textiles, and object-based work, the exhibition’s headline act is a communicative hologram of Shudu Gram, one of the world’s first digital supermodels and newly announced Industry Patron for AUB, the University’s first AI Industry Patron.
Shudu was created in 2017 by fashion photographer, AUB alumnus and MA Digital Fashion Innovation visiting tutor Cameron-James Wilson, she has her own Instagram and has already been on the front cover of Vogue .
“Shudu will be there in hologram form," says Jennifer.
"We’ve also been working in collaboration with Cameron and using Generative AI to enable her to communicate with visitors – it will be quite the show!”
In addition to the physical exhibition in TheGallery on site at AUB, staff and students have also developed a virtual exhibition space so people with access to a VR headset can visit remotely.
Jennifer continues, “We’ve invited those engaging with Generative AI through their own creative practice, to look at what the opportunities are, what the ethical dilemmas are and how we understand and explore this new tool.”
Lisa Moro, a graduate of both BA (Hons) Fine Art and MA Fine Art at AUB, is exhibiting her work, The English Dragon Snake , at Design; Disruption; Divergence .
She explains how she used AI tools to recreate the memory of a friend:
“I used AI to translate the fragmented recollections of childhood games shared by Vietnamese friends into animation and sound, filtered through my English understanding.
“Using Gravity Sketch in VR, I visualised AI-generated imagery derived from translated game descriptions.
The AI’s surreal distortions—figures floating or morphing unexpectedly—highlighted the slippages in cultural translation.
“For sound, I used AI-generated lyrics in both Vietnamese and English, transformed into song with word-to-vocal software, reinforcing the theme of linguistic mediation.
This process underscored AI’s role not as a direct translator but as an unpredictable collaborator in reshaping memory.”
Jennifer adds, “In a time when algorithms are part of our everyday world, this exhibition is all about how AI collaborates with human imagination.
AI emerges here as more than just an assistant; it’s a mirror reflecting our hopes and anxieties about the future of creativity in the digital age.
“These works illustrate AUB’s proactive engagement with AI and its impact on creative industries, underscoring the need for human guidance and design thinking in shaping its role in artistic practice."
Design; Disruption; Divergence will be showing at TheGallery, AUB, and in a virtual exhibition space from 14 February – 24 April 2025.
Visit the event's page on our website for more information .
If you liked this post you might be interested in our School of Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/international/overseas-representatives:
At Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) we pride ourselves in providing excellent support to our international agents and counsellors worldwide and work under the guidance of the UK’s Education Agent Partner Quality Assurance Framework .
We expect our partners to operate and comply with the standards established in The National Code of Ethical Practice for UK Education Agents (2021) and any future amendments.
We also expect our partners to recognise the importance of completing a recognised training qualification for UK-facing education agents we recommended they utilise the British Council Education Agent and Counsellor Training Suite , and in addition request access to the AQF agency management course , which are both endorsed by UKCISA , BUILA and UUKi .
As part of our application process, we would like you to submit the following information, which will allow us to understand more about your business and what type of partnership you could offer AUB.
Please take a good look at our courses , our ethos and the international section of our website to make sure that AUB is the kind of institution that you are looking to represent.
Please submit all items to agents@aub.ac.uk and we will aim to contact you within 7–10 days.
We look forward to hearing from you and thank you for your interest in working with AUB.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/international/american-loans:
Eligible students from America will be pleased to know that United States Federal Loans (FAFSA) are available for you to study at Arts University Bournemouth.
We participate in the US Department of Education’s Direct Loans programme .
Eligible US students are able to access federally-subsidised Stafford and PLUS loans to help finance their studies with us.
This page details how you apply for this financial support while at the AUB and other important aspects of the US Federal Student Aid system.
To receive aid, including Federal Direct Stafford and PLUS Loans, a student must meet the following eligibility requirements:
Must be a student enrolled or accepted for enrolment in an eligible programme at an eligible institution.
Please note that AUB accepts no responsibility whatsoever for the repayment of your loan.
It is your responsibility to repay the loan.
For further information on the process please contact the US loans team at usloans@aub.ac.uk .
When applying for a United States Federal Loans, please keep the following in mind.
If you have any questions, contact the US Loans Team at usloans@aub.ac.uk .
For
full AUB student policies and procedures, please visit our Regulations page .
You can also view our Privacy Policy .
For the purposes of US financial aid, AUB is classified by the US government as a ‘foreign school’.
This designation means that there are slightly different rules and categories of eligibility than you may be used to if you’ve taken out Federal Aid before.
Most programs of study at the University (including Bachelor’s, Master’s and PhD programs) do qualify for funding, but there are exceptions.
You cannot receive US government loans if you attend any of the following:
Federal Aid is disbursed in equal amounts at the start of each term within the academic year.
Once the money has been received by Arts University Bournemouth, any fees owing such as tuition fees and accommodation charges will be deducted.
AUB will then contact the student to arrange a bank transfer of any remaining funds.
You should ensure that you have sufficient funds from an alternative source to cover any costs until you receive your first disbursement.
Disbursement dates are normally one week after the start of the academic term.
You can refer to our list of disbursement dates for this academic year below:
A
private alternative loan is a non-government education loan, through a private
lender, typically in the student’s name and requiring a cosigner.
Approval and
interest rates are based on the creditworthiness of the borrower and cosigner.
Each alternative lender has different eligibility requirements, loan rates,
terms, and conditions.
Students
who are eligible for Federal student aid should complete the FAFSA and exhaust
all Federal loans and scholarship opportunities, before applying for a private
alternative loan.
Federal student loans generally have more favourable terms
and conditions than private loans.
We recommend that you use all Federal loan
eligibility before turning to private loans.
The
University is willing to work with any lender who offers alternative
educational loans to students enrolled at Foreign Institutions.
Currently, we
are aware of only two such lenders, Sallie Mae and Earnest, but students are
advised to explore all options available to them and can opt to use any lender.
For more information about Sallie Mae's loan programs, visit salliemae.com and myglobaled.com .
More information about Earnest's loan programs can be found on their website .
Each academic year, the university establishes standard student budgets that use Cost of Attendance (COA) estimates for awarding financial aid funds.
Your COA is provided to you once you have submitted your FAFSA application.
The budget reflects typical student expenses and consist of two basic components:
While your costs may vary depending on where you stay in Bournemouth, we expect your COA to be roughly in line with our estimates.
Only reasonable costs essential to your studies will be considered.
Please note that the COA uses a hypothetical exchange rate, reviewed annually, to convert UK costs into US dollar borrowing amounts.
The actual value of funds received will vary according to the exchange rate at the time of each disbursement.
Sample COA calculations for 2024/2025:
Sample COA calculations for 2025/2026:
As loan funds are not disbursed until the end of the first week of the term, students and their families will need to plan for several out-of-pocket expenses that will need to be paid for before the loan funds are received.
These can include:
These costs will be factored into the Cost of Attendance and students are eligible to borrow them.
However, the funds will not be available in advance and can only be reimbursed once the student has begun studies.
For full details of AUB’s refund policy please see the AUB Return of Title IV Funds Policy .
AUB is bound by the requirements under 34 CFR 668.22 of the Federal Aid regulations.
Additional information on AUB Fees Payment Policy can be found on our fees and financial support page .
Details of AUB’s academic programme can be found on this website.
AUB was awarded full taught degree awarding powers by the Privy Council of the UK Government in 2008 and was awarded full university status by the Privy Council in 2012.
The Office for Students maintains a list of degree-granting institutions in the UK.
The
U.S.
Department of Education requires institutions of higher education to
establish minimum standards of satisfactory academic progress for students
receiving Federal aid.
Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) means the student
is proceeding in a positive manner toward fulfilling degree requirements.
SAP
includes two standards: qualitative and quantitative.
Students must meet both
standards to continue receiving financial aid.
For further information, refer to our detailed SAP Policy.
All Arts University Bournemouth staff working in the field of US Federal Financial Aid and Private Loans for US nationals are duty-bound to abide by the code of conduct stipulated by the US Government which prohibits: revenue-sharing arrangements with any lender; receiving gifts from lenders, guarantors, or loan servicers; contracting arrangement providing financial benefit from any lender or affiliate of a lender; directing borrowers to particular lenders, or refusing or delaying loan certifications; offers of funds for private loans; call centre or financial aid office staffing assistance or advisory board compensation.
For full information about the services and facilities available to students with disabilities, refer to our student support page .
All loans undertaken will be submitted to the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS).
This is a system that is accessible by servicers and schools determined to be authorised users of the data system.
Arts University Bournemouth will confirm your attendance online through the NSLDS as required by Federal regulations.
Exit counselling is required when a borrower is preparing to leave AUB.
Exit counselling will educate the borrower about how to effectively manage and handle their student loan repayment.
Exit Counselling can be completed online at www.studentloans.gov .
AUB is committed to assisting students in fully understanding their rights and responsibilities as they pertain to the US loan programs.
The AUB Default Management Plan outlines the steps AUB will follow to help students stay compliant with Title VI regulations.
For full details about AUB’s copyright and scanning policy, please see here .
Where possible, the University publishes information for each of its courses (including graduation information, employment information and satisfaction information) using UNISTATS.
Retention rates for all Universities are published by HESA and can be found on their website .
For details of FERPA (the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act) please see below.
Arts University Bournemouth receives funds under an applicable programme of the US Department of Education programme; therefore, it is bound by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA).
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) (20 U.S.C.
§ 1232g; 34 CFR Part 99) is a Federal law that protects the privacy of student education records.
The law applies to all schools that receive funds under an applicable program of the U.S.
Department of Education.
FERPA gives parents certain rights with respect to their children’s education records.
These rights transfer to the student when he or she reaches the age of 18 or attends a school beyond the high school level.
Students to whom the rights have transferred are “eligible students.”
For additional information, you can call 1-800-USA-LEARN (1-800-872-5327) or you can write to the following address: Family Policy Compliance Office U.S.
Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, D.C.
20202-8520
For any queries please contact student services at studentservices@aub.ac.uk .
All Arts University Bournemouth courses are listed on this website.
Each course page is reviewed regularly by the course team to ensure that all of the representations made on the website are up-to-date and accurate.
This includes but is not limited to fee charges, the nature of the course and its accreditation.
Information on the University’s completion and transfer-out rates is available from the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA).
Due to the very low non-continuation rate, the University is unable to supply a breakdown of completion or transfer-out rates by gender, ethnicity, or recipients of need-based subsidised loans, as this may reveal personally identifiable information about an individual student, which would break the Data Protection Act 1998.
For the latest rates, please refer to HESA's website .
In tables where information is available at an institutional level you can search for Arts University Bournemouth in the Provider section.
Institutions that participate in the Title IV Scheme and provide US Federal loans are required to disclose specific information.
This information can be found on this website and is summarised in this document .
Please contact the US loans team if you require further information about the content at USloans@aub.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/fees/undergraduate:
Find your tuition fee for Undergraduate degree courses starting in September 2025.
Please note that Home and Channel Islands and Isle of Man fees will be subject to increase each year, and International (including EU students) fees are fixed for the duration of your course.
All students are required to pay tuition fees for each academic year of study.
Students who enter directly onto Years 2 or 3 of a course will pay Year 1 tuition fees.
Fees regulated by the government are subject to changes in legislation and may change from time to time.
2025/26 Applicants – BA (Hons) Creative Writing (Online)
£6,750
Optional placement year
£1,850*
*The tuition fee for the optional placement year is £1,850 , subject to inflationary increases based on government policy, and providing you progress through the course in the normal timeframe (no repeat years or breaks in study).
2025/26 Applicants (all years)
£19,950
Student Loans Company (SLC)
The SLC works with Student Finance England, Student Finance Wales, the Student Awards Agency for Scotland, Higher Education Institutions and HMRC to provide support for British and EU students in the UK.
SLC support includes loans to cover the cost of tuition fees, as well as maintenance loans to contribute towards living costs whilst at University.
For further information about SLC support and for details on how to apply, please visit http://www.slc.co.uk .
Maintenance loan
Maintenance loans are available for each year of study to help with living costs such as food, accommodation and travel.
The amount you can borrow depends on where you live and study, and your household income.
For more information and to find out what support you could get, please use the Student Finance Calculator on gov.uk.
To be eligible for support you must be in receipt of a full maintenance loan from Student Finance England, with a net household income of £25,000 or less.
Our support offer is based on household income information provided by Student Finance England and eligibility is verified annually.
What you’re entitled to receive will depend on your precise, individual circumstances.
Travel costs to attend Offer Holder Days
If you’re an AUB applicant, we have an annual fund available for you to receive a one-off award of up to £50 for travel costs to attend Offer Holder Days and university induction/transition events.
Accommodation costs
If you’re an undergraduate student in your first year (Level 4) living in AUB’s student accommodation, you’ll receive an accommodation bursary of £1,000.
Support for students who are care experienced or estranged
A bursary of £2,000 per annum.
This isn't means-tested and is in addition to any other bursaries and benefits that you may be entitled to.
If you think you may be eligible for this bursary, find out more information on how to apply and the support we offer .
Students eligible for this bursary may also be eligible for the AUB Guarantor Award .
Support for students who are young adult carers
Support for disabled students
If you’re required to make a £200 contribution towards a laptop previously provided through DSA, AUB will pay this £200.
In addition, we provide support for the cost of Educational Psychologist reports where required.
This is in addition to any other bursaries or benefits that you may be entitled to.
Travel costs
If you’re an undergraduate student in your second year (Level 5) or third year (Level 6) you’ll receive a £200 payment to assist with travel costs associated with your studies.
Opportunities linked to graduate employment
If you're in second year (Level 5) or third year (Level 6), we have an annual fund available for you to receive a one-off award of up to £300 for:
Please note, you can apply for this award in either second or third year.
However, this is a one-off award, so if you apply for it in second year, you won't be able to apply again in third year.
If you’re an undergraduate student in your third year (Level 6), you’ll receive a £250 payment to assist with travel costs associated with your studies.
Educational visits award
If you're in third year (Level 6), we have an annual fund available for you to receive a one-off award of up to £400 for support in attending a visit that's part of your course.
The opportunity needs to be on eVision to be eligible for the award.
Progression Scholarship
If you’re in your third year (Level 6) of study, you’ll receive a £300 Progression Scholarship to support with costs relating to your final year of study.
The amount of funding available depends on an assessment of your parents’ income or, if you’re an independent student, your own household income.
Students from the Isle of Man aren't eligible for a loan from the UK Student Loans Company, but the Isle of Man government offers higher education students a grand (Student Award) to help with living cost and tuition.
The amount of funding you can receive is dependent on your parents’ income or, if you’re an independent student, your own household income, as well as the type of course you're taking and where you're taking it.
American students are eligible to apply to the US Department of 
Education’s Direct Loans Programme as Arts University Bournemouth has 
been authorised to certify applications, full details of this can be 
found in Loans for American Students .
For further 
information on the Loan Fund visit the Lanekassen website.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/fees/postgraduate:
The tuition fees you pay for your postgraduate award will vary depending on the subject area you are studying and the type of postgraduate study you're embarking on.
Pick from the options below to find out more
2025/26 Applicants (Full-time)
£9,000
2025/26 Applicants (Part-time)
£4,500
2025/26 Master of Architecture Applicants
If you live in the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man, you'll be looking at different fee rates and levels of funding, set by the island authority on an annual basis.
£9,975
Discounts
AUB Alumni – progression discount
If you're an undergraduate alumnus, you may be eligible to receive the following discount:
Please note, this discount doesn't apply to Master of Architecture students.
Student Finance England
Postgraduate students may be able to apply for a postgraduate loan through Student Finance England .
Master of Architecture students may be eligible to apply for a Tuition Fee loan through Student Finance England.
UK Government Postgraduate Loans Scheme
The Government provides a loan for postgraduate MA study.
If a student meets the criteria, the Postgraduate Loan (PGL) will be paid to the student as a contribution towards Tuition Fees, living costs and other course costs.
What you need to know:
For further information, visit the GOV.UK website .
Also refer to the government's guidance on applying for a Master's loan .
If you have any questions about your eligibility for the loan please contact Student Finance England .
Students from the Island attending full-time higher education course at Arts University Bournemouth are entitled to apply for means-tested funding.
Please refer to the appropriate website for more details.
A few AUB bursaries may be available to Island students who are undertaking a postgraduate award (either taught MA or research degree).
If you have any questions or would like to talk further about your application or the scholarship, please contact us: international@aub.ac.uk
AUB offers scholarships of up to £5,000 for Master’s level study.
In addition to this, tuition fee discounts related to early payment of fees are available for international students on all full-time courses (including Foundation and Undergraduate), contact us for further details.
A number of external scholarships are open to international students applying to Arts University Bournemouth for Master’s level awards.
Please note that these scholarships are extremely competitive and require the demonstration of outstanding achievement in the field of the creative arts.
Students interested in applying for external scholarships should contact the international office for further details.
American students are eligible to apply to the US Department of Education’s Direct Loans Programme as Arts University Bournemouth has been authorised to certify applications.
Full details of this can be found in Loans for American Students .
Norwegian students are eligible for financial support from The Norwegian State Educational Loan Fund, administered by Lanekassen, which provides student loans and stipends for higher education.
For further information on the Loan Fund visit the Lanekassen website.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/fees/postgraduate-online:
The tuition fees you pay for your online postgraduate course will vary depending on the subject area you're studying and the type of postgraduate study you're embarking on.
The total fees for our 30-week, part-time online postgraduate courses for 2025/26 are outlined below.
Please note, depending on your country of residence, you may also have to pay Goods and Services Tax (GST) or Value-Added Tax (VAT)
PGCert Creative Teaching and Learning Design (Online)
£3,500
PGDip Creative Teaching and Learning Design (Online)
The total fees for our two-year online Master's courses for 2025/26 are outlined below.
Please note that these fees can all be paid in full or in pre-arranged instalments.
Please note, in addition to the fees outlined below, there's also a £500 acceptance fee to pay for our 2-year online postgraduate courses.
This £500 acceptance fee is non-refundable.
Once you start your studies, the acceptance fee is allocated as part of the first payment due for tuition fees.
Please also note, depending on your country of residence, you may also have to pay Goods and Services Tax (GST) or Value-Added Tax (VAT).
MA Creative Writing (Online)
MA Film Practice (Online)
MA Graphic Design (Online)
MA Illustration (Online)
MA Interior Design (Online)
MA Landscape Architecture Studies (Online)
MA Photography (Online)
The total fees for our online Master's courses, delivered part-time over 105 weeks, for 2025/26 are outlined below.
MA Creative Teaching and Learning Design (Online)
£10,500
AUB Alumni – progression discount (2-year courses only)
If you've completed an undergraduate degree at AUB and wish to progress to one of our 2-year online postgraduate courses, you may be eligible to receive the following discount:
For more information on the support you might be eligible for, visit the GOV.UK website.
AUB Alumni – progression discount (30-week course – PGCert only)
If you've completed an undergraduate degree at AUB and wish to progress to the PGCert online postgraduate course, you may be eligible to receive the following discount:
If you normally live in Northern Ireland, Scotland or Wales, financial support may be available from different services depending on your location.
If you're based in the USA, you may be able to apply online for a private loan through Sallie Mae .
For more information on this option, get in touch with our helpful Income team by emailing income@aub.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/fees/research:
We're in partnership with the University of Arts London for the delivery of our research degrees.
AUB Adopts the fees set by UAL for its doctoral programme.
Find tuition fees for PhD/Research degree courses below.
Fees are shown below.
£6,000
£3,000
Writing-up fee*
£990
*The writing-up fee is payable in four instalments for up to a maximum of one year.
Please note: Students who enrolled in 2017/18 or earlier will pay the £240 Writing-up fee.
£17,500
£8,750
International students who enrolled in 2018/19 or earlier will continue to pay the same fee that they paid in the first year of their enrolment on their research degree at UAL.
If you're an undergraduate or postgraduate alumnus, you may be eligible to receive the following discount:
20% tuition fee discount for each year of study when progressing from undergraduate or postgraduate study to research study.
You must progress to research study within two years of completion of your undergraduate or postgraduate degree for this discount to apply.
These discounts do not apply to Master of Architecture students.
PhD students may be able to apply for a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan through Student Finance England.
A Postgraduate Doctoral Loan can help with course fees and living costs while you study a postgraduate doctoral course, such as a PhD.
You can apply online or request a paper application form from the government website .
Students from the Islands attending full-time higher education course at AUB may be able to apply for means-tested funding.
A few AUB bursaries may be available to Island students who are undertaking a research degree.
For more information, students should refer to the student finance for Northern Ireland website.
For more information, students should refer to the student finance for Scotland website.
For more information, students should refer to the student finance for Wales website.
For our full range of scholarships, please visit our EU and International Scholarships page .
If you have any questions or would like to talk further about your application or the scholarship, please contact the International team via email .
AUB offers scholarships of up to £5,000 for Research level study.
In addition to this, tuition fee discounts related to early payment of fees are available for international students (contact us for further details).
A number of external scholarships are open to international students applying to Arts University Bournemouth for Research level awards.
Loans for American Students
Students from America will be pleased to know that United States Federal Loans are available for you to study at AUB, just as they'd be if you were studying in the US, as AUB has been authorised to certify applications.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/study-abroad-exchange/preparation-for-masters:
Study Abroad and Exchange
Explore your creative practice and prepare for your Master’s degree.
Our Preparation for Master’s course is designed for international students and creative professionals who already have an undergraduate degree but may not have the required academic qualifications or entry requirements to progress directly onto one of AUB’s Master’s degrees.
This six-month programme gives you the opportunity to improve your English language and study skills, develop your portfolio and deepen your understanding of your creative practice to ensure you can secure entry onto an AUB Master’s degree with confidence.
Your MA course leader will determine your suitability for Master’s level before you are offered a place on the Preparation programme.
You will then be offered a programme of learning to help you develop your skills and prepare for your future Master's application.
You will join undergraduate students on selected modules to refine your individual capabilities and receive mentoring from our academic tutors, who will provide support and guidance to help you improve sufficiently to apply to your Master's degree.
Students will be required to pass all elements of the Preparation programme to be considered for the Master's course.
Our Pre-Master’s course does not automatically guarantee your entry onto an AUB Master’s degree; you will need to ensure that you meet the minimum stated academic and English language requirements for these courses, and this will be checked at the point of application.
During the course, your MA course leader will work closely with you and academic colleagues to ensure you are well supported, to meet the expected learning outcomes and develop your creative practice.
Please note, this is not an accredited course and therefore may not necessarily be accepted by other institutions as a progression pathway to their own Master’s courses.
If you have any questions or would like more information about our Pre-Master’s course, please contact our International team: international@aub.ac.uk .
Full time
2 Terms
September – March
January – May
Contact Study Abroad on +44 1202 363824 or Skype: aub-studyabroad .
Students with language scores of IELTS 5.5 to 6.5 or equivalent, will be supported by English language study during their course to improve academic listening, speaking, reading and writing.
Students with language scores below IELTS 5.5 or equivalent will be offered an additional English programme, before the Preparation programme.
Extra English language support courses will incur an additional fee, depending on the duration of study.
In order to progress onto a Masters level course, all students will need to demonstrate language levels of minimum IELTS 6.5 or equivalent.
Students should also have an undergraduate award in a related subject.
Please refer to our full list of Master's courses for details of what’s on offer.
On successful completion, students are awarded a 'Certificate of Attendance' and a 'Transcript of Marks'.
On successful completion of the Preparation programme and minimum English levels of IELTS 6.5 or equivalent, direct entry onto the designated MA pathway will be offered.
To apply, you can contact the Study Abroad Office on +44 1202 363824 or email studyabroad@aub.ac.uk .
Study Abroad courses are for students and professionals who wish to spend time learning in the UK with our students for one or more terms

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/study-abroad-exchange/outgoing-opportunities:
We’re committed to nurturing creativity, engaging with
communities, and collaborating with industry, globally.
Exchange programmes offer the opportunity for current AUB students to study part of their degree with one of our partner universities overseas, to gain valuable new experiences and make new connections.
While studying at AUB, you may have the opportunity to spend
part of your degree programme studying with one of our exchange partners.
Students on a three-year degree can spend the spring semester of
their second year studying abroad at one of our partner universities.
AUB’s Exchanges team will be sharing information about possible exchanges with the courses during their Level 5 year via email.
If you’re interested in applying to one of our partner institutions or have any questions regarding exchange, please contact your Course Leader, or Exchanges team at exchanges@aub.ac.uk .
Yes,
the credits earned abroad as part of your exchange programme will be
transferred back to AUB.
However, your exchange will only be awarded a “pass”
or “fail” grade, due to the difficulty of translating the grades used in
different education systems.
This means that the exchange will not count
towards your final classification degree.
Relevant teams within the university
will agree and advise on your exact study plan before departure.
As part of
this process, you'll sign a learning agreement detailing the credits required
and how you'll achieve those.
Some institutions may require you to have a basic level of the host countries language, as some classes may not be taught in English.
Please see our partner lists above for more information.
Once you have decided where you wish to study, you'll need to complete the AUB nomination form.
As part of this form, you'll need to ask your course leader to write a recommendation and confirm they're happy for you to take part in the exchange.
AUB will then send your nomination to the partner university to decide whether they wish to accept your application.
The partner university will then be in touch to let you know if your application has been successful.
Places on exchange are limited and if there are more applications than places available, the partner university will decide which students they wish to accept.
Other costs to consider include covering the rent of your property in the UK while you're on exchange.
Additionally, there may be costs incurred for a visa to travel, comprehensive travel insurance, flights and accommodation.
You also need to be aware of the cost of living to ensure you have sufficient funds to support your exchange.
For more detailed costs about the destination you're interested in, contact the international team via email .
As part of your exchange, you're not required to pay the host institution any tuition fees or examination fees, but you'll be responsible for covering your travel, accommodation and living costs, and you'll continue paying tuition fees as normal to AUB during your exchange programme.
If you're currently receiving a maintenance grant or student loan from Student Finance England, you'll still receive this while you're abroad.
An additional travel grant is available through Student Finance England on a means-tested basis.
Find out more and check your eligibility on the UK government website .
If you're under Access and Participation, you may also be eligible for additional funding from our Student Services department.
Exchange costs to consider include:
AUB will
support you fully for the duration of your exchange programme and you can
contact us at any time.
However, as you plan to spend time studying and living
in a new country on your own, it's important that you're also able to take responsibility
towards the planning.
Once you’ve
been accepted by our partner institution, it is important that you proactively
engage with the exchange process.
Most institutions will require you to engage
with their international department directly and not via AUB’s international
office.
As a result, you must regularly check your emails and make sure you
meet the relevant deadlines.
Please remember, it is your responsibility to remain in contact with your course leader and level leader during your time overseas.
You must also stay in contact with the exchanges team and regularly check your AUB email address for any emergencies.
Also remember you'll continue to have access to all AUB’s support services, such as wellbeing and counselling.
It is your
responsibility to research and implement your own visa requirements, make sure
you are fully aware of the process involved and have the visa in place ready
for your departure date.
You are
responsible for booking your own flights to and from your destination as well
as any in-country travel that may be required to reach your institution.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/study-abroad-exchange/incoming-opportunities:
Would you like to learn and live in the UK for a short time during your studies?
If you're doing a creative degree in your home country, you can come here for part of your course and enjoy the benefits AUB has to offer.
You'll not only learn from our expert academics and use state-of-the-art facilities, but you'll also improve your language skills, learn about UK culture, and get amazing life experiences as well.
If you're an overseas student and coming to AUB as a study abroad student, you can study with us for a term or a full year.
If you are coming as an exchange student from an AUB partner institution, you can study with us for a term.
Visit our Term Dates page for more information .
We would love you to spend a term with us.
All incoming exchange students must apply through their universities, which must be an exchange partner of AUB.
Once we receive the nominations from your institution, we will get in touch and let you know how to apply directly to AUB.
The Exchange Co-ordinator or International Officer at your Home institution will be able to provide you with the information about the nomination process and application deadlines.
Please read our Exchanges Factsheet for more information about studying at AUB as an exchange student and the application process.
Below is a list of our partner institutions.
Check if your home institution is there and if so, we look forward to receiving your submission.
Please speak with your home exchange co-ordinator to arrange this.
English may not be your first language, but we can help with that.
We have a team of English for Academic Purposes (EAP) tutors who can help you develop your academic language and study skills.
EAP support is available to all study abroad students.
On successful completion, students are awarded a ‘Certificate of Attendance’ and a ‘Transcript of Marks’
Portfolio Preparation
IELTS or equivalent 4.5
Undergraduate Study Abroad
IELTS or equivalent 5.0
Preparation for Master's
IELTS or equivalent 5.5
Exchange
IELTS or equivalent 6.0
International students and professionals who would like to develop their skills to produce work for a portfolio or interview at university may join our Study Abroad Portfolio Preparation Art, Design and Media course.
International students currently studying at degree level at their home institutions have the opportunity to join our Study Abroad Undergraduate courses and can gain credits toward their university degree.
Students are fully integrated with our BA (Hons) students.
International students and professionals who need to develop their creative understanding of their chosen subject or increase their English language scores before being accepted onto a Master's course can join the Study Abroad Preparation for Master's programme designed to help students secure entry onto a Master's course.
To apply for any of our Study Abroad courses, students can contact Study Abroad Office on +44 1202 36376 or email studyabroad@aub.ac.uk .
There are two start dates available, September and January.
English language support and/or Intensive English course will incur an additional fee depending on the duration of the study.
We can accept the English language components of selected European qualifications - to see a find a complete list visit our Visa page .
If English is not your first language, a qualification is required as evidence that you have the necessary level of English language to succeed in your chosen course.
We can accept the following qualifications:
Study Abroad
Please note that your English language qualification must not be more than two years-old at the beginning of your exchange/study abroad period.
We expect you to submit your English language qualification with your application by the deadline given.
Showcase your current and existing work, finished and unfinished projects related to the course you are interested in.
Letter of support from someone at your university/college/professional practice.
Personal statement of a maximum of 500 words, outlining what you wish to gain by Study Abroad/Exchange at AUB.
For Exchange students, your home university must send your nomination form by email to exchanges@aub.ac.uk with the following supporting documents:
For Study Abroad students, please apply here.
You will then be sent a confirmation email with further instructions.
Portfolio For all incoming students, you may be asked to submit a digital portfolio of work as part of your application.
You should provide your portfolio electronically.
Spring term deadline (starting in January): end of October.
Autumn term deadline (starting in September): end of April.
Please note: the start and end date of your exchange may vary from course to course – exact start and end dates will be confirmed in your offer email if your application is successful.
There are no strict deadlines for Study Abroad applications, we advise and support each application individually.
We recommend applying no later than early August for the autumn term, and no later than early December for the spring term.
You are not expected to pay tuition fees to AUB.
As part of the agreement between the two institutions, it is normal for exchange students to pay fees to their home institution and not their host institution.
You will, however, be required to pay for your living expenses (e.g.
accommodation, travel costs, etc.)
In addition to paying for your living expenses, e.g.
accommodation, travel costs, etc., you will need to pay tuition fees as follows.
If you are a national from outside the European Economic Area (EEA) and Switzerland, you will need an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA), or a Standard Visitor Visa .
The visa pages on the GOV.UK website can help you determine whether you need to obtain a visa before travelling to the UK.
We will provide more detailed information about the rules and requirements for student visitor visas.
AUB student accommodation is available for Study Abroad and Exchange students at AUB Home Park student accommodation located in the town centre, close to campus.
For more information about Home Park, visit our Halls of Residence page .
Accommodation fees and application information will be provided once the application to Study Abroad/Exchange is completed.
If you have any questions, please contact the team via email at exchanges@aub.ac.uk or by telephone on +44 1202 363767 .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/palace-court-theatre:
The Palace Court Theatre is a 1930s Art Deco building, situated in Bournemouth town centre.
Owned by Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) since 2021, it's being reactivated as a civic venue for educational and cultural engagement.
Substantial refurbishment has already been undertaken at the theatre and will continue as AUB creates a space in Bournemouth town centre for students and the community to enjoy creativity and connection.
In 2024, for the first time in 40 years, the venue hosted a full programme of educational and cultural events.
AUB’s purchase of the Palace Court Theatre forms part of our civic ambitions, to support the development of the creative industries and the regeneration of Bournemouth’s town centre through educational and cultural activity.
The theatre will be used as a teaching, learning, research, and innovation resource, and as a venue for local artists to develop new ideas.
We welcome local creatives and the public to join us in continuing to redevelop the theatre, to offer support and sponsorship, and embark on a programme of imaginative adventures, to fully reactivate this beautiful 1930s playhouse.
Booking tickets
The Palace Court Theatre is used for a variety of events.
To book tickets, please go to the individual event page in the What’s On section.
From here, you'll find a link to the ticket booking page for that event.
Every member of the audience must be in possession of a valid ticket to gain entry to the theatre.
The seats are non-allocated.
Ticket policy
Once purchased, tickets can't be exchanged or refunded.
All customers aged 14 years or below must be accompanied by an adult aged 18 years or over.
Some performances may have different age restrictions.
It's the responsibility of the ticket-holder to check any restrictions before they purchase tickets.
Every effort to admit latecomers will be made at a suitable break in the event, but admission can't always be guaranteed.
House opening
Please check individual events for information on what time the house will be open to the public.
Accessibility
We're working on making the venue more accessible.
There are currently no lifts in the building, so accessibility across the building is limited.
There are three steps from the street to the theatre entrance.
A moveable ramp is available to use on these steps.
This is currently not deemed suitable for electric/power wheelchairs, but can be used by non-motorised wheelchairs with assistance.
Please let us know in advance if you need to use this.
Access to the main auditorium is on a level with the foyer.
There's seating available with extra legroom and two wheelchair spaces.
Please advise when booking tickets if you require these spaces.
There's one accessible toilet located in the foyer.
Access to the backstage areas and the clubroom is via a series of steps.
Please note, it's also important that you make us aware prior to an event that you have an accessibility need, so that we can arrange a Personal Emergency Evacuation Plan for you.
Toilet Facilities
The main toilets are accessed via a series of stairs from the Foyer.
There's one accessible toilet available in the foyer area.
Front of House
Whilst the theatre is under development, please be aware that the space can be cold.
AUB and Palace Court Theatre are cashless sites, payments for refreshments and tickets can only be made by card or contactless payment.
There's currently no bar area, but refreshments will be served from the auditorium area.
Travel
Palace Court Theatre is in the centre of Bournemouth on Hinton Road.
The Palace Court Theatre, which originally opened in 1931, owes its existence to the Bournemouth Little Theatre Club, for whom it was commissioned as a permanent base for their 1,000-strong membership.
It was an important focal point for drama on the stage and screen for over 50 years, offering a repertory season of plays and entertainment, including many new works, both on the main stage, and in the clubroom downstairs.
The theatre was designed by local architects Seal & Hardy, who were also responsible for more than 50 other local buildings, including the Regent Centre in Christchurch, the Bournemouth Daily Echo offices, Westover Ice Rink and the Palace Court Hotel (now Premier Inn).
The first Seal & Hardy design, published around 1930, had a vaguely Egyptian cinema-style façade.
However, owing to budgetary restraints, it was simplified to emulate the Portland stone façade of London’s Whitehall Theatre.
Inside the venue was a fairly plain, typically 1930s modernist interior with a single balcony.
Specifically commissioned as a playhouse, rather than a cinema, (sound cinema came along in 1929), the acoustics are excellent for the spoken word.
It remains the only theatre in Bournemouth fully suitable for plays.
At the time of opening in June 1931, there were administrative offices and accommodation facilities alongside the theatre in the building next door.
In the ensuing years, the Edwardian villas of Westover Road were replaced with hotels, cinemas, theatres, dance halls and an ice rink, as well as the sports facilities at the YMCA.
Locals and visitors were attracted to "the strip".
A place to see and be seen.
In the 1960s, changing holiday habits and rising costs meant that the amateur drama company could no longer afford to run the theatre, and in 1970 the building was sold to Louis I.
Michaels’ LM Theatres.
The former clubroom on the lower ground floor was converted into the Galaxy Cinema, whereas the main 595-seater theatre was renamed The Playhouse and operated as a repertory theatre for eight years.
After this, in light of dwindling attendances, The Playhouse eventually became a full-time cinema.
In 1983, upon the death of Louis Michaels, the building was put on the market and sold to the Assemblies of God, who'd been hiring it for Sunday services.
Change of use to a church was allowed on appeal, and was also made personal to the owners so that, upon any change of ownership, the permission would lapse.
In 2021, AUB purchased the building, and has since begun restoring its use as a theatre venue.
The Palace Court Theatre is currently undergoing significant redevelopment and redecoration to reactivate the space.
Areas of the space require significant work and access can be difficult.
We're working to improve infrastructure systems as well as the physical space.
AUB is committed to making its buildings environmentally sustainable in line with its 2030 net zero strategy.
A large stage with gentle raked seating for up to 250 people in the stalls (the circle seating isn't currently available for use).
With excellent acoustics for the spoken word, the space is ideal for performances, talks and lectures.
The seating isn't numbered and is allocated on a first-come first-served basis.
The seating is particularly comfortable as it was acquired from a cinema refurbishment.
Located below street level, the clubroom is a large open space with a low stage area and striking parquet floor.
Ideal for meetings, music performances, social gatherings and performances.
The current capacity for the clubroom is 100 people.
AUB is pleased to offer the Palace Court Theatre for hire to external organisations from August 2024.
The theatre is still in development, so please ensure you fully understand the limited tech spec and temporary infrastructure of the building.
We run termly Open Site visits for creatives, and we'd encourage anyone interested in hiring the PCT to attend one of these to see the spaces before making a hire enquiry.
All external hires of the Palace Court Theatre will need to attend a pre-event planning meeting at the venue, show proof of their public liability insurance, and provide a risk assessment for their use of the space.
If you're interested in hiring the Palace Court Theatre, please complete and submit a Hire Enquiry Form.
If you'd like to bring your work to the Palace Court Theatre as part of the artistic programme, please contact the Theatre and Venues Manager, Nicola Cartlidge, at palacecourtheatre@aub.ac.uk
Since acquiring the Palace Court Theatre, AUB has committed to carrying out extensive work to the building, which has allowed for the presentation of live performance, film and the hosting of workshops and community projects.
Those who've attended shows, talks and tours at the theatre are excited about its potential for AUB, corporate organisations, the creative industries and the community.
The improvements to the building are already significant, and yet there's still a long way to go to really bring the theatre back to its full potential.
To support the development of the theatre, the AUB Charitable Foundation is leading the current aim of raising financial support for the reimagining and programming of the Palace Court Theatre.
AUB Charitable Foundation is launching a major fundraising programme to engage with trusts and individuals interested in art, heritage and culture who may join in the journey to restore Palace Court Theatre to a vibrant, living venue for the arts.
A membership programme will open in 2025 to gain support from the community.
There'll be an opportunity to be Founding Members, supporting the renovation and programming of this project from the beginning.
Alongside the fundraising, the University will continue to invest in the building to make improvements for all users and increase the range of work that can be hosted in the space.
For more information about the fundraising and membership programme, you can get in touch via email at palacecourtheatre@aub.ac.uk .
Get a taste of Palace Court Theatre's shows and events, past and present, in these videos and photos.
If you're interested in some of AUB's most recent events and productions at Palace Court Theatre, take a look through our archive of past shows.
This will be an opportunity to join the young men from the 2024 Being a Boy workshop series and their supporters to celebrate their...
Let us introduce the Travelling Players, with their suitcases bursting with merriment, mayhem and humbug.
They tell the haunting tale of...
An exhibition by TheGallery and Palace Court Theatre, in partnership with AUB Productions, BA (Hons) Modelmaking, and the Alumni Office...
01.00.
An Iron Age hillfort in North Dorset.
﻿15-year-old best friends, Viv and Daisy, wait for a ghost...
AUB Productions presents a contemporary take on William Shakespeare's immortal tragedy of feuding families...
Young lovers run away through a magical wood risking everything to be with each other, would-be actors risk their...
La Casa Nova, also known as The Superior Residence﻿, was considered by Goldoni to be his best play.
Although The Servant...
Grease Lightning is about to strike, and you won't want to miss the chance to experience the magic of this timeless...
The Ballad of Maria Marten is a revisionist retelling of a harrowing true crime in 1827, which sheds light on a complex tale of...
Iris on the Move 2024 is a UK wide touring programme that aims to bring LGBTQ+ films to a wider audience across the UK.
It's the largest...
The 'Palace Court Theatre: An ongoing story...' pop-up exhibition is a celebration of AUB’s acquisition of the Palace Court...
The civil war was over.
The civil war was won.
Then, upon a heath, a noble soldier meets three witches.
Blood will have blood.
This free event invites all ages to enjoy creative workshops, captivating storytelling, The Haunted Theatre...
Stay up to date with the latest from Palace Court Theatre.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/food-and-drink:
We know that you need delicious, nutritional and well-priced food when you're in the middle of a brilliant project, so don't worry.
We’ve got plenty of choices all over campus.
You can’t innovate on an empty stomach.
The Refectory sits at the heart of campus offering a wide range of freshly cooked, often themed dishes from our chefs.
This vibrant outlet serves popular dishes from our Savour Range at just £3.95 and our Feastival Pop-ups (fish and chips on Friday are always a winner).
There are always delicious vegetarian and vegan options on offer every day, along with the newly introduced Miso Veg Bowl.
The Shop serves a wide range of sandwiches, salads and meal deals along with all your favourite branded snacks, confectionery as well as hot and cold drinks at great prices.
Our hot cabinets are stacked with your favourite sausage rolls, pastries, vegan snacks and pasties to have on the go.
It's your one-stop shop to get you through the day.
The Arts Bar is located on the first floor above the Refectory.
Perfect for your 'grab and go' breakfast.
We serve all your favourite Costa hot and cold beverages along with a selection of sweet and savoury offerings, making the Arts Bar the place for a quick meeting or on the go.
It also offers a wide range of alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks for that social catch-up.
Located in the North Building, adjacent to TheGallery , we're proud to serve Bad Hand coffee, beans locally roasted in Bournemouth.
Our experienced baristas will keep you going throughout the day – perfect for a 'grab and go' breakfast.
We offer a wide range of products, offering hot and cold beverages, freshly cooked paninis, pastries, savoury bites, selection of vegan items and meal deals.
Scott Duburguet, Catering Manager Tel: +44 1202 363205 Email: artsbar@aub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/university-music:
University Music is a joint AUB and BU department that offers a wide range of musical opportunities to students and staff of both universities.
All students can join our ensembles free of charge.
University Music recognises the role that music and culture play in the development of the individual and the benefits cultural activities bring to the wider University community.
Individual tuition
With our team of well-qualified, friendly tutors is available, in person or via Zoom, on all instruments and voice.
Theory tuition for grades 5 to 8 and diploma level is also available.
Lessons cost £33 (1 hour), £24.75 (45 minutes) or £16.50 (30 minutes) and can be taken weekly or fortnightly.
Fees will be payable directly to the tutors, who will provide more details of their payment system.
Please see below for details of music scholarships.
For more details, or to be put in touch with a tutor, please email music@aub.ac.uk
Our tutors:
What's a University Music scholarship?
University Music scholarship scheme is intended to encourage excellence and development both in performance and academic musical study.
Scholars receive instrumental/vocal tuition with highly qualified and experienced teachers and enhance their ensemble skills through membership of our orchestras, choirs and bands.
University Music offers a full programme of concerts and recitals featuring both students and visiting professional musicians.
Should I apply?
Award recipients must be prepared to contribute to the cultural life of the University by participating in selected activities and events as designated by the Head of Music.
Applicants will need to have passed ABRSM grade 8 in their main instrument or voice, provide evidence of academic musical qualifications such as A-level music or grade 8 theory and provide evidence of their recent musical activities.
If you are interested in applying for a University Music scholarship you should in the first instance email Ian Davis (Head of University Music) via music@aub.ac.uk
“I’ve sung in Chamber Choirs since about year seven, and I considered pursuing music after my school studies.
I’m currently working with musician and tutor Jonathan Prentice and my lessons are fully funded by the university – it’s made such a difference to me in the past few months.”
University Choir is a large-scale Choral Society, which is open to students and staff of AUB and BU and to members of the local community.
There are no auditions and all are very welcome.
We rehearse and perform major works from the choral repertoire with orchestra.
Rehearsals: Thursdays, 19.00-21.00 (occasionally 18.30-21.00)
Venue: Student Hall, Talbot House, Talbot Campus, BH12 5BB.
Ample, free, floodlit parking directly outside the rehearsal venue.
Annual subscription:
For further information and details of how to join us please email musicadmin@bournemouth.ac.uk , or come along to any rehearsal.
Our student Chamber Choir has gathered an enviable reputation and offers singers with some experience and sight-reading ability the chance to rehearse and perform challenging repertoire from the Renaissance to the present day.
We regularly sing in prestigious venues such as Salisbury and Winchester Cathedrals, Christchurch Priory, Wimborne Minster and St.
Peter’s Church, Bournemouth, as well as on our own campuses.
Rehearsals: Wednesdays, 17.00-18.30
Annual subscription: Free to all AUB students.
For further information please email music@aub.ac.uk
Our contemporary choir is open to AUB and BU students and staff.
No previous experience is required, and you don't need to be able to read music.
Just come along and enjoy singing well-known songs.
Rehearsals: Wednesdays, 13.10-13.45
Annual subscription: Free to AUB students
An ensemble which gives regular performances both on campus and in the local area.
Ideally, you'll need to have reached a standard roughly equivalent to ABRSM/Trinity grade 5, but don’t worry if you haven’t passed the exams.
Rehearsals: Tuesdays, 17.30-19.30 in the Student Hall, Talbot House.
This ensemble welcomes all wind and brass players including saxophonists.
Percussionists and bass players are also very welcome.
Rehearsals: Wednesdays, 19.00-21.00 in the Student Hall, Talbot House.
For more information please email music@aub.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/uniprint:
Based in the heart of campus, Uniprint is a one-stop shop for our creative community, offering printing, art supplies and more.
Uniprint offer a full range of printing services, from large format printing and dissertation binding, to posters and business cards.
Binding, mounting and lamination services are also available.
The shop itself stocks high quality, industry-standard products such as Daler Rowney, Moleskine and many more.
You can find paint materials, drawing tools and various types of card and paper.
If you can’t find what you’re looking for, it can be ordered in.
The Uniprint team are full of knowledge and are always on hand to offer advice to students and local businesses.
If you've got any questions, get in touch on info@uniprintuk.com or call +44 1202 853636 .
Monday-Friday
09:00-17:00
Sunday

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/room-hire:
Are you searching for the ideal venue for your next meeting, conference, or creative event?
Arts University Bournemouth has just what you’re looking for.
Our room hire facility offers a diverse range of modern and well-equipped spaces that are perfect for individuals, businesses, and organisations of all sizes – from large auditoriums to compact meeting rooms, we have the perfect space for your needs.
Explore our exceptional facilities below or get in touch with us at roomhire@aub.ac.uk or call 01202 363222 to discuss your requirements.
At AUB, we don’t just provide you with a room.
We provide you with everything you need to make your event memorable and ensure it runs smoothly.
With your booking we provide:
You can host impactful presentations, lectures, and film screenings in our state-of-the-art auditoriums.
Our Conference Centre is perfect for larger gatherings, workshops, and seminars that require spacious and versatile settings.
Designed for productive meetings and collaborations, these professional spaces foster creativity and innovation.
We’ll soon be expanding our services to include access to specialist resources such as photographic studios, dedicated learning spaces and creative classrooms that support a diverse range of activities.
Whether you're hosting a creative workshop or need a collaborative space for artistic projects, we’re committed to meeting your needs.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/guide-to-bournemouth/travel:
Bournemouth is well-connected by public transport, which makes it easy to explore some of the South Coast’s highlights.
With award-winning beaches, buzzing nightlife, mini-golf courses, cinemas, water parks, gardens and a plethora of shops and restaurants all within a five-mile radius of our campus, being able to explore your surroundings is a must.
Getting around in Bournemouth couldn't be easier.
The Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole area is well-connected, with public transport links running regularly.
Cyclists can also zip from A to B with the local Beryl Bike hire service.
If you're looking to go a little further afield, there are also major train and coach stations a short walk away from our Lansdowne halls of residence that will transport you to the New Forest, Southampton, London and beyond.
Whether you're living in halls or private rented accommodation, travelling around town and campus is easy.
You'll find an abundance of cycle paths around Bournemouth, but the most popular option is taking the bus – the subsidised route that runs from campus is called UNIBUS .
There are plenty of options for buying tickets – an annual pass, a 10-trip pass, or a single fare.
Find out more about travelling around Bournemouth below.
Bournemouth has a well-established cycle community, with paths across town making it easy to travel about on two wheels.
All our halls of residence and the campus have access to bicycle storage – we'd recommend using a D-lock to secure your bicycle.
The Universities Police Team offers free bicycle security marking and hold regular sessions on campus, and Hope2Cycle visit AUB on a monthly basis for discount bicycles and bicycle repairs.
UNIBUS and MoreBus provide services across Bournemouth, Poole and Christchurch.
You can pick up a timetable from Student Services, or information on bus times can also be found online at:
Hopping on a bus couldn't be easier.
Simply tap your contactless phone or card, and you're good to go.
We strongly recommend that you avoid bringing a car with you to university.
There's no student parking on campus or halls of residence, unless you're a Blue Badge holder .
Parking in the local areas is limited but a few car parks are available .
Arriving in Bournemouth by bus, coach or train is easy – all of these stations are conveniently located at the same spot in Lansdowne between town centre and our campus, only a five-minute walk from our off-campus halls of residence.
MoreBus connects most areas around Bournemouth, Poole and Christchurch, and from Poole you can catch the Jurassic Coaster service to explore the stunning, historic coastline.
Looking for a rural escape?
Take a 20-minute train to Brockenhurst for a day trip to the New Forest.
This provides a fun day out with beautiful landscapes, with walking trails from the village, nearby pubs, horse-riding lessons and even campsites for the summer.
For more beach action, head to Swanage – just an hour on the bus from Bournemouth – where you can hire kayaks or pedalos to get out on the water, along with a great variety of quaint little spots.
Even further out you'll find Southampton which is great for shopping at West Quay, and the cultural city of Winchester, just under an hour by train.
You could even visit the iconic, pre-historic Stonehenge – it's only an hour's drive away.
London Waterloo is just two hours away on South Western Railway , and National Express coaches also run between Bournemouth and London.
Be sure to check out direct Cross Country trains to Oxford, Birmingham and Manchester, or change at Southampton for York, Newcastle, Bath and Bristol.
For a coastal town, Bournemouth is surprisingly well connected to the rest of the UK and Europe.
Bournemouth Airport has flights to a variety of great getaway destinations.
Just an hour away, Southampton Airport Parkway has airborne connections to transport hubs in France, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Germany and the Netherlands.
If you're looking to go across the water, Poole and Southampton both offer ferries to France and the Channel Islands with Condor.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/accommodation/private-rented-accommodation:
We want all of our students to live life to the full, on campus and off; to engage with the local community and have a rewarding time at AUB.
Finding the right accommodation that suits you is an important part of this experience.
If you’d prefer not to live in university halls you’ll need to find accommodation in the private rented sector.
Studentpad lets you search for student houses, flats and lodgings in Bournemouth and the UK.
Find your perfect student house with Studentpad today.
Renting a house or flat for the first time can seem like a daunting experience, especially when you aren't familiar with the area.
However, we hope that the advice and information we provide will make it easier for you.
Student Services deals with accommodation matters – our Student Advisers are here all year round to answer any queries you may have, and offer advice and guidance on any practical accommodation issue including:
Student Services is open from 08.30–17.00 Monday-Thursday and 08.30–16.30 on Friday and can be contacted via studentservices@aub.ac.uk or 01202 363780
We're not able to arrange private rented accommodation on your behalf, but there are plenty of ways to find your accommodation.
AUB Studentpad should be your first port of call.
This site lists all student accommodation registered with us by local landlords who have been accredited by a national association.
You can browse the site to see what kinds of properties are currently available.
We don't view properties listed on the AUB Studentpad website.
Only landlords who are accredited with The Residential Landlord Accreditation Scheme, Private Rented Sector Accreditation Scheme or The National Landlords Association are registered.
When looking for accommodation, view as many properties as you can to help you make the decision.
For safety reasons, never go to view a property on your own.
Remember to consider the full cost of your accommodation, including bills, contents insurance, television licences and food.
For more information, check out BCP Council's handy student guide to renting .
We accept no legal responsibility or liability to any party in matters of the provision of private rented accommodation.
There are many landlords and lettings agents in Bournemouth who'll have properties available for rent.
If you wish to check if a landlord or letting agent is accredited or not, you can do so via the following links:
AUB doesn't recommend any letting agents or landlords above any other.
When moving into private accommodation, most letting agencies and some landlords will require a UK-based guarantor.
This is someone who agrees to pay rent or cost of damages if you fail to pay.
If you can't provide a UK-based guarantor, you may often be asked to pay full accommodation fees in advance, or you won't be able to secure your accommodation.
AUB has partnered with Housing Hand, which can act as a UK-based guarantor for you.
Housing Hand will normally require a co-signer to sign up with you, but for students who are eligible for the AUB Guarantor Award , no co-signer will be required.
What does Housing Hand do?
Housing Hand can stand as a UK guarantor for between 6–12 months.
They cover the full amount of rent, as well as any damages, dilapidations, and professional eviction costs, if any, incurred during the tenancy.
What does it cost?
For AUB students, there is a discount of up to 50%, so the fee will only be 5.5% of annual rent on a monthly subscription, or 5% of annual rent with a full up-front payment, subject to a minimum fee of £295.00.
To be eligible for this award, you must be an Undergraduate student:
or
Students who are under special guardianship and kinship care during this period may also qualify.
You mustn't have any outstanding debts to the University and be enrolled full-time at the University for the duration of the guarantor agreement.
If you meet these criteria and would like to apply for this support, please contact studentservices@aub.ac.uk
You can also find out more about how we support care experienced, estranged and young adult carer students on our website .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/accommodation/living-in-the-community:
Bournemouth is a welcoming place and we want you to enjoy life here, but it should never be at the expense of other residents.
Please be considerate towards people living near the campus or where you live; we recommend that you take the time to introduce yourself to your neighbours when you move in as this can help integration into the local community.
We work closely with the local police and environmental health services to support students in the local community.
If you need advice or guidance about issues in your community, whether this is to do with noise, litter or neighbours please pop into Student Services and have a chat with an Adviser.
We can offer guidance on tenancy agreements and help connect you to specialist advice and support services as needed.
It's a commonly-held belief that you can make as much noise as you like until 11pm.
However, the Council can take action at any time, day or night.
A noise disturbance that affects anyone in their own home at any time is unacceptable, and the Council will take action.
Noisy parties or anti-social behaviour could lead to noise abatement orders, heavy fines and disciplinary action.
If a notice is served due to a noise nuisance and subsequently breached, the Council can seize all noise-making equipment, including laptops and iPods, and prosecute individuals with an unlimited fine.
Helpful tips:
In Bournemouth, there are weekly collections with waste and recycling collected on alternate weeks.
It is important that you find out the days for waste and recycling collection for your road, as you have a legal obligation to manage your bins correctly.
All bins should be left for collection within one metre of the property's edge, must not be put out before 18.00 the day before and must be removed from the footpath before 20.00 on collection day.
Waste that won’t fit into the bins must be disposed of properly and not left outside the property.
This may mean taking it to the local tip, which is at Millhams, BH11 9LQ.
A utility bill proving your Bournemouth address must be presented to gain access.
The following items can be placed in recycling:
Further information regarding waste and recycling can be found on BCP Council website .
We strongly recommend that you do not bring your own car with you to university.
There's no student parking on campus with the exception of Blue Badge Holders.
If you do bring a car with you to Bournemouth, please be aware that there are restrictions in the local area, and it's important that you park considerately.
For example, don’t park on dropped kerbs or obstruct any part of the pavement.
Further information regarding parking restrictions in Bournemouth can be found on the BCP Council website .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aubmakers-pop-up-shop-launches-on-poole-high-street:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) has made its latest mark in Poole town centre with the opening of its pop-up shop, #AUBMAKERS .
The shop, which opened in Kingland Crescent outside Poole's Dolphin Centre on 21 October, will be stocked and staffed entirely by AUB students.
"The #AUBMAKERS pop-up shop initiative is a brilliant opportunity for inspiring creatives to set up shop and sell their wares,” says Ed Earl, President of AUB’s Student Union (AUBSU).
“Not only does it provide an opportunity for students across all courses and cohorts to gain industry experience and spread awareness of themselves as creative professionals, but it acts as a hub that reflects the talent and proactiveness of the AUB community."
Alongside the creations of current students, the #AUBMAKERS store will also sell products created by graduates and staff.
Students also plan to run in-store events, workshops and promotions from the store, with the space serving as a showcase for everything that AUB does.
The store is also the latest AUB innovation to encourage students towards entrepreneurial mindsets and behaviours.
Lately, AUB has received recognition for its efforts in championing creative entrepreneurship.
Recently, the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF), which identifies and evidences areas of expertise for universities in key areas, highlighted AUB’s work in developing graduate businesses , as well as the University’s work with local businesses to support growth and regeneration.
In KEF’s report, AUB found itself in the top 15% when compared to other participating specialist arts institutions.
Also, in another study, conducted by leading financial services company Novuna, the University was ranked 16 th in the UK , as well as one of the top specialist universities outside London, for entrepreneurship.
Lisa Mann, AUB’s Executive Director of Academic Innovation, says:
“The pop-up shop provides AUB students a platform through which they not only become small business owners and freelance artists, but also take on the task of running the shop.
This real-world experience allows the students to put into practice the creative and management skills that form the core of a business – everything from designing, to making, to understanding preparing stock and profit margins.”
#AUBMAKERS opened on Saturday 21 October and will remain open until 24 December.
If you liked this post you might be interested in #AUBMAKERS pop-up shop

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/black-lives-matter:
We acknowledge the injustices that continue to affect Black communities today, worldwide and in the UK, and condemn racism and inequality of any form.
As a university we actively promote equality and celebrate diversity, and we’re proud to have a campus that doesn’t tolerate any form of discrimination to any group of staff or students.
AUB is fully committed to combating racism or any racial inequalities and will continue to do so through supporting the Black Lives Matter Campaign.
Our Student’s Union (AUBSU) carries out many initiatives and projects to this end, and together we will continue to do so in the future.
AUB’s commitments
1) AUB will continue to work towards an equal and diverse campus and curriculum that is fair and that is conscious about the Black experience through further supporting initiatives such as the Annual AUB Creative Learning Conference ; particularly looking at Inclusive learning and broadening the curriculum and its content.
2) AUB will continue to support our staff and students’ wellbeing and mental health.
We will continue to make available resources such as the Headspace wellbeing app to all staff and students.
Student Services will continue to provide counselling and wellbeing support and staff can seek counselling and wellbeing support through AUB’s Employee Assistance Programme; we understand that this is a difficult time, particularly for our Black students and staff.
3) AUB will increase funding towards widening participation and towards financially supporting BAME students through our Access and Participation Plan.
We will do this by committing ourselves to working towards tacking the BAME attainment gap; finding ways to keep students informed about current issues affecting Black communities, both academically via their courses and our main channels; look into funding projects, residencies, or for key BAME speakers and artists to come on campus.
4) AUB will use our social media platforms to raise awareness, to educate and make students aware that the university is supporting them: for example, AUB Library has been sharing books that may help students educate themselves about Black experience throughout history.
AUB library is currently auditing course reading lists to establish a benchmark to ensure that the library collection increasingly reflects diverse voices and takes steps towards a truly global curriculum.
5) We will strive to influence our external partners and industry contacts to develop inclusive and diverse practices within the creative and cultural industries.
6) AUB will actively develop all our staff: unconscious bias training will be mandatory for all staff members; we will also explore and invest in online staff development units.
Equality and Diversity
AUB takes its legal and moral obligations in respect of equality and diversity extremely seriously, and we have published our Equality Commitment on our website.
We are similarly explicit in our Student Code of Conduct .
In this year’s Student Perception Survey, minority groups from all backgrounds (race, gender, disability, age, sexual orientation and religious belief) reported high levels of satisfaction, with over 85% in each category agreeing that they were satisfied with the quality of their course, and that if they had their choice again they would still come to AUB.
In most cases, this was above 90%.
The University expresses its commitment to equality and diversity in the workplace within its Equality at Work Policy .
The University supports the rights of all people to seek, obtain and hold employment without discrimination and with the equality of opportunity regardless of the protected characteristic(s) that defines them.
As such, we aim to continue to provide a safe working and learning environment founded on dignity and respect.
However, we recognise that we are not perfect: we can and will continue to do more, particularly in those courses where our students and alumni have identified the need to accelerate our inclusive practices and course content.
Paul Gough, Vice-Chancellor AUB
Stella Kajombo, Vice-President AUBSU
Jordan Verdes, President AUBSU

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aubrieta-awards-aubsu-awards-ceremony:
AUBRIETA (AUB Recognition for Innovation and Excellence in Teaching Awards)
The Second year these awards have been celebrated, to recognise the exceptional dedication and commitment our innovative teaching staff provide to the AUB community.
AUB is proud of its achievement in teaching and learning and the AUBRIETA awards furthers the support and recognition of individual and team innovation and excellence in teaching.
The purpose of these awards is to increase esteem in teaching and to recognise those who contribute and develop the teaching environment at AUB.
These annual awards recognise outstanding contributions to the learning experience of our students and are awarded to staff who demonstrate academic and pedagogic innovation in support of the teaching environment and can evidence real improvements and change in student learning.
SAUBS (Supporting AUB Students)
The launch of the SAUBS awards in 2019 celebrates the efforts and excellence of non-academic staff who offer front line support in their work with AUB students.
The awards recognise excellence in the work of those who provide outstanding contributions to the student learning environment at AUB.
AUBSU Thank You Awards
The Thank You Awards are in place to recognise outstanding contributors, whether they are professional services, technical or academic members of staff, voted by students themselves.
This year was also the inaugural Student’s Union Sustainability Thank You Award, to acknowledge staff who have dedicated their time and efforts into sustainability for the university and surrounding community.
The SU Thank You Awards were presented by AUBSU Student President, Gio Garancini, and Vice President, Chloe Harty, to recognise the hard work across academic and professional services staff.
The AUBRIETA and SAUBS awards were presented by Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Professor Emma Hunt.
Highly Commended
Jeremy Jacobs, Workshop Technician
“I would like to nominate Jeremy Jacobs for his consistent enthusiasm and impressive problem-solving skills which he so willingly shares with all students, pushing them to reach their maximum technical abilities.
His approachability, integrity and diligence justify this nomination for the Thank You Awards.” – Student nomination
Third Place
Jenna Hubbard, Lecturer, BA (Hons) Dance
“To put it simply Jenna Hubbard is what you’d call #lifegoals.
We all look to Jenna in awe of her pure intelligence and mindfulness.
She is such a strong female figure for us, advocating feminism within a group of girls who are about to venture into the big bad world.
She is rational, resourceful, creative, wise and just an all-round brilliant woman.
We all dream of having her drive to succeed whilst juggling and maintaining 101 other things at the same time and hope we can do so in the near future.” – Student nomination
Second Place
Lisa Richardson, Course Leader, MA Illustration
“She stretches and challenges me whilst championing my strengths and she sparks off so many ideas with her imagination.
At the same time, she is able to constructively make each of us consider the real-world contemporary scenarios for our work and creates opportunities for us each to explore industry standard practice.
A kind, highly creative and very personable course leader who manages to get the very best out of her students.” – Student nomination
First Place
Rhiannon Evans, Senior Technician, BA (Hons) Photography and BA (Hons) Commercial Photography
“Being able to come to University and have someone you fully trust and confide in is great, Rhiannon has pushed me in my technical and studio practice, giving a lot of her time to help me learn new things and improve myself as an artist and creative.
I thank Rhiannon for everything she does for all the students at AUB, and for pushing us to our full potential.” – Student nomination
Students’ Union Sustainability Thank You Award
Alice Stevens, Senior Lecturer, BA (Hons) Graphic Design
“We truly believe that a thank you is necessary, for this person has been a true catalyst in putting sustainability and social impact on the academic map.
Pushing all of us here within the AUB community to really evaluate and consider our role as creatives within our wider global context.
Projects of this kind have the potential to make AUB a pioneering institution that equips students to critically address environmental, sustainable and social impact in the creative industries.
This year we are pleased to award it to for all of the work that went into AUB Human.” – Student nomination
Gold Award
BA (Hons) Costume with Performance Design
The award was given to the Costume team, with Course Leader, Rebecca Pride collecting on their behalf.
The BA (Hons) Costume and Performance Team have been selected for the AUBRIETA Awards because of their wide range of initiatives in teaching and learning, from the introduction of an effective assessment matrix, to a new level 6 pilot project in alternative modes of assessment.
The team are recognised as experts in their field, judged by the range of world leading specialists that they regularly collaborate with and as External Examiners – the majority of the team undertaking these roles.
As academic researchers they have grown their research activities and outputs exponentially over the last five years with several published key texts in circulation on this specialist subject area.
They have shown an outstanding record of results from consistently having the highest NSS results in the University to receiving The Queen’s Anniversary Prize for their contribution to the teaching of Costume in 2018.
The students are always at the centre of their vibrant learning environment in which they regularly celebrate their successes in what are called ‘Ministry of Fun’ days.
Silver Award
Anne-Marie Howat, Course Leader, B A (Hons) Textiles
Anne-Marie has led the BA (Hons) Textiles degree course for several years and has made a significant and sustained contribution to the AUB student learning journey.
The Textiles teaching team is fairly small with only two full time members of staff, however despite this the student experience has been maintained at the very highest level as shown through the students journey and consistently excellent NSS results.
The curriculum both challenges the students and gives them the opportunity to develop their skills and build their confidence.
The Textiles students are regular competition winners and have high employment successes as graduates.
Anne-Marie has personally developed new learning initiatives to enhance the students experience, developing strong links to external innovation and industry.
Anne-Marie has recently been awarded Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy and in 2018 was awarded the Embroiderers’ Guild Beryl Dean Award for Teaching Excellence in Embroidery and Design.
Bronze Award
Mark Osborne, Lecturer, BA (Hons) Graphic Design
Mark has been an evangelical advocate for the importance of computational media both within the subject area that he teaches but increasingly across the University as a whole.
Following on from a regular extra curricula Digital Workshop which he ran in the evening for level 4 and 5 students, Mark devised a series of workshops that took place in September entitled Not-Yet-Invented.
For this he assembled three notable practitioners from the field, and together they worked with 12 undergraduate Graphic Design and Architecture students exploring such topics as: noise, glitch, code, interaction, and prototyping.
Students responded well to the sessions and were surprised with the extent of the learning that could be achieved in such a short and intensive course of study.
SAUBS winners 2019 (joint first)
Frederick Holdsworth and Harry Barnett, Workshop Technicians
“Due to the outstanding contribution towards the sourcing, installation and running of multiple new machines based in the Innovation Centre which is housed within the Workshop.
The project was partly funded by an ERDF grant to help local SMEs develop innovative new products which they both continue to support alongside working closely with students and staff to develop the production of course work using our new technology SLS 3D Printer, 8×4 Table Router and the 5 and 3 axis CNC machines.”
Will Shutt and Julie Tanner, BA (Hons) Film Production and MA Film Practice Production Managers
“These courses involve a heavy production element and would not function without Will and Jules’s hard work and dedication to the student learning experience.”
Annie Hill, Technician Demonstrator, BA (Hons) Fine Art
“Annie goes over and above her roles and duties, to ensure that students are able to achieve their am­bitions whilst studying at AUB.
Annie is really popular amongst the students, she is very approach­able, supportive, kind and also has a great sense of humour – all of these qualities enable her to create really good working relationships with staff and students alike.
She most certainly exemplifies AUB’s core values of innovation, connectivity and collaboration.”
After such an inspiring and influential night, Deputy Vice Chancellor Professor Emma Hunt thanked everyone’s combined staff efforts throughout the year and the celebrations ensued with a drink reception in TheGallery AUB.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aubsu-fulfilling-green-dream:
The event was run and organised by the AUBSU Green Team, with activities every day and finishing with a trip to the Eden Project.
AUBSU President, Gio Garancini and Vice President, Chloe Harty explained: “Go Green Week is a great time in which we, the SU, can raise awareness of relevant sustainability issues and can provide a platform for our students to make a change for themselves and their community.
This year the emphasis was put on the idea of the individual and simple and meaningful ways that each person can adapt their lifestyles, because we wanted to showcase how small changes can have a significant impact.”
Throughout the week there were activities such as pledging for zero waste soup, Fairtrade tie-dye workshops, wildflower bomb workshops, Patagonia: Blue Heart screening, free Fairtrade chocolate and a Zero Waste market.
At the Zero Waste Market students sold hand-crafted, up-cycled jewellery and local companies, Lush, Health Discount Store, Coffee Mongers and Riverford Organic Farmers attended showing us how to live a sustainable and organic lifestyle that fits around student living.
Bournemouth Borough Council were on campus to teach students about recycling, food waste and best practices when it comes to what we can and can not recycle.
AUBSU Green Officer and BA (Hons) Creative Events Management student, Hannah Dodds explained “This is the second year I've been a part of Green Week, and it’s amazing to see so many green lovers getting involved and being so enthused by the environment here.
It’s so important to have events such as this as it helps show just how easy and simple it is to just be that bit more sustainable.
Following the success of Go Green Week we want to bring more sustainable events on campus to get everyone engaged, because remember there is no Planet B!”
We’ve been bursting at the seams with green so what more of a perfect way than to end Go Green Week with a beach clean with Surfers Against Sewage and a trip to the Eden Project?
A full coach of students paid a visit to the Eden Project, observing some of the world’s most beautiful plants cultivated by keen horticulturists at the educational charity.
The sun was shining, pictures were taken, and green things were learnt.
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Events Management

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/go-green-week:
Date: Thursday 10 March Time: 18.00-19.30 Location: AUBSU Activity Room
Decorate your own tea light holder using pressed Fairtrade Flowers.
Date: Tuesday 15 March Time: 18.00-20.00 Location: Arts Bar Come along and meet some new friends and build a bug house!
No tickets needed
Date: Wednesday 16 March Time: 12.00-14.00 Location: AUB Courtyard
Treat yourself by checking out this slow fashion market with local fashion, jewellery, and accessory sellers.
Date: Thursday 17 March Time: 18.00-19.30 Location: B001
Get creative by customising an item of your clothing using our materials and paints.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/support/wellbeing:
Student Services
Leaving home for the first time is a big lifestyle change.
You'll face problems and issues you've never experienced before.
Don't worry.
Whatever it is, no matter how small, don't keep it to yourself.
Talk to us.
Our BACP Accredited Counselling Service and our Wellbeing Service are both here to listen and to help.
Our Wellbeing team are here to promote the wellbeing of all students and to provide particular support to those with mental health difficulties.
If you are concerned about your own wellbeing or the wellbeing of a fellow student, you can discuss your worries confidentially.
Wellbeing Drop-In Support There's a Wellbeing drop-in that offers same day support to all of our students.
It’s a chance to have an initial chat with one of the wellbeing team and explore options of support.
The Wellbeing drop-in runs Monday–Friday and can be accessed face-to-face or online.
The face-to-face drop-in runs from 10.00-14.00 and is held at the Student Services reception on campus.
Online wellbeing sessions are available in the afternoons from Monday–Friday and can be accessed via AUB’s online booking system
Who can access support for the Wellbeing Service?
Any of our current students can contact the Wellbeing Service to discuss any concerns or worries, particularly if you have mental health difficulties, addiction or eating disorders, or feel that you are struggling to remain on your course due to personal issues.
Practical Advice and Support Wellbeing support focuses on identifying practical strategies for managing any difficulties you may be experiencing.
This may involve help with time management and motivation, coping strategies managing your mood and studies, or guidance on the benefits.
You can contact the Wellbeing team on: Telephone: +44 1202 363780 Email: wellbeing@aub.ac.uk
If you feel you need help and support beyond that offered by tutors, friends or family, counselling could help.
Talking to a counsellor in a safe, non-judgemental and confidential setting can enable you to work through your problems with the aim of reaching a solution.
Counselling is also an excellent tool for your own personal development.
The Counselling Service is student-focused and we offer single therapeutic sessions for one hour booked on a session by session basis.
The service adheres to the key theoretical principles of the person-centred approach as its foundation; putting you, the student in the centre of the counselling relationship.
Counsellors will be genuine and non-judgemental, use advanced skills in listening and empathy and approach all students with openness and acceptance regarding any issues brought to the counselling session.
Counsellors may also integrate additional skills and tools from other theoretical counselling approaches such as Solution Focused Brief Therapy (SFBT) or Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) to enable better therapeutic outcomes.
We can also arrange referrals to local specialist external counselling agencies where appropriate.
Referrals where, for example, religion, ethnicity, or language impact the request for a more specialist service, please note that a referral to this external agency providing these services is accessible via the AUB counselling service.
The AUB Counselling Service maintains a professional accreditation awarded by the BACP ( British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy) and fully adheres to its Ethical Framework for the Counselling Professions.
We have a team of professionally qualified and experienced male and female counsellors and we offer two supervised placements for trainee counsellors in their final year before qualification.
Please see the BACP ethical framework for the Counselling Profession .
Counselling is a confidential process and only in exceptional circumstances would this confidentiality be broken, and direct action is taken – usually, if there is an immediate risk to your own safety or that of others.
Student confidentiality is preserved in respect of the service and not to the counsellor.
This means that within the counselling service, some limited information such as session notes or your contact details may be viewed by another counsellor if you choose to see a different counsellor each time you use the service.
It also allows us to maintain a student-focused service and enables easier communication when booking or cancelling appointments.
The full details of confidentiality can be found in the Counselling Service Policy and Confidentiality Statement which is available to view or download on the AUB Viewpoint page under Student Services/Counselling.
AUB's Counselling Service offers face-to-face (in-person) counselling sessions or online video sessions using Microsoft Teams.
If you’d like to book a counselling session, please feel free to use the Bookings Tile on MyAUB, where you can select an appointment to suit your timetable.
The Counselling Service is also open outside term time and across the summer months.
Expert information and advice to help you through the challenges of student life.
Whether it’s your mental health, your studies, money or relationships, help is available.
Real students share their experiences of their student journey.
We understand that if you're experiencing particular challenges, you may want to talk to someone but might not be ready to meet with one of our team.
There are lots of organisations and charities available that can offer you a range of options to make sure that you can still find the help you want.
Connections 24/7 Dorset HealthCare helpline for anyone experiencing a crisis with their mental health.
You can contact them on 0300 123 5440 .
The Retreat (Dorset Mental Health Forum) The Retreat is a safe and welcoming environment for anyone over 18 years of age, based in Dorset and who have self-identified their crisis and want to access support.
You can find them at Hahnemann House, Hahnemann Road, Bournemouth, BH2 5JW open daily (16.30-23.30).
You can drop in – no appointment needed.
Papyrus The national suicide prevention charity to offer support and guidance if you or someone you know is struggling to cope.
You can call them on 0800 0684141 .
*SHOUT Shout is the UK’s first 24/7 text service, free on all major mobile networks, for anyone in crisis anytime, anywhere.
You can text them on 85258 .
The Counselling Directory The Counselling Directory is a great resource to find counsellors near you.
Don’t forget that that counselling at AUB is free for students – you may have to pay privately to see a registered therapist on this list.
Students Against Depression The Students Against Depression is a website by students, for students.
They offer guidance and resources to those affected by low mood, depression and suicidal thinking.
The Samaritans To speak to someone in confidence, the Samaritans are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week on 08457 909090 or 116 123 (free from mobiles and landlines).
You can also email jo@samaritans.org.
Relate (The Relationship People) Relate are the UK’s largest provider of relationship support.
Find out more, or call them 01202 311231 .
Cruse (Bereavement and Loss) Cruse can offer support, advice and information on coping with a bereavement.
Get in touch on 01202 302000 .
Alcoholics Anonymous Alcoholics Anonymous can be contacted on their free helpline 0800 9177 650 or you can live chat with a volunteer through their chatbox.
Narcotics Anonymous Narcotics Anonymous can help support you with local or online meetings.
Their support line is open 10.00-22.00 on 0300 999 1212 .
British Pregnancy Advisory Service The local branch is Dean Park Clinic, 23-25 Ophir Road, Bournemouth, BH8 8LS.
They’re open Tuesday (08.00-18.00), Wednesday (08.00-20.00) and Thursday (08.00-18.00).
Call them on 03457 304030 .
The Shores The Shores are the dedicated Sexual Assault Referral Centre (SARC) for Dorset, providing a comprehensive service to men, women and children who have been raped or sexually assaulted.
Stars Stars (formerly Dorset Rape Crisis Support Centre) is a voluntary organisation run for men, women and young people over 16 who have been raped or sexually abused.
They offer support through the criminal justice process and also provide counselling support.
Somerset and Wessex Eating Disorders Association Somerset and Wessex eating disorders association have useful message boards and helplines.
Find out more on their website or call them on 01458 448600 .
Poole Youth Access Point A young persons’ service that can help you with anything that's holding you back or provide you with support.
They can support you with making positive life changes, helping you to identify realistic choices and move towards lasting results.
Location: 18 Hill Street, Poole, BH15 1NR Telephone: 07880 480602 Call 07880 480602 for an appointment.
Over the Rainbow Bournemouth A drop-in centre for the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender Community.
Now based at The Shores with a clinic open on Wednesdays 12.00-19.00.
To book appointments call 07788415522 .
Dorset Sexual Health To contact Dorset Sexual Health call 0300 303 1948 .
Voice Collective Voice Collective is a UK wide London-based project that supports children and young people who hear voices, see visions, have other ‘unusual’ sensory experiences or beliefs.
You can call them on 020 7911 0822.
Dorset Open Doo r To contact bereavement support call 01305 361 361 or email dhc.dorsetopendoor@nhs.net .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/support/sexual-misconduct:
AUB is committed to promoting and maintaining a culture in which incidents of harassment or sexual misconduct will not be tolerated.
All members of AUB’s student and staff community are expected to take an active role in ensuring that all interpersonal relationships and interactions are underpinned by mutual respect, open communication and clear consent.
Sexual misconduct is any unwanted or attempted unwanted conduct of a sexual nature and includes (but isn't limited to) sexual harassment, sexual assault, and rape.
AUB recognises that incidents of harassment and sexual misconduct take place across wider society and within the university sector, including within AUB’s community.
AUB also recognises that anyone can be subjected to sexual misconduct, regardless of age, disability, gender identity, relationship status, sex, sexual orientation, or any other facet of their identity.
AUB will support any member of its community who has been subject to harassment or sexual misconduct, will investigate any report that harassment or sexual misconduct has been committed by any student or member of staff, and will take action where appropriate.
AUB has a Sexual Misconduct Adviser who can offer support to any student who has been subject to sexual misconduct – email misconduct@aub.ac.uk .
AUB’s Sexual Misconduct Commitment sets out the steps the University will take to prevent and address sexual misconduct.
Student allegations of harassment or sexual misconduct against another student are investigated under the Student Disciplinary policy .
Student allegations against a member of staff are investigated under the Student Complaints Procedure .
Staff allegations against a student are investigated under the Student Disciplinary policy.
Staff allegations against another member of staff are investigated under the Staff Disciplinary Procedure .
AUB will conduct investigations in accordance with the policies and procedures in place at the time of reporting.
Throughout these pages the “Reporting person” is defined as the individual who discloses or reports an allegation of harassment or sexual misconduct.
The “Responding person” is defined as the individual who is alleged to have committed an act of harassment or sexual misconduct.
If you've experienced an incident of harassment or sexual misconduct, you have a choice about whether to “disclose” or “report” this to the University.
A “ disclosure ” is when you inform an AUB member of staff that you've experienced harassment or sexual misconduct, confidentially, for the purpose of gaining support.
The only action that'll be taken in response to a disclosure is providing support.
No other action will be taken unless someone is considered to be at immediate risk or there's a safeguarding concern.
A “ report ” is when you inform the University (via the online Report + Support system or directly to an AUB member of staff) that you've experienced harassment or sexual misconduct and would like the University to take action against an AUB student or AUB member of staff in response to your allegation.
A “ disclosure ” becomes a “ report ” if you decide you want action to be taken to respond to your allegation.
It's your choice to report an incident of harassment or sexual misconduct to the University, to the police, or to both.
Your choice will be respected and if you choose to make a police report, AUB’s Sexual Misconduct Adviser can support you in this.
You can report an incident anonymously (via the online Report + Support system), although it may not be possible for the University to carry out a fair investigation and take action in response to an anonymous report.
This is because the responding person may be able to identify you from your allegation, or because an anonymous allegation doesn't allow the responding person to defend themselves in accordance with the rules of natural justice.
You can discuss your concerns confidentially with the Sexual Misconduct Adviser (for students) or HR Partner (for staff) to help you decide which action to take.
You have options in that way you can disclose or report any incident of harassment or sexual misconduct:
If you choose to disclose an incident of harassment or sexual misconduct, you'll be listened to, supported and made aware of the options available to you.
Your choice to report or not report will be respected.
The Sexual Misconduct Adviser (for students) or HR Partner (for staff) will offer to meet with you to listen to the circumstances you wish to report, and to ensure that you're aware of how to gain support.
They'll provide you with a written summary of the meeting and, if you decide that you wish to take formal action, will support you to prepare and submit a written statement that details the allegations.
If the person you're reporting is a member of the AUB community, a risk assessment will be completed to identify any potential risk to your own welfare or to the welfare of the responding person.
Precautionary measures may be put in place to try to minimise any risks – for example, a non-contact agreement, or limiting access to certain buildings or activities.
AUB will impose the least restrictive and impactive precautionary measures necessary to protect the safety of all students and staff, as well as balancing the needs and rights of all students and staff involved.
The Senior Investigating Officer (for students) or Investigating Manager along with the HR Partner (for staff) will investigate the allegations.
They'll meet with the responding person and will look for other evidence that may help to make a decision about your allegation.
Evidence can include text messages, photos, social media posts, or witness statements.
You'll receive a written report detailing their findings.
AUB may appoint an external independent investigator to conduct investigations if specific expertise is required, or if it wouldn't be possible to conduct an impartial investigation within the University.
AUB reserves the right to take immediate precautionary measures in cases that involve a threat of serious harm...
If, having completed their investigation into allegations against a student, the Senior Investigating Officer considers...
Once the Investigating Manager has completed their investigation, they'll prepare a report, which is submitted...
If a report is made to the police and they start investigations under the criminal law, any AUB student investigation or disciplinary process for any allegations related to the criminal proceedings will be suspended, usually for the duration of the criminal investigation.
If a member of AUB staff is the subject of a criminal investigation, charge or conviction, AUB will investigate the facts before deciding whether to take formal disciplinary action and won't usually wait for the outcome of any prosecution before deciding what action, if any, to take.
It's the student or staff member under investigation’s responsibility to inform AUB of the commencement as well as the outcome of the police investigation.
When legal action is complete, or a decision has been made not to prosecute, AUB will review the case, and will determine whether to resume an internal investigation or disciplinary process.
This will be without prejudice; as both the nature of offences, and the standard of proof required, are different, AUB reserves the right both to discontinue cases that have been upheld through the legal process, and to pursue cases that haven't led to a conviction.
Where a finding of misconduct is made under the Student Disciplinary Policy or Staff Disciplinary Procedure and the student or member of staff has been sentenced by a Court of Law, the Court’s penalty will be considered in determining the sanction under the Student Disciplinary Policy or Staff Disciplinary Procedure .
Students should inform the University if they're subject to any criminal convictions, irrespective of the penalty.
Notification should be made to the Designated Safeguarding Lead (via safeguarding@aub.ac.uk ), and will normally be kept confidential unless there are over-riding reasons for this information to be shared with other senior staff.
Staff members should inform their HR Partner.
Any disclosure you make relating to an incident of harassment or sexual misconduct will remain confidential unless there's a reason to believe that someone's at imminent risk of serious harm, or there's a safeguarding concern.
In this case, a report to emergency services or safeguarding authorities may be made.
Where possible, you'd be informed of this in advance.
Any case notes recorded by Counselling or Wellbeing staff, the Sexual Misconduct Adviser, or the Senior Investigating Officer/Investigating Manager or HR Partner, remain confidential and you'll be asked to agree which details may be shared as part of any formal investigation.
Written notes are held in secure, password-protected AUB online storage.
No details are stored on individual computers.
Any hard copy information or evidence is stored in private, locked storage and disposed of as confidential waste, in accordance with General Data Protection Regulations.
If you make a disclosure or report via the online Report + Support site, your report will be visible to the Senior Investigating Officer, and Director of Student Experience and Employability.
They'll allocate your report to the Sexual Misconduct Adviser or HR Partner as necessary.
AUB is unable to share personal information without a legal basis.
However, AUB staff may be required to provide information as part of a criminal investigation.
You can read more about how AUB stores and handles your data in our Student Privacy Notice .
Records of any disciplinary investigation and outcome will be held confidentially for a period of six years following the completion of a student’s studies.
If you've experienced harassment or sexual misconduct, please be reassured that you'll be listened to and taken seriously.
There are many sources of support and guidance, within AUB, locally, and nationally, including:
If your academic studies have been impacted by harassment or sexual misconduct, you can apply for a one-week extension or mitigation via the eVision tile in MyAUB.
If a report of alleged harassment or sexual misconduct is made against you, you'll be listened to, supported and made aware of how the University will respond to the allegations made.
AUB will inform you of the allegation made against you, explain the relevant investigative process and provide details of any risk assessment undertaken, and any precautionary measures identified to protect your own safety and wellbeing and/or that of others.
The following support is available if you're the subject of a report of alleged sexual misconduct:
If you choose to disclose or report an incident of harassment or sexual misconduct, you'll be listened to, supported and made aware of the options available to you.
Reporting of harassment or sexual misconduct is encouraged.
Your HR Partner will inform you of the support available to you.
AUB staff can access support via AUB’s Staff Counsellor or via the AXA Employee Assistance Programme.
HR Partners have been trained in responding to disclosures of sexual misconduct.
Your HR Partner can signpost you to relevant external services, including specialist sexual assault services and counselling.
AUB will:
The following support is available if you are the subject of a report of alleged sexual misconduct:
Your union representative can offer advice and support as well as your HR Partner.
All members of AUB’s community have a responsibility to maintain an awareness of harassment and sexual misconduct and to gain informed consent for all personal and intimate interactions.
Staff from Student Services, AUBSU and HR have undertaken specialist training in receiving and responding to a disclosure of sexual misconduct.
All students are required to complete “Fresh” consent training, which will form part of new student induction.
All students are expected to view informative videos as part of new student induction, including those on Code of Conduct, Consent, and Personal Safety.
AUBSU also offers guidance on consent on their website.
Students involved in a student disciplinary panel will receive full advice and guidance from the Sexual Misconduct Adviser.
All staff are required to complete the online sexual harassment training as part of their induction, and every three years during their employment.
All members of staff who serve on a student or staff disciplinary panel will receive specialist training.
AUB believes that the professional relationship between staff and students is vital to a student's educational development and affirms that the teaching relationship is based on trust, confidence and dependency.
In this context, a professional relationship is defined as one where there's an assessing, supervising, tutoring, teaching or pastoral role or a role providing administrative or technical support.
Students are entitled to equality of treatment, and it's important that a personal relationship between an employee and a student isn't perceived by others to prejudice that equality of treatment.
Employees are strongly discouraged from entering into a sexual/romantic/intimate relationship with a student for whom they have a responsibility for assessing, supervising, tutoring, teaching, for pastoral care or for whom they're required to provide administrative or technical support.
In addition, employees aren't permitted to enter into a sexual/romantic/intimate relationship with a student under the age of 18 or a vulnerable adult in line with the University’s obligations under the Safeguarding Policy .
Any employee who enters into a sexual/romantic/intimate relationship with a student should disclose this to their Director/Dean/Line Manager.
This applies to all relationships with students.
AUB staff shouldn't enter into a business, commercial or financial relationship with a student that could compromise, or could be perceived to compromise, the objectivity and professional standing of the staff/student relationship.
Arts University Bournemouth is committed to the principle of academic freedom, and to freedom of speech (including vigorous and open debate, and the freedom to follow lines of enquiry, no matter how unpopular or controversial).
AUB endorses the right of all academic staff and students to test received wisdom and to put forward new ideas and controversial or unpopular opinions.
AUB doesn't seek to restrict the views that may be expressed by its staff or students in the conduct of their work.
We expect all debate to be exercised in a spirit of tolerance and respect for others and their views.
Students and staff mustn't seek to deny or restrict freedom of speech within the law of others and must accept a framework of positive debate and challenge.
Academic course materials, and statements made, and views expressed by a person as part of teaching, research or discussions about any subject matter that's connected with the content of an academic course, are unlikely to constitute harassment.
AUB’s Code on Freedom of Speech sets out AUB’s expectations.
Backed by the Minister for Higher and Further Education, former Equalities Select Committee Chair Maria Miller MP and campaign group #CantBuyMySilence, AUB commits to not using Non-Disclosure Agreements to silence people who come forward to raise complaints of sexual harassment, abuse or misconduct, or other forms of harassment and bullying.
Signing the pledge means that AUB undertakes to never use a non-disclosure agreement (NDA) in a case involving sexual harassment, discrimination, other forms of misconduct and/or bullying.
It's intended to ensure that victims can speak about what has happened to them to whoever would be appropriate; and that any harmful behaviour isn't hidden, thereby allowing opportunities for repeat offences and further victims.
Higher Education students are more likely to experience sexual abuse or harassment than any other group in the population.
A survey conducted by the Office for Students in Autumn 2023, completed by 5,430 students from 12 universities, found that between 1 September 2022 and 1 September 2023, 9% of students experienced unwanted sexual contact.
Of those students who responded that they'd experienced unwanted sexual contact (assault/misconduct), 54% reported that the experience involved someone connected with the university, and/or occurred in a university setting.
The following table shows the number of student disclosures of sexual misconduct and the referral routes in the 2023/24 academic year:
Report and support
13
Wellbeing
31 (including 16 historic)
Counselling
9 (including 4 historic)
Other referral to Senior Investigating Officer
8
Total
61
AUB formally investigated two cases of sexual misconduct in line with the Student Disciplinary Policy in the 2023/24 academic year.
One student was permanently excluded as a result of a Student Disciplinary panel hearing, and one student was given a Formal Reprimand (in response to the reporting student’s views and request for leniency).
There's a significant difference in the number of students disclosing sexual misconduct and the number of formal cases actioned by the University.
Reasons for this include:
Research indicates that reasons for not reporting to the police, or withdrawing charges, include the timescales of the criminal justice process which increases victim trauma and prevents victims from moving forward in their lives; an intrusive investigation which heavily scrutinises the victim’s personal life and makes victims feel disbelieved; lack of support and the prevalence of rape myths within the criminal justice system.
The following table shows the total number of sexual misconduct cases subject to formal action in line with the Student Disciplinary Policy over the last four years:
2023/24
2
2022/23
4
2021/22
3
2020/21
“Sexual misconduct” means any unwanted or attempted unwanted conduct of a sexual nature and includes, but is not limited to:
“Sexual harassment” refers to behaviour of a sexual nature that is uninvited and unwelcome (even if there has been some previous relationship).
Whether the harassment is intended to be offensive is irrelevant; the behaviour is unwelcome if judged as such by the recipient.
A single incident or persistent behaviour can amount to harassment.
Sexual harassment does not necessarily occur face to face and can be in other forms, including but not limited to online, pictures, written formats or texts.
The “Reporting person” is defined as the student/member of staff who discloses or reports an allegation of sexual misconduct.
The “Responding person” is defined as the student/member of staff who is alleged to have committed an act of sexual misconduct.
“Consent” is the agreement to participate in a sexual act where all individuals have both the freedom and capacity to make that decision.
Consent cannot be assumed on the basis of a previous sexual experience or previously given consent, and consent may be withdrawn at any time.
Consent must be freely given and is not present when exploitation of power, coercion or force is used to impose submission of an unwilling participant.
This includes harm or threats of harm.
An individual must have the capacity to consent.
If an individual is asleep, unconscious, semi-conscious, or in a state of intermittent consciousness, they do not have the capacity to consent.
Incapacitation may also occur as the result of excessive alcohol or drug use.
If there is any doubt as to your own or another’s capacity to consent, you should not engage in a sexual act.
“Student” includes currently enrolled students at Arts University Bournemouth.
The University reserves the right to take action against prospective students who have accepted an offer to study at AUB but have yet to enrol; this may include revoking an offer to study.
“Staff” refers to those employed by Arts University Bournemouth.
“Intimate personal relationship” means a relationship that involves physical intimacy including isolated or repeated sexual activity, or romantic or emotional intimacy.
“Abuse of power” means a situation where a relevant staff member exploits a position of power in relation to a student to apply pressure in a way which:
“Harassment” means unwanted conduct related to a relevant protected characteristic, where the conduct has the purpose or effect of violating someone’s dignity, or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for them.
Harassment includes engaging in unwanted conduct of a sexual nature, or that is related to gender reassignment or sex (Equality Act 2010).
Behaviour will be classed as “Harassment” if a reasonable person in possession of the same information would think the course of conduct amounted to harassment of another (Protection from Harassment Act 1997).

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/support/report-and-support:
We are committed to providing a positive experience for our students and believe that abusive behaviours are never acceptable.
Our online Report + Support tool enables anyone to report concerns anonymously, make a formal complaint, and/or receive support.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/support/conflict-resolution-service:
The AUB Conflict Resolution Service is a non-judgemental, confidential and voluntary service which can help you resolve any conflict with people you study or live with.
Conflict resolution allows you to have difficult conversations in a safe, managed environment where a trained impartial conciliator will facilitate a discussion, to help you and those you're in conflict with to express your views and listen to each other.
The responsibility for achieving a resolution remains with you, but the conciliator will help you recognise and discuss the issues in dispute and identify feasible solutions which feel comfortable and agreeable to you.
The Conflict Resolution Service can provide a speedy solution to conflict and can be used at any stage of a disagreement or dispute.
It's a flexible and voluntary process, and any agreement you make is morally rather than legally binding.
The AUB Conflict Resolution Service can help in the following scenarios:
AUB expects most of student-based conflict to be resolved in this way.
The AUB Counselling and Wellbeing Services can offer you confidential support to help manage the emotional impact of any conflict.
Although addressing conflict can be difficult, most people have the same goals and want to be treated fairly, with respect.
The success of the conflict resolution service lies partly in the fact that it’s voluntary, with willing participants who have a common goal of wanting to sort out their differences.
It's an opportunity to find ‘win-win’ solutions that suit everyone.
Conciliators aren't there to take sides nor make a judgement on any aspect of the dispute.
They're there to enable you to express your feelings constructively and to be future-focused towards a resolution.
If you'd like to talk to someone about conflict resolution, please contact:

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/support/disabled-students:
We're here to support you—whatever your needs—so you can thrive during your time at AUB.
Our Disability and Neurodiversity Advisers offer practical guidance and tailored support for students with:
You don’t have to disclose a disability, but if you do, we can help put the right support in place.
You can disclose at any time through the AUB Applicant Portal or MyAUB once your course begins.
Our team can support you with:
We’ll work with you – and where needed, your course team or external services – to coordinate the support that suits you best.
AUB can't offer you diagnostic assessments for Autistic Spectrum Disorders, ADHD or other medical conditions, as these need to be assessed by a qualified medical professional, but we can offer you advice and guidance on seeking diagnosis via NHS or private medical pathways.
Please click on the downloads tab to access initial screening tools for ADHD and Autism, which are recognised by the NHS and a useful starting point if you feel you may identify as being neurodivergent.
If you are an applicant and have any disability related queries, please contact disabilityandneurodiversity@aub.ac.uk .
For our current students: To book an appointment (online or in person) with the Disability and Neurodiversity Service please go to bookings.aub.ac.uk .
Blue Badge holders can access parking on campus.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/support/medical-care:
AUB’s Student Services work in partnership with the local Village Surgery.
For appointments at the Village Surgery, please contact the Village Surgery directly on 01202 525252 .
You'll need to register with the surgery at least 24 hours before your appointment.
AUB students can register with The Village Surgery Online Registration .
If you're an International student, we recommend you read UKCISA’s advice on how the UK medical system works and how to make sure you are covered during your studies.
We strongly encourage you to register with a local doctor as soon as you start your studies with us to make sure that you can see a doctor quickly if you fall ill or need routine medical care during the course of your studies.
You can register with the local Village Surgery on the Campus Doctor website.
Alternatively, you can register at any other medical practice by going along with your medical card.
Many dentists only accept private paying patients, and as dentistry fees can be expensive you may prefer to find an NHS dentist if at all possible.
To find the nearest NHS dentist to you, please take a look at the NHS website and enter your postcode.
If you know you'll have to pay for a lot of NHS prescriptions, it may be cheaper to buy a prescription prepayment certificate (PPC) – effectively a prescription "season ticket".
Find out more information about PPCs on the NHS website .
Castle Lane Bournemouth Tel: 01202 704167 or Main switchboard: 01202 303626
Longfleet Road Poole Tel: 01202 442202 or Main Switchboard: 01202 665511
Tel: 111 NHS 111 website

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/support/faith:
A Chaplain is a minister of religion who works in a university, but you don’t need to be religious to visit the Chaplain.
AUB Faith and Reflection Centre is shared with Bournemouth University and is an inclusive centre, welcoming people of all faiths or none.
Chaplains are experienced listeners who can offer spiritual support, prayer, and friendship to students and staff, regardless of religious beliefs or background.
As well as a range of groups, lectures and social events, the Chaplains can put you in touch with advisers from different religions and faiths.
The Faith and Reflection Centre is located upstairs in Talbot House, on Bournemouth University’s campus, next to AUB campus.
A quiet room and Islamic Prayer Room are open to staff and students from 08.30 until 19.00 daily, and a chaplain is usually available from 09.00 to 17.00.
You can contact the Faith and Reflection service on the following: Tel: +44 1202 965383 Email: faithandreflection@bournemouth.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/support/cost-of-living:
Affordability has always been a key issue for students at university, but with the current cost of living crisis, things are extra difficult at the moment.
At AUB we know how this can affect mental health and welfare and we are working hard to support you.
If you're worried about anything, please contact Student Services via studentservices@aub.ac.uk or pop in to see us on campus.
At AUB, we offer bursaries and additional funding through the Access and Participation Fund, as well as for eligible Foundation Students.
We’re running a number of on-campus initiatives in collaboration with the Student Union to ensure there are plenty of helpful options available.
Here’s what we currently have to offer.
For when you need a little extra help, visit the AUBSU Student Pantry for basic, non-perishable groceries and household items.
You can find this in The Library on AUB Campus – here's how .
For opening times, check The Library's website .
Enjoy the lunchtime Dish of the Day for only £4.25.
The Refectory, AUB Campus | Monday–Friday, 11.30–14.30
For any students lacking inspiration for low-cost meals, they can check out AUBSU's Cost of Living Cookbook online.
This book of simple, affordable and tasty recipes was put together and illustrated by student Bee Taylor.
Explore the AUBSU Cost of Living Cookbook .
AUB is a referral agency for Bournemouth Foodbank.
This means we can register students for vouchers or share other resources to help if needed.
If you're experiencing difficulties accessing food, please contact Student Services or come into the office to speak to a Student Services Adviser.
Part-time work can be a great way to support yourself financially while building skills and experience during your time at university.
At AUB Futures , we're here to connect you with opportunities that fit around your studies and help you take your next steps now, not later.
Our Jobs and Opportunities Board features local part-time jobs, commissions, open-calls and short-term paid gigs, all hand-picked by our team for AUB students and graduates.
Every listing is tailored to the creative industries and our local community, so you can find work that’s relevant, flexible, and worth your time.
You’ll also find the AUB Brand, Marketing and Future Students team recruit annually for roles such as Student Ambassadors , where you can represent AUB at events, support on-campus activity and gain valuable, professional experience.
Access Futures Careers Resources for job hunting support (including CV writing and interviews), or if in doubt book a 1:1 careers appointment to get your questions answered.
Our Student Services Advisers will be happy to help you with any applications you may need to make, so please contact them to discuss.
It can be a challenge to budget for the whole year and there's lots to think about.
However, our Student Services Advisers are here to help!
We have twice weekly drop-ins for practical budgeting advice – just book online via AUB Bookings .
You can also access helpful budgeting advice online through sites like WHICH , Money Saving Expert and Save the Student – this even has a save money section with 83 ideas to help your budget stretch that bit further!

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/support/studyskills-and-english-language-support:
We want you to succeed and get as much as possible out of your time with us, so we provide academic support services to help you through your degree.
The Study Skills and English Language Support team, within Student Services, can offer a range of support with academic work, personal organisation and study skills.
The Study Skills and English Language Support team within Student Services can offer support with academic work, personal organisation and study skills.
You can book a tutorial with the Study Skills Tutors or English Language Lecturers .
Whether you are new to higher education or are a confident, experienced student – developing study skills can help you feel more confident about your studies and achieve the results you want.
Some of the essential skills related to academic study we can help with are:
If you're an existing student, you can find Study Skills resources on your Canvas dashboard
MA (Hons), BA (Hons), FHEA.
MA, BA (Hons), PGCert, FHEA
Whether you are new to higher education or are a confident, experienced student – developing your academic skills and language can help you feel more confident about your studies and achieve the results you want.
Term-time teaching:
One-to-one/small group tutorials:
Please note that the Study Skills and English Language Lecturers work together to support students in one-to-one or small group tutorials.
If you speak English as an additional language, you may wish to choose Emma (our English Language lecturer) when you book.
MA, DELTA, SFHEA
Your Study Skills tutors Julia and Ben explain more about the Study Skills support on offer at AUB.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/support/external-support:
We understand that if you're experiencing particular challenges with your mental health, you may need help urgently.
Find out how to get support and guidance with your mental health outside the working hours of AUB’s Wellbeing and Counselling Services.
In a life-threatening emergency, or if you're actively suicidal, call 999 immediately or go to your nearest Hospital's A&E department (Royal Bournemouth Hospital).
University Retreat
The University Retreat provides a welcoming, safe space for any student who needs face-to-face support.
If you feel like you're struggling with your mental health and potentially approaching a point of crisis, then this service is here to support you.
You don’t need an appointment; simply come in and talk to one of our friendly team.
The University Retreat is open six days a week, Monday to Saturday from 14.00 until 21.00.
You can find it in the Tolpuddle Annex 2 at Talbot Campus .
To find out how to get from AUB Student Services to the University Retreat, watch this video .
The Retreat
The
 Retreat is a safe and welcoming environment for anyone over 18 years of
 age, based in Dorset and who has self-identified their crisis and wants
 to access support.
You can find them at Hahnemann House, Hahnemann 
Road, Bournemouth, BH2 5JW, open daily (16.30-00.00).
You can drop in – 
no appointment needed.
Connections
24/7 Dorset HealthCare helpline for anyone experiencing a crisis with their mental health.
Dorset HealthCare University - Access Mental Health
If you're struggling to cope or feel yourself nearing a breakdown, Access Mental Health is here to provide help.
If your emergency is urgent but not life-threatening, you can:
Samaritans Samaritans is a telephone, email and visitor service for anyone experiencing emotional distress.
Tel: 116 123 (24-hour confidential listening service - call them for an immediate response) or write an email to josamaritans.org (answered within 24 hours).
HOPELINEUK HOPELINEUK is a confidential helpline for young people dealing with suicide, depression and emotional distress.
If you are having thoughts of suicide or are concerned for a young person who might be, you can contact them for confidential support and practical advice.
Tel 0800 068 4141 Text: 07786 209697 Mon-Fri: 10.00 – 22.00 Weekends and Bank holidays: 14.00 – 22.00
CALM CALM (Campaign Against Living Miserably) is a website and helpline aimed at preventing male suicide.
Nationwide Tel: 0800 585 858 .
SANEline SANEline is a national out-of-hours mental health helpline offering specialist emotional support, guidance and information to anyone affected by mental illness, including family, friends and carers.
They are open every day of the year from 16.30 – 22.30 on 0300 304 7000 .
SHOUT Crisis Text Line offers free text support 24/7 across the UK.
If you are experiencing a mental health crisis and need support, you can text CAM to 82.
CRUSE CRUSE (National bereavement and loss helpline) can offer support, advice and information on coping with a bereavement.
Dorset Open Door
Dorset Open Door (local bereavement support).
To contact local bereavement support, call 01305 361 361 or email dhc.dorsetopendoor@nhs.net .
Students Against Depression Students
 Against Depression is a website by and for students.
It provides 
information and advice on mental health conditions that are common to 
students, including anxiety and depression.
Hub of Hope The Hub of Hope is a directory of mental health support services.
Support through the uncertainty of student life

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/support/worried-about-a-student:
You may be a fellow student, a member of staff, a concerned parent, friend, family member, or a medical professional wishing to make a referral.
The Wellbeing Service offers advice and guidance for anyone who's concerned about the mental health or wellbeing of an AUB student.
Please contact Wellbeing on wellbeing@aub.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/support/university-retreat:
University Retreat is a new mental health drop-in service for students from Arts University Bournemouth and Bournemouth University.
University Retreat offers a welcoming, safe space for any student who needs face-to-face support.
If you feel like you are struggling with your mental health and potentially approaching a point of crisis, then this service is here to support you.
University Retreat is open Monday to Saturday from 14.00 until 21.00.
You can find it in the Tolpuddle Annex 2, on the edge of the BU campus next to Fusion building.
University Retreat is part of the Community Front Room (CFR) model, part of NHS Dorset Access Mental Health.
CFRs are welcoming, informal, safe spaces where you can discuss your problems or take some time out.
Staff won't offer medication or structured therapy, but rather self-management advice and support that helps you find the solutions to aid your recovery.
University Retreat is staffed by support workers, volunteers and peer specialists - people with their own lived experiences of mental health issues.
University Retreat is a collaboration between AUB, BU, HSU, NHS, Dorset Mental Health Forum and the charity BCHA.
AUB students designed and hand-painted the interior décor specifically to create a relaxed, welcoming space.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/careers-and-enterprise/career-support-at-aub:
The future starts now — and every experience at AUB helps shape it.
That’s why we support our students to build their confidence, connections and career paths from day one.
AUB Futures is our dedicated careers and enterprise service, offering one-to-one career coaching, industry events and alumni insights.
Our support is open to all students during their studies, and for three years after graduation.
A creative degree at AUB offers more than specialist skills.
Through a design-thinking approach, students develop adaptable, future-facing qualities that employers value across every sector.
With 75% of employers open to graduates from any discipline, our alumni go on to thrive in roles within and beyond the creative industries.
15 months after graduating, 74% of AUB alumni said they found their work meaningful (Graduate Outcomes Survey).
Many work as freelancers, founders and creatives — others succeed in fields like Law, Finance, the NHS and the Civil Service.
Our qualified career coaches offer impartial, confidential one-to-one coaching on everything from CV writing and career planning to freelancing and job searching.
A range of helpful Careers and Enterprise resources are available on the Student Learning Platform , Canvas.
Graduates can also find resources on our alumni network, AUB& .
The Jobs and Opportunities Board is updated weekly with placements, internships, graduate jobs, residencies, competitions, open calls, and part-time roles for current students and recent graduates.
AUB's Student Collab Board is a digital space for students across disciplines to connect, post projects, and find creative collaborators – perfect for gaining experience and building your portfolio through curricular and extracurricular work.
Our Careers and Enterprise events programme features talks, workshops, and networking events with alumni and industry experts.
Highlights include:
Employability and enterprise are embedded in every course through the AUB Graduate Futures Framework.
Careers coaches support course teams in delivering workshops on key skills like storytelling, networking, freelancing, and collaboration – ensuring students graduate confident, capable, and industry-ready.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/careers-and-enterprise/meet-the-team:
Throughout the academic year, the Careers and Enterprise Team organises a variety of events and offer one-to-one career coaching appointments to support you in developing your career.
Find out more about the Careers and Enterprise Team below.
Kirsten joined the Futures team in November 2024 and is a Level 6 qualified careers professional with experience of delivering...
Stephanie joined the AUB Futures Team as a Careers Coach in 2022, but isn't new to the AUB family, having studied her Foundation diploma...
Hannah is one of the Career Coaches in the Futures Team, who's passionate in shining the light on people's potential and purpose...
Ed is this year’s Graduate Intern in the Futures Team.
The creative force behind its social media and marketing, he organises...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/careers-and-enterprise/access-industry:
Only 11% of individuals in the creative industries come from ethnic minority backgrounds, and a mere 5% hold leadership roles.
Additionally, just 27% of people in these industries are from working-class backgrounds.
Our new mentorship programme offers the chance for students from underrepresented groups to forge human connections with industry professionals and help them navigate their way into the creative Industries.
We're looking for established professionals working as a creative or in the creative industries (minimum of three years' experience).
You'll need to meet with the mentee 4-6 times over a period up to six months, either online or in person.
You'd work with the mentee to set goals, complete action plans, share your experience, insights and support.
Mentoring a student can also be hugely beneficial to your personal and professional development:

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/arts-university-bournemouth-announces-uks-first-modelmaking-for-industry-degree-apprenticeship:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is launching the UK’s first Modelmaking Degree Apprenticeship, titled Modelmaking for Industry .
Announced in June 2025, the apprenticeship was developed in collaboration with a range of modelmaking studios, creative companies, and the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education (IfATE), now Skills England.
The modelmaking industry and AUB recognise that creative degree apprenticeships offer an exciting new opportunity to encourage diversity and provides alternative routes into the creative industries.
Modelmaking is a thriving and vibrant making discipline that spans multiple creative industries, such as architecture, film, animation, museum, automotive and product design.
Modelmakers create models using physical and digital tools, applied with aesthetic and technical creativity, achieving successful results to commercial deadlines
“This is an exciting first for the modelmaking industry," says Claire Holman, apprenticeships lead at the University.
"AUB’s decades of experience in helping modelmaking graduates enter the industry makes it the ideal choice for employers and apprentices to learn their craft.
“Working with industry professionals to develop this degree apprenticeship has been a pleasure, and we are very excited to welcome and train our new apprentices in September 2025.”
Diane Teague, Assistant Head of Modelmaking at Foster + Partners and Co-Chair of the trailblazer group, adds, “Modelmaking is a natural fit for an apprenticeship programme, due to the highly collaborative and practical nature of the work.
We are delighted to be opening our doors to those who are passionate about developing a career in modelmaking and want to learn in a fast-paced, hands-on environment.”
A degree apprenticeship combines full-time paid employment with part-time university study leading to a degree without tuition fees or student debt.
The three-year programme is a Level 6 qualification – equivalent to a bachelor’s degree – providing apprentices with the opportunity to learn modelmaking in a workplace environment with additional training provided by AUB.
Apprentices will typically spend four days a week learning "on the job" with an employer, and one day a week with AUB gaining the knowledge and skills needed for the degree and apprenticeship qualification.
AUB’s programme provides interactive online learning with regular residential events, enabling apprentices to benefit from the well-equipped campus.
The course has been designed to respond to the unique demographic of the creative industries and is a national offer blending online learning with practical activities and specialist residential experiences.
Chris Conlon, Director at Amalgam Modelmakers, says, “Modelmaking is an essential tool in architecture, maritime, automotive, energy, and TV and film, offering endless opportunities for people aspiring to the part of these industries.
With an apprenticeship, you can gain practical experience and skills that set you apart.”
Jeff Powers, Senior Associate and Head of Making at Heatherwick Studio, adds, “At Heatherwick Studio, we are excited by the announcement of the Modelmaking apprenticeship programme, a new initiative aimed at nurturing the next wave of design and architectural talent.
"We believe that hands-on making is at the heart of design.
This apprenticeship gives people the chance to be involved in the art of modelmaking and gain an entry point into the world of design.”
For more information and details of how to apply either as an apprentice or an employer, please contact apprenticeships@aub.ac.uk .
If you liked this post you might be interested in Modelmaking for Industry Degree Apprenticeship*

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/arts-university-bournemouth-increases-national-student-survey-score-for-second-consecutive-year:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) has increased its National Student Survey (NSS) scores for the second consecutive year, highlighting the University's commitment to supporting students through a strong community and preparing them for the next step in their careers.
Published earlier this month, the NSS surveys graduating students on their university experience.
This year’s results found that AUB had improved scores for Teaching on my course , and also for Learning Resources while AUB’s Library , with a satisfaction score of 94.9%, remains amongst the most valued in the country.
“Our students have told us they feel that the teaching is good quality, our learning resources are excellent, and that they feel supported both as a community and in preparation for the next step in their careers," comments Lisa Mann, Vice Chancellor and CEO at AUB.
“This is a positive reflection of the care and commitment that our staff bring to our students’ experience across every course, department, and service.”
If you liked this post you might be interested in our undergraduate courses.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/the-art-of-community-summer-shows-2025:
A partnership piece with our performance, movement and stage-based courses
Dates: 11 June – 17 October 2025
Location: Ground Floor, South House, AUB Campus
The Art of Community: Summer Shows 2025 documents our collaborative and community approach by celebrating the diverse creative specialisms that are thriving here at AUB.
From June through to October, we host our annual Summer Shows, which transform the campus into the most extensive gallery space in the south of England.
This poster exhibit includes a selection of installation shots from AUB’s 2024 Summer Shows and highlights the movement and performance-based, creative writing and fashion courses.
Every year, AUB opens its doors to thousands of visitors to marvel at the creative work of its extraordinary students from all over the world studying disciplines across art, design, media and performance from AUB’s Foundation Diploma , undergraduate courses and postgraduate programmes .
The Summer Shows provide an exciting opportunity for students to showcase their final project work to the public and demonstrate how they have developed their skills and knowledge to a professional standard during their studies at AUB.
A huge congratulations to all our artists, designers, makers, actors, dancers, performers, creative writers, event managers and who are exhibiting and being celebrated as part of this year’s shows – our Class of 2025.
"Summer Show-time at AUB is one of the most energising and exciting experiences of our year.
Join us throughout the summer months to be energised by the creative work of our fabulous students from all over the world, including those studying on our Foundation course, our BA (Hons) programmes and the Graduate School.
"We open our doors and welcome students and their families, alumni and industry, and thousands of visitors to share the magic and be part of the dream factory that is AUB."
– Lisa Mann, Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive Officer
TheGallery is a national and international public platform for the arts within the UK.
Throughout the year, we work with teams and courses across the University to provide students and staff with opportunities to showcase their work, promoting the University’s shared passion for excellence in education, industry, and the art sector.
If you liked this post you might be interested in our Summer Shows.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/trash-to-treasure-july-2025:
Dates: 10 July – 5 September 2025
Location: The Library, AUB Campus
Trash to Treasure traces the enduring role of reuse, repair, and recycling in shaping sustainable fashion, revealing how these age-old strategies bridge past resourcefulness with the demands of a more ethical future.
Lewis-Manning Hospice Care charity shops provided AUB students with unusable garments that would otherwise be destined for landfill.
Working in small groups, students from BA (Hons) Textiles Design and BA (Hons) Fashion transformed these materials into stunning textiles pieces, which in turn inspired a series of garments and accessories.
Photography by BA (Hons) Commercial Photography students documents these processes, capturing both the material outcomes and the collaborative spirit behind them.
These are set in conversation with historic artefacts from the AUB Costume Archive and recycled fashion and textile pieces from MoDiP, creating a layered dialogue that spans the whole of the last century.
Together, these works connect past strategies of textile reuse with contemporary efforts toward material innovation, and situating student designs within a long history of sustainable fashion.
Organised around four interconnected themes – reuse, repair, recycle, and reform – the exhibition investigates the lifecycle of garments, revealing how material innovation and inherited practice converge in sustainable fashion today.
Together, these practices invite us to rethink fashion as a site of care, ingenuity, and responsibility.
Date and time: 10 July 2025, 18.00–21.00
Location: AUB Campus
The exhibition will formally open and be acknowledged as part of Undergraduate Summer Shows 2025 formal opening and private view event.
Poppy Joy | Alfie Stokes | Ruth Virgo
Kyanna Adegbesan | Lianne Alston | Austeja Baltrunaite | Ho Fung Alvin Chan | Emma Czifra-Haigh | Will Febrey | Madi Findlay | Natalie Gaugler | Damla Goren | Beatrice Giles | Mia Goodey | Olivia Harcourt-Chinnock | Grace Hogan | Isla Keats | Orla Kennedy | Esther Leslie | Joshua Meads-Jones | Tor McEnnerney | Katie Mcilmail | Danielle Mowlam | Jodie Murrells | Lilly Nicholls | Miruna Negrea | Millie Porte | D Reid | Nikki Riggs | Frankie Smith | Lily Straker | Bee Stoodley | Catrin Teague | Paris Thompson | Irem Tuylu | Isabel Tucker | Megan Vale | Molly-Mae Walker | Isabelle Watson | Ella Watts | Dijun Yang | Cammie Yeo | Nadia Younes
with particular support from Graduate Technician Olivia Eden
Aggie Barnes | Ruby Bowditch | Sophie Bridges | Lauren Bromfield | Lily Brown | Mailia Brown | Lottie Church-Brady | Lilou Cuddy | Lucy Curtis | Maddie Dearlove | Macy Edser | Maddy Edwards | Violet Edwards | Sinead Ferdinando | Asia Fubler | Jasmine Geraghty | Siobhàn Green | Emily Hogg | Tabby Houseman | Evie Hunnisett | Hannah Jackson | Kirsty King | Sophie Laird | Abi Locke | Lottie Mathieson | Amber Moore | Bry Mossman | Milly Noble | Vienna Pearce | Bonnie Peter | Meg Phelps | Alice Rose | Cate Van Luven | Em Wilkie
On BA (Hons) Textiles Design, you'll hone your practical and professional skills to work with all types of different materials and find your place in the vast industry.
TheGallery is an award-winning and internationally recognised space and provides a wide-reaching public platform for the arts within the sub-region.
Promoting the University’s shared passion for excellence in education, industry and the sector, TheGallery provides a means by which AUB can enact its values: Innovative, Collaborative, Connected and Passionate.
Throughout the year, TheGallery works on a variety of exhibitions, events, and projects with AUB stakeholders across the University to create opportunities for students and staff to showcase their areas, courses, practices and work.
Trash to Treasure: A Celebration of Sustainable Fashion and Compassion is an example of one of these collaborative projects, this time with BA (Hons) Fashion, BA (Hons) Textiles Design, BA (Hons) Commercial Photography and Lewis-Manning Hospice Care, where TheGallery team leads on curating and exhibition design with its AUB project partners.
The work of TheGallery embodies the University’s promise to promote civic and cultural engagement for positive impact and our commitment to ensuring that education and the arts are accessible to all, for those here at AUB and beyond.
We've awarded Honorary Fellowships to staff, alumni and people who've made a significant contribution to the fields of arts, design, media, and performance.
Reflecting the core values of the University, the purpose-built library is dedicated to supporting research and creativity in the disciplines of art, design, media and performance by providing high quality information, resources, and services
Throughout the course, students learn the art of tailoring and couture dressmaking, become skilled at producing accurate historical recreations of costumes, and are encouraged to express imaginative flair through creative and conceptual costume making.
The AUB Costume Archive includes garments, accessories, sewing patterns and ephemera spanning four centuries.
It is the UK's leading resource for the study and interpretation of design in plastics and a specialist research resource at AUB.
Lewis-Manning Hospice Care is a charity helping people with life-limiting illnesses and their families across East Dorset and Purbeck.
At their Longfleet Road Poole hub, they offer a Day Hospice to help people who have been diagnosed with a life-limiting condition, offering practical care and social support for our patients.
It has a calm, relaxing and homely atmosphere and is a safe place for people to come and meet others in similar circumstances.
To celebrate Fashion Revolution Week 2025 and Earth Day 2025, BA (Hons) Fashion and BA (Hons) Textiles Design presented Trash to Treasure: A Celebration of Sustainable Fashion and Compassion , displayed on AUB Campus.
Date and time: 18 September 2025, 19.00-21.00
Location: Porsche Centre, Bournemouth supported by AUB
This charity fashion show will feature garments exhibited in the Trash to Treasure exhibition.
To find out more about this event, visit Lewis-Manning's website .
A collaboration between the Library and TheGallery, curated by Suzanna Hall, Victoria Adams and Wayne Martin
An exhibition by AUB Library and TheGallery in partnership with BA (Hons) Costume , AUB Costume Archive and MoDiP .
Supported by BA (Hons) Textiles and AUB Innovation and Knowledge Exchange.
If you liked this post you might be interested in our School of Design and Architecture

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/mid-century-modip:
After the devastation of the Second World War (1939–45), governments across the globe needed to rebuild dwindling economies.
Rationing restrictions, due to shortages in foods and other products, in the UK were finally lifted in 1954 and citizens were encouraged to spend, spend, spend.
Mass consumption was encouraged to aid economic growth, to maintain jobs, and improve lifestyles.
Mass-produced products made of plastics in high quantities became part of this drive.
Due to the large numbers of units produced at one time, they could be made at low cost and purchased cheaply.
Being cheap to buy they were easy to replace and therefore perceived as disposable.
During this period, the idea of using something once and then throwing it away was celebrated as a sign of wealth and cleanliness.
Consumers were encouraged to use disposable products for their efficiency and to avoid contamination.
To meet demands, manufacturers become publicly experimental with the materials they used to create new products.
This sometimes bore witness to the wrong materials being used, and objects failing to fulfil the tasks they were designed to do.
They were also used to create frivolous products and became synonymous with kitsch styling.
It's at this point that the material group started to be seen as inferior by many people.
However, during the decades of the mid-20th century, as designers and manufacturers learnt more about how best to use the materials, plastics were no longer being seen simply as cheap substitute materials but were embraced for the properties and characteristics they offer to design.
This was particularly celebrated in the 1968 exhibition, Plastic as Plastic , held at the Museum of Contemporary Crafts in New York, which featured displays of objects in categories listed as jewellery and accessories, architecture, art, automotive, interior accessories and furniture, historical pieces, housewares and appliances, packaging, technology, and toys.
Our exhibition, Mid-century MoDiP , uses the objects from our own collection in a visual exploration of the use of plastics in design from the 1950s through to the 1970s.
All the objects on display in this exhibition are between 45 and 75 years-old.
For some of our visitors they will be new and intriguing to them and for others they are familiar and loaded with nostalgia.
How do they make you feel?
Visit to the MoDiP website for more information about this exhibition.
If you liked this post you might be interested in the Museum of Design in Plastics.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/postgraduate-summer-shows-2025:
Arts University Bournemouth’s postgraduate community, in collaboration with TheGallery and Technical Services, proudly presents the Postgraduate Summer Show 2025.
This curated exhibition, led by Violet M.
McClean (Curator of TheGallery) and Associate Professor Rebecca Pride, with Rhiannon Evans and Eden Frankham, Senior Technicians, showcases the creative achievements of AUB’s postgraduate community.
This summer’s show continues AUB’s commitment to bold curatorial vision and cross-departmental collaboration, bringing together outstanding work from across postgraduate disciplines.
The Postgraduate Summer Show 2025 is a vibrant celebration of the work and achievements of AUB’s postgraduate students.
Featuring a diverse collection of innovative projects, the exhibition forms part of AUB’s Postgraduate Shows portfolio.
Postgraduate study at AUB is defined by critical inquiry and a spirit of experimentation.
This show provides a public platform for students to share their research, ideas, and creative outcomes – many for the first time – marking a pivotal point in their professional journeys.
Students from the following courses will be displaying their work:
Join us throughout the summer months to be energised by the creative work of our fabulous students from all over the world, including those studying on our Foundation course, our BA (Hons) programmes and postgraduate courses.
– Lisa Mann, Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive Officer, AUB
MA Fine Art summer graduates will exhibit their final major work in TheBUG on AUB Campus from 22 July – 7 August 2025.
We'd like to invite you and your guests to the formal opening and private view for our Postgraduate Summer Shows 2025.
We're delighted to work with Boscombe Arts Depot to feature work from our MA Painting students as part of the Postgraduate Summer Shows.
If you liked this post you might be interested in our Postgraduate courses.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/we-want-you-to-see-ma-painting-postgraduate-summer-shows-2025-private-view:
Date and time: Thursday 18 September, 17.30–20.00
(Boscombe Arts Depot), Sovereign Shopping Centre
Please note: this is an open event and no RSVP is required.
All are welcome!
Sovereign Shopping Centre Boscombe, Bournemouth
BH1 4BP
Find the Boscombe Arts Depot: what3words: ///verbs.obey.award
"The exhibition is the final stage of the journey here at MA Painting but the very beginning of exciting and professional careers for them all in the future.
Through these paintings on show, aesthetically and critically, they highlight the huge development, confidence, leaps of faith, commitment and level of professionalism they have achieved."

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/university-music-autumn-2025-concerts:
University Music is proud to present its autumn programme of concerts and events for the 2025 season.
As ever, there's a thrilling breadth and diversity in the musical offering, which brings together University Music scholars, students, staff and members of the wider community in a range of programmes and venues.
Alongside performances from our own musicians and ensembles, it's our pleasure to host a professional chamber music series in association with the Bournemouth Chamber Music Society.
We look forward to welcoming you to our fantastic events this autumn.
– Ian Davis, Head of University Music
For more information about any of the events or to learn more about the ensembles and how to join, please contact University Music.
Email: musicadmin@bournemouth.ac.uk Telephone: 01202 965831
Location: St Peter's Church, Bournemouth, BH1 2EE
Admission: Free
An eclectic mix of vocal and instrumental music from our music scholars and friends.
Location: Student Hall, Talbot House, Bournemouth University, BH12 5BB
Given by University Music piano students.
Location: Kimmeridge Hall, Bournemouth University, BH12 5BB
Admission: £25 (free for under-26s)
Location: Christchurch Priory, BH23 1BU
Admission: £20/£16 (students 50% concession) – available to purchase online or on the door.
University Music Choirs and Orchestra present Mozart's Clarinet Concerto and Requiem.
University Music Chamber Choir and Instrumentalists present a sequence of words and music reflecting on the wonder of the sea.
Music by Mendelssohn, Lieberman and Ravel.
An evening of music from the concert hall, stage and screen.
Location: St Peter's Church, Dorchester, DT1 1XA
University Music Chamber Choir presents a traditional service with hymns and glorious choral settings.
Location: St Peter's Church, Parkstone, Poole, BH14 0NN
Admission: £16 (plus booking fee) – 50% concession for students and under-18s.
Purchase online or at the door.
Presented by University Music Choirs and Orchestra.
University Music Chamber Choir presents a traditional service with favourite carols and glorious choral settings.
If you liked this post you might be interested in University Music

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/clearing-campus-tours-august-2025:
If you didn't manage to visit us on our Clearing Open Day , the chance to discover AUB up close isn't over.
You can pop along to a Campus Tour, which we're running during Clearing week on Monday 18 August, starting at 11.00 and lasting approximately 45 minutes.
This tour allows you to explore our creative campus and its general facilities with one of our Student Ambassadors, so that you can get a feel for the AUB vibe.
Starting off in the foyer of University House on campus, you'll be greeted by our Ambassadors and taken on the tour from there.
Please note, you won't be able to view studio spaces or speak with academic staff as part of this tour.
For this, you can book onto one of our upcoming Open Days .
If you liked this post you might be interested in Campus Tours

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/clearing-open-day-august-2025:
Join AUB on campus for our Clearing Open Day.
Please note, academic staff won't be present at this event.
However the Directors of Schools will be on hand to assist with course queries.
10.00–10.30
Self-Guided and Hosted Campus Tours
10.00–13.00
Informative Talk – Welcome to AUB
10.30–11.00
School Directors Hubs – Drop in
11.00–13.00
Information Hub – Chat to Admissions, Student Wellbeing, Student Finance, Student Services
Halls of Residence – Off-campus Open House
12.00–14.30

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/postgraduate-summer-shows-2025-formal-opening-and-private-view:
You and your guests are invited to the Formal Opening and Private View of our Postgraduate Summer Show 2025, for an unforgettable evening that brings together art, creativity, and community.
A celebration showcasing a vibrant mix of work from our postgraduate courses in TheGallery, AUB.
Time: 18.15
Location: Drawing Studio courtyard (across from TheGallery)
Associate Professor Rebecca Pride and Associate Professor Emma Shercliff at AUB, will formally open the show.
They'll also talk through the student journey, and the successes, awards and achievements of our postgraduate courses.
You'll also hear from TheGallery Curator and Summer Shows 2025 Creative Director, Violet M.
McClean.
Our Summer Shows are an excellent representation of the values that are rooted in the University's culture – with a focus on innovation, collaboration, and passion at the heart of everything we do.
On the night of 14 August at 18.00, we open our doors and welcome students and their families, alumni and industry, and visitors to share the magic and be part of the dream factory that is AUB.
Our Gallery is the perfect backdrop for this special occasion.
A huge congratulations to all our artists, designers, makers, and researchers who are exhibiting and being celebrated.
We wanted to create an event for you to remember and talk about for years to come.
Expect a summer soundtrack curated live by TheGallery’s own professional DJ, William Hernandez Abreu, who's just got back from DJing in Ibiza .
If you liked this post you might be interested in Postgraduate Summer Shows 2025

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/clearing-a-guide-for-parents-and-carers:
Date and time: Tuesday 12 August, 16.00–16.30
Whether you're a parent or carer fielding questions from your young person about Clearing during the run-up to Results Day, or if you've got questions of your own, we've got you covered with this webinar.
Presented by members of our Student Services, Admissions and Futures teams, we'll explain more about the Clearing process, as well as student finance, accommodation and transport at AUB, and the careers support available.
If you liked this post you might be interested in more information on Clearing at AUB.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/eve-stewart:
Studying BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance at AUB has created unique experiences that have developed both my skills and personal growth.
A key moment of my university experience was the being selected as the set designer for the 2025 spring production of The Visit .
The production is a huge collaboration amongst the courses (design, costume, make-up and acting) – it was super exciting to be able to work in this environment and see my design come to life.
In the design process, I was widely inspired by the Surrealist and 1920s German Expressionist movements.
I found inspiration in the uncomfortable and odd nature of many artists of the period – in particular, the work of German woodcut artist Jacob Pins.
Art movements such as Bauhaus place emphasis on strong rigid lines, which I wanted to incorporate.
In researching German Expressionism, I discovered the film Cabinet of Dr.
Caligari (1920) and adored it.
The off nature of it works perfectly with the ideas of David O’Shea (the director) and the themes of the play.
Moreover, architecture became a key research point where I focused on German and Swiss influences.
I found creativity in the brutalist nature of many of the buildings and used this to drawn upon with the strong lines which created crisp shadows.
Making slight alternations to the buildings such as shifting the shadows and inverting them to tilting something by 75˚ to create a conceptual appearance of a town like a distorted memory.
Due to the black and white monochromatic style of the set, it is dependent on the stage lighting to create an atmosphere, and it can look completely different once again aiding this dream-like hallucination of a place.
The tower acts as this Orwellian form of surveillance and the unease of being watched.
The tower is designed to create eye imagery when an actor is placed in it.
Furthermore, I used the buildings to create multiple accesses to the stage for the actors to appear like ants running in an out in a Kafkaesque nature.
Bringing this design to life allowed me to experience work in scenic painting, design meetings, technical rehearsals and finally show nights.
All occasions allowed me to push and develop my skills as a designer.
I am excited to push my skills further as I have also been selected to come back and be the costume and set designer for the 2025 Autumn production of Orpheus and Eurydice.
The course has given me a wide range of skills in the industry such as modelmaking, sewing, scenic painting, illustration and many more.
In my time in the course, I have specialised in set design, falling in love with modelmaking – I found a passion for scale models and creating detailed pieces.
One of my favourite models was a speculative design for the AUB Emilia!
production.
I found in my final unit I wanted to take the opportunity to utilise all my skills and revisit things I had previously left behind, primarily costume.
I decided to revisit costume design and illustration and really enjoyed it.
These designs will be brought to life in the Orpheus and Eurydice production, which will be a new and exciting challenge.
The course has given me a unique learning experience and graduating with a first-class honours and the early career performance design award has been the dream of a lifetime.
I wish to give a big thank you to all the lectures, technicians and my peers.
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/harmony-evans-on-the-art-of-make-up-setting-up-a-bridal-business-and-course-collaboration:
A love for challenge is what fuels my creative drive – the challenge of solving the puzzle of how.
How to reach a complex vision from scratch.
I find creative problem-solving almost mathematical, engaging me to think about what will be go where and in which order.
This is then combined with the captivating urge to make a statement and emotionally impact my viewer.
I was always fascinated by creatives, with a vivid memory of attempting to combine my favourite hobby and childhood film by drawing every single character in Harry Potter.
Sadly, after making it through what younger me considered to be the coolest members of the cast, that feat was never completed.
But I didn’t stop enjoying being creative wherever I could after that.
The intricacies of design in everyday life intrigued me, particularly the detailed character transformations in film.
I was excited to find a creative outlet in make-up art, applying my fine art knowledge to my newfound hobby of make-up design.
During my first year on the BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance course, I learnt a vast range of practical and research skills each week, starting with the fundamentals and moving onto more specialised techniques, relevant to so many different areas of the industry.
This gave me the confidence to organise some bridal work the following summer, including a styled venue shoot and my first wedding as a hair and make-up artist.
I loved the elegance and sophistication of bridal styling and the nature of working with a client from start to finish to single-handedly bring their vision to life.
I put together a website and business front, which I now maintain alongside my studies, taking on over 20 wedding bookings so far, allowing me to work on a diverse range of clientele, and gain insight into the organisational and administrative tasks of running a business.
The adrenaline and thrill of playing such a big part of people’s wedding mornings is very special, and this is venture I hope to continue to grow and pursue.
The collaboration opportunities really drew me to AUB.
In my first year, I started applying the skills I’d learnt so far to a few collaborations, like a charity fashion show and period styling costume collaboration.
In my second year, I then worked behind the scenes as a hair and make-up assistant on Emilia!
– one of the AUB Productions shows – an opportunity given to every Level 5 make-up student.
We worked as a team of roughly 12 hair and make-up artists, under Level 6 head of department Lydia Harris.
She not only directed and lead us but also passed on her advice for our second-year projects, which we all found very valuable.
Seeing our work come together with costume, acting and set design each night, to meet the vision behind it – the external director Mumba Dodwell – was incredibly rewarding, and gave everybody a strong sense of achievement.
This first-hand, practical, theatrical experience improved our skill sets massively and presented the social opportunity to make like-minded creative friends from other departments, like our actors, who we missed seeing every day once the show had finished!
Our department became very close by the end of show week, making a lot of fun memories together.
I enjoyed meeting and working with more of my year group too, making the rest of my second year a lot more sociable.
After such a positive experience last year, I am excited to be taking on the role of Level 6 Hair and Make-up Supervisor the first autumn 2025 AUB Productions show Orpheus and Eurydice , taking a contemporary twist on traditional Greek mythology.
I look forward to getting stuck into character design and wig styling for this flamboyant era and experiencing production from a more design-based role.
Another of my future goals is to move into arts education, so I look to use the role to build on my creative leadership qualities and help advise the new Level 5s with what I have learnt so far while continuing to refine and develop my own skill.
Something else that drew me to AUB was the extracurricular opportunities to help young artists, like the 2024 AUBSU art auction , where I exhibited my first piece of art.
After enjoying art as hobby for so long, seeing my artwork on display to the public (and the town mayor) was exciting enough!
The buzz of watching the bids go up and up and seeing my piece sell was a real unforgettable moment for me as an artist, motivating me to start selling more work.
I now offer commissioned artwork through my business, and being able to receive commission for doing something you love is a real privilege.
Looking back, the confidence this opportunity gave me was a real starting point for this.
The buzz of seeing a new enquiry pop into my inbox never gets any less exciting!
For me, having multiple artistic outlets is incredibly important for sustaining a healthy mindset.
I use painting and drawing as a reliable, therapeutic form of escapism within my personal passion projects.
A creative outlook helps me notice and appreciate the beauty in the small things, which may just inspire a future creation that could then reach others a similar way.
When starting the course, I found it overwhelmingly easy to get in my head by setting unachievable standards for myself and my work.
But every experience mentioned has shown me that showing up on time with a kind and positive outlook and a will to get stuck in and help out, allows the rest to come naturally.
Working with your peers to combine strengths and weaknesses is very important for mutual growth.
Something I always like to remind myself when taking on a new project is that doubt will always kill more dreams than ability – so why not just give it a go?

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/how-emma-avent-curates-nature-artistry-and-creative-practice-through-moving-image:
During my final year studying BA (Hons) Fashion Communication at AUB, I have truly grown into myself as a creative.
My Final Major Project, Land Made , celebrates the artisans who intersect craft and nature.
I visited four incredible craftswomen to document their creative process and tell their stories through moving image and printed publications.
Through this project, I have found my own creative voice – one that celebrates the makers of the world and tells stories of how the world around us is made.
At school, I never thought of myself as a creative person.
It wasn’t until lockdown – when my GCSEs were cancelled and I poured all my time into photography – that I discovered my passion for visual arts.
My teacher once said that my photos made her want to “speak very quietly”, and that quiet sense of reflection is something I’ve continually strived to evoke in my work.
Nature and the world around me has always been my greatest source of inspiration, and this has become the core of my creative identity.
I’ve developed a passion of sharing the ability to read meaning into and find beauty in the world around us through visual communication.
My interest in telling craft-focused stories deepened while working as a communications intern for Patrick McDowell.
I loved capturing the creativity and process behind the making and sharing the talents of the individuals I worked with.
Since then, I’ve aimed to create imagery that provides a grounding experience for viewers, highlighting how tangible things are crafted so we can form deeper, more meaningful connections with the objects in our lives.
When visiting artisans in their studios to photograph and learn about their practice, I always prepare a set of questions to ask.
These conversations help shape the visual direction of my work, both in still and moving image.
My aim is always to uplift the voices of the artisans and to portray their work with authenticity and respect.
These interactions have influenced my own practice.
I’ve learned so much from how these makers approach their materials and creative processes.
One of the most impactful ideas I encountered during this project was the “conversation of object-making,” a concept explored by Peter Korn.
It speaks to the accumulation of knowledge, skills, and traditions passed down through generations in craft.
I’ve noticed how disciplines have begun to overlap as practitioners collaborate and experiment.
My creative practice is rooted in experimentation.
I often begin by playing around with different materials and techniques to see what results emerge.
I strive for tactile visuals that celebrate the handmade and the beauty of imperfection, which I think is very important right now with the rise of generative AI, and people seeking out human touch within the world around them.
This is how I discovered a passion for moving image.
I wanted to bring tactility into the digital space through paper textures, mark-making and illustration.
My process ends with bringing all the elements together into a physical outcome.
Being materially conscious and environmentally responsible is essential to me.
For Land Made , I printed my publication with Print Works, a sustainable printing company based in Leeds, and created printed imagery using seed paper.
Spending time outside has been a great source of headspace for me this year.
Growing up in the countryside, nature has always brought me a sense of clarity.
As I have developed my creative practice, it has become my key source of inspiration.
Now more than ever, I believe it’s crucial for us – as the future creatives – to consider how we can work symbiotically with the natural world.
My three years at AUB have been amazing.
I’ve been incredibly fortunate to be shortlisted for the GFW Terry Mansfield Publication Award, to win the GFW Moving Image Award, and to receive the AUB Enterprise Award!
At Graduate Fashion Week, I also had the opportunity to pitch my project to a panel of judges and a live audience.
Public speaking is something that has always terrified me, and I would never have believed I could do it without the support of my amazing lecturers and technicians.
Looking ahead, I hope to keep working on Land Made as a small business, telling the stories of all the incredible makers of the world who work with nature, rather than against it.
I’m very excited to see where my post-graduation life takes me!
Check out her website or watch the symbiotic film below, winner of the GFW Moving Image Award.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/can-a-dissertation-research-proposal-actually-be-fun-mine-was:
When you hear the words “dissertation,” most people think of stress, citations, and long nights staring at a screen.
But for me, this project became one of the most rewarding parts of my second year at AUB.
It didn’t feel like a chore, because it connected deeply with something I’ve loved since I was three: LEGO.
Our research brief was open-ended.
We could explore any topic within the realm of design, brand, culture, communication, as long as it was research-driven.
I instantly saw this as a creative opportunity rather than a traditional academic task.
I’ve been collecting LEGO for as long as I can remember and have grown up alongside a dramatic shift in the brand’s direction.
The launch of the “Adults Welcome” range marked a clear pivot toward adult consumers.
This shift coincides with broader generational changes, as children’s play increasingly moves into the digital realm, LEGO has responded by redefining what a toy can mean for older audiences.
My proposal explored how LEGO evolved from a child-focused toy into a display and mindfulness-oriented object for adults, and what that evolution suggests about the future of toy design.
My topic explored how LEGO’s brand strategy is not only increasingly appealing to, but actively targeting “kidults,” adults who collect what’s traditionally considered a toy for reasons such as relaxation, display, nostalgia, or wellness.
The kidult market is widely reported as one of the fastest-growing segments in the toy industry, and to maximise appeal, LEGO has expanded far beyond the stereotypical image of the nerdy adult collector.
I looked at the brand’s growing diversification, from Star Wars starships that cater to the legacy of AFOL (Adult Fan of LEGO) collectors, to its bestselling Botanical Collection and wall-mounted art sets.
These products don’t just serve the function of play, they speak to aesthetic values, mindfulness, and interior design.
The brand is now catering to a wider lifestyle audience, expanding both what LEGO is and who it’s for.
I immersed myself in primary and ethnographic research.
I visited the flagship LEGO store in Leicester Square multiple times, observing which products drew the most engagement and noting the age range of customers interacting with different displays.
I saw how adult-focused zones dominated the layout, highlighted through premium product placement and being highlighted on displays.
I also attended the London Brick Festival to explore how passionate the AFOL community really is, building collaborative projects, setting up market stalls, and showcasing intricate personal creations.
These field observations were backed by close analysis of LEGO’s annual reports, sales trends, and bestseller data, as well as market research from NPD highlighting adult consumers as one of the fastest-growing categories in the toy sector.
I also drew on theories of adult play to understand how toys today serve broader emotional, creative, and lifestyle needs.
I also made a decision early on to treat this as a design project, not just a written one.
That meant making the proposal feel like a brand document.
I built it visually from the ground up using colour, layout, and typographic systems inspired by LEGO’s identity.
It lives as a fully designed piece of editorial design that sits proudly in my portfolio.
Designing it made the process genuinely enjoyable.
Instead of producing a static academic submission, I created something I was excited to show others.
It didn’t just work as a piece of research, it worked as a piece of design.
The design became the hook that made the whole thing click.
Now, with summer ahead, I’m expanding the project further in preparation for the full dissertation next year.
I’m visiting LEGOLAND Windsor to observe how LEGO is still being marketed to children and families, offering a sharp contrast to the adult-facing strategies I’ve been analysing.
I’ll also be flying to Billund, Denmark, the original home of LEGO, to conduct research at the LEGO House.
It houses the official LEGO museum and archive, tracing the evolution of the brand over decades.
It’s an opportunity to engage directly with the company’s roots, both culturally and commercially.
I’m also planning to set up creative workshops using LEGO as a participatory research tool to deepen my insight.
If you’re heading into your research proposal, my advice is this: pick something that actually excites you.
I know it might sound like more work to go out and do all these extra things, site visits, design work, but it makes the process not only easier and more fun, but something you’ll genuinely look forward to.
When you’re curious, you’ll want to keep researching, writing, building.
It becomes less of a task and more of a project you’re proud of.
Make it visual, make it active, and make it yours.
Turns out a research proposal can be fun.
Who knew?

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/lillia-bowsher:
At the start of the final term, BA (Hons) Textiles Design students undertook a collaborative project with Art Asia for their annual MELA community festival in Southampton.
This is an inclusive and free festival to celebrate the South Asian community.
Our brief was to design stage backdrops (three different panels across the back, side and front walls) with their logo on for them to print and use.
I was in a group of three, and amazingly, our backdrop designs won and got printed for the 2025 two-day event which was very exciting.
We worked independently in our group to produce the designs and had a mid-point presentation with our peers and tutors and then a final presentation to the executive of Art Asia.
To start the project, we had to do some research and drawings over Easter.
I took this opportunity to complete some secondary research about the South Asian community – I looked into concepts like henna, mandalas, places of interest such as temples, national flowers or native animals.
I wanted to form a good concept of the culture, so that our designs would be familiar to the community.
I also visited the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford to look at historic artefacts from different regions, focusing on the patterns/textures within them.
It was nice to look back at older pieces to then reimagine them with the bold colours of the festival.
I also looked at the festival website and their brand colour palette, to be inspired by their bright and energetic vibe, for my own colour ideas.
Once in our groups, our first action was to discuss our independent research.
This was really fun for looking at new drawings, areas of inspiration and different primary research trips.
For example, Sophia went to the V&A and took some lovely images of vines and floral designs.
We all agreed we really liked the sense of flow and movement within the piece, so we decided to include those images in our mood board as inspiration for our own design creativity.
This also developed our active listening skills – we were engaged in discussion, listening to each other’s ideas and responding with constructive feedback and new thoughts.
We decided to pick out our favourite pieces from everyone’s work and make a new, group mood board to give us a communal focus.
I would highly recommend this as it ensured everyone had their work included, felt listened to and involved from the start.
Additionally, it meant we had a clear focus from the beginning, so we could progress clearly and efficiently, which was great for our time management.
After this, we began drawing new designs, re-drawing our initial ideas so that they fit our new avenue and working through editing them on Photoshop.
In this part of the live brief, it was super important that we scanned our drawings at high resolution so they were clear when we edited them.
We also found it easiest to draw in black-and-white so that it was quick to select and refill areas digitally.
It also saved time as we would colour it again on Photoshop to our colour palette anyway.
After digitally editing our drawn motifs, we could start organising the designs into final ideas.
Although we had a very rough idea of how we wanted our design to flow across the three panels, we decided to just trial as many layouts before filtering out the least successful ones.
This was good for keeping our ideas broad; we weren't limiting ourselves to our first idea, and we were willing to try new compositions to see what was most exciting and captivating.
This was also nice for our mid-point review, as we could show all the different ideas we had produced to receive feedback.
We could get different opinions on which motifs to use where, how we could swap things around to improve the design or adjust compositions to make them more engaging and less rigid.
After the presentation, we had a new sense of direction for the project, new priorities on what to finish first for the deadline and how we could improve our work to fit the brief better.
After three weeks, we brought together our project in a final presentation to our tutor, peers and the executive of Art Asia.
This was great experience for presenting our work, explaining our ideas and reasons behind decisions.
It also allowed us to show the development from our idea into a full concept and how our inspiration was visible in our work.
From this project, here are the top lessons I learnt:
Overall, this project was great fun to complete and a really good experience.
Working in a group, to quite a short deadline, with skills we were still developing and learning, made it fast-paced, interesting and challenging.
It was important to focus on the aim of the festival, matching their intention to be inclusive and fun, and follow the brief closely.
Group projects aren’t for everyone, but I would recommend throwing your all at them because you can learn a lot along the way.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/how-i-used-photography-to-spread-awareness-of-the-struggles-faced-by-british-family-farmers:
As a documentary photographer, my key inspirations lie with the likes of Tim Hetherington and Walter Iooss Jr.
and their ability to take advantage of their excellent photographic technique to tell real powerful stories of fascinating real people.
It was photographers like this who influenced my most recent work in my second year of study at AUB.
This project sprouted when I took an interest in the resilience of British farmers during the first farm Inheritance Tax Protests, which took place in November 2024.
I was fascinated by the thousands of family farms that stopped their work to come together and make their voice heard.
Each farm represented in the protests had its own individual story to tell and, as a photographer, I felt that I could use my craft to tell those narratives in a truthful yet creative manner.
I wanted to create a project that not only educated the public on what it takes to be a family farm in 2025, but also the trials and struggles that these farmers must face, including and beyond the recent Inheritance Tax issues.
So, I started contacting dozens of local farms in Dorset and beyond to tell them about my idea and how I wanted to get their voice heard through photography.
Unfortunately, as is the nature of contacting potential subjects for a documentary project, many did not even reply, but more importantly two did: Berry Hill Farm and Rawston Farm.
These two farms are located just 15 miles apart – Muscliff and Tarrant Rawston respectively – but could not be any more different.
Both family-run farms face very different challenges and farm in much different ways.
The photographic project would consist of an extended photo essay of the two farms, exploring the everyday realities of British farming and taking a closer look at the two farmers at the helm of each farm, Jim Hooper and James Cossins.
To capture the two farmers, I wanted to shoot on medium format film to challenge my technical abilities to create portraits of the farmers and the rest of the project I shot on digital cameras.
The hero shots of Jim and James help to add a personal element to the series of images.
I visited each farm about five times each.
This allowed me time to capture a wide range of goings on at the farms and helped me see the differences between the two.
Jim Hooper, a vegetable grower and third-generation farmer at Berry Hill Farm, spends each day doing mostly the same things.
This includes hand-harvesting vegetables with his two workers on the 30 acres of land.
This crop is then divided into veg boxes, which are home-delivered to local residents whilst the remaining is sold at farmers markets.
On the other hand, James Cossins, a fifth-generation farmer at Rawston Farm, oversees 2,500 acres of Dorset countryside alongside his son and seven other workers.
The farm has a diversified crop and livestock portfolio, which includes rapeseed oil, wheat, milk from the dairy herd, honey and beef.
The produce is sold at the farm shop, butchery and local village pub as well as being sold in large quantities to local, national and international customers.
Seeing this contrast in the farms, both family-owned, helped me realise that this project wasn’t about the photography but about telling the stories of these farmers, helping those unaware understand the realities of farming and educating the British public on the impact that family farms have on our lives, whether we realise it or not.
Through visiting the farms, I was able to learn a lot myself and this helped me know what to capture and when to capture it.
I was able to understand the importance of what I was photographing through one-on-one conversations with Jim, James and their workers.
I also got to add to my basic technical understanding of farming as I tagged along with the teams on each farm.
I think that this added an extra layer of depth to the images for me at least, as I personally understood what these farms must do.
I believe that I was able to show at least some of this understanding in the images.
After capturing the images, I spent a long time narrowing down my selections to include in my final series of 20 images.
I wanted the order of the images to play a part in the narrative.
This led to what I think is a sequence of images that well represents each farm and the work they must do to continue farming in 2025 and beyond.
In addition, I constructed the final sequence in a way that showed the contrast between the two farms, including similar images from each farm to show how they differ.
This completed what I think is a project that not only shows my photographic ability, as I soon start my final year of study as a commercial photographer, but also provides education on an important current issue and tells the story of two farms that contribute to our lives whether we realise it or not.
Want to see more of Jonathan's work?
The full series of images from Sustaining Britain can be found on his website .
To see images not included in the short sequence, head over to Jonathan's Instagram .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/milly-withers-ba-hons-graphic-design:
Course: Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media; BA (Hons) Graphic Design
Graduated: 2013
She's been running her own business, Blink Lettering , for over six years, and for five of those has taught to over 3,000 students, both in person and online.
Milly has extensive knowledge of modern calligraphy, ranging from wedding stationery to signage, and has worked with a number of brands such as Winsor & Newton, British Naturism and Hobbycraft.
She's also created signage for local businesses, including The Noisy Lobster, Hux Customs and Pen Gallery.
Want to see more of Milly's work?
Follow Milly on Instagram @blinklettering .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/pia-elliot-ba-hons-textiles-design:
Course: BA (Hons) Textiles Design
Graduated: 2023
Since graduating, Pia Elliot has continued to develop her artistic practice and is now a well-known name within the Dorset art scene.
After initially taking on a graduate role in digital embroidery, she quickly realised that the work, while creative, felt disconnected from her true passions, finding herself drawn back to her long-standing passion for pen and ink illustration.
Pia has been developing her self-taught pen and ink style from the age of 16.
Her artistic focus centres on creating characterful illustrations of wildlife, inspired by animals she’s been fortunate enough to observe.
Throughout her works, she aims to capture these encounters in ink, creating connections that invite viewers to appreciate nature’s delicate intricacies.
By blending precision with expression, her illustrations offer a characterful aesthetic alongside emotional resonance.
Since returning to her illustration roots, Pia has showcased her works in a variety of solo and group exhibitions, while also undertaking a wide range of bespoke commission work.
Her debut solo exhibition, Intricate Wilderness , marked a significant milestone, bringing together a collection of works that reflected her fascination with nature and detail.
She was also recently selected to take part in The Great Tail Trail in support of Julia’s House Children’s Hospice, where she adapted her pen and ink style to a painted 3D sculpture for public display.
Drawing workshops are another addition to her skill set, with an aim to aid relaxation through creativity.
Looking ahead, Pia is in the early stages of planning her next solo exhibition, celebrating the richness and complexity of British wildlife.
This new body of work will explore a diverse range of native species including animals, plants, and insects, highlighting the vital role each plays in its ecosystem and encouraging a deeper appreciation for the natural world.
Want to see more of Pia's work?
Follow her Instagram account @pia_elliot_art_ or check out her website .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/the-artists-studio-pamela-howard-obe:
As an artist and theatre maker, Pamela Howard defies easy classification.
A theatre designer by training, she later advocated for “a seamless synthesis of space, text, research, art, actors, directors and spectators”, in her work.
She famously coined the term Scenography to describe this more expansive and integrated approach to theatre making.
Her magnum opus, What Is Scenography?, in three editions is now translated into seven languages including Chinese, and has become the definitive text on the subject internationally.
But perhaps a simpler way to define Pamela is as a storyteller.
The daughter of a Jewish émigré father from Riga, and émigré grandparents from Belorussia, Pamela’s work has returned again and again to the theme of the dispossessed, the refugee… to those whose stories are overlooked or struggle to find a voice.
“We have to tell their stories”, she says.
So, I was fascinated to visit her in her studio and home by the sea in Selsey to understand what it might reveal about her story.
“When you get to the sea and can’t go any further, you have arrived” Pamela had said by way of directions.
On a chilly, grey day in late January, and after a detour around the flooded roads of the marshy hinterland of this part of West Sussex, we arrived at Pamela’s home.
She greeted us with a wave from the studio at the end of her garden.
A giant broken pencil, a find picked up in a street in Elephant and Castle, swings over the entrance – “I work under the sign of the broken pencil” Pamela quips as she ushers us in.
The sound of the sea crashing on the pebbles a few yards away recedes as we enter the warm, cocooning, colourful embrace of her studio.
Allan Tsui, on a two-month professional development award from the Hong Kong Design Institute, sits at a desk working on a new project… the latest member in her extended “family” of students and collaborators.
Posters for shows in London, Brno, Ljubljana, Glasgow, Prague, Toronto, Los Angeles, Thessaloniki, and Belgrade cover the walls.
Every square inch of space has drawings, pots of pencils and pens, itemised files, shoeboxes full of drawings.
I spy a postcard given to Pamela by David Hockney – inscribed “Keep drawing, Pamela” – along with a Palomino Black Wing pencil now worn down to a stub.
Drawing is self-evidently at the heart of her practice and is the defining activity of this studio space.
Joyful creativity is balanced by a fierce sense of industry and order.
"It may seem chaotic to you, but I know where every single thing is."
A huge storyboard of a current project dominates one side of the space – a production celebrating the life and times of Irish playwright and poet, Brendan Behan.
Allan shows us a model of Behan in a hospital bed, stomach extended – “that’s the booze, you know” says Pamela.
To the left, a drawing desk is crowded with the initial concept work for another production – this one destined to inaugurate a new theatrical space at the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama, where she holds the position of International Chair in Drama.
The College have acquired The Old Library in the Centre of Cardiff.
The theme is close to Pamela’s heart – a new work to celebrate the Welsh history of welcoming refugees and migrants and incorporating their stories into the Welsh national story.
In the studio a seating area to one side is actually a bed and behind that is a well-equipped bathroom with shower and WC.
A “tiny little kitchen” sits on the other side – “I don’t really cook in here, but I’ve got a little fridge I can use and occasionally end up staying the night.” It is an entirely self-sufficient space.
Pamela built the studio in 2003 after a divorce – “for the first time in my life I had what I now know is called liquidity.
I’d never had liquidity.
I thought it was a drink… but anyway, I had liquidity and I thought, what do I want most in the world?
I want a studio where I can be myself.”
"I’d always worked in converted bedrooms, you know, and I hated it, but I dreamt that one day I'd have a studio...
So this is why my recently published commissioned book by Bloomsbury/Methuen under their imprint The Art of Making Theatre is called An Arsenal of Dreams in 12 Scenes .
Because you must dream to know what you want.
If you dream enough, you get it."
We break for a picnic lunch, but before that Pamela invites us on a guided tour around her house.
From the outside her home resembles a charming but unassuming seaside bungalow, but inside the story gets more interesting.
It was built in 1920 from two converted railway carriages placed parallel to each other and joined together by an apex roof creating a central living space and kitchen.
The train carriages that Pamela calls Platform One and Two, house the bedrooms, office, and bathroom.
I venture to Pamela that it seems somehow fitting and symbolic that an artist who herself is a third-generation immigrant, whose work keeps coming back to the idea of the outsider and the displaced, an artist who has worked all over the world, finds her home in a building created from carriages that spent their lives transporting people from A to B.
But as with so much with Pamela, the story she tells me is more multi-layered.
The facts alone of how the house came to be are extraordinary enough.
The land on which the house was built was bought on a whim by Polish-Jewish garment maker, Jacob Berg, in the early 1920s, whilst on holiday in Sussex.
He met a farmer while on a walk and asked him who owned all this land.
The farmer replied that he did and after some negotiation Jacob Berg bought the land.
He then went into partnership with a Masonic member of his Lodge who was Head of Redundant Trains at Waterloo “nothing is coincidence.” station.
The trial ‘holiday house’ was ‘Stewarton’ and was the first of the ‘railway houses’ to be put down in this remote and beautiful part of the Sussex coast.
And is now Pamela’s home.
But Pamela reserves the most remarkable part of the story until last – it turned out that Jacob Berg was a competitor of Pamela’s Uncle Louis in the East End of London, and who also worked in the “rag trade”.
As a young girl of four living with her mother and maternal grandparents in Newcastle-on-Tyne during the Second World War, Pamela was sent on her own on the train to London to visit her Uncle Louis and his family, and here she heard stories about “the Bergs”…
“They were all immigrants, and worked on ‘piecework’… so much for an arm, or a leg.
Jacob Berg had a big contract with Marks and Spencer and he offered the workers half a penny more per leg, per arm.
And so, my Uncle Louis either had no work but still had to pay all his workers or he had to work but all the pieceworkers had been taken by Jacob Berg, can you believe it?”
Later Pamela became great friends with Jacob’s grandson, Elias, an actor, who also lived in Selsey, and told her stories about how his grandfather had made her Uncle Louis’ life a misery.
I remark to Pamela that, perhaps, as part of a diaspora, she is always looking for those things that anchor us as humans to a shared story.
That she is less careless of the “wonderful web we weave” than those blessed with more certainties.
"Everything has meaning" she says, "nothing is coincidence".
I hug Pamela goodbye and shake hands with Allan – I feel lucky to have been co-opted for a brief period into Pamela’s story – part student, part family, part fellow traveller on a journey that has brought us temporarily together.
I remark on the cold and suddenly feel a little sad that we have to leave.
The tide goes in and the tide goes out and you have to remember that.
Pamela Howard OBE is Visiting Professor Emerita at Arts University Bournemouth.
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Costume

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/campus-tour-3-october-2025:
If you didn't manage to visit us on an Open Day, the chance to discover AUB up close isn't over.
Pop along to one of our Campus Tours, which run on Fridays, starting at 11.00 and lasting approximately one hour.
However, as Campus Tours run on teaching days, they won't allow you access into individual studios, halls of residence, or to speak to academic teams.
To do this, book onto one of our Open Days , which'll offer you the complete experience of visiting AUB.
You can, however, visit other services such as Admissions, Student Support and our Students' Union during the tours.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/on-campus-offer-holder-days:
Join us on our bustling creative campus, where you'll be able to see what it's like to study at Arts University Bournemouth.
At our on-campus Offer Holder Days, you'll meet your prospective course teams and take part in group activities, whether that's making, creating, styling or discussing ideas.
The event will be active, hands-on and fun.
You'll be alongside your potential future classmates and have an opportunity to get to know each other before starting your course in the autumn.
Please note: These events are bookable for offer holders only.
Our on-campus Offer Holder Day events have now taken place for 2025.
If you'd like to pay us a visit in person, please check out our upcoming Open Day and Campus Tour dates.
Yes, you need to book onto a slot to attend, bookings can be made using the link in your email invitation.
These events will be different to Open Days as you'll be alongside other offer holders and experience an in-depth course related activity.
You'll come away with a clearer idea of what it's like to be an AUB student.
We strongly encourage you to attend but it is not compulsory.
For the on-campus events, registration starts at 08.30 and the course sessions commence at 11.00.
Please check further details in your invite.
The course taster session will last for two hours maximum and the opportunity to have lunch and view campus halls will follow.
You're welcome to explore the campus after your session.
Online events, such as the events to be held on 23 April and 30 April 2025, will take place from 12.00 until 13.00.
You can go online and cancel/amend your booking using the confirmation email
If you can't attend, please do cancel your place so we can offer it to someone else.
Yes, guests are welcome to come with you.
The course taster session is intended for students only and will give you the opportunity to meet fellow course mates.
If you have a support need that requires your guest to stay with you, please let us know in advance via email at opendays@aub.ac.uk .
Otherwise, during this time, guests can explore our campus, visit our hospitality outlets or have any questions answered in the Information Hub.
We have a range of student ambassadors representing various courses that will be pleased to have a chat with you on the day and share their experiences as an AUB student.
We have limited car parking facilities on campus.
Please email opendays@aub.ac.uk and we will be pleased to reserve a parking space on campus for you
Please email opendays@aub.ac.uk and we'll put you in touch with Student Support, who'll be sure to listen to your requirements and what we can do to help you.
Yes there'll be set times when our campus accommodation can be accessed for free flow tours.
Of course, we have several refreshment outlets that will be open including Costa Coffee, Bad Hand Coffee and our Refectory.
We'll send an information email with all the information about the day approximately 7-10 days prior to arrival.
Please check your junk/spam folder and if it can’t be found please contact us on opendays@aub.ac.uk and we'll be pleased to re-send this to you.
You'll receive a specific email prior to the event with your QR code – if you can have this handy, either printed or on your phone, it'll help us to scan you on arrival and speed up the registration process!

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/online-offer-holder-days:
Our online Offer Holder Days have got you covered.
At these online events, you'll still get the chance to talk to staff and current students with others starting on your chosen course, and ask any burning questions you may have, to prepare you for joining us in September.
You can tour our creative campus at any time from the comfort of your own home with AUB:360 .
Our online Offer Holder Days have now taken place for 2025.
If you're unable to make any of our online Offer Holder Days and you can't join us on campus either, there's plenty of information available on our website and beyond to help answer your questions.
The best way to get a feel for AUB and our creative community is to explore our campus.
But if you can't get to us in person, you can visit us from the comfort of your own home via our AUB:360 virtual tour.
Our Student Ambassadors are here via the Unibuddy platform to answer any questions you may have on course and university life, clubs and societies and living and studying in Bournemouth.
At on-campus events, you'll be able to visit our Information Hub, where our staff are on-hand to answer any burning questions you may have on anything from admissions to finance.
If you can't visit us in person, we've got you covered online too.
From March – July, we've put together a programme of online information sessions especially for offer holders and their supporters.
If you're not going to be able to join us for any Careers talks, the best place to explore is the AUB Futures page of our website.
This comprehensive section provides an in-depth look at the support the AUB Futures team offers to current students and alumni for finding careers after they graduate.
The session will start at 12.00 (BST) and will end around 13.00 (BST).
To make sure everyone has the best experience at our online offer holder sessions, we ask that you follow some ground rules.
We'd love it if you could keep your camera on and mute your microphone when not talking.
We'd recommend downloading the Microsoft Teams app, or using Chrome if you're using the web version.
We'll send an information email with all the information about the day approximately 7-10 days prior to the session.
We'll also email you before the event with the joining link (via Microsoft Teams).
Please check your junk/spam folder and if it can’t be found please contact us on opendays@aub.ac.uk and we will be pleased to re-send this to you.
You'll receive a specific email prior to the event with your joining link (via Microsoft Teams).

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/online-information-sessions:
To provide more detailed information and support with any queries or concerns you may have about joining Arts University Bournemouth in September, we've put together a programme of online information sessions especially for our Offer Holders and their parents, carers and supporters.
These exclusive online sessions are taking place from March – July 2025, giving you deeper insights into everything from fees and funding to moving to Bournemouth for the first time, all the way to what your first week at AUB will be like!
Please note: If you're an offer holder, you'll receive an email enabling you to book the events that you and/or your parents, carers, and supporters wish to attend.
However, you can also book here on the website via the button below.
Please also note that these events are bookable for offer holders only.
Our programme of online information sessions has now finished.
If you want to find out more about our courses and visit our campus, come see us on an Open Day .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/parents-carers-and-supporters:
Key supporters play a valuable role in the lives of our offer holders.
At AUB we understand the decision to go to university is a big one, not only for the offer holder but for their parents, carers and key supporters.
With this in mind, we’re here to help you support your student in the best way possible.
Supporters are very welcome as guests at our Offer Holder Day events – in fact, we encourage it!
The day is designed with various elements for you to engage with and provides you with an insight into our creative culture and caring, friendly community that'll become your student’s home from home for the next few years.
The workshop sessions will be designed for the offer holder only (we’ll explain more about the reasons why below), but other aspects of the day are open for you to explore.
Offer Holder Days at AUB are invitation-only events that take place on allocated dates throughout March and April.
Applicants who've received an offer to study at AUB will receive a personal invite via email to attend these events from January onwards.
On these dates, the offer holder and their support network are invited to attend the AUB campus and experience first-hand what it’s like to be a student at AUB.
We’re excited to welcome offer holders and their supporters to these events and have prepared a full day of activities and talks designed to make you feel at home and part of our AUB creative community.
Whether or not you’ve been to an Open Day before at AUB, we highly recommend coming to one of our Offer Holder Day experiences.
The programme for the day will differ to that of an Open Day!
It’s a much more enhanced and tailored experience, specific to the course of interest.
One of the most beneficial elements to the Offer Holder Day is that the offer holder will get to participate in a bespoke workshop designed by the course they've applied to.
Not only will they get to meet their future tutors on the course, but they’ll also meet fellow offer holders for the course, make new friends and creative networks.
This session is designed to be fun, interactive and help offer holders feel at ease in the university environment.
As we’re replicating a day of being a real-life student at AUB, we’re not able to welcome supporters to this particular element of the day, but don’t worry, we’ve got plenty else planned that you can engage with during this time.
We’re aware transitioning to university can sometimes be daunting, so the Offer Holder Days are a great opportunity to meet people in the same position and get to know them, their aspirations and what they’re looking forward to about starting university.
At the same time, we’re here to help you – the supporters – providing help in any way we can that answers any questions you may, have allowing you to fully support your student in their decision-making process and transition to university.
Ideally, you’ll get the best experience and understanding of the AUB community and environment by attending both!
Open Days (for the prospective student) are earlier in the journey designed for when considering what universities to apply to.
Offer Holder Days (for applicants who receive an offer) are later in the journey and give a taster into what being at student at that university can look and feel like.
Open Days are allocated dates throughout the year when AUB is open for prospective students and their families/supporters to visit our creative campus.
As part of the experience, you’ll receive general information and subject course talks designed to help inform prospective students and equip them to make decisions on where they wish to apply for university.
Offer Holder Days are invite-only events for applicants who've received an offer to study at AUB.
These events offer a more bespoke experience and allow an insight into a day in the life of an AUB student.
Offer Holder Days allow us to tailor the experience, as part of this we’ll be offering:
AUB is a single-campus university based in Poole, Dorset.
Our address is:
For detailed information about how to get to us by car or public transport, please visit our Find Us page .
If you require any support or access arrangements, please let us know in advance so that we can help to best meet your needs.
Please email opendays@aub.ac.uk with any requests.
We can support with reserved parking for blue badge holders; please email us on the above address to arrange this.
AUB is located close to Bournemouth town centre, with its famed and award-winning beaches, vibrant arts scene, and outstanding natural beauty.
To get a better idea of what Bournemouth and its surrounding areas can offer, explore our comprehensive Guide to Bournemouth .
From time to time, there may be factors that occur outside the University’s control (such as extreme weather conditions, industrial action, train strikes, etc.)
In the event that a planned Offer Holder Day can't take place due to unforeseen circumstances beyond our control, Arts University Bournemouth won't be liable for any incurred costs/losses (such as transport or accommodation bookings).
We'll endeavour to provide you with as much notice as possible should changes/cancellation to a planned event arise.
Given this, our advice is, where possible, to book refundable travel tickets and accommodation bookings.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/foundation-summer-show-2025:
The Foundation Summer Show celebrates the achievements of our students, providing an exciting platform to showcase their final project work to the public.
The Foundation Diploma in Art, Design and Media is an exciting and intense one-year (full-time) course, providing the opportunity for students to work across a range of specialist disciplines within the creative arts, that encourages risk-taking and experimentation with new materials, approaches and principles.
The course gives a strong creative grounding and works to develop an individual’s artistic and creative practice within specialised methodologies of art, design and media.
Our Foundation Diploma develops students as independent learners, building strong portfolios and artistic direction and preparation for progression.
The course acts as a bridge from Further Education into Higher Education, as well as offering a space in which to explore and develop artistic practice at any stage of life.
Foundation student work exhibited in this show demonstrates the diverse range of projects that are undertaken across its eight specialism areas:
TheGallery is an internationally renowned and award-winning exhibition space - the perfect backdrop in showcasing the work of this emerging talent.
Wednesday 11 June
Thursday 12 June
Friday 13 June
09.00–16.00
Saturday 14 June
Sunday 15 June
Monday 16 June
Tuesday 17 June
Wednesday 18 June
Thursday 19 June
Friday 20 June
Saturday 21 June
Sunday 22 June
Monday 23 June
Tuesday 24 June
Wednesday 25 June
The Summer Shows are free to everyone – check our opening times and public access before planning your visit.
For schools interested in visits and workshops, please visit our Schools page or email us for more information .
Read on for more information about guided and self-guided tours .
Please contact Reception via email regarding parking reservations.
As part of the AUB environmental commitments we encourage all of our staff, students and visitors to use sustainable methods of commuting such as walking, taking public transport and cycling.
We have a Beryl Bike hub on site, as well as a bus stop immediately outside the campus on Fern Barrow Road.
There's open parking for visitors attending AUB Summer Shows on campus.
We'd like to invite you and your guests to the formal opening and private view for our 2025 Foundation Summer Show.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/undergraduate-summer-shows-2025:
This summer, AUB Campus will be transformed into the most extensive gallery space in the southwest of England, as we celebrate the achievements of our 2025 graduating students.
The Summer Shows provide an exciting opportunity for students to showcase their final project work to the public and demonstrate how they've developed their skills and knowledge to a professional standard during their studies at AUB.
They'll include work from our wide range of courses , showcasing the accomplishments from the following schools:
Through these shows, you'll be able to learn about our courses here at AUB, the values and ethos at the core of the university, and the fantastic work that has been created over the past year as a product of these values, in addition to the dedication, passion and creativity of our graduate students.
Friday 11 July
Saturday 12 July
University Open Day – public access limited*
Sunday 13 July
Monday 14 July
Tuesday 15 July
09.00–19.00 (late-night opening)
Wednesday 16 – Friday 18 July
Saturday 19 July
Sunday 20 July
Monday 21 July
Tuesday 22 – Thursday 24 July
09.00–17.00**
Friday 25 July
09.00–15.00**
* Public access will be limited on Saturday 12 July due to a university Open Day and there'll be no screenings for BA (Hons) Film Production, Animation Production or VFX work.
You're advised to visit on another day or come to our formal opening and private view .
** BA (Hons) Fine Art show only.
All other Undergraduate Summer Shows close on Monday 21 July 2025 at 17.00.
Please note: Saturday 12 July is a formal university Open Day , which is only open to students interested in studying at AUB.
Public access will be limited that day, and you're advised to visit on another day (or come to our formal opening and private view .).
In this candid panel, hear directly from AUB’s graduating students as they share their hopes, concerns and expectations.
We'd like to invite you and your guests to the formal opening and private view for our 2025 Undergraduate Summer Shows.
TheGallery and the Innovation Studio, in collaboration with The Spark, present Local Light, a night of creativity and stories...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aub-london-shows-2025:
Arts University Bournemouth is bringing its showcases to London once again this year, with exhibitions and events taking place from June to August.
Please see below for more information on each course's show.
Location: The Truman Brewery, 91 Brick Lane, London, E1 6QL
Dates: Friday 13 June – Monday 16 June
Location: Holborn Studios, 49/50 Eagle Wharf Road, London, N1 7ED
Dates and times: Thursday 26 June, 10.00-22.00 (free entry, no ticket required)
Location: Protein Studios, 31 New Inn Yard, Shoreditch, London, EC2A 3EY
Private view date: Monday 30 June
Public view dates and times: Tuesday 1 July – Wednesday 2 July, 10.00-18.00
Location: Business Design Centre, Islington, London
Dates: Wednesday 2 July – Saturday 5 July
Dates: Wednesday 9 July – Saturday 12 July
Our BA (Hons) Illustration students will exhibit their work in space VC15, showcasing the breadth of work our course has to offer including children’s books, animation, digital illustration, games concept, 3D renders, VR and AR to name a few, aiming to scoop up a few awards whilst we're there!
AUB’s BA (Hons) Design course will exhibit graduating students' work alongside promotion of new courses for 2025.
Location: Hoxton Arches, London, E2 8HD
Private view date and time:
Public view dates and times:
Location: Copeland Gallery, Copeland Park, 133 Copeland Rd, London, SE15 3SN
Private view date and time: Thursday 31 July, 18.00-late
Public view dates and times: Friday 1 August – Sunday 3 August, 10.00-17.00
If you liked this post you might be interested in our Undergraduate Summer Shows.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/making-the-most-of-summer-shows:
At AUB, we’re known for our collaborative showcases, featuring every course.
The best example of this is our Summer Shows, where you can display your final major project work in true exhibition style to a real crowd and private view opening night.
We spoke with the Summer Shows team for the run-down on AUB’s Summer Show experience, plus Ed Earl on their experience at Graduate Fashion Week.
Every summer, we transform AUB campus into the most extensive gallery space in the southwest to celebrate what you’ve achieved and created.
Our Summer Shows are a great opportunity to showcase your final project work to the public and demonstrate how your style has developed.
The team tells us more:
“AUB’s Summer Shows have been taking place for at least 25 years, so they're a huge part of the University’s history.
Really, they’re one big party.
The campus is totally transformed and there is art everywhere .
“This might be the first time students have had their work in an exhibition, or the first time they’ve been able to show friends and family their work, so it’s a time for them to feel proud and reflect on their hard work so far and what their next chapter holds.
They might even get noticed by industry professionals who come to look around – you never know!”
Our Summer Shows include work from every course.
You don’t just have to be a BA (Hons) student to get involved – Foundation and postgraduate students get unique, individual showcases and private viewings too.
“Collaboration is always encouraged and it’s fantastic to see what happens when students from different courses come together.
It’s amazing how much the artwork comes alive when it’s displayed alongside others that complement it!
For example, AUB Productions are a culmination of work by students on BA (Hons) Acting , BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance and BA (Hons) Performance Design and Film Costume (amongst other courses), so it makes sense to build a shared exhibition space that has this narrative running through it.”
The poster for our 2023 Summer Shows was collaborative in itself.
Eliza Naden from BA (Hons) Photography and Milly Harvey from BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design came together to curate a huge visual piece showcasing multiple courses, designed in collaboration by alumnus Joseph Warin who studied BA (Hons) Visual Communication.
The result, The Art of Collaboration , was a great showcase of multiple courses that went up on display.
No matter what you’re studying, the Summer Shows provide a great chances to collaborate – even with alumni – and to get a feel for working in the industry.
If you thought Summer Shows only take place on campus, think again.
AUB showcases also take place in London for select courses; it’s a unique opportunity to really get your work out there.
Venues include the OXO Tower Wharf with Interior Educators for our BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design courses, the BFI Southbank for our Bournemouth Film School courses, and a selection of exclusive galleries and studios for art-based studies.
“For courses that hold exhibitions, such as BA (Hons) Photography and BA (Hons) Commercial Photography , the London shows give an insight into what it’s like to plan and execute a show in an external venue, outside your studies.
Having to find a venue, fundraise, design an exhibition and work out all the logistics can be challenging but are vital skills to learn.”
They’re also a great way to network and make connections, as Millie explains:
“Many of the London shows are frequented by industry professionals, which can help graduates to network within their industry and even get snapped up for career opportunities!
They can lead to graduates winning awards and at AUB, we've had a whole accolade of them from over the years.
Some examples from last year include Maddie Fuggle from BA (Hons) Modelmaking who won Best of Show at New Blades , Hayden Mackenzie from BA (Hons) Textiles who won the Clothworkers Company Award for Printed Textiles at New Designers, and Ben Angel from BA (Hons) Illustration , who was named a 2023 D&AD New Blood winner.
“You can’t deny that there's something exciting and very cool about being able to tell people that you’ve had your work shown in London!”
One of the biggest opportunities open to Fashion students as a part of Summer Shows is Graduate Fashion Week (GFW).
This involves a professional fashion show and catwalk, where you'll get the chance to experience what it’s like in the industry for real.
We spoke to Ed Earl about taking their final major project to GFW and the success that followed:
"I'm a graduate from the Fashion Branding and Communication class of 2023 and the founder of Salvage Collective, which was my final major project in the third year.
As part of the course, students are invited to attend Graduate Fashion Week, an excellent opportunity to showcase their talent to major industry players.
I was fortunate to receive an additional invitation to attend as an industry exhibitor with Salvage Collective.
"GFW and the London Shows highlighted my creative abilities and allowed me to network and connect with prominent industry figures.
These shows often feature awards for which students can submit their projects, and these awards play a significant role in helping students launch their careers post-university.
I believe these shows were instrumental in my success and significantly enhanced my professional practice."
Ed is taking Salvage Collective to GFW again this year – find out more about what it involves.
There are so many opportunities that arise from taking part in Summer Shows, from simply showing off your most proud work to curating and displaying it, even meeting potential industry connections.
Millie Lake had one last piece of advice for students who are considering taking part:
“Enjoy it!
Revel in everything you’ve experienced in the last three or four years and feel proud of yourself – you made it!”
If you liked this post you might be interested in our upcoming events.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/new-blades-2025-aub-modelmaking-students-scoop-10-awards-including-best-of-show:
It’s been another successful run at the annual modelmaking expo, New Blades, as several graduating BA (Hons) Modelmaking students from Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) took home awards for their work.
Out of a possible 20 awards, AUB students won 10, including Best of Show for Izzi Hopper.
This marks the 16 th occasion an AUB student has won Best of Show at New Blades, following successes such as Ed Allen last year , and Maddie Fuggle in 2023 .
Izzi also took home the awards for Best Finish on a Model, sponsored by Atom, and Best Architectural Model, sponsored by Foster + Partners.
"My Final Major Project was a 5:1 scale set of keys," Izzi explains.
"At the same time, I put together a normal-scale version with matching objects (people really enjoyed seeing these two together!)
"The model had several separate components made of a range of materials including aluminium, chemiwood, acrylic, PLA 3D prints, epoxy resins, glass beads, embroidery thread.
This project used more computer-aided manufacture than past projects and so was very dependent on my CAD skills.
Some of the processes used were 3D printing, CNC milling and routing, cold rolling aluminium, moulding and casting, spraying."
Izzi's other models included a 1:100 sectional model of 3 Chamberlain Square in Paradise, Birmingham; a 1:1000 scale masterplan of a kiln museum in Jingdezhen, China, and a theme park prop of a Koopa Troopa shell from Super Mario.
On winning three awards, Izzi describes the experience as surreal.
"I’m very grateful not just for Best of Show, but also for the awards for Best Finish and Best Architectural Model – it was really encouraging to get that kind of recognition from so many people across the industry."
"We’re incredibly pleased with the range and quality of this year’s graduate work," says BA (Hons) Modelmaking course leader Paul Johnson.
"The standard at New Blades is always exceptionally high, so it's a real achievement to see our students holding their own with such a diverse and ambitious body of work.
"The exhibition showcased everything from animatronics and programmable electronics embedded in interactive props, to hand-sculpted prosthetics and intricately crafted natural world models.
This combination of cutting-edge technology and traditional craftsmanship is what makes our graduates stand out, and it’s all on display in one impressive showcase."
Other multiple award-winners from AUB include Kit Jones, who won both Best Modelmaking and Best Use of 3D Printing, and Inigo Robbins, who took home the Outside the Box Award and Most Ingenious.
Awards also went to Stefanie van Dellen (Best Use of Silicone), Abbie Hume (Best Product Model), and Niamh Sheppard (Sustainability Award).
"We’re incredibly proud to see our students consistently recognised with industry awards at New Blades," says Paul.
"Each year the standard of work across all universities seems to rise, so to come away with 10 industry awards this year is a fantastic achievement.
Izzi Hopper being voted Best of Show and winning the Foster + Partners award for Best Architectural Model is especially noteworthy given the strength of the competition.
"What’s most rewarding is the breadth of work that received recognition – it really highlights the way the course supports a wide range of specialist interests and career pathways."
Izzi adds, "The course gave me a good solid foundation, especially in understanding materials and processes, and it encouraged a lot of problem-solving, which helped me develop my own way of working.
"But what really stood out was the access to the workshop and the staff – their support and knowledge made a huge difference."
Now due to graduate, Izzi has also taken the next step in her modelmaking career, starting her role as a Junior Architectural Model Maker at Pilbrow and Partners shortly after the New Blades event.
"It was definitely a quick turnaround," she says, "but I’ve settled in with my team and have been learning a lot."
Alongside all the wins for this year’s graduating class, New Blades also served as a platform for AUB to announce its brand-new Modelmaking for Industry Degree Apprenticeship.
The apprenticeship offers an exciting and accessible route into the modelmaking profession, as Paul explains:
"It allows students to gain a full degree while working in the industry, removing some of the financial and geographical barriers associated with traditional higher education.
"We hope it will appeal to those who may not have previously considered a university degree, helping us reach new audiences and meet the growing demand for skilled modelmakers.
"Built in close collaboration with industry partners, the apprenticeship maintains the same high standards our full-time course is known for, while offering a practical, work-based alternative."
Also, if you're interested in the Modelmaking for Industry Degree Apprenticeship, either as an employer or as an apprentice, continue to explore our website .
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Modelmaking

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aub-students-sweep-graduate-fashion-week-shortlist-with-over-20-nominations:
Summer awards season is getting underway at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB), kicking off with huge recognition of our BA (Hons) Fashion and BA (Hons) Fashion Communication courses.
Final-year students across both courses have earned an extraordinary total of 20 nominations, industry interviews, project pitches and catwalk selections at the upcoming Graduate Fashion Week (GFW) event in London.
The awards span a range of specialisms, including pattern cutting, accessories, fashion styling and creative direction, culture and heritage, illustration and publication, among others.
BA (Hons) Fashion student Poppy Williams is a double-shortlistee, having been nominated for both the Accessories Award and the Digital Fashion Award for her project, Subliminals .
“I wanted to base my project on something personal to me and genuine, so I dedicated it to exploring the fearless style of queer women throughout history.
Highlighting the lesbians who pioneered the butch/masc style today.
“The clubs, Le Monocle in 1920s Paris, and Gateways in 1950s London, were my main inspiration for this project.
I wanted to bring the clubs and their women back to life and spotlight the glamour, suits, short hair and their love for each other.
Emphasising the subliminal messaging left in queer style.
Poppy explains that her project has taken its own unique path compared to her peers, saying, “I was worried I would hold myself back from opportunities with fashion.”
“However, digital is the new age,” she continues, “I think doing something you really love creates amazing work in its own right.
Crafting leather handbags has also been a really fun way to create physical fashion outside of garments!”
Another student up for more than award is BA (Hons) Fashion Communication student Danielle Saldanha, who explores her background, culture and heritage in an interactive publication entitled Nana’s House .
“As an Indian Catholic whose family was converted by the Portuguese in the 16th century, my transcultural heritage has had an effect on my upbringing,” Danielle explains.
“Dedicated to my grandparents who, through sharing stories of life in their little enclave of Mumbai, have inspired me to document it – this publication aims to immerse the viewer in untold narratives of a minority community.
Danielle has been nominated for both the Culture and Heritage Non-Design Award and the Terry Mansfield Publication Award, saying she is “thrilled”.
“It's so rewarding to gain this recognition and to know that others resonate with my concept.
This was a deeply personal project and I'm just so glad that there is space for international creatives like me to let our voices be heard.
I'm also so humbled and honoured to have my name up there amongst the other talented shortlisted creatives.”
BA (Hons) Fashion student Ethan Hopkins has been nominated for the Next Fashion Trend Award, for his autumn/winter collection, The Fallen Clan, which blends “the rugged beauty of Scotland’s mountains and ancient ruins with the dark allure of unknown horrors.”
“Each piece tells a story of resilience, ruin, and the haunting presence of the unknown.
The Fallen Clan uses meticulous trend research from the next few years to initiate design processes that will last for years to come and to further enhance the collection into the contemporary market with both commercial and high fashion within the range.
“I feel honoured to be recognised by the industry this early on, it's an amazing opportunity to showcase my collection on the AUB runway and the Mens runway show, and I am very grateful that I have been selected to participate in both of them.”
GFW forms part of AUB’s programme of appearances at London showcases , where graduating students can exhibit their final projects to industry professionals and the public, gain important contacts, take home awards, and even acquire work placements and internships to kick-start their creative careers.
Alongside presenting her work to the panel of judges at the start of the weekend, Poppy has also been selected to present her portfolio to Jimmy Choo Academy.
“Studying BA (Hons) Fashion at AUB has given me such a broad, valuable skill set,” she says.
“I feel like I've been taught how to do just about everything related to fashion, which leaves me feeling really confident when applying for any future job roles.
“I also have had lots of freedom to take my work down my path, and working in an arts-only university allows you to be surrounded by so many like-minded people, which I find really encouraging.”
Ultimately, GFW is an opportunity for students to display the results of three years of hard work, study and determination at AUB.
“I've had the loveliest time on my Fashion Communication course,” says Danielle.
“The staff have always been so lovely, encouraging, and helpful.
It's really the most wonderful environment to be learning in – to know that you're supported, especially during the most crucial and stressful times.
I'm definitely going to miss both the lecturers and the technicians on my course – my project wouldn't have been possible without their guidance.”
Ethan echoes Danielle’s comments, saying, “The staff are always down to help you problem-solve, especially the technicians, who are constantly around helping us perfect our craft.
I would not have gotten where I am now without them.
“I have learnt a copious amount of knowledge from the staff members here at AUB; my favourites include knit and tailoring, which are a big part of my collection.”
El Crehan and Corinna Budnarowska, course leaders on BA (Hons) Fashion and BA (Hons) Fashion Communication respectively at AUB, comment, "We are super excited and proud of the graduating year of students from both courses of FASHION X AUB.
"Shortlisted or not, the work is great and reflects the enormous amount of hard work and dedication that has taken place over the last three years of study.
There have been sweat and tears alongside friendship and community, and we can’t wait to see what is next for this fabulous bunch.
"The FASHION X AUB show this year is call ‘To Be Continued…’ to reflect the fact that as their time at AUB comes to an end, this is the start of amazing careers."
AUB students will attend GFW from Friday 13 – Monday 16 June at the Truman Brewery, London, with the University’s runway show taking place on Sunday 15 June.
Katie Bilton
Accessories Award
Amaani Chowdhary
ASOS Portfolio Interview, GFW Menswear Catwalk Fashion Show
Ally Driessen
Childrenswear Award
Luci Harris
Ethan Hopkins
Next Fashion Trend Award; GFW Menswear Catwalk Fashion Show
Alisa Khebang Limbu
Jimmy Choo Portfolio Interview
Parnia Naviafar
Culture and Heritage Design Award
Lucy Ward
Digital Fashion Award; New Business Award
Lydia Ward
Creative Pattern Cutting Award; Fashion Illustration Award
Poppy Williams
Accessories Award; Digital Fashion Award; Jimmy Choo Portfolio Interview
Oma Amonoo
Digital Fashion Media Award
Emma Avent
Moving Image Award; Terry Mansfield Fashion Publication Award; Project pitch
Georgina Cole
Terry Mansfield Fashion Publication Award
Izzi Glover
Fashion Styling and Creative Direction Award; Project pitch
Olivia Hall
Danielle Saldanha
Culture and Heritage Non-Design Award; Terry Mansfield Fashion Publication Award
Ella Saraff
Terry Mansfield Fashion Publication Award; Project pitch

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/praise-for-ma-painting-students-following-exhibition-at-lighthouse:
MA Painting students from Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) enjoyed a successful show at Lighthouse, Poole as part of AUB's 2024 Postgraduate Summer Shows .
Running from 7–28 September 2024, the final projects from AUB’s MA Painting students were curated in a public exhibition drawing in crowds from across the region as well as local dignitaries.
"This annual exhibition at Lighthouse is a wonderful celebration of our 2024 graduating students," comments Associate Professor Dominic Shepherd, course leader for MA Painting.
"The works on show evidenced the developing strengths of MA Painting at AUB with strong themes and threads running through a highly cohesive exhibition.
"The formal opening and private view on 6 September was well attended by an admiring audience, who took in the diverse and accomplished works, the result of a dedicated year of study and practice."
Speeches and awards were also given during the event.
Dominic went on to extend congratulations to all the artists who exhibited: Aurora Zehra Rizvi, Lisa O’Connor, Xue Wang, Sarah Banerjee, Paula Maxwell, Willow Manning, Meg Lewis and Claudia Lilly.
Dominic adds, "As commented by critic and curator Paul Carey Kent, Sarah Banerjee’s work ‘Dance for Me’ explores with the contemporary possibility of ‘freedom and control in a human relationship’; Claudia Lilly’s sheet painting is an ‘original play’ where ‘abstraction meets still life meets figuration,’ and Xue Wang’s ‘encounter in which the sheep… proves more mysterious than one might expect’."
AUB students who began their postgraduate studies in January 2024 will exhibit their work at the Postgraduate Winter Show on campus in December.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/make-way-for-the-masters-aub-opens-postgraduate-summer-shows-2024:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) opened its doors to the public for its much-anticipated annual Postgraduate Summer Shows event .
The annual event showcases the final projects of the University’s postgraduates providing the perfect platform for industry and members of the public to meet the next generation of creatives and innovators in fine art, animation, fashion, film, photography, graphic design, historical costume, photography, and painting.
The formal opening event on Thursday 29 August included a full schedule of entertainment, activities, music, food, and, of course, artwork all open to the public.
Professor Paul Gough, AUB Principal and Vice-Chancellor, comments, “Summer Show-time at AUB is one of the most energising and exciting experiences of our year.
Postgraduate students delve deeply into their subjects, frequently challenging conventions and provoking thought and debate.
The Postgraduate Summer Shows celebrate this enquiry, providing a platform for new and wide-ranging work that is at the respective boundaries of the disciplines involved.
“This is an opportunity to witness an exciting waypoint in the careers of a new contingent of creative practitioners presenting their ideas and concerns for, perhaps, the first time.
We open our doors and welcome students and their families, alumni and industry, and thousands of visitors to share the magic and be part of the dream factory that is AUB.”
This year’s postgraduates feature an impressive list of award-winners and professionals across the board from animation to fine art.
These award-winning works will be exhibited during the Summer Shows and provide the students an opportunity to share their work with the wider world.
Lisa Moro, who studies MA Fine Art , is showing elements of her immersive and interactive exhibition, Exquisite Cords , as part of its UK tour.
Lisa talks through the viewer’s experience: “I’ve imagined a future world where our DNA not only shapes our physical traits, it also can be used to find perfect solutions for all aspects of our lives.
“I’m challenging conventional notions of identity, free will, and the nature versus nurture debate.
What role do genetics play in defining who we are?
Can our DNA predict our future with uncanny accuracy, or are we ultimately masters of our own fate?”
Off campus, the MA Painting students will exhibit at Lighthouse, Poole , for three weeks (7–28 September).
Associate Professor of Fine Art at AUB and course leader Dominic Shepherd says, “MA Painting is very pleased to be invited back to the Lighthouse gallery.
This painting show is full of feeling.
MA painting is developing a real distinctive voice.
“There are common themes that run through the cohort, technical proficiency fused with emotional intelligence, a realignment of contemporary figuration, and a questioning of the notions of identity, and the incredible possibilities of contemporary painting today.”
Violet M McClean, Curator and Manager for TheGallery at AUB, adds, “Our Summer Shows are a truly unique opportunity to be energised by the creative work of AUB’s fabulous students from all over the world.
“Creativity is fundamental to our existence, everything human-made has been thought of, designed, and created; your phone, your sofa, the series you’re watching, the clothes you wear, absolutely everything.
And the Summer Shows invite you to meet the next generation of creatives, it’s like looking into the future!”
The Postgraduate Summer Shows 2024 opened on 30 August and will run until 21 September.
If you liked this post you might be interested in our postgraduate courses.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/new-blades-2024-aub-modelmaking-students-steal-show-with-14-award-wins:
BA (Hons) Modelmaking students from Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) stole the show at this year’s New Blades show in London winning 14 awards out of 21.
The annual modelmaking recruitment exposition is the single most important event of the year for budding modelmakers, providing a space for recruiters to meet new and emerging talent.
Organised by 4Dmodelshop and sponsored by a host of industry employers including Foster + Partners, Amalgam, M.A.D Models, Merlin Magic Making, Atom, and others, this year was the 30 th annual show at Holborn Studios in London.
Hundreds of industry guests visited to see the work of this year’s graduating modelmakers from six universities across the UK.
“It was an incredible night for our modelmaking students," says Dr David Lund, Senior Lecturer for BA (Hons) Modelmaking at AUB.
"With an international reputation, our students do have an advantage, but we still weren’t expecting to win quite so many!
“It’s great to see the industry thriving; it’s a really unique profession that works across the creative industries.
And there’s a real boom for modelmaking as they’re increasingly used in TV and film, as well as being vital for architects, for educational and medical purposes, and in the toy and gaming worlds.”
Katrine Linderoth was one of the night’s big winners, coming away with the Leviathan Workshop Award, Fixie's Best Use of 3D Printing Award, and the Best Use of Creative Materials, which is sponsored by 4Dmodelshop.
Katrine comments, “This was such a big event for us all.
It was so good – and a little bit overwhelming – to meet so many people from industry.
I had so many people coming up to my booth who were genuinely impressed and interested in my models.
It meant a lot to have people from industry recognise my efforts and it was incredible to win three awards, I couldn’t believe it!”
David adds, “This introduction to industry is so important for our students to get an idea of where they’d like to go once they’ve graduated.
It’s a great degree to have for employability; it’s a discipline that’s rapidly gaining in popularity but still enjoys an enviable ratio of graduates to employment opportunities.
"There’s actually more jobs than there are students, and many of our students have already got jobs even though they’ve not graduated yet, which is testament to their high calibre, now reinforced by the successes at New Blades.”

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/wins-across-the-board-for-aub-at-2024-d-ad-new-blood-awards:
BA (Hons) Graphic Design and BA (Hons) Visual Communication students from Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) are celebrating wins across the board following this year’s D&AD New Blood Awards at Protein Studios Shoreditch, London.
Judged by the industry's top creatives, the D&AD New Blood Awards, which took place on 4 July, are open to advertising, design, digital and marketing students, recent graduates and emerging creatives worldwide.
The D&AD Pencils are not just trophies; the Wood, Graphite, Yellow, White and Black Pencils are a fast track to career kudos.
All Pencil winners get a guaranteed place in the D&AD Annual, an invitation to the New Blood Awards Ceremony, a D&AD Pencil per team, and the chance to apply for WPP New Blood Academy.
Three AUB Graphic Design students took home Pencils – Gergana Sarieva, Phoebe Hart, and Conrad Wells were delighted to receive the Wood Pencil for their project IMAX Feeling , for the IMAX live brief, fighting off stiff competition to get onto a shortlist of the best work submitted for each brief.
“Working as a team on a real brief for IMAX was an invaluable experience in itself," says Gergana.
"It’s as close to real working conditions that we’ll get while we’re studying.
We worked together and then split jobs amongst the team depending on who had what strengths and skill sets.”
“Phoebe and I worked on the storytelling skills, the writing, the mock-ups, the brand world, and then Conrad took over creating the final video, piecing it all together.
Working as a team was easy; we were all really passionate about the project.
It was our baby and we wanted to make sure we did the best we could.”
Phoebe comments, “We chose the IMAX brief because it was a bit more challenging.
As a team of three we wanted a lot of work to do and this brief had a lot of deliverables for us.
They wanted a whole new brand identity: new logos, a new website, navigation system, an ident, and an umbrella system for all their sub-brands to live under."
Conrad adds, “We were all thrilled to walk away with a Wood Pencil at the D&AD New Blood 2024 Pencil Awards.
We all worked really hard on this project, and it means a lot that our work’s been recognised here.”
In addition, Klaudia Ptasinka and Karla Noren scooped the prestigious Graphite Pencil Award, which means they hit the three judging criteria – a good idea, well executed, and relevant to the brief – while their fellow student Duc Anh Le was awarded a Wood Pencil Award for their project, IMAX Expansion as well as the D&AD Portfolio prize.
Students from AUB’s BA (Hons) Visual Communication course also won a Wood Pencil Award for their project Iris .
A collaboration from Hannah Lacey, Oliver Monger, Alfie Shaw, and Hopper Miller, Iris was in response to a live brief from advertising agency, 21 GRAMS.
“Iris is the watchful eye to keep Gen Z from doom scrolling," Hannah explains.
"Using humour to confront Gen Z, the Iris app works to mitigate myopia via prompts to get off devices, reducing screen time and eye strain.
Iris uses API technology to activate notifications when the user is on social media, sending brutally honest notifications to remind them to stop scrolling.”
The coveted Best of Show at D&AD went to BA (Hons) Visual Communication student Maddie Cope for her project, Out of Pocket .
Meanwhile, AUB's BA (Hons) Graphic Design was awarded the Best Stand for Sustainability by D&AD and Adobe for sustainable project content across their show, demonstrating circular systems thinking and responsible consideration given to use of finite resources and support for ecological, human and economic health and vitality.
BA (Hons) Graphic Design Course Leader Marion Morrison says, “The sustainability award meant a lot to us; it recognises the ethos and values that underpin our Graphic Design course, with the evidence for embedded SDGs being explicit in our approach and in every project.
“This has been a fantastic year for our students at D&AD; it’s wonderful to see their work being recognised and valued in these real-life, live brief scenarios.
This recognition will go a long way for each of them in the competitive hiring environment.”

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/ba-hons-textiles-graduates-exhibit-at-prestigious-new-designers-london-event:
BA (Hons) Textiles graduates from Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) exhibited at the prestigious New Designers show at the Business Design Centre in London.
New Designers is the biggest event for design graduates, with 2024 seeing more than 3,000 students and 16,000 visitors from the public and industry attend.
Providing a platform for graduating students to showcase their work, highlighting their skills, and unique perspectives, New Designers celebrates the creativity and innovation of emerging talents across various design disciplines.
Anne-Marie Howat, BA (Hons) Textiles Course Leader, comments, “Our students were at the centre of the show and welcomed interest from a broad range of textiles, interiors, graphics, and fashion industry specialists.
“The exhibition offers a glimpse into the future of design and serves as a launchpad for the next generation of designers reinforcing the importance of creativity and innovation in shaping our world.
“Our AUB graduates presented portfolios and work on their stand to River Island, Whitestuff, Hand & Lock, Wilcom, Priestman-Goode, Dr.
Martens, private clients, and designer visitors including Zandra Rhodes.”
BA (Hons) Textiles student Sophie Haskell was shortlisted for the Ultrafabrics Sustainability Award, which looks for new innovations in textile design that prioritise sustainability.
Sophie used upcycled reflective workwear in her woven handmade samples created on a digital jacquard loom.
"I found the experience of New Designers really inspiring, from talking to industry professionals to exploring the work of other universities," says Sophie.
"I enjoyed expressing my passion for sustainable design with the team from Ultrafabrics and I am proud to say I was shortlisted for the award.
"Being able to exhibit my work amongst the talented cohort from AUB Textiles was a privilege and I now feel ready to enter my career in the design industry."
Fellow student Katie Pilgrim was awarded The Golden Ticket for The Annual Hand & Lock Prize for Embroidery, which grants guaranteed and free entry into the 2025 awards.
Katie was also offered a stand in London and Harrogate’s Stitch and Knit shows from the Embroiderers' Guild.
"New Designers was a wonderful experience to meet new people and discuss my work in a professional setting," says Katie.
"Winning the Hand and Lock Golden Ticket was an unexpected delight, especially amongst all the other talented designers.
"Recognition from the Embroiderers' Guild and the opportunity to exhibit at the Knit and Stitch show has given me the confidence to take my ideas forward into industry.
I'm really looking forward to the challenge."
Anne-Marie adds, “This year’s exhibition has been amazing with so many opportunities, internships, and commissions for our students… let's watch this space in the months to follow, we wish them all well as they embark on the next steps of their creative journeys.”

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aub-unveils-latest-undergraduate-talent-with-launch-of-2024-summer-shows:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) will open its doors to the public and transform into the largest gallery in the south of England for its much-anticipated annual Undergraduate Summer Shows .
The official opening on Thursday 27 June will include a full schedule of entertainment, activities, music, food, and of course artwork.
The annual event, running from Thursday 27 June until Friday 5 July, showcases the final projects of the University’s undergraduates, providing the perfect platform for industry and members of the public to meet the next generation of creatives and innovators in art, architecture, fashion, film, photography, design, performance, events, and creative writing.
Professor Paul Gough, Principal and Vice-Chancellor of AUB, comments, “Summer Show-time at AUB is one of the most energising and exciting experiences of our year.
“The campus is a living, breathing environment for creativity and from Thursday 27 June, it’s transformed by its Summer Shows into the most extensive and sensational gallery space in the south of England.”
This year’s undergraduates feature an impressive list of award-winners from all courses including BA (Hons) Fashion , Fine Art , Modelmaking , Graphic Design , Architecture , Film Production , and Animation Production .
One of this year’s exhibitors at the Undergraduate Summer Shows is Ben Hubert, a BA (Hons) Photography student who’s been nominated for numerous awards and has had his work exhibited at PhotoLondon 24 in Somerset House this May as well as featuring in national and art media such as Aesthetica and The Guardian , who billed Ben as an "outstanding student photographer."
Liz Walker, an undergraduate on the BA (Hons) Fine Art course, will be showing her final project, a series of paintings titled Constelaciones Heredadas which translates to "Inherited Constellations" and Enciendo una vela y pienso en tí , which translates to "I light a candle and think of you".
Liz comments, “The paintings relate to my grandmother and my great-grandmother.
They’re a meld of memories, photographs and figures that I use to express narratives of diaspora and heritage.
Having been born in Mexico and grown up in Northern Ireland my paintings link back to the ongoing experience of viewing the world through a diasporic lens.
“I am so excited to be showing with such a diverse group of artists, it has been so great to watch each other grow and develop our practices throughout our time at AUB.
This exhibition is truly a product of everyone’s dedication.”
This year's Summer Shows will once again pay homage to AUB's rich heritage and its contribution to the world of arts and culture.
AUB takes great pride in its notable alumni, who have left an indelible mark in various creative fields.
McClean, Curator and Manager for AUB’s gallery, TheGallery, says, “Our Summer Shows are a truly unique opportunity to be energised by the creative work of AUB’s fabulous students from all over the world.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/arts-university-bournemouth-glitters-at-graduate-fashion-week:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is celebrating another successful Graduate Fashion Week with five awards for its undergraduates from the BA (Hons) Fashion and BA (Hons) Fashion Branding and Communication courses.
The 32 nd Graduate Fashion Week (GFW) at The Old Truman Brewery in East London ran from 10–13 June, providing the largest platform in the world for BA fashion talent.
Students from across the UK showcased their final-year collections across 26 different fashion disciplines including design, creative direction, marketing, communication, photography, illustration and all aspects of the contemporary fashion industry.
El Crehan, Course Leader and Senior Lecture for BA (Hons) Fashion, says, “For our students, Graduate Fashion Week is the culmination of three years of study.
It’s a huge event in every way, with portfolios and project work displayed on our stand, competitions, interviews with industry, and, of course, the catwalk show.
They’re presenting their ideas to industry, the media, and the wider world, the opportunities here are very real, and very exciting.
“11 of our fashion students were showcasing their collections on this year’s GFW catwalk, and we’re all very proud of them.
Emily Lanham was awarded ‘Best in Show’ by the judges on the day for her menswear collection inspired by bedding.
She was particularly interested in the interaction between the body and bedding, offering an abstract form of comfort and security, in times of uncertainty spanning the globe.
Emily was also shortlisted for the Graduate Fashion Foundation Creative Pattern Cutting Award.”
This year’s catwalk show opened with an impressive digital fashion showcase made collaboratively by BA (Hons) Fashion students Emma Andrews and Alex Matheson.
The film showed a virtual reality showroom inspired by our iconic CRAB Drawing Studio, designed by alumnus Sir Peter Cook, and included digital garments from a majority of the graduating class of 2024.
Both students were shortlisted for the Digital Fashion Award, which was later won by Emma Andrews who presented the work alongside her refreshing take on inclusive fashion which caters for the plus-size menswear market, which is massively underrepresented in the current fashion landscape.
Holly Evans won the prestigious Fashion Illustration Award for communicating her collection design concepts through her exceptional illustrations, while Nicole Singleton won the Next Trend Forecasting Award, which focuses on exciting and innovative approach to concept generation to inform designs.
BA (Hons) Fashion Branding and Communication's Brandon Bolland scooped the Fashion Styling and Creative Direction Award for his portfolio of five editorial stories addressing a wide variety of issues and narratives while communicating effectively through the evaluation of the needs of the client.
Corinna Budnarowska, Course Leader and Senior Lecturer on BA (Hons) Fashion Branding and Communication at AUB, said, “This was one of our best years yet in terms of awards shortlisted, and talent showcased.
We’re all thrilled with the achievements of our brilliant students, who all received such positive feedback on their innovative projects, and several have been approached with collaborative industry opportunities to kickstart their careers.”
GFW 2024 hosted a series of talks and masterclasses, including topics such as how to start a viral fashion brand, understanding generative AI, what fashion recruiters are looking for, and how graduates can turn their ideas into reality.
In a first for this year, AUB presented its MA Digital Fashion Innovation at The Masters Hub.
Elena added, “We’re thrilled with this year’s GFW, It’s the perfect way to celebrate the successes of our students, watch their confidence soar and see them launch into their careers and next chapters which we will be watching with interest!”
Find out more about studying BA (Hons) Fashion and BA (Hons) Fashion Branding and Communication at AUB.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/the-art-of-collaboration-summer-shows-2024:
An AUB Summer Shows exhibition by TheGallery in partnership with AUB Alumni Office and AUB’s Technicians.
Dates: 4 June – 27 September 2024
From Alumni to Technical Services, Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is a community and platform for creativity.
The Art of Collaboration: Summer Shows 2024 documents our collaborative community by celebrating the diverse creative specialisms that are thriving here at AUB.
From June through to September, we host our annual Summer Shows, which transform the campus into the most extensive gallery space in the south of England.
Every year, AUB opens its doors to thousands of visitors to marvel at the creative work of its extraordinary students from all over the world studying disciplines across art, design, media and performance.
The 2024 shows include outstanding projects from students graduating from the Foundation course, BA (Hons) programmes and the Graduate School.
The stellar work on display, both in the Summer Shows and in this exhibit, gives the public a unique glimpse inside the dream factory that is AUB.
This artwork includes a selection of installation shots from AUB’s 2024 Summer Shows and highlights the movement and performance-based practices of our students.
You can see students performing in our very own Palace Court Theatre wearing costumes designed and made by BA (Hons) Costume students and an action shot from the catwalk of 2023’s Graduate Fashion Week showcasing the work of a BA (Hons) Fashion student.
Our students also bring vibrancy to AUB’s local community, as seen in the Carnival brought to Bournemouth by BA (Hons) Events Management students in this year’s Alice in Spring festival.
The artwork features an image by Nicholas Teo, a final year student from BA (Hons) Commercial Photography .
His piece, Tapestry , was featured in TheGallery’s recent exhibition AUB International Collective in partnership with AUB’s Students’ Union and AUB International.
It is another piece of work that further highlights the beauty of diversity and how individuality is embraced here at AUB.
This exhibit was curated by three AUB staff members.
Joseph Warin, a Technician in AUB’s Print Room and TheGallery’s freelance graphic designer; William Hernandez, TheGallery’s Technician; and Millie Lake, Assistant Curator and Operations Officer at TheGallery.
Both Joseph and Millie are alumni of AUB: Joseph studied BA (Hons) Visual Communication and Millie is a graduate from AUB’s BA (Hons) Fine Art .
Joseph and William form part of AUB’s technical team.
AUB’s technicians are artists and designers who expertly navigate the worlds of painting, sculpture, digital art, photography, ceramics, and more.
They're skilled specialists in both traditional crafts and expert pioneers of the ever-changing technologies of today.
Their work highlights their innovative approaches to art and their ability to push the boundaries of their chosen mediums which is key in fostering AUB’s environment of learning, collaboration and inspiration.
This was demonstrated in our YOKE exhibition of 2023, which was part of TheGallery’s 25-Year Exhibition Programme.
The exhibition was curated by Rhiannon Evans, Emily Grigg, Harriet Mummery, Tom Preston and Andrew Stacey and showcased work from AUB’s technical practitioners.
– Professor Paul Gough, AUB Principal and Vice-Chancellor
AUB staff are key in fostering this environment of learning, collaboration and inspiration.
This poster exhibition highlights how TheGallery collaborates across teams to mentor University staff on exhibition design and curation to enhance their own practice.
Another example of this is YOKE, a showcase of work from AUB’s technical practitioners which was exhibited in TheGallery in 2023.
Many of them have gone on to do incredible things!
AUB’s alumni community, AUB& , is a continuation of our campus — a home and a network for all of our wonderful graduates, a place to find out what everyone’s been up to and generally stay a part of our creative community.
It’s open to all students who graduated from the University, whether under AUB or any of its previous titles (Arts University College Bournemouth, Arts Institute at Bournemouth, and Bournemouth and Poole College of Art and Design).
If you liked this post you might be interested in Undergraduate Summer Shows 2024

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/a-stunning-dozen-massive-awards-haul-for-ba-hons-modelmaking-at-new-blades-show:
This year’s New Blades recruitment fair ended with a major triumph for Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) as seven of its BA (Hons) Modelmaking students came away with awards in a variety of categories.
This year, the 29 th New Blades show at Holborn Studios, Hoxton, featured the work of nearly 80 students from six universities and colleges in the country.
Including AUB, which brought home a massive haul of 12 awards.
“This year’s third years have overcome many challenges on their journey towards our end-of-year exhibition,” says Paul Johnson, Course Leader for BA (Hons) Modelmaking.
“They’ve worked really hard to express their creative talents, culminating in a showstopping body of work.
“Our success at New Blades recognised the individual talents of so many AUB Modelmaking students but is also a reflection on the qualities of the whole cohort and the course team that has supported them.”
Maddie Fuggle took home four of the 12 awards, including Best in Show.
Her models included an eye-catching large-scale model Nintendo DS, as well as a model yacht, a beetle and a telephone.
She also picked up three industry awards: Best Product Model, Best Finish, and Best Use of 3D Printing.
Runner-up Best in Show was taken by AUB’s Jamie Lord, who produced a detailed model of an opening scene from The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey.
Jamie also took home the Best Use of Creative Materials award.
Another AUB award-winner is Jack Wase, who picked up the Out of the Box award for a Willy Wonka sweet dispenser.
“The purpose behind the model was to demonstrate the diversity in skills we learn on the Modelmaking course,” explains Jack.
“I aimed to showcase the diversity in machinery, materials and processes available to the students and what we can learn in a short space of time.
“It was a real privilege to be recognised by industry professionals for my work, especially those that specialise in projects similar to mine.”
Jack has gone on into a job in the film industry, making props and set pieces for the big screen.
Fellow AUB students Holly Bignell, Anna Rumary, Sam Teanby and Christianna Altani also took home awards after the New Blades show.
“We’re enormously proud of the students’ achievements, both individually and as a cohort,” says Paul.
“Supporting each other, working together and sharing knowledge.
“Modelmaking at AUB is very much a family with many interests, spread out amongst the many professional careers that modelmaking can lead you to.
“Our students' achievements extend well beyond surface-level accomplishments as we foster and support research-based practice that embodies academic rigour – a critical tool for adaptability that our graduates carry with them into the industry.”

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/unleashing-fresh-talent-aub-unveils-2023-undergraduate-summer-shows:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is gearing up for the much-anticipated annual Undergraduate Summer Shows, a celebration of creativity and innovation in art, architecture, fashion, film, photography, design, performance, events and creative writing.
Opening from 30 June until 7 July, the shows serve as a platform for graduates to showcase their skills through a campus-wide exhibition of captivating installations, artworks, performances and displays
Like previous years, the 2023 shows will also pay homage to AUB's rich heritage and its contribution to the world of arts and culture.
The University takes great pride in its notable alumni, who've left an indelible mark in various creative fields, and who pave the way for the fresh talents ready to graduate in this year's Undergraduate Summer Shows.
The emerging talent for 2023 promises to live up to its name, including Megan Matthews, who has been awarded the Nick Dudman Prize for Prosthetic Make-Up, and Millie Smith and Vanya Vasileva, whose work was chosen to be part of the Earth Day Advertising Summit exhibition at the Tate Modern in London.
The creative industries play a vital role in our society, contributing significantly to the economy and shaping our cultural landscape.
According to recent statistics, the creative sector contributes £111.7 billion to the UK economy each year, accounting for 5.8% of the country's total exports.
AUB students not only add to this global creative landscape but also play a crucial role in nurturing new dimensions for the local civic landscape.
This year saw the return of the Bournemouth Town Centre-based festival Alice in Spring , for which over 4,000 people visited Bournemouth just to engage with a range of activities and performances created by AUB BA (Hons) Events Management students.
These students worked with peers from across AUB's creative community to animate the town centre.
AUB's Undergraduate Summer Shows' official opening event will be held across campus between 30 June and 7 July 2023.
For more information, visit the main Undergraduate Summer Shows event page.
If you liked this post you might be interested in Undergraduate Summer Shows 2023

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/creative-industries-in-the-great-south-west-take-centre-stage-at-houses-of-parliament:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) joined leading voices from across politics, education and the creative sector at the Houses of Parliament to launch a landmark report championing the creative industries in the Great South West.
Organised by the Great South West Creative Industries University Alliance, the event, which took place on Monday 7 July, showcased new evidence that confirms the region as one of the UK’s fastest-growing creative hubs.
The report, Creative Industries in the Great South West: Leading from the Edge , reveals the sector’s remarkable growth and potential, in that between 2019 and 2022, the Great South West recorded the fastest Creative Industries job growth of any UK region outside London.
The region’s Creative Industries now support over 35,000 employees, more than the energy and defence sectors combined, alongside more than 40,000 freelancers and a further 50,000 creative roles in non-creative industries.
Together, they contribute £2.7 billion in GVA each year, with productivity far exceeding many other sectors.
The region’s strengths align strongly with the four ‘frontier’ sub-sectors identified in the national Creative Industries Sector Plan: Advertising and Marketing, Music, Performing and Visual Arts, Video Games, and Film and TV.
The six universities behind the report – AUB, Falmouth University, Arts University Plymouth, Bournemouth University, the University of Exeter and the University of Plymouth – collectively produce almost 7,000 creative graduates each year, meeting the growing demand for talent.
With the research, facilities and industry partnerships helping drive innovation, entrepreneurial start-ups and investment, ensuring the sector’s success is shared across urban and rural communities alike.
The event called for the Creative Industries in the Great South West to be formally recognised as a national cluster, unlocking investment and cementing the region’s position as a leader in inclusive, place-based creative growth.
Lisa Mann, Vice Chancellor and CEO at AUB, says, “The creative industries are a huge UK success story with 2.4 million people employed in the sector in 2023 and contributing £124.6 billion to UK Economy GVA during 2022.
“This report shows the extraordinary talent and ambition in the Great South West and just how vital our Creative Industries are.
Our region is producing world-class artists and creative entrepreneurs crucial for local jobs, regional prosperity and securing the UK’s place on the world stage.
This crucial research demonstrates the importance of continued support and investment in our creative industries.”
“The Government’s recent Creative Industries Sector Vision rightly recognises that this sector is one of the UK’s greatest growth opportunities," adds Caroline Norbury OBE, Chief Executive of Creative UK, "but to realise that potential, we need to back creative talent in every part of the country.
"The Great South West shows what’s possible when local ambition, world-class education and national policy work together.
This region’s creative industries are thriving — with the right support, they can go even further, driving jobs, innovation and cultural impact across the UK.”

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/arts-university-bournemouth-receives-commendations-in-seven-areas-in-successfully-completed-elective-quality-review:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) has successfully completed its Elective Quality Review (EQR), receiving commendations in seven areas for good practice including the University’s Learning, Teaching and Assessment Framework, its Industry Patrons scheme, and its student support services.
EQR offers institutions the opportunity to be reviewed by the UK's Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education.
The review benchmarks institutions' quality assurance processes against international quality assurance standards set out in Part 1 of the Standards and Guidelines for Quality Assurance in the European Higher Education Area.
The review was conducted by a team of three independent reviewers in April 2025 who concluded that AUB meets the requirements of the European Standards and Guidelines (ESG) Part 1 for internal quality assurance.
The review report identified seven areas of good practice and commended AUB for:
“AUB is delighted to have secured this excellent outcome in the QAA EQR process," says Lisa Mann, Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive Officer.
"It reflects the University's commitment to high quality creative arts education.
"I'm incredibly grateful to all the staff and externals who were involved in the review process, and thankful to the QAA panel for their diligence in reviewing our practice and taking the time to visit our campus and understand our values.
The University is very proud of this achievement and looks forward to building on the positive outcome in the coming years.”
QAA's Director of Contract Services Jennifer Taylor adds, “We would like to congratulate our colleagues at Arts University Bournemouth on their successful completion of the EQR process and its demonstration of their alignment with these international quality assurance standards – and to thank staff and students at Arts University Bournemouth for their positive engagement with this review.”

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/our-research/research-impact:
Our Research
AUB’s Impact Case Studies submitted to REF 2021 demonstrate the
range of impacts that the University has had on cultural and industrial significance, to that of work protecting
and raising awareness for minority and under-represented groups in society, to
addressing workplace bullying in the creative industries.
Lambert’s research has led to the development of resources for museums to identify plastics types, develop appropriate storage...
A photographic research project focused on a small group of Irish Travellers living beneath the Westway, a major route into London.
Using photography to give those affected by genetic conditions a voice, a practice-based research project by photographer Wenham-Clarke
Whitfield’s work has raised awareness of the challenges faced, but more importantly devised metacognitive strategies to support individuals
Conducted prior to the revelations of the #metoo movement, this research put a spotlight on a field which historically saw little scrutiny.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/our-research/research-groups:
Our Research Groups bring together a range of researchers, academic staff, postdoctoral and graduate students to develop their common interests in an emerging or strategically significant research themes within art, design, media and performance.
A research group led by Professor of Drawing, Siân Bowen, bringing together 20 members from Fine Art, Illustration, Animation...
CRUX is an international network of photographic artists, researchers, educators, and theorists working out of Arts University Bournemouth
A research group led by Professor Paul Ward and including members of staff, students and alumni working in animation, film, VFX and...
A network of researchers, professional textile practitioners, enthusiasts and maker groups aims to generate improved critical...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/our-research/research-standards:
The University is committed to maintaining the highest standards of ethics and integrity in its research, and places ethics and integrity at the heart of its decision-making.
It has confirmed its commitment to comply with the Concordat to support Research Integrity (2019) and to support the principles of honesty; rigour; transparency and open communication; care and respect; accountability.
The University’s Research Ethics Policy and Procedure provides guidelines on the standards of conduct required by all staff and students engaged in research.
For further information on research integrity, please contact researchoffice@aub.ac.uk
cmclening@aub.ac.uk
University's key contact for the conduct of research
vlodge@aub.ac.uk
General enquiries about research integrity at AUB
AUB is committed to supporting researchers in the development of their careers.
It endorses the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers which sets out principles for how careers of researchers should be supported.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/our-research/aubrei:
The Arts University Bournemouth Research Excellence and Impact repository is a place where you can find a wide range of research outputs produced by staff at the University, where possible available as full text.
Search the repository using a full range of fields.
Use the search field at the top of the page for a quick search.
Browse the items in the repository by subject, by year or by author in an A-Z List.
View items added to the repository in the past week.
Read the Policies for use of material in this repository.
Please log in to AUBREI with your AUB username and password.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/our-research/archives-and-special-collections:
AUB is home to some amazing special collections which support our research and teaching and are also accessible to the public.
Discover the Thorp Archive, MoDiP (Museum of Design in Plastics) and the collections housed within our specialist library.
AUB is the proud custodian of the Thorp Architectural Modelmaking Archive – the oldest architectural modelmakers in Britain.
Explore specialist collections found in AUB's library including, Artists' books, the Materials Library and the Visionaire Collection

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/teachers-and-advisors-hub/redirect-to-https-aub-ac-uk-schools-hub-schools-outreach:
Our inspiring and informative free in-school activities have been designed to fit easily into an assembly, tutor time or class session to give students an insight into the opportunities that are out there when planning their next steps.
Our Outreach team can travel to your school or college to deliver these sessions in-person, or via an interactive virtual session, or they could be combined with a visit to our campus .
We have a range of presentation topics which can be tailored to your specific requirements.
Years 7-12 | 30 or 60 minutes
Year 12 | 60 minutes
Years 10-12 | 30 or 60 minutes
Years 12 | 60 minutes
Years 10-13 | 30 minutes
If you have an upcoming event, please get in touch via schools@aub.ac.uk to let us know.
We always welcome invitations to attend Higher Education Fairs, Careers Fairs and information evenings at schools and colleges.
Our team travel around the country to meet students at UCAS Fairs and other Higher Education Conventions to meet with students.
Come and visit us at an event close to you.
We'll be at the following UCAS events:
23 April 2025
Winchester
University of Winchester
24–25 April 2025
Farnborough
Farnborough International Exhibition and Conference Centre
11 June 2025
Ipswich
University of Suffolk
16–17 June 2025
Bedfordshire
University of Bedfordshire, Polehill
23–24 June 2025
Birmingham
National Exhibition Centre

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/teachers-and-advisors-hub/redirect-to-https-aub-ac-uk-schools-hub-lesson-resources:
We have a range of learning resources that can support your teaching either in the classroom or online.
Created by our tutors, TheGallery curators and subject experts, these resources are designed to help support your teaching and connect your students to the work and ideas of artists from different disciplines, as well as insights into creative career pathways.
Scroll through thousands of images, create a collection of images tailored to you and browse creative matches and generated study and career resources.
Our workshops are developed in partnership with TheGallery .
TheGallery is one of our major resources for contemporary art and design and works closely with courses across the university on a variety of exhibitions, events and projects.
These resource packs have been designed to help you bring new concepts into your classroom and spark ideas for creative teaching.
Years 8-13 | Art and design
Years 8-13 | Fashion and Textiles
Years 8-13 | Art
Year 8-13 | Art and typography
Years 8-13 | Architecture
I Can’t Draw invites us to re-connect with our inbuilt ability to express ourselves and communicate through the making of marks
I Can’t Draw is our exciting flagship project, working with schools across the country to support arts teaching and build an amazing body of student work that challenges traditional concepts of drawing and celebrates the diversity of students’ creative abilities.
There are two ways to get involved with I Can't Draw; you can download our teacher pack or book your students in for a workshop day on our campus.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/teachers-and-advisors-hub/redirect-to-https-aub-ac-uk-schools-hub-helping-your-students-apply:
We appreciate that navigating the process of applying to university can be a daunting time for students.
At Arts University Bournemouth we’re here for you every step of the way.
Alongside the expertise of our outreach staff and admissions professionals, we offer a range of tailored provision to support students in making a well-informed, successful application to a creative degree programme.
Before making an application to a university, research and reflection play an important part in students identifying courses and universities which would be a good fit for them.
For students to be happy and successful throughout their time in Higher Education, we appreciate the complexity of the decision-making process.
To support this, our Schools and Colleges Team offer a range of activity in this area.
Our Schools presentations are designed to equip students with the tools they'll need to decide on the best university and degree for them and to guide them through the application process.
Our foundation degree programme in Art, Design and Media gives students the chance to explore different creative areas before choosing a specific subject to study as an undergraduate.
It's the perfect way to find students to find their creative voice and to boost their existing skills and portfolio if they’re not quite ready for progression to an undergraduate degree.
This course is geared towards the preparation of a portfolio of work to support students’ application to a Higher Education course.
Throughout the course, the practical work in the studio is supported by a programme of contextual studies in art and design.
At AUB we believe that all those with the potential to benefit from higher education, no matter their background, deserve the opportunity to do so.
The work of our Admissions team is an important part of making that happen.
You may have queries about the suitability of qualifications for particular courses, or perhaps you’re re-entering education after a break and wondering whether you could be offered a place based on your existing qualifications.
If so, our Admissions team are here to help.
If you have an admissions related question you can email our Admissions team .
Writing an effective personal statement is an instrumental part of the university application process.
For some universities it could be the deciding element in whether a student is offered a place on a course.
At Arts University Bournemouth it forms the basis of whether we would see a student’s portfolio, or perhaps offer them an interview.
As a specialist arts institution, our personal statement support is tailored specifically toward applications to creative subjects.
Drawing on decades of experience in helping students make successful applications to arts-based degree programmes, we offer specialist advice and guidance in this area.
Students having a portfolio which demonstrates their skill, technique and creative process forms a fundamental part of a successful application to AUB.
For many of our courses, we invite students to attend an interview and ask for them to bring their portfolio as part of the application process.
Portfolios should show examples of students work – both finished and work in progress – that demonstrate their artistic interests and skill.
However, sometimes knowing where to start when it comes to putting together a great portfolio can be a little daunting.
At AUB we’ve created specific guidelines for each of our courses which ask for a portfolio as part of the application process, so you know exactly what we’re looking for.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/teachers-and-advisors-hub/redirect-to-https-aub-ac-uk-schools-hub-widening-access-to-aub-all-access-aub:
At AUB we believe that every individual should be able to access creative activities and explore new opportunities, no matter their background.
That’s why we're thrilled to offer our post-16 access programme ‘All Access AUB’.
It’s the first of its kind.
An intensive, engaging programme of activity for students from underrepresented groups, specifically designed to support entry to creative Higher Education.
Find out more about the exciting creative activities and review eligibility below, or contact our friendly team at wp@aub.ac.uk .
Applications to All Access AUB 2025/26 are now closed, and will open for the next cohort in March 2026.
The All Access AUB exhibition is a collaborative project between TheGallery and AUB's Access and Participation team.
This year's exhibition, World in Motion, showcases the explorative and experimental work undertaken by our 2024 All Access AUB residential cohort.
It highlights and celebrates their creative talents and curious minds.
During the residential at AUB, students got the chance to discover their own journeys using a range of materials, ideas and imagination, either focusing on Art and Design or Photography.
The resulting work reflects the high quality of the students' engagement, tenacity and creativity within a very short and intense few days.
The All Access AUB scheme is available to students living permanently in England.
Students can apply when they reach the first year of A-Level (or equivalent) study and must be between 16-18 years old.
To be eligible for a place learners must attend a state school or college of further education.
They must also meet at least one of the following eligibility criteria:
Eligibility for the TUNDRA LSOA quintiles measure can be checked on the OfS website .
Eligibility for the Index of Multiple Deprivation deciles measure can be checked via the IMD postcode checker.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/teachers-and-advisors-hub/redirect-to-http-aub-ac-uk:
A global community of educators, school counsellors, and creative practitioners.
With students from over 60 countries, our creative community thrives on its diversity.
We're proud to work with schools and colleges across the world to champion creativity and encourage the innovative thinkers and makers of the future.
Our aim is to support your work as teachers and advisors providing information and resources to encourage your students to engage with creative arts and explore the opportunities available to them in arts higher education.
We offer a varied schedule of events throughout the academic year to schools and colleges across the globe.
We facilitate virtual creative workshops, informative presentations and school talks which can be tailored for either virtual or face-to-face visits.
We also have representation at most careers or Higher Education fairs.
Take a look at the resources we offer worldwide.
If there's an activity or event you wish to discuss or book, get in touch with us .
Our global schools team deliver engaging, interactive talks and presentations to students on a variety of topics about university choices, creative careers and life at university.
These can be hosted virtually or where possible, delivered in person.
This presentation will cover qualifications, English language and entry requirements.
Personal statements are a crucial part of applying to Higher Education.
We’ll show your students how to shine in a personal statement for creative subjects and take them through the first steps of drafting their own personal statement in this interactive presentation.
How do you know which institution – and which course – is right for you?
This talk will help your students navigate the options available to them and provide them with resources, tools and tips to make confident and well-informed choices about their next steps.
It can be hard to imagine what life at university will really be like.
In this talk, we’ll cover everything students need to know about how to prepare for this next stage of their life and what to expect when they get there.
This presentation introduces Arts University Bournemouth and our range of specialist creative courses as well as an insight into life as a university student at a creative arts institution.
Besides nurturing a talent and refining a craft, creative degrees can equip students with a diverse and well-rounded skill set that leads to an exciting future.
This talk will uncover the many benefits of studying a creative subject at university and help students discover the options available to contribute their creative studies into Higher Education.
Artists and makers are fundamental to creating so many aspects of our society – some a little more surprising than others.
Your students will learn about the many exciting career pathways within the creative industries and how they could turn their creative talent into a rewarding career.
Our Global Schools team has in-country representatives and members of our academic staff who regularly present and engage with school communities throughout the year, both in-person and virtually.
If you have an upcoming event, get in touch to let us know.
Our global schools team is made up of a variety of highly experienced individuals with backgrounds in international education and creative arts practice, each with a passion for creative education and encouraging young people into the arts.
To get in touch with the team, email: globalschools@aub.ac.uk
For updates on our events and latest news, sign up to our newsletter below.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/innovation-studio/business-incubator:
Our funded, three-month Business Incubator is designed to support the growth of early-stage creative projects.
The Business Incubator is ideal for individuals or small teams in the very early stages of their entrepreneurial journey who are pre-trade, offering them the chance to test and grow their ideas without the financial burden typically associated with starting a business.
Apply here for the October intake (deadline 21 September 2025)
The Business Incubator will be delivered at:
The AUB Innovation Studio 7 Fern Barrow, Wallisdown Poole BH12 5HH United Kingdom
Find us using what3words: ///logo.glare.intro
The Business Incubator supports aspiring creative entrepreneurs by providing a structured and supportive environment where you can refine your ideas, develop prototypes, and launch products or services without the stress of having to pay for desk space.
A three-month structured incubation period to focus on developing your business with up to £5,000 of support:

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/innovation-studio/residency:
A Residency at AUB's Innovation Studio gives you and your business the chance to connect and collaborate with other creatives in our co-working space, as well as benefit from the expertise and equipment that the studio has to offer.
This opportunity is perfect for sole traders, micro-businesses and start-ups looking to develop ideas and grow their industry connections.
You can book a tour of the Innovation Studio to explore the co-working space or get in touch with us for more info or to register to be a Resident.
A Residency in the studio can be taken out on a 3-, 6- or 12-monthly basis, and prices start at just £175 (+VAT) per month.
As a Resident, you'll have access to:
Intro to Design in VR is perfect if you're curious to learn what virtual, augmented and mixed reality is all about.
Across two and a half hours you'll explore each area of VR, as well as look at the software and tools used to create digital experiences.
At the end of the session, you'll have a better understanding of the different types of VR as well as how you can create digital experiences using these tools.
Suitable for beginners; no previous VR experience necessary.
Duration: 2.5 hours
This half day course focusses on using Gravity Sketch for VR.
You'll learn the fundamental tools and features of Gravity Sketch, as well as the operating functions of VR equipment.
You'll experiment with a selection of tools and features through fun and interactive activities, whilst participating in group exercises with other attendees in virtual worlds.
At the end of the session you'll produce a 3D model that you'll be able to photograph using an AR App.
By the end of the workshop, you'll be more confident in using Gravity Sketch for 3D modelling and have the opportunity to sign-up for Drop In sessions with your tutor and founder of Design in VR , Ekaterina Savosina , which will enable you to receive Gravity Sketch Certification.
Suitable for both Gravity Sketch beginners and anyone with VR experience wishing to progress their skills.
Duration: 3.5 hours
Over two and a half hours, in this workshop you'll learn how to design ideas for 2D manufacturing, considering equipment potential and limitations.
You'll examine examples and discuss what design aspects work well and where designs can be improved.
By the end of the session, you'll have a better understanding of creating projects suitable for processes, such as laser cutting and water jet cutting.
Suitable for beginners; no previous 2D prototyping experience necessary.
This workshop will enable you to understand the potential and limitations of conventional 3D manufacturing.
It includes how to optimise your design process to create better functional models for prototyping and manufacture.
By the end of the session, you'll have a better understanding of how to design your project to be compatible with 3D manufacturing processes like CNC routing and milling.
Suitable for beginners; no previous 3D prototyping experience necessary.
Fusion 360 is industry-standard software for 3D modelling.
Used for professional product design and manufacturing it has the capabilities to prepare designs for 3D printing.
Throughout this workshop you'll receive an introduction to Fusion 360 and learn about its many innovative tools.
You'll cover the Fusion 360 interface and basic modelling techniques through step-by-step tutorials, as well as have the opportunity to explore the software on their own.
You'll be challenged to design a keyring or similar object to demonstrate your understanding.
There'll be the opportunity for Q&A as the workshop progresses.
By the end of the session, you'll have a solid grasp of the fundamentals of the software and be able to create your own 3D objects suitable for 3D printing.
Suitable for beginners; no previous Fusion 360 experience necessary.
Twinmotion is the fast, intuitive, and high-quality visualisation tool used by architects and designers to produce real-time videos and walkthroughs ready to export as images, video, and interactive VR scenes.
This introductory workshop will cover the interface and creation tools.
You'll be shown examples of completed virtual spaces and be guided through the various techniques to create an environment of your own.
You'll also learn how to export your content in various formats, for different methods of delivery.
By the end of the session, you'll have a solid grasp of the fundamentals of Twinmotion and be able to create your own virtual environments.
Suitable for beginners; no previous Twinmotion experience necessary.
If you're unsure how the Innovation Studio's resources could benefit you, we strongly encourage you to book an official tour of the space, so you can see it for yourself.
Held on alternate Wednesdays, 14.00-15.00, you'll have the chance to check out the space, resources and creative technology available.
You'll also be able to meet the team and ask any questions you may have about the programme or the studio.
Alternatively, you can check out the studio's facilities using our interactive 360˚ tour.
We've been based at the Innovation Studio for two years now and we must say, it's an outstanding facility for anyone in need of a professional environment with top-notch technical equipment and support.
The studio is bright, airy and vibrant which makes it a great place to work.
As a creative design and engineering agency, one of the major benefits for us is the state-of-the-art technology and technicians that cater to a wide range of prototyping needs.
The Innovation Studio has helped me massively with finding a focus for my practise and guiding me to where I could take it since graduating.
It has also given me great access to the facilities here at AUB, which allow me to continue creating ambitious sculptural pieces.
I chose the Innovation Studio for its vibrant, collaborative environment, access to cutting-edge prototyping tools, and mentorship from professionals on business growth.
The fusion of creative and academic communities provides a sense of confidence and support, while keeping me informed about local business development programs and grant opportunities, adding significant value to my journey.
It's the perfect space to test new ideas, innovate, and achieve personal and professional growth.
The Innovation Studio fosters a creative community of professionals from diverse fields.
Regular networking, workshops, and seminars are organised, providing ample opportunities to connect, learn, and grow.
The collaborative atmosphere encourages the sharing of ideas, resources and skills making it the perfect place for creative businesses.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/innovation-studio/events:
We facilitate events and workshops with industry partners and host knowledge-sharing and best practice sessions.
We offer specialist workshops that explore a range of creative technologies that can be tailor-made to your needs, and hold open lectures on engaging, specialist subjects that are open to members of the public.
If you have an event you'd like to host, or would like to develop a bespoke workshop for your business, simply get in touch with us at innovationstudio@aub.ac.uk .
Alternatively, explore our upcoming events and workshops below.
We run workshops showcasing creative technologies and innovative practices as part of our Creative Tech Studio Sessions.
These sessions can be tailor-made to suit your business and your training or CPD needs.
Creative Tech Studio Sessions give you the chance to:
You can find examples of the types of workshops we can offer below.
Get in touch with us at innovationstudio@aub.ac.uk to discuss your exact requirements, and we'll direct you to or develop a suitable workshop for you.
Please note, if your business currently holds Associate membership to the Innovation Studio, Creative Tech Studio Sessions are included in your membership package.
If you have any questions, get in touch with us.
Our Open Lectures are a series of talks sharing insights into specialist subjects, local community initiatives and projects, and hot topics within the creative industries.
Each lecture is led by a specialist guest speaker and we welcome guests on campus for a pre-lecture drink to meet our staff and explore our current exhibition in TheGallery .
These lectures are free to attend and are open to members of the public.
Details of any upcoming lectures are shared below.
We're proud to partner with external organisations and support regional events that promote business growth, champion entrepreneurship, knowledge share, and offer networking opportunities.
Some of our past and present event partners have included, Women in Tech Dorset , BCP Council , Homewards and NHS Dorset Innovation Hub .
We're also currently a member of Venturefest South , a thriving community of innovators and businesses here in the south of the UK.
We'll be exhibiting at the #VSF2024: Festival of Innovation on 14 November 2024 .
If you'd like to partner with us to develop or host an event, get in touch at innovationstudio@aub.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aub-student-film-time-between-us-continues-to-rack-up-recognition:
A film produced by BA (Hons) Film Production students has received continuous recognition by industry on the festival circuit.
Time Between Us , written and directed by Issy Campbell back in her second year at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) recently topped its list of accolades by winning both the Best UK Student Short Award and the Special Recognition Award at Sunrise Film Festival, a BIFA qualifying festival.
It was also nominated in the Best Low Budget Film category.
The film follows a young woman who finds herself in “a liminal space filled with her fragmented childhood memories,” as Issy explains.
“These moments are brought to life through projections, archival footage, and practical effects.
She begins to understand the value of capturing memories and the blissful pain feelings of nostalgia can create.”
For Issy, Time Between Us is an extremely personal project, and her family archive and videos from her childhood are projected within the film as the protagonist's memories.
Commenting on some of the challenging moments while making the film, she says, “The final edit of the film was given a mixed response, which was a disheartening experience, with criticism advising structural and musical changes, as well as removing the archive and personal aspects from the film altogether – all of which I fought to keep in the film.
“Looking back, I'm so pleased that I fought very hard to keep the film the way I envisioned it, but there were moments where I wish I trusted myself more and let myself make mistakes.
We are at university to learn, not to create perfect work and often, we, as students, are too hard on ourselves."
Having just completed her final year, Issy says the advice she'd give her younger student self would be, "keep making films for yourself, and keep making them authentic, as no one knows your story better than you.”
By her admission, she and her team took a risk on Time Between Us , submitting it to several film festivals, where it has earned a string of awards, and been screened at more than 25 events across the country.
“For a short film made in our second year with a budget of under £250, I couldn’t be prouder of what the team and the film have achieve,” says Issy.
“We have won prize money from some of these festivals, which has allowed me to fund my next project: All That’s Left .”
All That’s Left is an example of how the collaborative spirit at AUB continues after students complete their studies, as it has involved not only BA (Hons) Film Production students, but those on the University’s BA (Hons) Textiles, Fashion Communication, and Make-up for Media and Performance courses.
Having now finished shooting, the film will begin its festival run this September.
Now about to graduate, Issy’s journey in film production continues in London, where she’s starting her first job at Carnival Films (NBC Universal).
“It's honestly been the most rewarding three years on the Film Production course,” she says.
“It's beautiful to see how far we've all come, and I can't wait to see what's ahead.”

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/verity-joy-a-finalist-for-the-patterns-of-fashion-award-2025:
Within the world of studying historical costume, there’s one competition in particular that stands out: the Costume Society’s Patterns of Fashion Award (think Great British Sewing Bee , but with even more hand-sewing and many hours exploring archives).
Stemming from the legacy of historian and researcher Janet Arnold (author of the Patterns of Fashion books), it has inspired students within textile-based spheres for well over a decade to interact with items from the past.
So, when the opportunity arose at the start of my MA Historical Costume degree to take part, I grabbed it with both hands.
My process began with selecting an item to recreate.
As per the rules of the competition, I chose a dress studied by Arnold, using her drafted pattern as a basis for the project (Arnold, 1977, p.54).
This was arguably the most challenging part (there are so many beautiful pieces), but I chose a pelisse-robe from 1824-27, which is part of Salisbury Museum’s textile collection.
This garment, dating from the early 19th century, is what we’d refer to today as a dress-coat, and would have been worn by a middle-to-upper class young woman – potentially a teenager.
Made of a stunningly vivid green silk taffeta and featuring intricate pleating, it is entirely hand-sewn.
From fine topstitching and piping to the ivory silk lining, it appears to have been made-to-measure by someone of skill such as a dressmaker; though, as is relatively common for the era, there are no labels inside.
With limited information available about its former life, I felt that its story needed to be explored.
One of the most fascinating aspects of the Patterns of Fashion Award is the focus on historical accuracy.
Wherever possible, items must be made using the same technology as available during the time of its creation – of course, some compromises have to be made in today’s world, such as the inevitable modern production methods of fabrics and differences in dye chemical compositions.
Therefore, as the sewing machine was not in common use until the mid-Victorian era, I sewed the dress by hand.
As a former student on the BA (Hons) Costume degree at AUB, this project gave me the freedom to apply the practical skills I learned in new and exciting ways – I’ll be honest, I never thought I’d ever sew so many pleats on one garment!
As someone fascinated by historical fashion as a tool for academic research, accurate fabric selection was central to my project in order to replicate the dress as closely as possible.
To achieve this, I took a selection of samples with me on a trip to view the original pelisse-robe at Salisbury Museum.
After much close examination of the fibre types, weave structure and fabric weight, I selected a green silk taffeta that was slightly lighter in colour tone than the original.
While there were others with a closer colour match, this taffeta had the most similarities in terms of physical make-up.
When making any form of clothing, the type of fabric can significantly alter the way that the final product drapes, moves and looks.
Therefore, as a researcher, I concluded that I could learn more about the original garment by prioritising the fabric weight over colour.
Completing this project has given me a fascinating insight into the world of dress history within museum and heritage settings.
As I move towards the final project of my Master’s, I’ve been inspired to investigate this further and learn how I can continue to contribute to the industry.
From screen printing silk floss thread to pleating seemingly endless quantities of fabric, I loved every minute of this project.
I’m honoured to have been selected as a finalist for the competition and, most of all, hope that I’ve helped to support the legacy of this beautiful pelisse-robe for many years to come.
If you liked this post you might be interested in MA Historical Costume

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/parker-spear-reimagining-figaro-for-patterns-of-performance:
The project I am currently working on is a costume for my final submission to the Patterns of Performance competition as a finalist.
Although my background is in fashion design, my greatest passion is for storytelling, specifically storytelling through costume rooted in a historical context with a flair for fantasy.
I believe that costume design plays a vital role in an actor’s performance, which is what drew me initially to the Patterns of Performance competition.
I knew I wanted to choose an opera for my project because the nature of opera costumes followed closely with the kind of design I am interested in.
I wanted to create a costume that emits the aura of the 18th century through intentional design.
I believe that a costume historian has the distinct task to cast a light on how relevant history is to us in our modern age.
Following along with this theory, I chose to reimagine the character of Figaro from The Marriage of Figaro , with an innovative take on the easily recognisable character.
This decision was also in part due to Mozart and his modern take (towards the end of the 18th century) on a classic story.
His rendition of Le Nozze di Figaro was a story of love, deception, and forgiveness, and it was noted by figures like Napoleon Bonaparte that Mozart’s opera was simply a ‘sympathetic statement on the social climate’ of the time.
The beauty I found in Mozart’s attempt at Le Nozze di Figaro was his aim to unmask society by flipping the inner workings of society upside-down.
His opera was so powerful because he presented it to the very people he meant to unmask, during a time when society was on the brink of the French Revolution.
My process work began first with researching the social climate of the 18th century and the class divide between the aristocracy and the bourgeoisie.
I believe that careful design starts first with thorough research into the chosen period.
I knew I would not be able to emulate an aura of 18th century design without first understanding the mindset of the time.
My design work began with the patterns from The Cut of Men’s Clothes from Norah Waugh’s book, and modified the patterns slightly to fit my design for Figaro.
For this competition, I wanted to experiment with modern technology including the use of resin as well as the use of a 3D pen.
My research into 18th century class division took me to a detailed look at the lavish embellishments of the French style and how this compared to what the lower class was wearing.
I used Susan North’s 18th-Century Detail to look at the close-up images of the elaborate trims and buttons present in menswear.
This gave me the idea to recreate my buttons using the 18th century method of creating spangles.
I have also been at work screen printing with foil to recreate fabric from an 18th century archive.
In the same vein, my idea for using a 3D pen to create my fabric is to recreate a 3D version of 18th century fabrics.
As a way to bring the 18th century back to life in a modern lens.
I have also experimented with natural dying to create a sense of opulence and decay, which embodied the class divides of the century.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/legacy-continued-ba-hons-costume-graduate-beth-lacey-clinches-patterns-of-fashion-award:
BA (Hons) Costume graduate Beth Lacey has been named the 2023 winner of the Costume Society Patterns of Fashion Award.
Her victory marks the second year in a row that an Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) student has clinched the award.
Last year, Milly Whitefield took home the award for a 1625-1630 men’s doublet.
"The Costume Society’s Patterns of Fashion competition is hugely prestigious and recognised internationally as a celebration of students with a passion and talent for reproducing historical costume,” explains BA (Hons) Costume course leader Sarah Magill.
“Named after Janet Arnold, whose publications are key texts for costume students and within the costume industry, this competition allows students to explore the materiality of historical clothing through deep research into cut and construction.”
Beth re-created a 1610s jacket owned by one Margaret Layton, the original of which sits in the V&A Museum.
Comprising intricate embroidery and detail and, as Beth says, more than 500 hours’ worth of work.
“When they called my name as the winner, it all became a bit of a blur,” she explains.
“I felt completely overjoyed; not only because of the importance of the award I was receiving, but also because the project that I'd devoted four months of my life to, and become so passionate about, had been equally important to other people.
“This competition was always something that I wanted to take part in, and knowing the success of AUB applicants year after year pushed me even further to produce the best work I possibly could.
Continuing AUB's success within the competition feels really great, and the continued success of AUB applicants every year really is a testament to the Costume course.”
The BA (Hons) Costume team attended the Costume Society’s awards ceremony on Saturday 15 July, where Beth and the other finalists’ work was judged by BAFTA and Emmy award-winning designer Michele Clapton, of Game of Thrones and The Crown fame, and her assistant designer Alex Fordham.
Beth explains that both judges interviewed her after the ceremony and praised her work.
“They were very interested in the embroidery techniques I’d learnt to be able to complete the jacket, and impressed by how quickly I'd learnt them.
They also loved the contrast between the plain linen side of the jacket and the incredibly decorative embroidered side.
“The research I'd conducted to ensure the work I produced was as historically accurate as possible was also recognised.
They congratulated me on my knowledge of the subject and problem-solving when it came to being unable to source metal teardrop spangles, which I ended up making myself.”
Beth was not the only BA (Hons) Costume student from AUB to make the Patterns of Fashion final this year.
Classmate and fellow graduate Remi Gene Lever received Highly Commended status at the same ceremony, for a 1660s bodice.
These victories only add to AUB’s legacy of success at the Patterns of Fashion Awards.
Alongside Beth and her 2022 predecessor Milly Whitefield, past winners include Shelley Venables, who won in 2020; Katherine Betteridge, whose own version of the same Margaret Layton jacket secured the award in 2015; and Caroline Lloyd all the way back in 2007, when AUB was still known as Arts Institute Bournemouth.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/creatives-come-together-for-plastic-symposium-2025:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) recently hosted PlastIC Symposium 2025: Heritage Plastics – Care, Curation, and Connections , bringing together leading voices across conservation, design and the arts to discuss how plastics are gaining renewed recognition as culturally significant materials.
The event, which took place on 2 July, showcased the important work of AUB’s Museum of Design in Plastics (MoDiP) , the only accredited museum in the UK dedicated to plastics.
Through curated talks and a guided tour, attendees explored MoDiP’s unique collection and its pioneering role in understanding, conserving, and communicating the material and historical value of plastic artefacts within modern and contemporary heritage.
Attendees included researchers, conservators, curators, museum professionals, artists, and designers interested in the evolving narratives around plastic heritage.
Curated talks came from MoDiP Curator Dr Louise Dennis, sustainability expert Dr Cressida Bowyer and emerging researchers, all chaired by Dr Christian McLening, Director of PlastIC , an important new research centre for plastics innovation and curation at AUB.
“It was an exciting afternoon exploring the preservation, interpretation, and creative reuse of plastics in the context of cultural heritage," Dr McLening comments.
"Our aim with events like these is to encourage interdisciplinary dialogue on the care and creative use of plastics.
“This is where material culture meets innovation, the past informs the future and where heritage and sustainability come together.
At PlastIC, we’re exploring plastics in ways that matter, not just for today but for generations to come.”
If you liked this post you might be interested in MoDiP

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/writing-ecofiction-course-leader-releases-creative-writing-textbook:
Dr Kevan Manwaring, senior lecturer on BA (Hons) Creative Writing at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB), and course leader on AUB's MA Creative Writing (Online) course, is celebrating the release of Writing Ecofiction: Navigating the Challenges of Environmental Narrative .
The creative writing textbook, published by Palgrave Macmillan, introduces students to ecofiction, a genre of fictional tales and narrative writing that reflect important connections, dependencies, and interactions between people and their natural environments.
“Ecofiction, also known as ‘climate fiction’ or ‘cli-fi’, became popular in the 1970s as short story writers and novelists developed their own creative responses to the climate crisis," explains Kevan.
"[The book] is a guide that explores a cross-section of genres and ways of writing about our world, as well as the ethical and technical challenges involved.
“Ecofiction is a genre that’s growing rapidly in popularity as environmental concerns become entwined with our own human narrative.
I hope that this book helps writers of every level navigate the various worlds of ecofiction with confidence so we, the reader, can enjoy the subsequent works produced.”
Exploring themes in environmental writing such as climate change, activism, nature writing and the non-human, Writing Ecofiction offers a discussion of classic and contemporary texts, 21 interviews with a wide range of international authors, literary criticism, and creative writing exercises.
Each chapter includes an overview of writing styles and approaches, with further reading and writing activities offered.
“The book will be a core text of 'Writing in the Anthropocene', one of the units of the MA Creative Writing course and will hopefully become a core text on other reading lists of similar programmes around the world," says Kevan.
"As well writing this book for students on upper-level undergraduate and postgraduate courses who are writing modules on the environment, I’ve also written this for independent writers looking to expand their skill set."

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/digital-fashion-innovation-student-designs-outfit-for-fortnite-persona:
Holly New, an MA Digital Fashion Innovation student at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB), has designed a fully digital fashion look for a music artist persona, as part of an immersive concert experience built inside online video game Fortnite .
Via her VR Fashion Studio, STUDIOOFNEW, Holly designed a custom outfit for singer NØELLE’s Fortnite persona.
NØELLE will perform immersive concerts in Fortnite organised by Copper Candle, who specialise in producing virtual theatre and live events for the metaverse.
Developed in collaboration with Copper Candle, the project marks Holly’s debut as a fashion designer working within Fortnite ’s creative platform.
“Players type in the code to load the concert island where her music will play and characters can move around the space," Holly explains.
"When everyone leaves or the concert ends, then the concert is over, and when someone enters the island again, the concert restarts - as long as no one’s already in it.
“The whole idea is to give emerging artists the opportunity for digital exposure in the metaverse and gaming communities.”
“Using a combination of AI, VR and CLO3D, I worked with NØELLE to achieve a look suited to her music," says Holly.
"I designed her stage outfit using my full pipeline; built in VR, refined in CLO3D, driven by vision, not templates.
“I used the AI for garment ideas, VR for base building and sketching to test ideas, and then brought it all into CLO3D for refinement before being put into Fortnite .
This is the workflow that I developed through the MA in Digital Fashion Innovation, and it’s been an amazing experience to put it into practice for something as huge as Fortnite.
“What started as a VR workflow that I worked on day and night, using tools no one thought belonged in fashion, has just made its way into one of the biggest platforms in the world.
I couldn’t be prouder – STUDIOOFNEW, my studio, the world's first VR Fashion Studio – is pushing the boundaries of fashion design and garment creation, integrating immersive XR technology directly into the fashion pipeline."
While not officially affiliated with Epic Games, Holly’s work demonstrates how independent designers and studios are using Fortnite Creative to explore new possibilities in digital fashion, performance and spatial storytelling.
“Fashion is no longer waiting for the runway.
It’s loading into the game,” Holly adds, “and this is what that looks like.
It’s not about validation.
It’s proof.”
Players of Fortnite will be able to attend the concerts via a code in the game released on Saturday 9 August.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aub-celebrates-graduates-and-honorary-fellows-of-2025:
The class of 2025 were celebrated by Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) at this year's Graduation ceremonies.
The sun shone as friends and families gathered at The Pavilion in Bournemouth for four graduation ceremonies held across on Thursday 24 and Friday 25 July .
This year’s cohort of undergraduates saw an impressive 71% of students graduate with a higher degree; either a first or a 2:1.
Lisa Mann, Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive Officer of AUB, says, “Completing a degree in the arts is never a passive journey; it demands courage, critical thinking, resilience and vision.
Our graduates have created, questioned, and reimagined the world as only artists, designers, performers, architects, creatives, filmmakers, animators, writers and makers can.
“The creative industries are a huge success story for the UK economy.
Art, Design and Culture contribute around £124 billion to the UK economy annually.
These industries are so important to so many; festivals, theatre, cinema, music, galleries, innovation, technology, health and wellbeing, the interface between creativity, science and technology is becoming more and more apparent and social prescribing is recognising the arts as key to human health.”
The University also celebrated its six Honorary Fellows for 2025:
“I am truly honoured by this award and deeply grateful for the recognition of Lighthouse’s contribution to the cultural life of the region," says Elspeth.
“On a personal level, it is a real career highlight, but the whole team at Lighthouse is thrilled.
"It was a very special and happy day celebrating with all the talented students and their tutors.
Thank you so much.”
On conferring the Honorary titles, Lisa says, “These esteemed figures from across the worlds of art, design, media and performance have demonstrated a significant contribution to the creative arts and are well-recognised and respected among their peers and contemporaries.”
If you liked this post you might be interested in our Graduation Archive.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/ma-interior-design-unit-leader-launches-new-innovative-interior-material-at-clerkenwell-design-week:
Over the past year, Mustafa Afşaroğlu, the Sustainable Futures and Reinvent unit leader for MA Interior Design (Online) at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB), has been developing an innovative new sustainable interior material made from a specific type of agricultural waste, olive pits.
Launching at Clerkenwell Design Week in London at the end of May 2025, the aptly named Pit-Board is made into tabletops and worktops made available via Pit-To-Table, a manufacturer of sustainable surfaces and materials founded by Mustafa alongside two Cypriot colleagues.
“Our mission was to provide sustainable alternatives to widespread plastic worktops and we found the solution with olive pits," explains Mustafa.
"Pit-Board is a bio-panel made from discarded olive pits collected from both sides of Cyprus reducing organic, agricultural waste on the island.
“Pit-Board is extremely versatile and suitable for various applications across multiple industries.
In hospitality and office design, it can be used for countertops, tabletops, shelving, and in residential settings, it works well for cabinetry, dining tables, and panels.”
Since developing this new, innovative interior material, Mustafa and his team have gone on to win four grants including one from the United Nations Development Programme and another from the EU.
As well as grants, Pit-To-Table is also a finalist at the prestigious Mix Awards 2025 in the Product of the Year – Surfaces category.
“Pit-Board is more than just a sustainable surface, it’s a symbol of unity” Mustafa says.
“By transforming discarded olive pits, we’re building a greener future while strengthening the ties between Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities.
“Our supply chain is rooted in collaboration, ensuring equal participation across gender and cultural lines.
We believe that diversity is the spice of life – and through design, we celebrate difference rather than let it divide us.
With every panel, we’re not just reducing pollution – we’re crafting a future where sustainability and peace go hand in hand.”
If you liked this post you might be interested in MA Interior Design (Online)

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/environment-aub/environmental-sustainability:
Sustainability and net zero programme is owned and monitored by the Environment Committee.
It demonstrates our targets and achievements covering these main aspects:
AUB Human is a space where we celebrate social, ethical and sustainable creative practice.
It connects designers, architects, filmmakers and other creative practitioners who share a desire to bring about positive change for global good
Our students and staff use their skills to engage and address some of the most pressing issues that are facing the human race today.
Explore AUB Human to find out some of the ways in which our community is working together to make the world a better place.
Aligned with our sustainability and net zero programme, any development projects are designed to are designed to net zero or BREEAM standard ‘very good’ as a minimum requirement.
Opportunities are also sought to lessen the environmental and ecological impact of developments.
For example, a substantial reptile relocation programme was undertaken as part of our current campus development project as well as the planting of more than 100 new trees and the development of local pedestrian and cycle routes.
The current halls of residence development include photovoltaics covering all roofs that contribute to the powering of an efficient electrical heating system.
We’re undergoing a campus master plan exercise that has sustainability at its core – through the repurposing of existing buildings and their materials and the use of sustainable materials for any new builds.
EcoCampus is a flexible-phased approach to introducing an EMS.
We achieved Bronze certification in October 2017, Silver in October 2018, Gold in April 2019 and Platinum in October 2019.
What does an EMS do?
Annual reports:
Environmental Management System – Internal Audit Reports:
We recognise our impact on the environment and society and want to make a difference.
We want to contribute to achieving the SDGs locally, nationally and globally.
SDGs were developed and agreed by world leaders in 2015 and are split over 17 goals.
These cover everything from ending poverty and hunger to achieving gender equality and inclusivity in education to urgent action in combating climate change.
To find out more about the SDGs read more on the United Nations’ website .
We aim to:
As a result, we:
We’re part of the Southern Consortium Affiliation Group .
That means we use the same waste contractor, aim to share best practice, find innovative ways to use the waste hierarchy and have more influence over the contract.
The group is associated and acknowledged for its innovative ideas in waste management.
We’ve tried to make recycling as easy as possible.
There are ‘Dry Mixed’ (DMR) recycling bins and ‘General Waste (GW) bins.
The DMR is recycled, and the GW is converted to energy.
Although we’ve significantly increased our recycling rate, more can be achieved and every member of the community is vital to achieving this.
What can be recycled in the DMR?
Our community use approximately 700 single-use coffee cups every day (term-time).
We strongly encourage people to bring a reusable cup/bottle or at a minimum use a coffee cup recycling bin.
Metals enter the waste stream via the skip where they’re separated and sorted at the waste plant.
Specialist waste such as batteries and chemicals are stored separately and dealt with by Campus Services or course Technicians
To view our targets and actions, download our Sustainability and Net Zero programme .
The new SNZ takes us through to 2030, to our Net Zero pledge.
Some of the projects we’re working on include:
DECs are displayed at the entrance to each building.
This gives a general overview of the energy efficiency of each building.
The university has between 3,500-4,000 students and 350-400 staff members, and we aim to encourage and promote environmental sustainability throughout all our operations.
As part of our commitments in the AUB Strategy 2030, we’ve developed a Sustainability and Net Zero programme that sets out our priorities and targets for environmental sustainability.
We achieved ISO14001:2015 via the EcoCampus framework in 2019.
We’re also committed to complying with legislative requirements imposed by the Environmental Protection Act 1990 and other current legislation.
Staff and student involvement in environmental and sustainability issues will be encouraged through appropriate communication of information, training and in the teaching environment.
All staff inductions incorporate environmental sustainability, health and safety and other relevant information.
E-Learning Modules for Sustainable Procurement training have been invested in through HEPA.
The Student Union have representatives for all meetings relating to finance, environment and campus services.
The Environment Committee monitors and promotes environmental sustainability in all its aspects by identifying, raising awareness of and championing good practice in environmental management and the use of non-renewable resources.
It also makes recommendations to the University Management Team.
The Environment Committee constitution comprises the Chair – University Secretary with appropriate professional and academic representatives, the Student Union and Trade Union representatives.
Key Personnel:
The budget for environmental staff/projects has increased each year 
since 2015.
Environmental projects are agreed and financed through the 
Campus Services Budget, which is the responsibility of Tom Marshall.
If you’d like to find out more, email James or call 01202 363039.
As well as being members of the Environment Committee, they are members of the Human Resources and Remuneration Committee, too.
The AUBSU President is also on the Board of Governors.
A Net Zero task force group has been established to take key decisions on Net Zero tasks, practices and targets.
The group reports to the Environment Committee
Personnel:
AUB welcomes and is committed to its participation in the Dorset Sustainable Palm Oil Community project and is signed up as a ‘Champion’ for this scheme.
AUB acknowledges this will support livelihoods, mitigate against climate change, and protect wildlife around the world from the harmful impacts of unsustainable agricultural practices.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/environment-aub/student-engagement:
Do you know how easy it is to be a little greener?
It’s so easy you can do it in your sleep!
Find out how you can get involved with our Green Team no matter what time you’ve got to spare.
Green Team : If you’ve got an hour or two free most weeks you can join the Green Team.
Being part of the Green Team will give you experience in event planning, managing volunteers, and AUBSU will provide sustainability training too.
If you’d like to have a go at helping out, email AUBSU.
Green Volunteer: If you’d like to join the AUBSU when they’re planting trees, cleaning beaches or creating green spaces but don’t have the time to help with the planning then you can still help out.
Plus, if you volunteer 10 or more hours of your time in the year and you’ll get a certificate and be in with a chance with winning the “Green Volunteer of the Year” award.
Just let AUBSU know you want to get involved and they’ll add you to the mailing list.
Read the AUBSU Growing Greener plan.
AUBSU’s Green Team are a dedicated group of students passionate about making environmental change, both on campus and in the local community.
Working closely with the Students’ Union, they’re responsible for loads of events on campus, like Go Green Week and monthly swap shops.
Anyone and everyone is welcome to join the Green Team!
By being part of the team, you’ll help think up creative events to engage other students with green issues to lead to environmental campaigns and get to make a difference at AUB.
The team is headed up by our Green Officer and meets regularly on campus to share ideas and action them.
Every March, AUBSU and the Green Team organise a whole week completely focused on raising awareness of green issues and what we can do to be more sustainable.
Past events have included a zero-waste market, film screenings, wildflower planting, Fairtrade chocolate sampling, body-care workshops and trips to places like the Eden Project.
Keep an eye out for this year’s Go Green Week and how you can make small changes that have a big impact.
Did you know that there are approximately 5,000 items of litter found per mile of the beach, or that it takes 450 years for a plastic bottle to break down?
Well we do, and that's why our students regularly give up a couple of hours on a weekend afternoon to help tackle pollution on Bournemouth Beach.
Organised by AUBSU and in partnership with Surfers Against Sewage, we help to remove bags full of rubbish from our beaches each year.
We could not do it without dedicated volunteers!
Fairtrade Fortnight is a national campaign, running annually over February and March.
We’re passionate about Fairtrade and ensuring that we support workers and local sustainability.
We want to share these values with our students and staff so regularly hold events focused on the importance of ethical purchasing, including events of Fairtrade Fortnight.
Over the past few years, AUBSU has helped spread this message by getting students designing and dyeing Fairtrade tote bags and T-shirts, as well as baking brownies from 100% Fairtrade ingredients.
Over the past five years, we’ve committed to offsetting our carbon footprint by annually planting 1000 trees in the local area.
Each year a group of students and staff are armed with spades and spend a day tree planting, come rain or shine!
It is a great opportunity to get some fresh air, make a positive impact on the local environment and do something a bit different.
The Green Team have a Green Zine, full of informative content and student artwork, that they put together with the help of the Zine Society.
It includes a whole range of green content, including homemade body-care recipes, tips for reducing your carbon footprint, information on recycling and waste and suggestions for where to shop in Bournemouth.
Check out the most recent zine .
If you would like to contribute to the next zine, contact the green team at green@aub.ac.uk – they’re always looking for new artwork, content and articles.
If you’d like to make a difference in the local community, there are loads of opportunities for you to get involved in.
As well as events organised by AUBSU (like tree planting and beach cleans), there are many charities and not-for-profits looking for support too.
We’re committed to supporting students through the recognition and promotion of sustainably/ethical-focused design and thinking through diverse and impactful eco-friendly initiatives.
Sustainable design awards create awareness for issues relating to sustainability, environment and 3R (reduce, recycle and reuse).
In 2018, for the first time, our Environment Committee introduced Sustainable Design awards to recognise work, which took a particularly interesting or innovative approach to matters of sustainability as part of final year projects.
Course teams were invited to nominate possible candidates, and the judging panel also took account of other interesting work which it noted when reviewing the shows.
The panel identified an overall winner, as well as projects which were highly commended.
This will now become a regular feature of the Committee’s work.
To find out more, about the Green Team and their initiatives, follow them on Facebook or get in touch by email.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/environment-aub/travel:
To encourage staff and students to be more sustainable in travelling to/from AUB we're doing the following:
We've got two Beryl Bike hubs on campus.
One's outside Campus Services (opposite the AUBSU), and the other is by the parking area for the Campus Halls of residence.
Look out for bonus minutes that are available throughout the term on a first come, first-serve basis.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/environment-aub/fairtrade-and-food:
We're proud to say that we're a Fairtrade university and have been awarded three stars!
Fairtrade works with many global stakeholders advocating policies, procedures and practices that ensure trade is fair.
Trade injustices affect the poorest and weakest producers and Fairtrade seeks to correct these injustices through ensuring sustainable prices, decent working conditions, localised trade and fair terms for developing countries.
We’re a member of the Fairtrade scheme and ensure the following:
We’re committed to ensuring that healthy and sustainable food is available to students, staff and visitors.
This means that the food served on campus is traceable, freshly prepared and locally sourced where possible.
Across our outlets on campus, we ensure that:
Coffee cup surcharge
We’ve just introduced a 30p coffee cup surcharge to encourage students and staff to bring reusable containers and reduce waste.
Our catering contract is with Chartwells who is part of the Compass Group UK.
Their environmental responsibilities can be viewed in full on their website.
Water
We provide free drinking water to all students, staff and visitors through our AquAid contract – encouraging the use of reusable water bottles.
Their environmental responsibilities, aid and Trusts they support can be found on their website .
Herb garden
AUB provides a herb garden for caterers to use in the kitchen.
However, all are welcome to use and support.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/environment-aub/sustainability-awards:
We’re committed to recognising and promoting the brilliant work which students do in responding to the importance of sustainability – whether that’s in ethically-focused approaches to their work or through the development of impactful eco-friendly initiatives.
The AUB Sustainability Awards recognise final year students who take a particularly interesting or innovative approach to matters of sustainability through their projects, which rewards the individual students and also creates awareness of issues relating to sustainability, environment and ethics and social justice.
A judging panel, made up of members of the University’s Environment Committee, selects an overall winner from candidates nominated by course teams, and also identifies work which is highly commended or commended.
The award for the overall winner is presented at AUB Graduation.
Any student who'd like further details about the awards should speak to their course tutor for more information.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/environment-aub/environment-and-the-curriculum:
We're a creative community that is committed to and shares a passion for the disciplines of art, design, media and performance.
Ensuring learners are informed of and responsible for their actions and consequences within the three pillars of sustainable development (social, environmental, and economical) is key to the success of an environmentally sustainable, ethical, and caring campus.
Furthermore, the Sustainable Development Goals are threaded through course content and outcomes.
We hope for in consequence, a graduate community that changes the industries they migrate to for good.
How do we visualise microplastics in the human body?
Being, Polluted is a Guerrilla awareness campaign that sees large digital screens invading public spaces, which reflect their surrounding environments, visualising the prevalence of microplastic pollution – not just in the world around us, but also in ourselves as individuals.
The aim of this project is to shock people into being aware of the issue and rethinking how they perceive plastic consumption.
Project creator Owen Blue graduated from AUB in 2023, studying BA (Hons) Graphic Design.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/environment-aub/biodiversity:
We hope to enhance our features to benefit the community and biodiversity to ensure the space and facilities are appropriate of a leading specialist creative institution.
Although we have limited green space, we’re committed to maximising our potential, increasing biodiversity and reaping the health and well-being benefits too.
We’ve got a green roof on the Arts Bar, a green wall next to the refectory, solitary bee tubes on the Campus Services building and bird boxes on the grounds.
We're also aiming to install motion sensor nature cameras around the campus to highlight the biodiversity and wildlife on AUB campus.
Along with the above aspects, we have a Biodiversity action plan in place.
AUB is embarking on a campaign to become an official hedgehog-friendly campus.
We'll look to run campaigns and highlight the plight of our nocturnal friends.
If you wish to help with this campaign, please get in contact .
Hedgehogs in Britain have undergone a long historic decline, but differences between urban and rural populations are becoming increasingly apparent.
In urban areas, the picture is of a stable population that might be recovering, highlighting the importance of gardens and green spaces, and local action, in ensuring a future for hedgehogs.
In stark contrast, rural populations remain low and, in the last two decades, have continued to decline by between a third and three quarters nationally (British Hedgehog Preservation Society 2022).

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/register-your-interest/confirmation:
Register your interest
Thanks for registering your interest.
If you have any queries, please email admissions@aub.ac.uk or call +441202 363225 .
Chat with one of our AUB student ambassadors on Unibuddy – they're here to help
Thinking about joining us in 2024?
View our prospectus – built entirely on Instagram.
Register you interest in a course at AUB to find out more

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/st-peters-lights-up-with-student-animated-videos-of-bournemouths-history:
St Peter’s Church in Bournemouth was transformed for an evening into a canvas for the live projection mapping of animated videos made by the students on the BA (Hons) Animation Production degree at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB).
The project, led by projection mapping and visual arts specialists Light Art Creatives in Poole, is part of a National Lottery bid to see the final work on semi-permanent display in Bournemouth town centre.
Julian Dorrell, Director at Light Art Creatives, explains how the project came about:
“On a recent visit to Montréal, I was captivated by how they’d brought the city’s history to life with some incredibly impressive projection mapping.”
One of the largest outdoor video-projection installations in the world, Cité Mémoire , is an ongoing art installation that currently features more than 20 tableaux composed of images, dialogue and music projected on walls, in alleys, on the ground and on trees throughout Montréal.
“I wanted to bring some of that magic to Bournemouth,” Julian continues.
“So, when I came home, I began making enquiries around the town centre to see how and where something like this could work.”
St Peter’s in the heart of Bournemouth, notable for being the final resting place of Mary Shelley, the author of Frankenstein , expressed interested in Julian’s heritage project from the beginning.
“We’re looking to tell the history and culture of Bournemouth through animation, theatre and film projected on to the front of St Peter’s by installing a permanent projection mapping system," says Julian.
“It’s really encouraging to see a historical and significant institution being so forward thinking and proactively embracing the idea of using technology.”
The current stage of the project is a proof of concept, which will be used for funding and sponsorship applications.
An event is currently in development to showcase the idea to the local community and is planned for either late September or October of this year.
Bryony Smith is one of the second year BA (Hons) Animation Production students that designed animations for testing as a proof of concept on St Peter’s.
“My animation showed Mary Shelley working at her writing slope, currently in the Keats-Shelley House in Rome," Bryony says.
"Artistically, I was influenced by illustrations of Frankenstein using etching and I also chose to recreate her handwriting from her early drafts of Frankenstein to spell out her full name and lifetime.”
“I found the process working with Julian Dorrell and staff incredibly rewarding.
It's so unusual to see your animation anywhere other than your own screen, so seeing it not only out in the world, but placed onto a historic building was really wonderful.
It was so nice to feel my work was also connecting to the history of the building.
The project made me view animation outside of just filmmaking and consider new ways to reach audiences and tell stories.”
Julian adds, “This is the second year we have worked with the AUB animation department and the quality of the students' work has continued to be of a professional and commercial standard.
We are looking forward to making this collaboration more formal and expanding upon the departments that we work with.
“By utilising local talent and resources we aim to keep the values of local collaboration at the forefront of the projects ethos.”
Jane MacDonald, Parish Warden at St Peter’s, comments, “We are delighted to be able to showcase these incredibly talented artists in this magical way.
It brings to life the cultural heritage of the past whilst hopefully inspiring the artists, writers and musicians of the future who study at this wonderful university, with whom we are so proud to partner.”
If you liked this post you might be interested in our previous collaboration with Light Art Creative.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/the-human-library:
Dates: 15 November, 12.00–13.30 and 15.30–17.00.
Location: AUB Library, AUB Campus
The BU and AUB Faith and Reflection Society welcomes you to take part in the Human Library, as part of Inter Faith Week 2023!
The Human Library features a collection of diverse and friendly faces.
During the event, you'll have the chance to be the "reader" and "borrow" a human book for 15 minutes to learn their story and ask questions about their experiences.
In turn, this will spark great conversations around faith and belief, plus wider discussion about culture and society from a personal perspective.
If you're looking for a session that'll promise fun, engaging chats and community, this is the event for you.
There are two sessions available to take part in with no booking required, available to AUB and BU students, and staff – 12.00 and 15.30 in the AUB Library.
We hope to see you there!
If you liked this post you might be interested in Faith and reflection

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/writing-disstories-free-writing-workshops:
As part of Disability History Month, we'll be hosting a series of creative writing events to address imbalances in the representation of disability issues and narrative identities.
Run by Charlotte Fodor, a published writer and academic, Writing Dis'stories aims to support disabled writers and anyone with an interest in disability issues.
We're hosting the following sessions:
13 November – SH001 (13.00–15.00) Reclaiming narrative histories during Disability History Month – creative writing as a form of literary activism.
23 November – SH001 (10.00–12.00) From stereotypes to empowerment: reimagining disability metaphors.
23 November – Online (15.00–16.00) Beyond tokens and tropes: disability representation in crime and thriller fiction with bestselling author Penny Batchelor.
8 December – Online (11.00–13.00) Dismantling ableism: the power of 'writing back'.
These events are open to both students and staff, but spaces are limited – so be quick!
If you liked this post you might be interested in BA (Hons) Creative Writing

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/innovation-studio/associate-programme/sunseeker:
As fellow makers, Sunseeker shares AUB’s vision of developing solutions through collaboration.
We're proud to partner with them through our Associate Programme.
Sunseeker is a British luxury yacht manufacturer based in Poole, Dorset.
Since its founding in 1969, Sunseeker has revolutionised the performance motor yacht space and grown to carry a reputation for exceptional quality.
Known to push boundaries, Sunseeker challenges the status quo with industry-defining designs and advanced technical innovation, creating luxury motor yachts like no other.
Famed for a traditional approach to yacht building, Sunseeker is disrupting the industry yet again by exploring new approaches to design and manufacturing.
The company has always been at the forefront of cutting-edge design and engineering, having won some of the world’s most prestigious accolades at the International Superyacht Design awards and Mets Boat Builder Awards.
Their use of advanced composite materials and the latest construction techniques has set a benchmark for luxury yacht building.
As one of the world’s leading yacht manufacturers, technical and design excellence is a fundamental pillar to delivering a world-class product.
Therefore, Sunseeker is always looking to innovate, develop, and test new concepts to remain best in class.
That's where AUB's Innovation Studio comes in.
Academic and industrial collaboration will offer an opportunity for Sunseeker to further its goals of reducing waste, improving efficiencies, and elevating its offerings of product customisation.
As an Associate Partner, Sunseeker will have access to AUB's Lab 4 Creative Technologies meaning they can explore new solutions in an exciting and innovative way.
AUB will provide the opportunity to experiment, using 3D Printing, Virtual Reality, Fabric Printing and more to explore new solutions.
This partnership with AUB will allow Sunseeker graduates, designers, and engineering and production teams to drive the company into a new era of manufacturing.
Ultimately, they will have the ability to explore new technologies as part of the wider research and development process, investing in research to further value-driven manufacturing in the marine industry.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/innovation-studio/associate-programme/lush:
As fellow innovators, Lush shares AUB’s vision of discovering new ways to create new products and push the boundaries of design.
Since establishing over 27 years ago, Lush has been driven by innovation and its ethics.
Creators of pioneering beauty products such as the fizzing bath bomb, shower jellies and solid shampoo bars, Lush places emphasis on fresh ingredients like organic fruits and vegetables.
Lush fights tirelessly against animal testing and operates a thoroughly comprehensive Ethical Buying department, developing fair and direct trade initiatives.
Lush leads the cosmetics industry in combating over-packaging by running public awareness campaigns and developing products that can be sold ‘naked’ to the consumer without any packaging.
Today Lush operates in 47 countries with over 900 shops, 38 websites shipping worldwide and a global network of native apps, broadcasting channels and digital communities in over 30 languages.
Lush is made up of teams of curious explorers, expressive creators and passionate experimenters.
They love to discover new ways to create new products, new ways of enjoying them, and never stop searching for the best ways how to make their products available and accessible for their customers and themselves.
This line of thinking aligns Lush perfectly with AUB Innovation Studio's own ethos and desire to innovate through creative design thinking.
A lot of Lush projects start because someone has asked the questions, 'wouldn’t it be cool if....'.
Very often, this is the kick-off to a series of hands-on projects, exploring the possibilities of products they only imagined in their dreams and seemed impossible.
By working with the AUB Innovation Studio Lush are hoping to get greater access to tools and machinery that can support their curiosity in making and a chance to connect with like minded people to explore new ideas.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/innovation-studio/associate-programme/tricuro:
Tricuro utilises its competent, capable and flexible workforce, combining innovation and technology to enhance its service offer to provide personalised care and support.
Learn more about Tricuro, the work they do in the local community and the care they offer using the button below.
Launched in 2015, Tricuro is a join venture local authority trading company owned by Dorset Council and Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole Council.
The company provides high quality care and support to adults, their carers, and families across Dorset, Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole.
Tricuro develops and delivers services that focus on the delivery of complex care, challenging behaviours and end of life care to adults.
Above all else they aim to provide personalised, high quality innovative care and support.
Through the Associate Programme, together AUB and Tricuro will identify opportunities for staff and students to collaborate on commercial projects with support, including but not limited to digital design, digital fabrication and other technical support for mutual benefit.
This includes investigating how photography can be used to better represent Tricuro's clients, carers and families and the Tricuro services that they access.
To do this, Tricuro will be drawing upon the skills and expertise of AUB's photography students and staff to produce authentic and representative imagery.
As an Associate Partner, Tricuro will have access to AUB's Lab 4 Creative Technologies meaning they can explore new solutions in an exciting and innovative way, including utilising AUB’s research and practice into digital learning technologies and platforms.
The purpose of this will be to develop new capabilities within Tricuro that will ultimately help the business to diversify its income streams and support improvements in the sustainable delivery of key health and wellbeing activities.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/innovation-studio/associate-programme/aetha-design-studio:
Aetha Design Studio is a Poole-based product design consultancy that works with start-ups and global brands including Aquapac, Acro, Osprey and Lily’s Kitchen .
Since its founding in 2008, the privately owned consultancy has grown from a team of two to six, and built a reputation for innovative design.
The studio have designed products in a vast range of areas including homeware, art, film, soft goods, aviation, lifestyle, sports equipment and medical sectors.
Known best for their ability to start “building and making” early on in the design process, Aetha challenges the normal industrial design approach with an onsite workshop and an advanced technical foundation formed from a varied team of designers with backgrounds in product engineering, soft goods and industrial design.
The studio is owned and run by Bournemouth University alumni Tom and Sophie.
The team of designers have worked previously in-house as Design Engineers for Dyson , The Metropolitan Police and ITW.
Past projects that Aetha Design Studio has been involved with include:
The AUB Innovation Team have always been supportive of Aetha from the early days as a start-up and therefore Aetha always like to support and collaborate with the AUB alumni and current students where possible.
Aetha’s long term goals are to design more sustainable, waste reducing products which consequently reduce the environmental impact production has on the world including the sea which hugs our coastline.
As an associate partner, Aetha Design will have access to the AUB’s Lab 4 Creative Technologies meaning they can explore potential new innovative techniques.
The consultancies capabilities in-house will also develop and grow to use some of the equipment which is based at the AUB’s Lab including Fabric Printing, VR and equipment which Aetha does not currently have in-house in their workshop.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/innovation-studio/associate-programme/shore-architecture:
As fellow designers, Shore Architecture shares AUB’s ethos of design-led solutions, favouring ongoing academic research and current innovative ideas to explore all possible solutions.
The spectrum of architectural projects undertaken by Poole-based firm Shore Architecture is wide reaching, including small scale single extensions, roof conversions, bespoke residential houses, social housing, master planning and unique research projects and exploratory studies.
The company prides themselves on being involved with live research projects across all areas of art and architecture from product design, urban analysis and innovative exhibitions that explore the contemporary design and research initiatives.
They aim to create spaces and installations that test the perception of art and architecture.
Director Paul Richardson is an AUB Master of Architecture (Part 2 ARB/RIBA) alumni, so is keen to engage and collaborate with AUB students and staff on an industry level and looks forward to using the wealth of knowledge available to Shore Architecture as part of the Associate Programme.
As an associate partner, Shore Architecture will have access to the AUB’s Lab 4 Creative Technologies meaning they can explore potential new innovative prototyping techniques.
This will prove valuable when testing new materials and techniques to create and design site models for architectural projects.
In this regard, AUB's CNC router is of particular interest.
The opportunities to experiment with new design technologies, such as VR and associated software such as Twin Motion and Gravity Sketch , are equally exciting for Shore Architecture.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/innovation-studio/residency/element-creative:
Andy Griggs and Paul Brocklesby founded specialist design company Element Creative Ltd.
in 2020.
The Bournemouth-based business joined the Residency Programme to expand their offering of prototypes and components.
We're proud to have Andy and Paul on board as our residents and can't wait to see how Element Creative Ltd.
progresses.
Andy and Paul founded Element Creative Ltd in 2020; it was born from a passion and rich history in design and engineering.
Historically working for and with large blue-chip organisations such as Dyson, BMW and Rolls-Royce Marine, Andy and Paul decided to give up the corporate life.
They began utilising their 25 years combined experience to start offering their own design and engineering services into sectors where they've gained the most knowledge – and can add real value.
Element Creative are a specialist design agency based in Bournemouth.
Having graduated in product and automotive design and gaining years of industrial engineering experience enables Andy and Paul to combine design, engineering and manufacturing services so they can go on the product development journey as far as their customers want to go.
Whether that's conceptual design, design and engineering, or prototyping and setting up for manufacturing.
Currently they focus on marine, automotive and product design which has seen them work on projects from designing tooling for automotive carbon fibre components to designing luxury RIB boats used on super yachts.
The pair don’t like to pigeonhole themselves though, so they're completely open to working on any projects that challenge them creatively with any size company.
In fact, their motto is to be brave and take on new challenges!
Element Creative decided to join the Residency Programme to have access to the collaborative workspace and be able to integrate with likeminded people.
The duo see the access to academia and the potential to collaborate with students, the university and other local businesses on diverse projects.
Likewise, another attraction of the residency was having access to the latest manufacturing equipment available in-house with specialist technicians to operate it.
This is really exciting for Element Creative as Andy and Paul want to start to expand their offering of prototypes and components, as was always the intention for the business.
When asked what they hope to achieve though the residency, Andy and Paul say:
"The business started successfully and has grown to a point where we haven’t had the capacity, resource or access to the equipment to enable us to move forward.
It is our goal whilst being at the Innovation Studio to fast track the design, development and execute a go-to-market strategy of our own product with help and influence from collaborative working and the facilities available at the AUB and Innovation Studio."
So far throughout their residency, the team have utilised the materials library and have created designs that they plan to have manufactured on the SLA and SLS printers in the 3D printing hub.
Soon, too, they plan to requesting time on the 5-Axis CNC and Router in the digital fabrication workshop.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/innovation-studio/associate-programme/etch:
As fellow collaborators, Etch continually challenges the status quo and actively seeks to find innovative and smarter ways of working together.
Etch is a digital partner for businesses looking to transform and thrive.
Based in Southampton, for over twenty years they've been helping organisations solve business, marketing and customer experience problems when it matters most, leveraging digital technologies to change how they operate and accelerate growth.
They are strategic by nature and built for rapid delivery, priding themselves on developing clearer paths, deployed in less time, generating greater impact sooner.
Services they offer includes building and delivering world-class digital products and experiences, using fast and effective delivery methods that activate teams, untangle processes, and bring opportunities to life.
They also design, build and execute world-class gaming experiences that create meaningful connections and maximise player engagement.
Etch is a digital customer experience consultancy that for over twenty years, has helped to reimagine, define, and deliver future state customer experiences for hundreds of organisations globally.
Etch exists to help their people, clients, and partners get further, faster.
Accelerating the progression of all and fulfilling undiscovered potential is their reason for being.
It's what gets them out of bed in the morning, and it's what keeps them going day in, day out.
Their partnership with AUB is one of many ways they’re living their purpose.
By giving their people access to flexible workspaces and industry-standard digital and physical manufacturing equipment in AUB's Creative Lab for Technologies , they’re also giving them permission to be curious, explore new technologies and meet other like-minded people.
Speaking of like-minded people, Etch would love to know more about the wider creative community in the BCP area.
Etch are experts in creativity, tech, business and innovation so they might be able to lend you a hand or collaborate in some way!
Etch is built on a foundation of collaboration, and as such it's important for them to build strong working relationships amongst their teams which is why they encourage teams to participate in team building days and retreats.
Check out the Etch team in action at a recent away day.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/industry-patrons:
Each course has an Industry Patron, who'll share their experience, new insight and innovation with our specialist subjects.
Please note: further information about our Industry Patrons is coming soon.
James Hancock is the founder of photographic agency Hancock and Handsome ﻿(H&H).
The agency works with...
BA (Hons) Fine Art has collaborated with Visual Art South West (VASW) to create new career advice resources.
These resources...
Creative Director Wes Richardson and his team have delivered inspiring and exciting connections and insights for our students...
For the past 25 years, Lush has pioneered intricate pictorially exciting products such as the fizzing bath bomb, shower jellies...
Through collaboration and partnership, AUB and Josh will develop new ways of...
Fiona Hayes is a creative director, designer and educator with over 35 years of international experience in publishing...
She co-founded Mahogany...
is based in Ringwood, has been running for more than 40 years and has been involved...
Paul Hilton is lead environment artist at Treehouse Digital, currently working on a feature film project utilising Unreal Engine...
Carol is a freelance costume production manager, costume supervisor and assistant designer who works across theatre, film...
Kashif Sharma-Patel is a writer, poet and editor at the87press.
They work at the interface of sonic, visual and written...
Howard Burden is an Emmy award-winning costume designer who's been creating...
Happy Hour Productions is a leading TV and video advertising agency in the UK.
Ranked in the Top 40...
Jane Tyler is a freelance hair and make-up artist in television and film.
Her career...
HCC Property Services is the in-house architecture and design department...
Rebecca is a project director in the interiors team at TP Bennett, with an extensive...
Anna Taylor is an embroidery designer specialising in freehand Irish machine embroidery and creative digital embroidery...
Amy Backwell is a London-based artist and Inclusion Champion with more than seven years’ experience in the animation and VFX...
The Fabricant has been pioneering fashion-tech since 2018, working at the intersection of technology, creativity and fashion...
As a visual arts and educational charity dedicated to cultivating creativity, collaboration, and community...
Mark Smith has a depth of experience in working with many leading design practices and publishers, helping them to...
Katie Godman is the curator at Blandford Fashion Museum and visiting lecturer at Lawrence College.
She's given talks on...
They help people thrive...
Paul Carey-Kent is an internationally renowned critic, curator and writer.
He is the former editor of Art World...
Wendy Carrig is a British-Irish photographer based in London, renowned for her narrative-driven work focused on...
Daniel is a practitioner, curator and historian of modern and contemporary art, specialising in feminist, queer...
Holding a Liberal Arts BA from St Mary’s College, Los Angeles, Michelle Zeitlin’s creative journey began in ballet...
Ania Trzebiatowska is a Los Angeles-based feature film programmer for the Sundance Film Festival, focusing on both US and...
Sarah Hyndman is the founder of Type Tasting and the author of Why Fonts Matter.
She entertains audiences with her unique...
Over the past 15 years, whilst running...
Debbie is a multiple-award-winning architect and CEO, celebrated speaker and a painter.
She is the founder...
She works with communities in the field of planning...
An international platform, global in reach, they've been...
Our courses are designed to equip you with the skills and knowledge to succeed in today's changing economy.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/thegallery/support-thegallery:
At TheGallery, our mission is to make art and inspiration accessible to all while continuing to reflect the University’s commitment to excellence in education, industry, and the arts.
This year, we celebrate 25 years of TheGallery.
To continue our role as a pivotal resource for contemporary art and design in the south of England, we've launched this support page to enable our supporters to donate.
We all have our own art heroes, and now we're asking for you to be ours.
Your support will enable us to:
As a renowned arts education institution of global standing, Arts University Bournemouth, benefits from digital and physical showcases of art, design, performance and media.
One of our many strengths is our excellent gallery, which celebrates 25 years of innovative exhibitions, as well as commissions, site-specific works and other opportunities for emerging and established talent.
25 years is a significant milestone and as Vice-Chancellor, I'm delighted to play my part in recognising all that it's achieved, and celebrating its success, now and far into the future.
Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive Officer, AUB
TheGallery has forged many strong partnerships with local organisations and businesses such as GIANT Gallery, the Russell-Cotes Art Gallery & Museum, Arts by the Sea, Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra, and West Beach.
Further afield, TheGallery has worked with prestigious venues such as Redfern Gallery and Dublin Castle, to inspire people outside our region.
TheGallery believes that learning doesn't just take place in the classroom, which is why it launched its Schools and Education Programme in 2010.
The programme aims to showcase creative talent and inspire young people to engage with the arts in a gallery setting.
A diverse range of activities is offered to local schools free of charge and is a unique opportunity for young learners to engage with original artworks.
Activities include exhibition workshops, talks, and gallery tours.
TheGallery also works closely with All Access AUB, a unique and intensive programme of activity for post-16 students from underrepresented groups.
It was designed to support entry to creative higher education and students enrolled on the scheme take part in a summer residential, have their work included in an industry-standard exhibition, receive one-to-one portfolio support from AUB tutors, and attend a 'transition to creative HE' event.
In 2000, TheGallery established its volunteering and work placement programme providing opportunities to develop student skills in curating, collection management, marketing and events management, gaining an insight into the arts and how a professional gallery operates.
A number of students from this programme are now working as curators, gallery managers, gallery education co-ordinators, and gallery directors in some the world's most established art organisations, including Tate Modern, National Trust, White Chapel, British Museum, Hauser & Wirth, and TheGallery to name just a few.
TheGallery is always keen to showcase the creative talents of AUB alumni through exhibitions.
It's an integral part of AUB’s alumni network and works closely with AUB& , a dedicated platform bringing together alumni, staff and final year students, to share exciting news, features, discussions, career opportunities in the creative arts and more.
TheGallery prides itself on exhibiting national and international artists and designers.
It hosts a diverse programme of exhibitions, artist talks, panel discussions and other engaging events, with past names including designer Morag Myerscough, artist Brian Clarke, Zaha Hadid Architects, photographer Philip Townsend, and Professor Sir Peter Cook, renowned architect and AUB alumnus who also designed the University’s CRAB Drawing Studio.
TheGallery brought National Museums Scotland’s exhibition Body Beautiful: Diversity on the Catwalk to the University and local region.
TheGallery runs its own Touring Exhibition Programme, curating high-quality exhibitions that have toured both nationally and internationally.
This includes its noted celebration of the designer Lucienne Day with the touring exhibition Lucienne Day: Living Design .
AUB has a series of art collections on display across the campus.
These include the University’s own collections, and artworks on loan from public and private collections, including TheGallery’s art collection from Arts Council Collection England.
The sculpture and design portfolio includes pieces by Tim Harrisson and Tony Cragg, and the CRAB Drawing Studio designed by Professor Sir Peter Cook.
TheGallery also has a collection of student and alumni work, which is displayed across the University’s campus and student halls.
TheGallery is a valuable learning resource for the University and is integrated into the teaching and research of our students and staff.
It's recently supported in the design of courses that form part of AUB’s School of Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management .
TheGallery team also gives guest lectures and host workshops across the University’s degree courses, gives welcome talks and tours to students in TheGallery, and mentors both staff and students on curatorial projects.
TheGallery produces a number of publications through the text + work concept, commissioning written reflections from some of today’s most prominent curators, critics, artists, designers, and filmmakers.
All our publications are limited editions.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/ian-mckeever-donates-artworks-to-aub-permanent-collection:
Contemporary abstract artist and Royal Academician Ian McKeever has generously donated three artworks to Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) to be included in the University's permanent collection.
An Honorary Fellow of AUB, McKeever announced his decision to donate the artworks following his exhibition, Ian McKeever: Against Architecture , which took place at the University as part of TheGallery's 25th anniversary celebrations in 2023.
This exhibition was a new configuration of an installation originally curated by Robin Klassnik of Matt's Gallery, London, in 2017.
Two of the works donated, Eagduru Study (2013) and Eagduru Study (2014) were part of the Against Architecture exhibition.
Former AUB Principal and Vice-Chancellor Professor Paul Gough, and TheGallery Curator and Manager Violet M.
McClean joined McKeever at his studio in June 2024 to select the large painting, Here I , from the Four Quartet series, on behalf of the University.
McKeever played a significant role in TheGallery's history as the first artist to exhibit in 2003, alongside poet David Miller.
He was later a panel member in 2021 on The Grammar of Drawing panel discussion.
As part of the Against Architecture exhibition at AUB, TheGallery and ANOMIE Publishing collaborated on a new publication, also entitled Against Architecture, which is published under TheGallery's text + work series.
In her chapter titled, The Curator’s Passage in Time, Violet talks about the exhibition at AUB, McKeever's art practice, and his relationship with the University.
At the celebration event for Paul Gough in January, Violet said, "On behalf of the University, I would like to formally acknowledge and thank our AUB Honorary Fellow of 2002, renowned artist Ian McKeever, for his generous donation of three artworks to AUB’s art collection.
"Ian is not just an Honorary Fellow, he is a good friend of the University, too.”
An AUB Honorary Fellowship is a highly prestigious award which the University bestow to persons who have connected with AUB and made a significant contribution to the field of arts, design, media or performance in a professional capacity or an educational role.
Ian McKeever’s first solo exhibition was held in 1973 at the ICA, London.
In 1989, he was awarded the prestigious DAAD scholarship in Berlin, which was followed in 1990 by a major retrospective exhibition at the Whitechapel Gallery, London.
He's participated in numerous museums exhibitions including Dialogue, Moderna Museet, Stockholm (1985); New Abstraction, Museo Nacional Centro de Arte, Reina Sofia, Madrid and Museu d'Art Contemporani de Barcelona (1996); Royal Academicians in China, National Gallery, Beijing, Shanghai Art Museum and Royal Academy of Arts, London (2005); Tate Britain (2011), and National Museum of Norway (2012).
Solo museums exhibitions include Kunsthalle Nuremberg, Kunstverein Braunschweig (1987); Porin Taidemuseo (1997); Kunsthallen Brandts, Odense (2001); Royal Academy of Arts, London (2010); Sønderjylland Kunstmuseum (2011); Josef Albers Museum, Bottrop (2012), and Kunst-Station Sankt Peter, Cologne (2014).
His work is represented in numerous public collections, including Tate, British Museum, Royal Academy of Arts, London; Museum Moderner Kunst, Vienna; Museum of Fine Art, Budapest; Louisiana Museum of Modern Art, Humlebæk; Glyptotek, Copenhagen; Museum of Contemporary Art, Helsinki; Brooklyn Museum of Art, New York; Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York; Boston Museum of Fine Art and Yale Center for British Art, Connecticut.
In 2003, Ian McKeever was appointed a Royal Academician.
For further information, visit Ian McKeever's website.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/a-special-send-off-aub-marks-retirement-of-professor-paul-gough-with-celebratory-exhibition:
TheGallery at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) marked the retirement of former Principal and Vice-Chancellor Professor Paul Gough with an exhibition of his works.
The event, which opened on Thursday 30 January, saw colleagues, academics, and artists celebrate Paul’s years of service to arts education and also welcomed Lisa Mann to the role of Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive Officer .
An exhibition of Paul's artwork and publications, Purbeck, Penwith and Purnululu featured seven bodies of work, including West Penwith , Cornwall; Warbarrow; The Isle of Purbeck and Winspit Purbeck Coast, Dorset; Landscapes Fantastique, Purnululu and The Art of Creative Research .
“Most of the work was started on location and then completed in the studio," Paul explains.
"Occasionally the external conditions were simply too hostile for painting or drawing.
“I use a range of media – ink and acrylic as an underpaint, with chalks, pastel and charcoal as the final layer.
Though it’s rarely that logical, as all sorts of improvisations happen in the alchemy of the studio.
Each piece can take many months as I have a habit of returning to them long after they’re ‘finished’ and on many occasions I’ve taken the work back on site to revisit the original idea.”
After 40 years in higher education, including 10 years spent in the most senior leadership positions in this country and overseas, Paul stepped down as Vice-Chancellor of AUB in January 2025.
Marking this moment, Chair of AUB Board of Governors Dorothy Mackenzie placed on record the Board’s appreciation of Paul's distinctive contribution, adding that, "he has brought extraordinary energy and vision to AUB, as well as providing inspirational leadership both internally and more broadly across the sector."
Paul was appointed to the position of Principal and Vice-Chancellor at AUB in 2019 having served six years as Vice-President at RMIT University, Melbourne, Australia.
During his tenure in Bournemouth, as part of the new 2030 Strategy which he led, the University grew from 3,000 students to over 4,600 and expanded to include online and hybrid delivery through a suite of new Master’s courses designed for the global market.
As part of an expanded portfolio of courses, new validation partnerships were established in London, and transnational AUB degrees devised in Southeast Asia.
The School of Arts, Media and Creative Industries Management was opened in 2023 and significant progress made on the pathway to gaining research degree awarding powers.
Achieving a markedly improved return for REF 2021, the university has significantly increased its industry engagement, opening an Innovation Studio, funded by ERDF and LEP, in 2020 and maximising its civic engagement through several town centre initiatives including the purchase and restoration of the Palace Court Theatre , which opened its doors to community and stakeholders in 2023.
As a result of its increased business and community engagement AUB was awarded HEIF funding for the first time in 2022 and again in following years.
As a mark of its research growth in creative technologies, AUB was awarded competitive research funding of £1.64 million from the AHRC E3 programme, for the Plastics Innovation and Curation (PlastIC) Research Centre.
McClean, TheGallery Curator and Manager at AUB, says, "In a remarkable 40 years of service to the arts and arts education, Paul has left a true legacy on the creative landscape.
He has mentored, taught, and inspired thousands and thousands of artists as well as having developed and enriched the careers of many in the arts.”
During his tenure as Vice Chancellor at AUB, Paul maintained an active studio practice and exhibited in UK, Southeast Asia, the USA and Australia.
In addition to other scholarly works, he completed a monograph on the painter Gilbert Spencer RA, published by Yale University Press in 2024.
Paul also maintained a high media profile, particularly in regard his published works on the street artist Banksy, amassing 1.7 million views for a TikTok video on the artist that went viral in the summer of 2022.
He's now finalising his latest book on Banksy, which will be published this year.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/ba-hons-graphic-design-student-finalises-new-rockreef-mascot:
A first-year BA (Hons) Graphic Design student at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) has weighed in on the final design of a brand-new mascot for Bournemouth Pier attraction, RockReef.
The family-friendly indoor climbing centre, which celebrates its 10th birthday this year, launched a county-wide competition via Dorset’s schools inviting children under 16 to tap into their imaginations and create a unique mascot that embodies the spirit of RockReef.
Over 100 creative and colourful entries were submitted, showcasing the incredible imagination and talent of local young artists.
12-year-old Izabela Kaczynska was named the winner, after careful deliberation by a judging panel that included Violet M.
McClean, Curator and Manager at TheGallery at AUB .
“[Izabela's] thoughtful and vibrant mascot design perfectly embodied RockReef’s ethos and was praised for its adventurous spirit and comforting qualities for nervous climbers," says Violet.
“We were delighted to present Izabela with a prize from AUB of a free space on one of our Saturday Art School courses, which are perfect for aspiring young artists, makers, and designers like Izabela.
We are very much looking forward to welcoming her on campus soon and seeing what she creates next!”
To prepare the design for its official debut, BA (Hons) Graphic Design student Bennett Roberts worked to finesse the mascot’s final look.
Bennett’s expertise helped bring the design to life, while staying true to Izabela’s vision.
“I’m from Bournemouth originally and remember going to birthday parties at RockReef when I was a kid, so it was really fun for me to work on this project," says Bennett.
"I was really impressed with Izabela’s design, it was a fantastic starting point, I can’t believe she’s only 12!
“It was a great learning experience for me to work on a live brief, especially so early on into my Graphic Design course.
I went with Stephanie Horan, my Course Leader from the Foundation year at AUB who first told me about the competition, to go and visit James, the Group Marketing Manager at RockReef.
“That meeting was really good; I got to hear from James – the client – about what he needed from the final design, what it would be used for, and how it would be used.
Then I went off and worked on Izabela’s initial design in line with James’ brief and turned it into something that was market-ready.
“I sent my work to James every Thursday for him to review and for him to give me feedback, I think we went through three or four revisions in total, and I definitely became more confident as the project went on, especially with Adobe Illustrator, and I’m much more comfortable now working on such a big project.
“I loved how collaborative the project was too, and how we all worked together from Izabela’s initial design to me and James working together, through to the final design which I’m really pleased with, it’s amazing seeing it brought to life as this cardboard cutout, and I can’t wait to see it as a proper real-life mascot!”
The winning mascot, along with the top 10 designs, were featured in an exhibition at RockReef, curated by AUB, celebrating the creativity and talent of our local community.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/campus/thegallery/school-workshops:
We believe that learning does not just take place in the classroom, it happens everywhere.
That’s why we offer a diverse program of TheGallery free-of-charge activities for schools that offer young people the unique opportunity to engage with original artworks.
This is a unique opportunity for schools, with activities ranging from exhibition workshops, talks and tours.
We have a range of activities for students to get involved with.
New workshop dates and further information about our current and upcoming exhibitions held in will be held on TheGallery page.
To book a workshop or to find out more information, please email schools@aub.ac.uk .
Exclusive Exhibition Tour provided by TheGallery staff.
If requested, TheGallery Curators or Designers can talk on the current exhibitions, the making or curation of the shows.
Exclusionary art practice specifically designed to match a current show and the artist’s technique.
TheGallery space is always available as a study platform, where students can come by and independently engage with the exhibition, choose their favourite artefact and maybe even try to draw it themselves!
Our school workshops are led by Associate Lecturers from the Arts University Bournemouth, who are specialized in a variety of fields in art, media and design.
Class sizes are no more than 20 students per group and workshops usually last two hours.
All materials are provided.
Please email schools@aub.ac.uk or call 01202 363016 for more details and to inquire about our availability.
When contacting please ensure you provide us with the following information:
We offer a huge range of opportunities to a variety of different schools and colleges such as campus tours, open days, and Saturday Art School.
Creativity: Despite qualifying in a certain field, creative thinkers rise in any industries as the most valuable assets in a team.
Studying arts encourages and trains students to always seek for fresh ideas, innovative problem-solving solutions and progress.
Collaboration: Team effort is crucial to complete tasks at any job.
By working on art projects, students learn essential teamwork skills, improving their communication, behaviour, practising their patience.
Their developed skills can strengthen their efficiency at any future tasks, no matter the field.
Confidence: Art projects can help students who are often shy in a general classroom environment to step up and talk about their ideas.
Seeing the finished product can provide a sense of pride and encouragement to strive for bigger achievements.
With the confidence gained, they are capable to step out of their comfort zone and take more risks in any areas of their lives.
Cultural Awareness & Empathy: Art is leading as a creative way of learning and deepening youth’s knowledge of different cultures, societies, past and current events.
Expressing what people from other cultures went through, political, social issues they struggled with through art can help young individuals become more empathetic and tolerant.
Critical Thinking: When working on an art project, students have to think about the concept and possible interpretation of the artwork, they also need to develop and practice their logic and problem-solving to finish their task, which is an essential thing when working in any industry.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/spotlight-on-3:
This is the third in a series of exhibitions that put the spotlight on manufacturers and designers who embrace plastics as a material of value.
This exhibition celebrates the work of 11 designers who have used plastics in their work to some extent.
Many plastics objects that we, as consumers, encounter daily have no maker’s mark on them.
This means that we don't know who took the time and effort to design them; sometimes we don't even know who manufactured them.
Because this effort or value is hidden behind a barrier of anonymity, we can't see it.
As such, the object may be perceived as valueless especially when the product has been mass produced as in the case of many plastics objects.
If a designer’s name is associated with an object it shows that they value it.
That the manufacturer values the product and values the designer.
The object is no longer anonymous but has additional biography that helps us to understand it better.
From a museum perspective, knowing the designer and the manufacturer of an object means we can tell more engaging stories about the object.
We can find out more about the designer as a person, what motived them, who they worked for, when they were active in their field, what opportunities they had to succeed, or, in the case of some of the designers in this exhibition, what obstacles they may have faced in their career.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/rethread:
Dates and times: 12 July 2024 – 3 January 2025, 08.30–21.00 (weekdays); 09.00–16.00 (weekends)
Location: Museum of Design in Plastics (MoDiP), AUB Campus
At the current time, the fashion and textiles industry faces many sustainability challenges.
These may be related to production processes, waste generated by fast fashion, resources needed for growing and producing natural fibres, as well as the shedding of microfibres (both natural and synthetic), and the energy and chemicals used in the extraction of feedstocks and processing of fabrics.
Synthetic fibres, such as polyester and nylon, are some of the most widely used materials in the fashion and textiles industry today.
They provide specialist characteristics that other materials cannot replicate, especially when it comes to sports specific and outdoor clothing.
They do, however, add to the negative environmental impact of the sector.
This exhibition investigates some of the innovations in the fashion and textiles industry to mitigate the environmental impact of synthetic fibres.
It features objects that are made of bio-based alternatives to fossil fuel reliant materials, it looks at the use of recycled rather than virgin fibres, and the avoidance of materials that exploit animals to create fashion items.
Visit to the MoDiP website for more information about this exhibition .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/courses/adult-learning-and-short-courses/photography/digital-photography-essential-techniques-stage-1:
This introductory photography course explains how your camera works and will teach you all you need to know about how to use it effectively.
You can also sign up to our newsletter for short course updates.
This introductory photography course explains how your digital camera works and will teach you all you need to know about using it effectively to help you achieve creative control in your photography.
Through a series of demonstrations and practical projects, you'll grow in confidence as you practise and master the camera controls.
Your tutors possess many years of experience in both the industry and as tutors at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB).
They're professional photographers in their own right and will guide you through this introductory course in easy-to-understand and enjoyable stages.
As your course progresses through a series of talks, demonstrations and plenty of practical sessions, you'll be guided through the fundamental principles and practices of digital photography.
You'll begin to understand what essential ingredients and components make for captivating images and you will witness your photography improving with your newly acquired knowledge, skills and abilities.
You'll learn how to take control of your digital camera and lens and appreciate the full creative potential whilst being introduced to the fascinating world of digital image capture.
You'll explore the work of celebrated photographers and learn how to really ‘see’ as a photographer to create more interesting and engaging meaningful photographs.
Throughout the course you'll develop a fundamental understanding of digital camera functions including shutter speed, aperture, ISO, lens functions-control and image-making components, including composition, framing, subject and lighting.
This course is the first in a series of specialist Photography programmes and is recommended for anyone requiring a sound fundamental knowledge of the subject.
At the end of the course you'll:
Will I be assessed?
No, there's no formal assessment.
There's an optional mid-course assignment to enable you to consolidate your skills.
As the course progresses, your tutor will measure your overall performance and offer essential guidance and feedback so you know how you're getting on.
Manager (Short Courses) – Discover Photography – An Introduction (Saturday)
Katrina Carlin is a conceptual photographer holding both a BA (Hons) and MA in Photography...
Tuesday 7 October – 9 December 2025 (10 Tuesdays, 18.00-21.00)
OR
Saturday 4 October – 29 November 2025 (5 alternate Saturdays 09.00-16.00)
(4 October, 18 October, 1 November, 15 November and 29 November 2025)
Tuesday 13 January – 17 March 2026 (10 Tuesdays, 18.00-21.00)
Saturday 17 January – 21 March 2026 (5 alternate Saturdays, 09.00-16.00)
(24 January, 7 February, 21 February, 7 March and 21 March 2026)
Age
Suitable for adults aged 18+.
Level
Beginners or anyone with some experience who want to refresh or develop their skills further.
Experience or qualifications required
None – this is an introductory course.
We have no formal academic entry requirements for our short courses.
If you'd like to discuss if this course is suitable for you, get in touch with us: academy@aub.ac.uk or 01202 363222.
£359
Any additional costs
You'll need to provide basic materials.
This'll incur an additional cost if you need to purchase one for the course.
See the 'What to bring to class' section below for full details.
Course materials included in the price
Any additional materials and resources not listed below will be provided by AUB.
Please read our Terms and Conditions carefully before booking onto our Evening and Weekend courses.
This could just be the start of your creative journey!
After this course, you could further your photography skills with another short course or look to the future and explore our creative qualifications that can prepare you to further your current career, enable you to retrain to an alternative career path or prepare you for future creative arts studies.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aub-students-collaborate-for-poole-pride-we-didnt-know-if-it-was-a-revolution-or-a-party:
Arts University Bournemouth (AUB)’s BA (Hons) Illustration students are exhibiting words and images at Lighthouse Poole on the important and overlooked history of LGBT+ activism in the UK as part of Poole's first-ever Pride.
At the centre of this exhibition is a research project recognising the life and work of one of the more elusive figures involved in this story, campaigner and activist John Chesterman who was closely involved in the formation of the Gay Liberation Front (GLF) in 1970.
The GLF grew rapidly to become a leading voice in gay activism of the 1970s and ‘80s.
As well as helping to establish the UK’s LGBT+ media, the GLF was also an instrumental organiser of the UK’s first-ever gay pride march in 1972.
AUB’s Illustration students collaborated with Bournemouth University (BU) and LUSH to create risograph printed posters, comics, and sequences based on narratives from the life of John Chesterman and other stories related to the rich heritage of queer activism in the UK.
Vincent Larkin, Course Leader of the BA (Hons) Illustration course, explains, "Much of the research and contextualisation of these stories comes from a collaboration between AUB Illustration students and colleagues from Bournemouth University.
"The historical research from BU provided the AUB students with the stories and archives that became the inspiration for their creations.
The artwork will sit playfully alongside BU’s collected archive material and historical works to present the history of gay activism and LGBT+ culture in the UK."
Emma Caswell, Gift Design Lead at LUSH and AUB alumna, explains the cosmetics company’s involvement, "The Gifts Team has been working closely with AUB’s illustration students throughout this project.
From sharing how we use our own risograph machine in prototyping with the students to selecting the pieces for the final exhibition from AUB’s submitted proposals, we’ve been there every step of the way and have really enjoyed the natural collaboration.
"We’re also working with two AUB students, Jo Frenzel and Freya Relfe-Dacey, to develop a limited-edition LUSH Knot Wrap.
Our Knot Wraps are inspired by the Japanese art of wrapping known as Furoshiki, they provide a quick and easy, waste free alternative to paper gift wrap and can be reused and regifted too.
When Knot Wraps are passed forward, it begins a new tradition.
They truly are the gift that keeps on giving."
Jo and Freya's Knot Wraps, based on the Chesterman research, will be sold at the exhibition, with the proceeds going to charity.
"Having the opportunity to take part in the in the collaborative project with Poole Pride has been an incredibly rewarding experience," comments Freya.
"The inspiration for my piece stemmed from the contributions John Chesterman made in the communication and organisation side of gay activism in the '70s and '80s.
"Reading about Chesterman’s story, I felt admiration for his work and passionate about celebrating the vibrant diversity of today’s culture.
Reflecting on the progress made through the struggles of Chesterman and other activists, I am deeply moved by the positive strides made towards inclusivity and love for the LGBTQ+ community.
Jo adds, "When I looked through the Gay Liberation Front archive, the phrase 'The streets are yours, make them sing!' really stuck with me, so I had to make something based on that.
I wanted to show the power of queer joy and community that was so strong and present even back then.
"It's very exciting to have my design made into a real thing, especially by such a big company and in support of Poole Pride and it's lovely being able to represent my community like this."
The John Chesterman exhibition will run at Lighthouse in Poole from 24 May until 16 June.
Visit Lighthouse Poole's website for more information .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aub-productions-presents-still-here:
Dates: 5–7 June 2025
Schools performance (open dress rehearsal): 5 June 2025, 14.00 (age: 11+)
It's 2019 and four teenagers break into the Palace Court Theatre, ready for one last game of ghost-hunt before they leave Bournemouth and childhood behind.
It's 1966 and tempers are rising as the local amateur company put on a play that might save the theatre from closure.
It's 978 and King Edward and his sister Edith look towards Corfe Castle, wondering what the future holds for England.
AUB graduate, actor and playwright Pete Machale ( Let the Right One In, Doctor Who, Dear Young Monster ) returns to AUB with a brand-new script about love, resistance and wanting to stay where you are.
Or is it wanting to stay who you are?
Directed by Stephanie Kempson ( Until the Sun Goes Down, Breathless ) and with dramaturgy by Stephanie Dale ( Salt ), this production sheds a new light on the Palace Court Theatre and the land it stands on, in a poignant evocation of Bournemouth, its stories and its people.
Content warning: Contains references to violence transphobia and homophobia.
Content information will be displayed at the venue.
5 June
19.30
£12
£9.50
£4
£5
6 June
7 June
14.30
PWYC***
* Booking fees included
** Student, child, senior, disability and low income.
You may be asked for proof of eligibility.
Booking fees included.
*** Pay what you can (minimum of £2).

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/aub-productions:
Providing quality theatre, reflecting the highest levels of industry practice.
For exciting drama and high-level entertainment, our programmes offer something for everyone.
Professionally supported, top-quality productions showing off AUB’s wealth of emerging young talent in theatre performance and design.
Building on decades of developing expertise in performance and design, we're thrilled to host our spring season at the University’s Palace Court Theatre in Bournemouth town centre.
Our autumn season will continue at Studio Theatre, Wallisdown, and our sold-out Schools' Tour has been extended to offer public performances at Palace Court Theatre.
AUB Productions: theatre collaborations between industry professionals and students from courses within Bournemouth Film School, including: BA (Hons) Acting , BA (Hons) Costume , BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance , BA (Hons) Make-Up for Media and Performance , BA (Hons) Creative Writing and BA (Hons) Dance .
This is vocational learning in performance and design at the highest level, providing students with key insights into the industry, and opportunities to develop professional skills in multiple roles on and off stage.
These span all areas, including costume, set, acting, make-up, technical, props, prosthetics, hair, make-up, script, front-of-house, stage management and publicity.
Make sure that any AUB production should be on your theatre calendar.
The Visit
It’s edge-of-your-seat stuff, in a production that pulls its audience into the action and lays bare the human condition – another example of the depth of skills and talent currently attracted to AUB, where the students rise to every challenge thrown at them.
Thérèse
A powerful and historically significant piece of theatre that is worth going out of your way to see.
Spring Awakening
Check out our gallery of videos and photos from our performances.
If you'd like to see more full-length clips, including behind-the-scenes footage and interviews with cast members, visit our AUB Productions playlist on YouTube .
AUB Productions is all about collaboration that mirrors the industry.
Hear directly from students that have taken part in our shows from across our creative community, and how it's benefitted their studies.
A love for challenge is what fuels my creative drive – the challenge of solving the puzzle...
Experiencing first-hand how a costume can help a performer slip into their role has...
My experience at AUB has been extremely fun and memorable – I am thankful...
Working on "Still Here" was such a challenging project – to design a set that could transport the audience to three separate...
My love for both storytelling and history...
Costume was so perfect as I felt I could...
Being the Costume Supervisor for AUB Productions’ Emilia!
has ignited my passion for supervision and confirmed what I want...
I’ve been dedicating my time to designing and styling for AUB Productions' Emilia!
I’m fortunate to have been given...
Fight Captain is my top achievement (at this moment!) at AUB – being able to help guide...
My time at AUB has allowed me to develop a creative process whilst rehearsing alongside techniques I use while performing...
For the costume design, I looked at 1400s clothing, French military wear, and also ways to elevate the presentation of the...
My passion for acting has only grown and after the three years that I’ve been here – especially during my third year....
A costume supervisor primarily uses organisation and research skills to help...

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/back-in-show-business-successful-first-year-for-palace-court-theatre-as-spring-2025-season-launches:
The Palace Court Theatre is celebrating a successful 12 months back in the spotlight after its 40-year hiatus.
Acquired by Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) in 2021 from the Wessex Christian Centre, the historic Bournemouth theatre has been reinvigorated with a lively programme of events from students and the community over the last year.
In addition to four shows from AUB Productions in 2024, the Art Deco venue also saw performances from local council organisations and charities including BCP Young Carers and Boscombe’s Vita Nova, as well as productions from local professional theatre groups such as the New Forest-based Forest Forge, and local production company DorsetBorn.
“It’s been wonderful to see the local performing community embrace the theatre so warmly," comments Nicola Cartlidge, Palace Court Theatre Manager.
"With so many different groups using the space alongside AUB Productions, it means we’ve had a delightfully diverse mix of performances from Romeo and Juliet and A Christmas Carol to Grease , The Addams Family , and a professional orchestra, Bath Philharmonia.
The feedback from the audience at every show has just been fantastic, it’s a pleasure to see.”
It's been just as busy offstage with restoration and improvement works continuing all year round, as Nicola explains:
“Our first priority was to get the theatre up and running again.
From updating toilets and dressing rooms, to making the theatre accessible and cleaning the exterior, there’s been a lot already done but the work is definitely ongoing.
“One of the biggest refurbishments of 2024 was to the Club Room.
Being below the theatre, it had some damp issues we needed to fix, and now we have, the space is brilliant, it gives us a whole extra slice of performance space.
A student society were the first to put it to the test with a performance of Miss Julie for two nights in January 2025.
“Following Miss Julie, we transformed the space into a gallery for its first exhibition, The Journey of Being a Boy, celebrating the work and creativity of the young men who have been part of the Being a Boy programme.”
Launching the Spring 2025 season, and the theatre’s second year back in business, is AUB Productions' The Visit , a play by Friedrich Dürrenmatt and directed by David O'Shea.
With a mix of matinée and evening performances from 20–22 March, the darkly comic piece of classic theatre was originally set in postwar Europe and has been reimagined for post-Brexit Britain asking the question: ‘What would you do for money?’
David O'Shea says of The Visit : “In a decrepit town, drowning under the cost-of-living crisis, there’s a sudden glimmer of hope: their local girl-made-billionaire is returning for a nostalgic visit to her dusty hometown.
“Welcome signs are being painted, the town’s choir is practising its tunes, and her long-lost lover is rehearsing the town’s plea for financial support.
But the lady has an offer of her own.
One the town can’t, but must, refuse.”
Alongside The Visit , the new season at the Palace Court Theatre's includes the Performing Arts Society's Footloose: The Musical and Tattoo by The Outsiders Project (part of Bournemouth Emerging Arts Festival).
“As we head into year two of programming the space, the AUB Charitable Foundation is launching an extensive membership programme to gain support from the community to continue to help to bring this beautiful building back to life," says Nicola.
"The ambition is to create a beacon of creativity in the centre of Bournemouth, supporting and growing local creative talent.”
For more information on upcoming shows, including The Visit, head to the Palace Court Theatre page .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/alumna-mumba-dodwell-directs-emilia-to-close-aub-productions-2024-season:
For its final show of 2024, AUB Productions will presented Emilia!
at the Studio Theatre on campus at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB).
The play by Morgan Lloyd Malcolm centres around Emilia Lanier, the first woman to assert herself as a professional poet, who in 1611 published a volume of poems under the guise of religious text to pass the censor.
It also celebrates those historically excluded from the narrative, promoting inclusivity of race and gender by giving voice to perspectives traditionally silenced.
AUB Productions is a collaborative effort, bringing industry professionals together with AUB students from BA (Hons) Acting , BA (Hons) Costume , BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance , and BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance courses.
On this occasion, the students have worked with West End director Mumba Dodwell, herself an AUB alumna who graduated from the BA (Hons) Acting course in 2015.
“The growth in confidence and self has been really memorable to see in the students,” Mumba says.
“Encouraging them to connect with the joy but be confident in showing up to the hard stuff.”
Mumba calls the production, “witty, cheeky and ensemble heavy,” and one that gives a voice to a woman and others whose work and voice weren't traditionally preserved.
“Firstly, Emilia in this production is portrayed as a black woman, which both writer Morgan Lloyd Malcolm and director Nicole Charles have seamlessly made relevant to women past and present,” she explains.
“The desire to be seen as equal and to be given the same space and platform is something I continuously fight for and many other black women do.
“The UK has only ever had three black women debut their plays in the West End, which is appalling.
In this play, we hear Emilia fight to see herself be recognised as a writer; fighting to be seen, but has to bend her voice to fit the world she lives in.
“Working with Mumba Dodwell has been an amazing experience,” says BA (Hons) Acting student Kimberley Mswaka, who plays the titular Emilia.
“She ensured we had a voice and were comfortable with everything in the rehearsal process.
If there is something that I’ve learnt, it is to not be afraid to take up the stage and to not feel like you must be stuck in one place.”
“The show is amazing, hilarious, and powerful.
The production process has been challenging, but so much fun.
I feel that I have learnt a lot throughout the process; not only with the show but also with my character, Emilia – I am so grateful to have this role and journey with her.”
Playing Emilia 2, BA (Hons) Acting's Michelle Sakyi says it was easy to embody her role.
"We share the similar passion of wanting our voices to be heard in a world where we are marginalised and discriminated against for being black and a woman," she explains.
"I obviously had to be careful with these similarities because the problems that we both face are still ongoing and very personal so I had to understand how to separate her struggles from mine.
"The most fun moments were working with the other members of the cast.
Each individual in the cast is filled with so much talent and passion that it was so easy and such a pleasure to share the stage with them.
There was never a dull moment, especially with the river woman!"
Meanwhile, Annika Bryan portrays Emilia 3, the oldest version of the character in the show and, in the performer's words, "a powerful character that took time to fully understand."
"She spends much of the show observing her younger self experience life.
Exploring her feelings of nostalgia and longing was essential to developing the character.
I felt so lucky to be able to tell her story night after night.
"Emilia 3 delivers a powerful speech at the end, which was emotionally challenging for me as an actor, because I connected so deeply with the message.
Immediately after that, the entire cast took part in a big dance and celebration.
It was a great way to release all the emotion.
It gave us a chance to let go of our characters and come together as a company to enjoy the moment and the emotional journey we all went on together during the show."
Now in their final year at AUB, Kimberley, Michelle and Annika all have some idea of their plans after they graduate in 2025.
"I am American, but I plan on staying in England to further my acting career after graduation," Michelle says.
"Being here has helped me develop in my craft beyond anything I could have ever imagined doing.
I believe staying here will only help me grow towards a promising career in the acting industry especially with all the amazing young actors and filmmakers I have met here through networking.
I have an aunt in London who isn’t sick of me yet, so that will be my next destination after graduation."
Annika also plans to move to London to take her first steps in the industry as an actor, saying, "I'm excited to embrace the opportunities ahead and see where this journey will take me!"
Meanwhile, Kimberley plans to tackle both acting and scriptwriting after completing her studies at AUB.
Emilia!
opened at AUB Campus’ Studio Theatre on Thursday 5 December, running until Saturday 7 December.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aub-productions-autumn-2024-season-opens-with-i-joan:
A brand-new season for AUB Productions kick-started at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB)’s Studio Theatre with I, Joan .
The play, written by Charlie Josephine, follows Joan of Arc as they rebel against the world’s expectations and question the gender binary, finding their power within.
All the while tackling themes including gender dysphoria, sexism, and sexual violence.
“The script alone […] is impeccable,” says BA (Hons) Acting student Will Rosander, who plays Charles in the production.
“It’s funny, intelligent, political and so important and relevant in today’s world.
“The director, Elinor Lower, made the rehearsal period fun and interesting for all of us.
They focused a lot on getting the ensemble together with different exercises and a lot of movement.”
Even with an impeccable script and interesting direction, surely portraying a historical figure such as Joan of Arc must present challenges.
“Tackling such a historical figure such as Joan was tricky, especially in Josephine’s queer reimagining of them,” explains BA (Hons) Acting’s Lou Edwards.
“There is so much information to be found about them that it can become overwhelming to decide which bits I wanted for my character and which bits I didn't.
“For example, the fact they were a farmer from Domremy meant that they were lower class, which fuelled my own performance coming from a working class background: I played around with implementing my Black Country accent for them, to see if it separated them from the other, higher class characters, and I think it worked really nicely.
“Playing them was an absolute joy; their ferocity, their intensity, even their cruelty was truly beautiful, because they were only 17, and weren't we all a bit messy at that age?
Once I started focusing on that, then they came to life; became human and here .”
One of the more unique aspects of this production of I, Joan was its predominantly queer cast, as Will explains:
“It was such a privilege to be in a creative space, working on a queer play where the people in the room (queer or not) were fighting for the same goal in creating this important piece of art about queerness, gender identity, equality and liberation.
“Working on I, Joan has been an amazing experience in many aspects.
Most of us were saying throughout the process, and after, that we never wanted this experience to end, which is a very privileged position to be in.”
I, Joan was the first in AUB Productions’ 2024/25 season, running from 7–9 November 2024 at the Studio Theatre, AUB Campus.
AUB Productions is a collaboration between industry professionals and students from AUB’s BA (Hons) Acting, BA (Hons) Costume , BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance , and BA (Hons) Make-up for Media and Performance courses.
Students also toured local schools with their production of Romeo and Juliet , later playing at the Palace Court Theatre on 16 November.
They’ll round 2024 off with Emilia!
at the Studio Theatre from 5 December.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/aub-productions-brings-shakespeare-to-schools-with-romeo-and-juliet-tour:
A production of Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet by students from Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is touring schools across Dorset and Hampshire before opening to the public at the Palace Court Theatre .
Romeo and Juliet will be performed by students from AUB Productions , a collaboration between industry professionals and students from courses within Bournemouth Film School, including BA (Hons) Acting , BA (Hons) Costume , BA (Hons) Design for Costume and Performance , and BA (Hons) Make-Up for Media and Performance .
“Last year’s school tour with Macbeth was such a phenomenal success that we knew we had to do it again this year,” says Jonny Hoskins, Creative Producer at AUB Productions.
“This year’s been the same.
We sold out really quickly and have another, much longer waiting list for next year!
It's great to be able to support local schools and teachers as they inspire and introduce the next generation to Shakespeare.”
From Wednesday 6 November through to Friday 15 November, AUB Productions’ Romeo and Juliet will perform at schools across Dorset and Hampshire including Poole Grammar School, Poole High School, Queen Elizabeth School, The Burgate School, Oak Academy, and Durlston Court School.
Director Fiona Ross says, “As a theatre director and Associate with the Royal Shakespeare Company, I am passionate about offering Shakespeare’s plays to everyone, reclaiming them from the world of academia and placing the stories in a world that resonates with a contemporary audience.
“I always enjoy coming back to AUB to direct.
The students never fail to bring energy, a sense of curiosity and commitment to rehearsals supported by a dedicated team of lecturers, producers and talented designers at the start of their careers, and a professional production team.
I’m especially excited that this production is touring schools, as many young people don’t get the chance to experience a theatre production.”
Assistant director and third-year BA (Hons) Acting student Owen Hudson, who plays Paris in the play, comments, “When I was 13, my school participated in a Shakespeare competition in which multiple schools from across Birmingham performed a shortened version of a popular Shakespeare play.
I played Banquo in Macbeth .
This was one of my first experiences with Shakespeare's work and it was incredible.
“Learning his language through performance made it so much easier to understand the text and character intentions.
Being able to sit and watch the other performances also created a clearer story especially when it came to watching then studying Romeo and Juliet for GCSE English.”
Fellow BA (Hons) Acting student Rebecca Mckinnon plays the Prince and the Apothecary, and also served as Fight Captain – the cast member that leads on daily fight rehearsals.
“Being from a small corner of northeast Scotland, my Academy had very limited drama,” Rebecca says.
“I wish there had been a Shakespeare tour that had come to my school, as this would have opened so many more doors for me.
I am glad to be a part of this school tour and hopefully bring excitement to the students we will be performing for.”
Following the tour, AUB Productions will then bring Romeo and Juliet to the Palace Court Theatre for two performances on Saturday 16 November.
Jonny Hoskins says, “It’s the first performance of the season from AUB Productions at the theatre and we’re all really looking forward to it.
“Having such a fantastic space is so valuable for students and really enhances their real-life experiences on the course.
And it’s great for the public too; they can come and see one of Bournemouth’s few surviving Art Deco theatres in action and see emerging performance artists make their mark.”
Romeo and Juliet will be shown at 14.30 and again at 18.30 on Saturday 16 November at the Palace Court Theatre, Hinton Road, in Bournemouth’s town centre.
For the matinée (14.30) performance, tickets are Pay What You Can (PWYC); for the evening performance, tickets are £10 for adults, or £4 for concessions.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduation/filming-and-photography:
Graduation
We'll have our in-house photographers circling throughout the event capturing those special moments of your day.
A selection of these photos will be available online on the graduation pages of the AUB website in the weeks following the event.
In addition, we'll have a filming crew that'll focus on filming the ceremony for the live stream, which is broadcast on the website.
As part of this service, we're working with our partners at MyGraduationClip to capture the moment every graduand crosses our stage.
MyGraduationClip will use the live feed to produce individual clips as each of our graduands walks across stage.
These will then be available to view after the event via our alumni network portal, AUB&.
All you need to do to redeem your clip following the event is to log into the AUB& Alumni network, once in the portal you will see an area on the homepage where you can download your personal clip.
Once you have it, it's not only a memory you can keep forever of this milestone occasion but you can also share your achievements and success by sharing it on socials!
Please note: If you wish not to be filmed, please get in touch with the graduation team a minimum of two weeks prior to the event.
You can email the team at graduation@aub.ac.uk .
AUB's graduation ceremony is a great time to celebrate your achievements with your family and friends

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduation/graduation-archive:
Your graduation ceremony marks the moment you join our alumni community .
We've collected photos and videos of the AUB graduation ceremonies from over the years, which are free for you to download and enjoy.
We’re missing a few, though, so if you have any photos from your Graduation ceremony that you’d like to share with your alumni community, please send them to alumni@aub.ac.uk .
Congratulations, graduates of 2025!
If you missed out on the day, don't worry.
You can play back the full videos from each of the four 2025 Graduation ceremonies below.
Photos from both days are coming soon.
Good news — as a Graduate, you are automatically part of the AUB Alumni Community.
From the moment your graduation ceremony ends, you’ll become a part of a growing community of artists, performers, organisers, makers and doers that make up the AUB alumni.
We’d really like to keep in touch with you.
To ensure we have your most recent email address, you can update your details here .
Whether your certificate was lost, you never received it, or if it’s been damaged — we can help.
Use the information below to order a replacement graduation certificate, or to order a transcript of your marks.
BTEC Certificates and Diplomas issued by EdExcel (now Pearson) You can order a replacement certificate .
Foundation Certificates and Diplomas issued by UAL You can order a replacement certificate .
Higher Education qualifications – Foundation degree, BA or MA If you graduated up to and including July 2009, your award was validated and issued by the University for the Creative Arts, Farnham.
To order a replacement certificate, please email the UCA Student Records department at studentrecords@uca.ac.uk .
If you graduated from August 2009 onwards, your award was validated and issued by AUB.
You can order a replacement certificate .
If you graduated in 2010 and chose to have your award issued by UCA rather than AUB, you can order a replacement certificate .
Ordering transcripts If you graduated in 2015 or afterwards, your Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR) is available to access from Gradintel .
In order to access this, you must activate your user account.
You will have received an email with guidance on this soon after you graduated from AUB.
If you’re having trouble remembering your password for Gradintel, please contact them directly.
Please contact us by emailing studentrecords@aub.ac.uk for the following enquiries:
You can also take a look at our frequently asked questions page here.
If you graduated prior to 2015, then you can request a copy of your transcript to be provided by email free of charge, or a printed copy to be supplied by post at a cost of £10.
To request a free email copy please email studentrecords@aub.ac.uk , stating your name at the time you were studying, your date of birth, the year you graduated and the award you achieved.
Please use this link to order a printed copy of your transcript to be supplied by post.
If you have any questions about your certificate, transcript or your HEAR, please email studentrecords@aub.ac.uk and we will be happy to help.
You can play back the full videos from each of the four 2024 Graduation ceremonies below.
Also have a flick through our 2024 photo galleries from both days.
You'll find the full videos from each of the three 2023 Graduation Ceremonies to playback below, as well as our Highlight video.
You'll find the full videos from each of the three 2022 Graduation Ceremonies to playback below, as well as our Highlight video.
You'll find the full videos from each of the 3 2021 Graduation Ceremonies to playback below.
You'll find the full videos from each of the 2020 Graduation Ceremonies to playback below.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/graduation/aub:
Alumni
AUB& is a dedicated platform that brings together all our Alumni, staff and final year students, to share exciting news, features, discussions, careers in the creative arts and more.
Discover how our graduates are leading the way in creative roles across a diverse range of sectors, including architecture, science, media and design.
You’ll also be able to reach out to people you studied alongside – and people you didn’t – to form professional and personal connections through your desire to be a part of our graduate community.
We believe that our connection with you continues far beyond Graduation.
We want to keep in touch, share our exciting news with you, and offer you exclusive opportunities, like Q&A sessions with industry experts, competitions, and events.
Our new platform has been created to nurture these invaluable networks, forging friendships, partnerships and collaborations that continue to demonstrate AUB’s longstanding commitment and devotion to the creative arts.
What are the benefits of joining AUB&?
Through AUB&, you'll be able to:
AUB& is your one-stop-shop for a variety of things.
It’s home to our Alumni and will allow you to search for profiles of other AUB alumni and expand and develop your professional creative networks.
You can search for jobs, get some career advice, and share exciting news on projects and events.
But it’s not all about work – it also allows you to stay in touch with those friends you’ve made throughout your time at university, as people relocate for jobs or move to new countries.
Perhaps you’ve lost touch with old friends and want to use the platform to search for them.
AUB& is your alumni community.
AUB& isn’t just somewhere to go to develop and build on your creative network; it's also a way of embracing the community.
We often receive requests from our alumni asking how they can get more involved with us, our students, or other graduates.
AUB& allows this engagement to happen on a regular basis.
If you’d like to support and offer guidance to those in the alumni community at any stage of their creative career, you can put yourself forward to offer the following services:
Alumni looking for these services will be able to search for you and contact you in relation to the service you’re willing to offer.
We know there’ll be times when you get too busy.
Maybe a big new commission comes in.
But don't worry – we understand that this happens, so you’re able to turn these services on and off at any time.
If you're someone that wants to get involved in a different way, you can:
You can invite your fellow graduates onto the platform if you can see they haven’t joined and send requests directly to them.
AUB& is there for you.
It’s your community, it will continue to grow and evolve.
You’re essential to bringing the community to life!
It’s simple: it takes just a few minutes to create your profile and upload it to the AUB& platform, and that’s it, you’re up and running!
If you have other profiles, such as LinkedIn, you can also sync them with your profile at the same time.
Don’t worry – behind the scenes, we’ll be verifying all of those that join our network, so you can be sure you’re only talking to fellow AUB staff and graduates.
Any student that has graduated from AUB is an alumnus and is welcome to join our online alumni community.
This includes graduates from:
No, the AUB& platform is a free service for all our alumni, allowing you to stay in touch and build upon your creative networks after leaving AUB.
If there’s anything you need or you simply want to say hello, you can email the team at alumni@aub.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/alumni/get-involved:
You may have left but you’re certainly not forgotten.
If you have a story you’d like to feature on our website or could talk to our current students about your career, we’d love to hear from you.
Drop us a line and let us know what you are up to.
After years of study at AUB, leaving our creative community on campus isn't easy.
So what better way to stay connected that by volunteering?
There is no set requirement on how much or how little time you can volunteer.
We have a variety of ways that you can engage with current students and the university.
If you are interested in volunteering then we want to hear from you.
Please contact our Alumni team on alumni@aub.ac.uk and talk to us about how you’d like to volunteer.
You can volunteer as much or as little time as you wish and our team are always willing to discuss new opportunities.
Host a Talk Been there, done that.
We’re sure you have many stories and experiences that can be shared with current students.
What better way to inspire current students than by offering motivation and guidance in the form of your One Piece of Advice?
Mentor Use your experience to support current AUB students through course talks, or through one-to-one sessions supported by course leaders.
Offer a Work Placement Opportunity Do you have a work placement opportunity that would allow current AUB students to put their studies into practice?
Why not give them their first taste of life in the creative industries!
Offer Event Assistance Think the good old days of walking around campus are gone?
Think again!
If you are interested in supporting our team at various recruitment events including open days and UCAS fairs, do get in touch, we’d love for you to join us.
Visit a School Do you have a passion for the creative industries and want to inspire the next generation?
Along with our team why not visit a school and be the key speaker offering valuable first-hand insight into life in the creative industry, after all you’ve taken the journey so why not share it!
As well as sharing an educational history with some of the world's great creatives, there are a few other benefits to being among our alumni.
20% Discount on MA Programmes for AUB Alumni Build on your achievements and join any one of our nine specialist MA courses at a discounted rate.
Use of AUB's Library Facilities Our Library is dedicated to creative education and arts and, as alumni, you can access it at any time – for free.
Free Careers' support for three years after graduation This includes three career coaching sessions every year for three years post-graduation, with unlimited access to our AUB Futures Careers Platform .
The platform has a wealth of careers resources, webinars as well as jobs and opportunities.
You can register on the platform and book a career coaching appointment by emailing futures@aub.ac.uk .
Access to jobs and opportunities on AUB Futures Hub Find a wealth of opportunities and kick-start your career with help from our online careers and opportunities platform, AUB Futures Hub.
Register as alumni and you'll be given unlimited access within 24 hours once your registration is authorised.
Discounted Membership at SportBU From gym and fitness facilities to beach volleyball and archery classes, Bournemouth University’s sport facilities are available to all AUB alumni.
For more details or to make use of these benefits please email alumni@aub.ac.uk .
AUB& is your exclusive AUB alumni community and the best way to keep in touch with us.
Sign up to AUB&

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/alumni/outcome-survey:
The survey is used to find out what you are doing after University.
AUB is required by HESA to provide accurate details for you, and you will then be contacted to complete the survey online or on the phone.
It is coordinated by Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) and replaces the previous Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education Survey (DLHE).
Every year, graduates are contacted 15 months after graduation by the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA).
It's the biggest national annual social survey and is a great chance for you to share your thoughts about your educational experience and provide information about your career direction.
This can be vitally useful for others who may be embarking on a course at uni or about to graduate.
The outcomes of the survey help determine the ranking and reputation of the university – this means the reputation of your degree – so it’s hugely important!
The information you share will help current and future students to make decisions about their career pathway, and it also helps AUB to ensure that the courses are preparing their graduates for the world of work.
You'll be either contacted by phone, or emailed the survey to fill in online.
Look out for calls from 01792687890.
For students on creative courses, some of the questions may seem a little unrelatable.
If you're pursuing various activities (i.e.
working in a part time job alongside developing your creative practice), in the survey, focus on the describing the activities you're doing that are developing you towards your chosen career path.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/alumni/certificates-transcripts-and-references:
If ever you need a proof that you studied at Arts University Bournemouth or have lost or damaged any original documents, the below information will help you find what you need.
Award or degree certificates are the legal document to prove the successful completion and the outcome award of your studies at AUB.
Award certificates are handed out at the Graduation ceremonies or posted to you.
If you never received a copy of your award certificate, please email studentrecords@aub.ac.uk .
If you've lost or damaged your original award certificate, you'll need to order a replacement.
If you graduated from August 2009 onwards:
Your award was validated and issued by AUB and you can order a replacement certificate directly from us.
Orders can take up to a week to be posted.
The cost of a replacement award certificate is £30.
Please note that you can only order ONE replacement.
If you require any of the following when ordering a replacement award certificate, please email studentrecords@aub.ac.uk after placing your order:
If you graduated up to and including July 2009, or graduated in 2010 and chose to have your award issued by UCA:
Your award was validated and issued by University for the Creative Arts, Farnham and you will need to order a replacement certificate directly from them.
You can order a certificate from UCA by clicking this link or by emailing them directly at studentrecords@uca.ac.uk .
The cost of a replacement award certificate is £40.
If you have any questions about ordering a replacement award certificate from UCA, please email them at studentrecords@uca.ac.uk .
Your award was validated and issued by University of the Arts London (UAL).
Click the link to order a replacement certificate .
Once we receive your order, we'll order the replacement certificate with UAL.
Please note that replacement certificate orders can take up to two months to be delivered.
You can order a replacement certificate directly with Pearsons.
Academic transcripts or Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR) provide a breakdown of the units of study a student has completed with their results.
At the end of Level 4 and Level 5, students receive a summary transcript via eVision.
Your HEAR is available by logging in to GradIntel .
You can provide access to any employers to view your HEAR in a safe and secure way, to view your academic record or you can download your HEAR to a PDF.
You'll have been sent your sign-up information around the time that you graduated from your course.
If you have any trouble with logging in, please contact GradIntel directly.
Explore our page on HEAR for further information, and also view our FAQs .
You can order a digital or paper copy of your Academic Transcript from us.
You won't have access to the HEAR service via GradIntel.
If you require a digital copy only:
We can provide you with a PDF version of your Academic Transcript via email, free of charge.
Please email studentrecords@aub.ac.uk to order this, providing your full name as of when you studied, your date of birth and your AUB Student ID number, if you remember this.
If you require a printed version:
We can print a physical copy of your Academic Transcript for you on AUB headed paper for £10.
You can order this directly from us .
If you require a digital version as well, please email studentrecords@aub.ac.uk to order this, providing your full name as when you studied, your date of birth and your AUB Student ID number, if you remember this.
If you need any further information about the course, such as the Course Handbook at the time of the studies, please email studentrecords@aub.ac.uk .
For any potential employers, agencies or anything similar, wishing to verify a former or current student’s studies at AUB, please use the HEDD service , or email studentrecords@aub.ac.uk .
We always require third-party consent from the student and won't provide any information pertaining to an individual without their consent.
If you're requesting a character reference, this needs to be addressed to the intended individual and emailed directly to them.
Student Records are unable to provide character references for any current or former students.
For proof or Confirmation of Study at AUB, we can provide you with a letter outlining the details of your studies.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/opoa-sign-up:
Register to receive access to a free digital copy of AUB's Alumni Magazine, One Piece of Advice (OPOA).
This is the much-anticipated fifth issue of OPOA, featuring interviews with award-winning acting grad Ryan Calais Cameron; guitar maker Elliott Trent and Drag King Zack of All Tradezzz.
Here's a little snippet from our new issue.
If you'd like to keep reading and find out more about our incredible community, sign up to get the full digital version below.
Nowadays, people don’t often give themselves time, it’s all about the glory.
If you do, take your time, find out what’s unique about what you do and what you can give to the world that no one else can.
This issue of One Piece of Advice features the work of some of our amazing AUB Alumni.

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/tammy-johal:
Sometimes your dream creative career can develop from small, unsuspecting threads of inspiration and passion.
For Tammy Johal, it came in the form of sewing.
“During my time working at different agencies, I started sewing on the side for fun.
You know when you want to pick up a hobby?
I said, I’m going to make sewing my hobby.”
After Tammy graduated from BA (Hons) Graphic Design at AUB in 2016, she followed her initial instincts and dived headfirst into as many different internships and agencies as possible.
This was her way of getting a feel for the industry – and moving upwards – from junior to midweight roles, which landed her in a full-time position exploring branding: “That was my forte”.
It was when Tammy and her partner moved to Berlin that a new possibility began opening up for her, after her company allowed for a new contract and setting her up as a German entity.
“When I was working in Berlin, it was so fun and felt really freeing.
I thought, I want to work for myself.
I didn’t want to be tied into working a normal job any more.”
Tammy decided to take the leap, one of many, from full-time employment, to freelancing, to fully working for herself.
She continued to keep up the pastime of sewing and discovered how to create her own clothes, posting the final results to Instagram:
“Video content was not a thing.
It was still very much photo-driven; Reels didn’t even exist then, so I was just posting pictures of me with my final dress.”
What started as a casual hobby began to generate interest, with followers asking how they could sew too.
And with the explosion of short-form content in recent years, Tammy saw an opportunity, and quickly learnt how to adapt.
“I started making more educational content around sewing and learning how to sew.
And craft brands really liked that angle, so it allowed me to start partnering with different brands and make social media content, promoting them to my audience.
Over the past couple of years, it’s been more about showing processes, and it’s very much about the journey, not just the finished product.
“At first I didn’t know what to post.
I wondered, what do people post videos for?
– and I just started posting videos of me cutting fabric out – aesthetic, ASMR vibes.”
And then, one of her reels went viral.
“It got 13 million views.
It was crazy – this was me cutting fabric out!
But it was such a cool pivot.”
Tammy’s once-casual passion for sewing is now her brand, Tammy Handmade .
She’s amassed over 150,000 followers on Instagram, with her short-form content still reaching millions of views.
She’s even become an ambassador for Brother – one of the biggest sewing brands in the world – using her content to promote their newest sewing machines to her admiring audience.
Now, Tammy’s publishing her very own debut book titled Sew Simple: A Beginner’s Guide to Sewing 20 Chic Projects.
Since starting her business, Tammy’s aim has always been to make sewing more fun, more accessible and less intimidating, unpacking the stereotypes around who can pick up sewing and why.
“I always thought, when I first started, that you had to go to fashion school or do a fashion degree to be able to sew.
I didn’t know home-sewers were a thing.
I thought you needed a professional background, but anyone can start sewing from the comfort of their own home.
It’s more about finding the right guidance and patterns to reflect the clothes you want to make.”
This is what inspired her to start her book; it’s the advice she wishes she’d had before she started sewing.
“I thought, why aren’t we making sewing more stylish?”
Sew Simple is Tammy’s answer to the books she’d buy from Amazon that featured uninspired, bland designs, instead providing a fresh take on classic sewn styles with stylish, modern looks that mirror what’s hot on the high street.
Covering the essential techniques of sewing, Sew Simple encourages readers to start with simple projects like scrunchies or tote bags and work their way towards fun, full-scale garments.
Plus, Tammy’s ensured it’s accessible for all.
"Everything comes with really clear instructions.
Each step is written and illustrated – there’s no guesswork.
In books I’ve bought in the past, when I started sewing, they don’t break down each step super-clearly.
It still leaves a lot of guesswork, and I feel that’s where beginners, especially, can get confused, because it’s not broken down clearly.
“Literally anyone – even if you’ve not turned on a sewing machine before – can pick up this book and start sewing clothes in a couple of hours.”
The process of writing a book for Tammy, however, was a new one, and came with a new set of challenges and skills – all while still developing and growing her business.
“When the publishers said, 'Yeah, you actually have to write it…' I thought, oh, I physically have to write 200-odd pages’ worth of content.
So that was really overwhelming!
I also had to create the sewing patterns that come with it.
It’s like a recipe book.
It comes with recipes you actually need to create as well as write the instructions for them.
“The most exciting bit part was having the photo shoot with models wearing the sewing patterns that are included.
That felt so special to see people with different body types and wearing my clothes.”
Reflecting on the process, many of the skills Tammy learnt from BA (Hons) Graphic Design and experiences at AUB helped stitch the final product and her current projects together too, from essential techniques to bringing creative ideas to life.
“I recently released a fabric collection with a fabric company where I illustrated and designed 10 prints that people can shop for.
That’s the perfect blend of design and sewing – my two key skills merged into one.
When you have a key understanding of design, it’s much easier to launch your own products, your own website, etc.
“I predominantly use things like Adobe InDesign, Illustrator and Premier Pro, and that’s the stuff I learnt at AUB.
But wasn’t just how to use software.
It was how to think about things in more depth before you go ahead and start making.
I think that’s really valuable as a skill, which not many universities teach.
"AUB allowed me to push myself and try new things – like trying a new hobby.
It’s the continued working-towards something that gets you there.”
What started from humble beginnings as showcasing her completed fits online to promoting her soon-to-be-launched book, Tammy’s journey with sewing has been gradual but rewarding.
This mirrors her advice to students who are determined to start their own business after graduating too; like writing recipes for pattern or weaving ideas together for a new dress, it takes time and patience.
“I think working at a full-time job and being surrounded by people is so invaluable.
You can’t really learn that if you went straight from university to working for yourself.
You don’t get that same exposure to working with different people, working on different projects, and learning the ropes of being part of a team.
Working on your own can be incredibly isolating.
I’m just glad I gave graphic design a good try first before I went ahead and started my own company.
“It’s such a nice breather to know you have your full-time job, and then you’re doing your project or business on the side.
And when that starts to build up a substantial amount, then I would take that chance.”
Follow Tammy Handmade on Instagram or visit the official website

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/jessica-hortons-journey-from-digital-fashion-to-capsule-collections-with-net-a-porter-and-the-kings-foundation:
When Burberry visited BA (Hons) Fashion at Arts University Bournemouth (AUB), Jessica Horton thought it would be a regular chance to network and showcase her creative portfolio.
Instead, it opened up a world of opportunities.
“Our lecturer Penny Norman set aside a few names, including me, to have a chat with Burberry and show them our portfolios.
It wasn’t that there was going to be anything coming from it – as far as we knew.
After that meeting, the manager of 3D Content Creation at Burberry reached out to me directly and asked if I’d be interested in working for them.”
It was while working on the digital team at Burberry that Jessica discovered the Modern Artisan Programme, focused on sustainability and practical skills.
She saw this as a chance to both pursue her current interests and renew her previous experience.
“I love digital fashion; I think it’s the future, but I see it from more a sustainability point of view.
I see it as using digital programmes in order to reduce waste, cut back costs and be more environmentally friendly.
So when I saw the advert for the Modern Artisan Programme, it was about being more sustainable in the fashion industry, but it was about artisanal hand skills as well.
I thought, ‘Well, I really love digital, but I also really want to get more hands-on again,’ and they were also interested in the fact that I could CLO3D, so it was a nice bridge between the two.”
After a hectic application the night before (in her own words), she took on the unique interview task of sewing a white shirt together from home, and after a few more questions on the day, she was accepted onto the programme.
“There were six of us that got in.
The start of the project was at Net-a-Porter in London.
Three months of researching and designing.”
The start of this capsule collection research made it clear to Jessica that this was a special collaboration, from learning and experiencing the design process to fascinating sources of inspiration and material – and being able to use royal wool.
“One of the main pieces of inspiration was Queen Victoria’s watercolours.
We were allowed to go to Windsor Castle and go to see the Royal Collection Trust and have a look through those watercolours.
We also had a visit to Scotland, and we went to the estate where we’d eventually be working, but we also got to go to the grounds of Balmoral.
We were basically taking inspiration from the watercolours, but a lot of them are based on the Cairngorms and the Scottish Highlands and around the Balmoral estate.”
The sustainable focus of the project – with Dumfries House as an educational estate offering cooking classes from site-grown veg, hand-knitting and heritage building crafts – served as the perfect inspiration for the capsule collection.
While Jessica and the team designed the knitwear to be manufactured in London for it, they manufactured and designed all their woven pieces for the capsule collection on site.
Learning the process and all stages of the designing a collection was insightful, but came with its challenges too.
“Moving to Scotland for six months was a challenge in itself.
Scotland is absolutely beautiful but far away from friends and family.
We had each other, obviously, and we had the people on the estate.
Our tutors, who worked in the Textiles Centre with us, were there if we needed them for anything, and they were absolutely fantastic.
It’s that thing that you would only get at industry level as well – learning how to work together properly.
And because you know this is going to go out to the customer, you know that it’s not just a collection that we’re designing for uni.
This is proper industry stuff and we need to make sure that it’s right.
That was probably the most challenging thing, but we worked for it, and we had a good collection at the end."
The highlights of the project for Jessica included being featured on The One Show , meeting the King, and being able to use wool from His Majesty's sheep on the estate as part of the Modern Artisan Collection.
“There was a private ceremony beforehand where we got to meet His Majesty and got to shake his hand and have a little chat with him, and he was really nice!
Super interested in what we were doing.
He’s got a special interest in every programme that goes on, and he knows what everybody’s up to on the estate.
Especially with the Modern Artisan Project – there’s been three iterations of it over five years, and he's the one who’ll often suggest things.
I believe it was him that suggested we use the watercolours in the Royal Collection Trust for our research.
He’s a very nice man and very funny!
Very engaging as well.
It was a surreal experience.”
Since this experience, Jessica’s been able to channel her experience and skills into local employment and create more collections.
We asked what her plans for the future are, and the one piece of advice she’d give to current students.
“I’m working for a small company in Hampshire; a manufacturing company of sportswear and sports uniforms.
What I’m doing at the moment is helping them to set up a private label, an athleisure and sportswear brand.
It’s not my background, but it’s been a really good challenge and it’s been really interesting.
I'm basically helping them set the brand up.
I designed a capsule collection with them, and that’s getting released in November, so we’re about to go into manufacturing with it.
I’m taking all the skills I learnt at uni, through industry roles and the Modern Artisan Project, into this role I’m doing at the moment.
It’s been eye-opening.
“My one piece of advice is to go for any opportunities that come up.
Don’t doubt yourself and think, ‘I don’t know if I’ll get this, so I won’t go for it.’ Just go for it, because even just applying for something is good experience.
And you never know, you might get it.
You might really surprise yourself.
You might even apply the night before and suddenly find that you’re one of the final people!”

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/playing-cards-with-creative-direction-how-ben-page-blends-tabletop-gaming-with-illustrative-graphic-design:
“As a person, I find myself creatively drawn to a vague mix of goofy, surreal and whimsical pieces.
I definitely found this to be the case throughout illustration as I progressed – I found my stride within my ideal realm of art.”
At the start of his final year at AUB, Ben made a big decision – diverting from the 2D, cartoonish look he’d been pursuing for so long and taking a plunge into the deep end of 3D photo-textured animation.
Since graduating from BA (Hons) Illustration in 2023, Ben’s personal work has revolved around ‘opening the can of worms’ that is board game design, including tabletop role-playing games (TTRPG) and Dungeons and Dragons (DnD).
What started as tackling basic card game ideas and playable prototypes has since developed into a long-term passion, with feasible games in what he describes as his ‘now refined 2D look’.
“I think this was what really helped me land on the idea that it wasn’t what the illustration looked like, but what it represented; the jokes hidden within and the energy of the crazy, visual notions were my ‘style’.”
But this isn’t all Ben’s achieved since graduating.
Outside of curating his unique style, he’s now the Director of Creatives of an events company and focusing on graphic design and illustrative marketing.
“Originally, I applied for the internship with the intention of showing off my ability within a more creative sector, as an attempt to garner both marketing experience and in-house or freelance design work post student life.
This worked as there was a space for a creative in the company, so I asserted the idea of me doing more design work, which led to me juggling both my internship and being their in-house designer for a good few months.”
With a gradually increasing workload and more responsibilities, Ben’s role has now become full-time in design for events and marketing, which involves managing the visual output from within and outside the company, be it from social media specialists or freelance creatives.
“I understand both what I can do and what I can learn to do.
The whole journey took a lot of self-belief, that being the only thing pushing me to take the opportunities I wanted to seize.
I trusted myself being able to take a large responsibility within a company even if it wasn’t directly aligned with my last few years of university work.
Also, it’s okay to ask for more – if you work somewhere and you have ideas that could be helpful for your growth and the companies, then take the leap.”
Outside professional work, Ben has always been drawn to the making of games and especially the artwork alongside them.
From first being introduced to Warhammer and video games by his dad to rediscovering DnD during his time at university – and now exploring the TTRPG space as a potential creative career path – he’s taking steps with portfolio development and commissioned work to naturally grow into the tabletop space.
“I know I’m very motivated to be in this world – I love running games for friends and designing worlds, which links perfectly into this sector I’m trying to explore.
My first major project was a card game called ‘Frights’, which became a prototype and will most likely be a passion project I whittle away at for a long time.
Currently, I’m building small rule sheets and mock-ups for brand-new game ideas along with third-party content you can use in other games, such as DnD.”
Ben’s long-term plan is taking his experience of creative directing into this, with the intention of hiring creatives with similar passions and marketing expertise to publish real, playable products.
This goes alongside making the most of short form socials like TikTok and Instagram Reels to give an exclusive, bite-sized look into what making a TTRPG board games involves.
“I’m heavily sinking my teeth into these games I am working on.
I see myself having some form of platform to expand portfolios and promote collaborative work between those I haven’t the chance to work with since uni.
A shift into short form content is both scary as a possibility, but one I shouldn’t give up on.
The final aim of all of this, in a very blunt way, is to have something I made, that I'm proud of, weigh down a shelf or two in Waterstones.”
Ben’s greatest advice to current students and past, regardless of their creative form, is finding your specific niche and enjoying the process.
He’s also learnt some valuable lessons from his career journey, too.
“Remembering to learn how to play the cards you are dealt is important; there is a way to spin almost any opportunity you are given.
There will be plenty of bumps in the road but take it slow and you’ll manage your way over them fine.
“For pursuing events specifically, there are so many small venues that have awful artwork.
Many places don’t have a designer and need help with their creative side, so ask them, shoot them an email.
Internships are so, so useful for getting your foot in the door – make sure you slip in before it closes.”
To see more of Ben’s illustrations and artwork, check out his Instagram .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/a-rising-star-of-street-photography-ethan-parker-on-recognition-following-graduation:
Following graduation only this summer, there’ve been no lulls in business for BA (Hons) Commercial Photography alumnus Ethan Parker.
He’s already been the subject of a three-page Q&A feature in Amateur Photographer magazine (and named on the cover) and secured several nominations in the British Photography Awards – ultimately winning the People’s Choice Street Photography Award with his photo The Euros .
This same image also gained him a place in the finals in the street photography category at the Independent Photographer Awards.
Ethan describes accomplishing so much in so short a time as “a little bit surreal.”
“It was never my plan to try and get my name out there straight away.
I wanted to share more of my work, but I didn’t think it was going to get so much attention!
“It gives you confidence and tells you that you’re doing the right thing, because other people see the value in your work as well.”
Ethan explains that shooting frequently is the thing that keeps him on his toes, as “great work can come from that.” But as a creative who’s out there creating work all the time, how does he stay motivated?
“I have noticed it’s easier to be in a rut if you’re comparing yourself to too many other people and looking at too many other people’s work,” he says.
“It comes with the comparison, and I think a lot of the time that comes from social media.
To stay motivated, I try not to open Instagram too much and avoid mindlessly scrolling through the app, because that can definitely hurt your wanting to go out there and shoot.
“Also, shoot what’s important to you.
If you’re doing that, you’re shooting truly from the heart, and that’s important if you want to maintain shooting regularly and make better work in the process.”
A lot of Ethan’s recognition has been for his work in street photography, which he started shooting when he was doing A-Levels.
He picked up photography at a summer camp, which he says, “gave me an escape at the time to go out and shoot.”
“As I started shooting more street, I started to realise more everyday moments that get completely missed by general people walking around.
Having a camera gives you the ability to capture those moments as they go past and record them.
It almost feels like a duty to document how we live now.
“I also very much enjoy the challenge – it is quite a challenging genre.
A lot of people don’t see the bad shots, the stuff that goes in the bin or is just never seen, it’s buried deep in the hard drive.
But getting those bad shots makes you want to keep pushing and getting the better stuff.
There have been those times when I've almost got that near-perfect shot, but it hasn't made the cut, because there's an element in that frame that is slightly out of place.
That's what pushes you to learn from your mistakes and take better photographs as a result.”
It's this love for the challenge that took Ethan off to France for a memorable shoot in 2023, during the time of the Pension Reform protests.
“I don’t know why but I’d always wanted to shoot a riot,” he says.
“There’s just so much chaos!
“That was very memorable.
You end up taking photos of a newsworthy event.
Being there in the environment where there are a lot of journalists, a lot of police, a lot of people just causing chaos, and you’re there with them, amongst it all.
It was quite something.”
Having cemented his name in the street genre, Ethan admits that he’s currently exploring the documentary filmmaking route.
“If you’re documenting stories from a person, sometimes I’ve realised photography might not be the best medium to show it,” he explains.
“I did a bit of video stuff before uni with a drone, but it wasn’t anything that great.
I also did a video on London back in the day, but I feel like I only dipped my toes in it slightly.
I always knew it was there.
“In my final year, I did a little documentary and that was quite well received, but I felt that I hadn’t given enough time to it.
So now, having finished uni, it gives me more time to focus more on filmmaking and balancing photography too.
The video side has always been there, but more so lately.”
To close, Ethan offers his one piece of advice for AUB students.
“Staying motivated – that comes from putting the hours in and shooting from the heart.
But I also think it’s very important in a university environment to get help from other people and advice – even when you don’t need it!
“There will always be a teacher, a student or a technician who might have another insight or some beneficial advice.
It’s important to listen to what other people have to say, and you can decide whether to take it on board or not.
That’s up to you at the end of the day.
Listening to other people and having that advice always help you improve and make progress.”
To see more of Ethan's work, visit his website .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/a-tale-of-two-strangers-jacob-perlmutter-and-manon-ouimet-on-feature-film-debut:
It was 2011 when Jacob Perlmutter completed his BA (Hons) Film Production studies at AUB (back then, known as the Arts University College at Bournemouth).
In the meantime, he’s taken “the scenic route” – exhibiting his photography, recording two albums of his music, directing content advertising, and making music videos alongside short films.
“During my 20s, I was trying to explore what I truly wanted to do,” he says.
“Film is the coming-together of these different artistic forms, so it makes sense that I ended up here in the end.
But they were really passionate forays into different directions.
“All these things really sharpened my understanding of what I learned at AUB in terms of what it is to be a director, the key to getting what’s in your mind through the form of collaboration onto the screen, and that huge endeavour of working with all these different people in order to come together and make something solid.”
Jacob reflects on a project, Perfect Weather , that he made with a group of fellow AUB alumni a few years after graduating – a music video shot on 35 mm while battling the winds around Old Harry Rocks.
“It was one of those projects where I think all of us were able to pull on our skill sets that we developed at university and come together to make something that, to this day, I’m still very proud of.”
Since the beginning of 2022, however, Jacob has been working on his feature film debut – Two Strangers Trying Not To Kill Each Other – alongside his wife, the award-winning fashion and portrait photographer Manon Ouimet.
The documentary premiered at CPH:DOX and came away with a Special Mention prize, before sweeping through the film festival circuit, including the BFI London Film Festival in October.
It then took to the States with appearances in Denver, Philadelphia (where it won Best Documentary Feature) and DOC NYC, followed by IDFA in Amsterdam, where it played Best of Fests.
But where did the journey towards making Two Strangers begin?
The film follows the relationship between artist and writer Maggie Barrett and Joel Meyerowitz, who Jacob describes as “one of the real founding fathers of contemporary street photography.”
“I’ve been a big fan of Joel’s for a long time,” Jacob says.
“After my first year of studying Film, I went off to America to do a road trip, paying homage to the photographer Robert Frank and his project The Americans .
I think I did that in 2008, which I think was 50 years after The Americans was published, so it was a kind of tribute project.
“I bought a Leica and I fell in love with street photography as a form and was already a bit of a fan of American street photography – in particular, between the ‘50s and ‘80s – and I developed more of a love for that movement of photographers.
And one of those photographers is Joel Meyerowitz.”
A chance encounter led Jacob to meet Joel and Maggie – “When I saw them side-by-side as an older couple, they seemed to have a beautiful mesmerising aura about them, and it’s such a strange, ephemeral thing to try to describe about two people, but they really had an energy, which is palpable in the film.”
However, it was a couple of years later, during the pandemic and coming across Maggie’s blog that impelled Jacob to reach out to them and suggest making a documentary about their lives.
“They were living in Tuscany at the time, and we got talking, and then [Manon and I] had been married during this period, but we were already a couple, and then we suddenly thought about what it would be like for a younger artist couple to make a film about an older artist couple.
“Separated by 45 years but with so much in common.
We found a lot in common with each other, so when the four of us started talking and hanging out, there was an energy, and all of a sudden, the whole shape of it made sense.”
Jacob explains that between the four’s first proper meeting and the start of filming, there were only a few months in between.
Over a year-long filming period, they moved into Maggie and Joel’s houses in Tuscany and New York whenever filming, which Jacob says, “Generated an extremely intimate bond, and a wonderful sense of trust and camaraderie between the four of us.”
And for four people with a lot in common, living in close quarters, one would assume that there were some challenging, potentially tense moments.
But in this case, “There was never any friction,” as Manon reveals.
“We found this rhythm, this dance, and we were just able to move around in each other’s presence in a very open and inviting way.
It was like we wanted to soak each other up, and I’ve never experienced this before with anybody else.
“It was very much a once-in-a-lifetime coming-together of people who were eager to be in each other’s presence, and I think probably the pandemic had a part to play in that.
We had been so tired of being cooped up but also, we were seeking connection and community, and for a year we had that with these people.”
The resulting film, Two Strangers Trying Not to Kill Each Other , is actually the first longform project that Jacob and Manon have worked on together.
Beforehand, they’ve worked on one another’s personal art projects, developing, in Manon’s words, “a lot of respect for each other’s work, which was very helpful doing this kind of project.”
“It meant that we were on the same page.
We understood how the other worked, each other’s sensibilities and trusted in the other’s sensibilities and artistic vision and creativity.”
“Every now and then we had additional crew members coming and helping out here and there, but for the most part, it really was the two of us,” adds Jacob.
“You have to be so unified as a two-person team, because it’s incredible, in every sense – emotionally, creatively, technically – you’re in the middle of Tuscany on a sheep farm and something with the camera or sound equipment goes wrong, you’re really out there crouching in the corner on YouTube desperately trying to work out what’s going on with a piece of obscure equipment.”
Now well over halfway through their year-long festival run, Jacob says that seeing how Two Strangers plays to different audiences in different countries is “fascinating”.
“Obviously every audience is a unique combination of people and has its own energy, and it’s been great seeing how it feels in different parts of the world.
How relatable Maggie and Joel’s story is to so many people.
“This is really a simple human story of love and mortality and ageing and belonging, and what it is to belong.
Beyond being an artist couple, it’s how to respect yourself and your partner as a human being, and that’s such a universal thing that we’ve seen audiences around the world connect with.”
Alongside the festival run, Two Strangers is slated for a theatrical release in the UK next year from 21 March 2025, and will also be appearing on the small screen in Denmark, Sweden and Norway.
To close, Jacob and Manon deliver their respective pieces of advice.
“Grow a team,” Manon begins.
“Have a collaborator that you trust, and take the time to get to know each of the people that you’re studying with.
Understand their skill sets.
And play together!”
“I would suggest to people not to get too invested in what they envision their future careers to be,” adds Jacob.
“Combining talent and ambition with the unknown lands you in a far more interesting and less frustrating place than having a particular wish list of all the films you want to achieve and trying to knock them down.
It doesn’t work like that.
“I would encourage people to – if you have talent and ambition – jump and let the wind carry you.
Don’t try to focus on making this masterpiece that’s in your head, because fulfilment and happiness don’t come from that.”

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/cocktail-bars-and-strictly-stars-jazmine-mitchener-spills-on-achievements-with-graduate-fashion-collection:
For BA (Hons) Fashion graduate Jazmine Mitchener, taking a collection to Graduate Fashion Week (GFW) had been a goal since before starting first year.
A big focus , particularly for her final year, Jazmine says she wanted to achieve “as much out of it as possible.” This meant talking to industry professionals and making as many connections throughout the week of the event as she could.
“I wanted as many people as possible to see my collection,” Jazmine explains.
“The whole buzz of a fashion show is an environment that I’ve always loved and something that sparked my interest in the industry.
I just loved the whole experience and the atmosphere that came with GFW.”
The collection, Happy Hour , comprises five looks of both women’s and menswear.
Taking inspiration from – in Jazmine’s words – “the vibe that comes across when you’re in a cocktail bar.
The decoration, lighting, posters, and the bar itself.
“When designing, from the offset, tailoring was a focus for me.
I’ve always admired the structured yet technical intricacies of this craft, so I knew that I wanted to include that aspect.
I linked this into my concept to suggest perhaps you’ve been working in the city and then you’ve gone to a bar after work.
By contrasting this style against fabrics such as tulle, I was able to create dramatic impact and juxtaposition within my garments.”
A few weeks after GFW, celebrity stylist Manny Lago approached Jazmine on Instagram, requesting Happy Hour for a festival shoot after seeing the collection on the catwalk.
Knowing the risk of damage to garments at festivals, Jazmine declined but asked Manny to keep her in mind for future opportunities.
This bit of resistance and business sense allowed the collection to be picked up for another of Manny’s clients, Strictly Come Dancing professional Nikita Kuzmin, as he prepared to shoot promos for his solo tour.
This resulted in Nikita using images of himself wearing Jazmine’s ‘Champagne Suit’ for the poster advert and all promotional marketing for his tour.
The collaboration with Nikita wasn’t the only success to come out of GFW for Jazmine.
As a result of the connections built over the week, she was able to secure job interviews with the established commercial fashion and print design studio, Everley Studios, which led on to a week’s work experience at their new London offices.
“I feel as though I gained so much experience in such a short time,” Jazmine says.
“Adobe Illustrator was where I felt I built my knowledge the most.
AUB’s focus on Adobe is well encouraged, but it’s a skill that can always be developed and improved.”
This work experience led Jazmine onto a recommendation for a fashion supplier with whom she has begun an employment contract.
Even after nearly five months since graduation, Jazmine has no plans to pull the curtain on the Happy Hour collection just yet.
Not only is she in the planning stages of a shoot for Swanky Magazine , she also directed a shoot for the collection in London in October.
For this shoot, Jazmine was assisted by a couple of fellow 2024 AUB graduates, Ethan Parker and Lola Tyler, both of whom studied BA (Hons) Commercial Photography .
Jazmine explains more about their story:
“We lived together throughout the whole of uni.
I was in a fortunate position where in my first-year accommodation, I was living with amazing photographers.”
When asked about collaborating at AUB, Jazmine comments, “Creative Match Nights always came in handy; however, I also recommend building relationships with potential collaborators throughout your whole degree.
I think this is really important to keep in mind as it can help out everyone involved.”
With her new career in London and otherwise doing as much as she can with Happy Hour , Jazmine offers her one piece of advice for future AUB students:
“Find a way that works for you to organise yourself, as early on as possible.
I would write countless lists – that’s what I’ve always found works for me, and I was definitely able to develop that skill.
You’ve got to manage potentially five different projects that you’re working on, and within each of those projects – especially on my course – you have to be able to complete every different element.
You’ve got to be able to pattern-cut, toile, construct, and style it, and build a concept around it at the same time.
“Being as organised as possible will help everything flow better; then if you’re thrown a curveball throughout your day, you already have your plan and can better allocate time to fix any problems or attack a new issue.
“It doesn’t have to be lists.
Whatever you find works with your mind, go for that, and use that method of organisation for you, to allow yourself to also enjoy this amazing process because I found it really helped me.”

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/lioness-kajri-babbar-reflects-directorial-debut:
Earlier this year, Kajri Babbar, a graduate of Arts University Bournemouth (AUB)'s MA Film Practice course, celebrated a win at the British Council Study UK Alumni Awards for her documentary film work, aimed at sparking debates on pressing social issues.
Winner of the Culture and Creativity Award, which acknowledges filmmakers who've carved a career for themselves in arts and culture and demonstrated their artistic ingenuity, influence and creativity, Kajri has had works screened at the Student Academy Awards and the Cannes Film Festival.
After saying that this win couldn't have come at a better time, Kajri declares that Lioness, her first-ever feature film, is coming out of pre-production.
She reflects:
"There have certainly been lots of challenges, especially with filming across two continents, and it can be hard to appreciate all we’ve achieved when you’re in the thick of it.
This prestigious award has given me the boost I needed.
My positivity levels are back up and I’ve been reminded that I’m going in the right direction."
Lioness tells the stories of two women living centuries apart.
The first story unravels the life and legacy of Sophia Duleep Singh, a prominent suffragette who fervently advocated for women’s rights in the UK.
Born in 1876, Sophia was the third daughter of Maharaja Duleep Singh – the last Sikh emperor of Punjab – and a goddaughter of Queen Victoria.
As a young woman, Sophia was given a grace-and-favour apartment by the Queen in Hampton Court Palace, outside which she'd later go on to protest for the right to vote.
English Heritage unveiled a blue plaque in her memory at Hampton Court earlier in the year.
The second story introduces a fictional character, Simranjeet Kaur, living in London’s Southall Asian suburb in the early 1990s.
The film is set to feature a talented cast including Paige Sandhu, Archana Puran Singh, Aditi Rao Hydari, Colette Dalal Tchantcho, Anup Soni, Edmund Kingsley, and Pratiek Patil Babbar.
It's also the first-ever official UK-India co-production.
"Although it’s been hard at times, working on Lioness has been absolutely amazing," says Kajri.
"There have been some incredible highs with big producers and stars joining.
"When we signed Emmerdale actress Paige Sandhu to play Sophia, and began to get the attention of the UK and Indian national media, it began to feel like a ‘pinch me’ moment."
Kajri reflects that she didn't start out her journey as a director, favouring ambitions as an actor and studying journalism.
It was a compromise between herself and her father, a film producer in India, that led her to MA Film Practice at AUB.
After securing a scholarship, Kajri says, "I haven't looked back."
"AUB discovered the director in me, and the first film that I made in the UK was there," she explains.
" Pardaa was a 15-minute short about Muslim Indian girls studying in the UK.
AUB put it forward for the film festivals, where it got through to the semi-finals at the Student Academy Awards and showed at the BAFTA’s Aesthetica Short Film Festival.
"The positive feedback really spurred me on, and I was thrilled when everyone wanted to be in my graduation film, Khoj .
It was a feminist film about the issue in north India of non-residents marrying women for their dowries and then taking the women and their dowries out of the region back to their own homes, leaving the area to get poorer.
"I wrote the story, then shot it in India and the UK.
The film came out very well and went to the festivals, getting into the semi-finals at the student Oscars and onto Indian platform screens.
It was because of this that I was selected by the British Council to be in the Future Leaders Programme.
"Art is a way of life, it’s not a nine-to-five job, and you don’t know what the future holds.
These awards keep you going and help you as you work towards your next goal.
They’ve made me stop and take stock and remember that all that hard work has paid off, and I’m actually living my dream!"

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/from-graphic-design-student-to-head-of-digital-francesca-griffiths-journey-to-epm:
Graduated: 2006
Courses: National Diploma in Graphic Design, BA (Hons) Graphic Design
When Francesca Griffiths began studying Graphic Design at AUB , she was learning industry-standard print techniques that were dominant at the time – web-based and digital design was still in the early stages.
“Over the five years I was there, across the two courses, I think we did two weeks of web, and I didn’t get on with it so well.
Branding and things like that I was really passionate about, but web I just didn’t get”.
It was only once Francesca found a Graphic Design role in the industry that she saw the digital wave and decided to ride with it, from print graphic designer to a screen-based designer, immersing herself in interface, user experience through UX/UI and research.
Francesca recognises herself now as a natural leader, being the current Head of Digital at EPM in Poole, and it was through adapting and diversifying her skills that she’s been able to achieve her career goals.
“The foundation they give you at AUB always empowered you to know the basics so well, and then you just apply those theories across.
So, where I am now, going from a junior designer through all those years is really a big achievement for me.
“I also had a fantastic range of experience in terms of working at various design agencies in Bournemouth.
I freelanced at various agencies as well, because I took a bit of time out to do some freelance.
I worked at Liverpool Victoria for five years as Digital Lead there.
I’ve worked at start-ups.
And now I’m here, back in agency.”
Francesca maintains that her experience at AUB proved to be an advantage, especially when exploring different areas in the industry, being flexible to work independently or part of a team and attention to detail.
“Whenever I used to go for interviews and show my portfolio, so many people would say, ‘We can see you’re from AUB, just because of the care and the attention that you’ve put into your work and how you present it to us.’
“While I don’t design day-to-day anymore, or even open up Adobe Creative Suite, I still have lots of things that I feed back to my junior design team, and a lot of them still stem from what we learnt at AUB.
Especially the attention to detail – that was key and something that was drummed into us and it still comes through now.”
Francesca’s current role as the Head of Digital at EPM, an immersive and innovative Poole-based design agency, is all about overseeing their three key areas – live, content and digital.
What sets EPM apart is their unique way of fusing physical and digital interaction together.
“With live, we have our brand experiences and exhibitions – that’s where we go out, all over the world literally, and build these exhibition stands.
it’s not just a case of ‘walk around, have a look,’ it’s actually getting involved and interacting with virtual reality experiences, mixed-reality experiences, interactive games.
“A website is only as good as the content on it, and that’s something that we really drive.
We create some fantastic 3D models, interactive models, 360˚ view models that you can spin around, interact with, zoom in, zoom out; all kinds of reality, so you can pop them up in a room.
“Then you have the digital side of things, so mobile apps.
We build various web platforms; we do all sorts, from brochure-esque sites to e-commerce to member booking sites, and then you’ve got the digital marketing side of things, where we look at social media marketing and SEO analytics as well.
So we do really offer a lot of services, and they are all in-house.
With this agency, we’re 105 here, so it’s very busy.”
Despite her successes, Francesca maintains how important it is to still stay in touch with AUB, especially with such a creative community of aspiring designers and a continued high success rate.
For the last three years, she’s run industry briefs for the BA (Hons) Visual Communication course, where students are given briefs similar to what EPM receives from clients involving themed websites and app design, or more recently, exhibitions, events and business.
Some students even go on to use these in their own careers down the line.
“It works both ways – I get a lot from going in, it’s great to see how everything’s going and to be able to be on campus again, but it’s also great to share any knowledge and wisdom to anyone who’s in my shoes from all those years ago.
One student came in as an intern [to EPM], and he’s got a full-time role.
We actually met him on one of the workshops as well, so that’s how that relationship blossomed.
“I think it’s those sorts of life skills that need to be taught as well, so it’d be good to have that as part of a course.
I didn’t get that coaching back then.
It’s like, how do you want to be a designer?
Do you want to be freelance or employed or have your own business?”
Francesca’s parting advice to current students is being adaptable in the graphic design industry and to take risks.
“Be dynamic.
Don’t pigeonhole yourself.
Take up opportunities and push yourself out of your comfort zone, and absorb as much as you can, learn as much as you can of different skill sets.
That now has put me in a really strong position, because yes, I am fundamentally a UX/UI designer, but because of all that other understanding, it can put me in the space of being Head of Digital.
Without that, I couldn’t be where I am now.”
For more about EPM Agency, visit their website .

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/mary-george-cutter-and-costume-maker-david-wood-discusses-working-on-sky-period-drama:
Sky Atlantic’s sumptuous historical drama Mary & George has taken the world by storm since its release in March.
Of the many elements that bring a period drama to life, one of the most crucial is the costumes.
Something that Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) alumnus, freelance cutter and costume maker David Wood knows a great deal about.
“Everyone is fascinated by the historical element,” David explains.
“When you go back and look at the fashion, the silhouettes are quite different to the modern-day – especially the womenswear.”
David also says that when it comes to drama, television and film, people want to get lost in another reality.
“Something that I always ask when I go on a project is ‘what world are we creating?’ Although Mary & George is set in Jacobean times, we weren’t quite historically accurate all the time.
In the world of our design, we weren’t necessarily making it more modern but making it softer.
“I think that’s what people are fascinated by with shows like Bridgerton, Catherine the Great, and now Mary & George – it’s this transportation to a world that’s not day-to-day reality.”
In what he describes as “an epic job”, David explains that Mary & George required a new costume for every story date, for a story that’s told over decades.
As Principal Men’s Cutter, he estimates that his team alone made 120-140 doublets.
“It was a huge production,” he says, “And none of Jacobean costume, or the design around it is basic.
We’re talking about characters like the English King and his court, as well as the Spanish and French counterparts.
Everything was quite intricate.”
The time pressure on the production was a key challenge.
David recalls working for the Royal Shakespeare Company, where he’d get two weeks to make a doublet, whereas on Mary & George , this was whittled down to three or four days.
In his role, David worked closely with the male stars of Mary & George , Nicholas Galitzine and Tony Curran, who he describes as “really good fun”.
“It was nice to have that process with them and how they wanted their characters to be portrayed through the costume,” he says.
On the show, Galitzine played George Villiers, 1 st Duke of Buckingham, who was purportedly one of the male lovers of King James VI and I, played by Curran.
“Nick’s wardrobe, in particular, was just insane, because everything was made to follow the trajectory of his rise to power,” David explains.
Some of the first costumes we made were not necessarily your beggar prince, but mushroom-coloured, to signify there was no money in the family.
And by the time we got to the end, when he’s in Parliament and taking on the lords or going to Spain, we had really strong doublets with lots of decoration.”
The costumes were making waves long before the series’ release.
Photos of Galitzine and Julianne Moore (who played his on-screen mother, Mary, Countess of Buckingham) in costume even featured in British Vogue last year.
“Vogue was quite special,” says David.
“For me, Mary & George is the first time that the costumes have got quite a lot of traction – it seems to be everywhere.
It’s always a bit weird when you’re on the tube in London and you look up and there’s a massive billboard with a costume you’ve made on it.
“It helps to get people to appreciate the costumes and the hard work that went into them.
It’s not easy what we do, which people seem to forget.”
The production of Mary & George brought together several AUB alumni, including David, who graduated from AUB in 2015, as well as his assistant cutter, the crowd wardrobe mistress, and five or six makers.
“There is a camaraderie from going to AUB,” explains David.
“Everyone has that shared experience there, but then going out into the workforce, everyone knows you’ve come from a good course; you have the same skill set, so there’s a good foundation.
I know when I’ve brought members into my team who are AUB graduates, it’s a bit of a confidence boost for me.”

New sentences found on https://aub.ac.uk/latest/from-stage-to-spielberg-elliot-warren-dishes-on-masters-of-the-air:
It was 2019 when BA (Hons) Acting graduate Elliot Warren collected a career crown jewel – an Olivier Award – for his play Flesh and Bone .
Following that, there’s very little he hasn’t done.
As an actor, roles in the acclaimed Masters of the Air and How to Have Sex (the BAFTA-nominated brainchild of fellow Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) alum Molly Manning Walker), as well as upcoming appearances in A Thousand Blows on Disney+, alongside Stephen Graham and Erin Doherty, and the ninth series of ITV’s crime drama Grantchester .
From the writing perspective, there are multiple projects on the go as well.
From television work including his original series SlaughterHouse , currently in development with the BBC, and X , which begins filming this year, to his feature film Bruiser .
On top of that, a second play is in the works – The Ballad of Ticky Monroe .
So begs the question, does he like juggling lots of projects?
“I prefer being busy,” he says.
“I like having five or six things on the go at the same time.
I find that if I have one project, I become a bit obsessive… I get in my own head about it.
I think when you have so many things to juggle, you have to make quicker, sharper decisions, so I tend to work like that.”
Elliot currently appears as Lieutenant James Douglass in war drama series, Masters of the Air , opposite a cast of established actors including Austin Butler, Callum Turner, and Anthony Boyle, with Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks serving as executive producers.
With such distinguished company, what were some of his most memorable moments working on the show?
“I met friends for life,” he says.
“It really did build that camaraderie amongst the lads.
We did a bootcamp at the start that was amazing.
There were 67 of us at that bootcamp – the cast ended up getting to 600 boys – but that core group was thrown in at the deep end, running through the woods every day chanting US army chants… doing caterpillar push-ups… it was amazing and so fun.
“While filming, some of the most memorable moments were, when we’re in the sky, you’re on a gimbal that’s 30 feet in the air, with a piece of B-17 plane attached that moves like a rollercoaster, and all around us was a dome of screens.
It wasn’t green screen; it’s this insanely expensive technology that goes across the whole gimbal, and they project the sky on it.
German Luftwaffe planes are coming at you, and you have real guns firing blanks – we’re firing like on a computer game.
“All the emotions you see in that show are all real; we didn’t have to act much!
We’re running around the planes, bullets flying everywhere, we’re actually falling over because the gimbal’s moving suddenly.
It was a combination of me as a teenage boy playing Call of Duty and having so much fun, and also trying to respect and represent a massively important story.
These incredibly brave men’s lives.”
Like many of the characters in Masters of the Air , Lt.
James Douglass was a real person.
Elliot explains the research that went into realising the character, who he describes as “incredible”.
“He was the lead bombardier on the majority of the missions that he went on […] the actual guy that was lining up where they were going to drop bombs on the Nazis.
And he won several Purple Hearts – he had an incredible military career.
But weirdly, there wasn’t much on him, other than the accolades.
I did get in touch with his family; his grandson and I were talking on Instagram, and he told me a few bits about his grandad.
“But you do have to take some creative licence with the character.
The real James Douglass had this little moustache and this nice quiff, so we thought, ‘Okay, he’s this suave pilot’.
We made him a bit of a cheeky chappy, but also because of his accolades, we made him super brave, he looks after Crosby [played by Anthony Boyle] in the nose of the plane.”
Elliot says that the training he received at AUB instilled a belief in himself and his abilities, which he has taken forward into his career, including Masters of the Air .
“I don’t think, so far, that I’ve ever had a moment where I feel an overwhelming sense of Imposter Syndrome, or ‘I can’t do this’,” he explains.
“[AUB] teaches you to think on your feet and be super creative in a limited space of time.
I remember, in second year, we were doing these tasks where you had two days to make a play and then come in and perform it.
At the start, we’d think, ‘Oh my God,’ but after two months of doing that, we were bashing them out and everyone was really entertaining.
“I think having that ability in your arsenal, going into the world with a sense of confidence, going onto these big sets, you’ve got a takeaway.
Thinking, ‘Steven Spielberg might be watching this, and this show cost £750 million and the camera is on me’ – that’s a bit scary.
But as soon as you remove yourself from that and rely on your abilities, I think you’re golden.
As he mentions, Elliot has a wealth of projects on at the same time, many of which are his own creations.
And the idea of actors making their own work is vitally important, especially at the start of their careers.
“Writing a monologue, or getting a friend who’s a writer to write a monologue, calling people and saying, ‘Can you give me something?’ You don’t have to do it yourself, basically.
You just have to have that networking ability to be able to call on other people and get work out there.
Go to monologue slams or put work on at theatres that do nights where you can do 10 minutes of something.
Just get yourself out there, because otherwise, no one’s going to be watching.”
Elliot’s second play, The Ballad of Ticky Monroe , is in the early stages of writing.
As he reveals, it follows a similar vein of Flesh and Bone , written in a hybrid rhyming slang-Shakespearean verse, “bending fourth wall drama with soliloquies and monologues out to the audience.”
“It’s about a homeless drug addict in London, who is trying to get clean to reconnect with his daughter,” explains Elliot.
“It’s about him, and also about suicide and depression in young men in this country – something that I’m really passionate about.
Another character, who is mildly in psychosis, doesn’t really have a way out or anyone to help him.
They’re the two protagonists.
“It’s really funny and light-hearted,” he adds, “But it is about some serious, dark subjects.
I always try to write about those subjects and give them some heart and soul.
Some characters that you’re going to love, instead of being too bleak about it.
You can learn more from that style of writing.”
Finally, we refer back to Elliot’s mega multitude of ongoing projects, to find out which of them he’s most looking forward to seeing realised.
“I’m most excited for a show that I’m writing, a six-part drama called Slaughterhouse, about working-class lads in Essex, who are boy racers.
It’s about them being directionless, their ambitions and where they are in the world, and young men in this country in general, who are dealing with depression, anxiety and suicide.
“I think the days are gone when you can just be an actor,” he continues.
“The vast majority of us are artists.
The industry doesn’t owe you anything, and you can be forgotten in an instant, so you’ve got to make your mark.
You can’t do that by twiddling your thumbs and waiting for the phone to ring.
Go out and make your own stuff.”