# Site: https://www.aup.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 499
# --------

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk:
Arts University Plymouth has been ranked 5th in the UK for Student Satisfaction in the Complete University Guide 2026
Clearing places are available on our creative degrees - apply now and start your studies at an award winning university this Autumn.
Arts University Plymouth ranks as top UK specialist arts university for student experience for the fourth consecutive year in the 2025 National Student Survey.
Arts University Plymouth has won University of the Year 2025 for the South West region at the WUSCAs.
The Complete University Guide ranks Arts University Plymouth in the top 10 of its Arts, Drama & Music League Table 2024.
Arts University Plymouth has been ranked 2nd in the UK for student satisfaction by Times Higher Education.
Explore the university campus and local environment in our latest 360 tour.
Inspectors praised the “excellent” behaviour of students and highlighted the benefits for pupils of being linked closely to an arts university.
Arts University Plymouth was a fantastic place to study, with incredible tutors and facilities.
The course was exactly what I needed at the time and gave me a great foundation to build on.
I look back at my time at Arts University Plymouth very fondly.
It taught me that if you want to make it, you need to pursue your goals.
From day one there was a strong focus on teaching practical skills alongside analytical theory work.
This helps you understand and express yourself in a chosen medium.
There was also a real sense of collaboration, something that has gone on to affect how I work professionally.
Arts University Plymouth is such an inspiring and collaborative environment to study in.
The university brings together talent from all kinds of creative backgrounds.
This was especially relevant for working within interactive design - I love combining lots of disciplines: film, photography, coding, sound, animation, storytelling and graphic design.
At Arts University Plymouth I was lucky enough to be immersed in and influenced by all of this, supported by the experience and knowledge of the staff.
Being at Arts University Plymouth allowed me to be myself.
It ran a series of ideas through my system and asked me to question them.
I learned so much in my time there, but it’s only in retrospect that I realise how powerful that Foundation year really was for me.
It gave me a freedom that no other course has given me.
It was a truly experimental existence for one year.
Every single person you rub shoulders with is a creative, whether it's students, staff, housekeeping, front of house, everyone is here for one reason and one reason only, to make Arts University Plymouth a family community where you can truly be yourself, find your artistic voice, and become the artist that you had only dreamed about before.
Arts University Plymouth genuinely makes dreams come true, it has for me!
Arts University Plymouth gave me the opportunity to spend my days studying art, improving my skills, and honing my thinking for the creative industries.
I was surrounded by extremely inspiring people, and being able to bounce concepts around and share skills was an essential part of my learning.
I soon came to realise that being an artist really is a viable career path.
Having access to high-spec PCs similar to ones you get in the industry is undoubtedly the most useful piece of tech I had in the studios at Arts University Plymouth.
I never felt restricted by anything technical, creatively I could feel free to do what I wanted and it also meant that the transition from Arts University Plymouth into the games industry was just a little bit more seamless.
Being exposed to so much new software, such as zBrush and Marmoset, feeds your curiosity and desire for what it’s really like to be in the industry and that gave me the hunger to push myself.
I feel like the biggest achievement of my time studying at Arts University Plymouth was the final fashion show at the end, because everyone just came together and made it happen.
That was a really good feeling being part of the team.
One really good thing that I got from Arts University Plymouth is just to keep trying, trying, trying and then it will eventually work.
The university was great, and it had a vibrant, creative atmosphere that allowed me to find out what I was good at, but more importantly what avenue of art I wanted to pursue.
Discovering 3D modelling at the university opened the door to films, games and mediums that I had never given any thought to.
Leaving after the Foundation Diploma and the BA degree, I was set to walk into my Masters in animation in Vancouver.
At Arts University Plymouth we have a massive creative community.
Any class you go into you are surrounded by creativity and inspiration.
Everyone is willing to lend a hand and help you work through your creative process, it really is an amazing community to be a part of.
I chose this university because it felt so accessible.
I have autism and ADHD and the smaller campus was better for me.
I also wanted to choose a uni that was pure art and design.
I love the idea that literally anyone you pass in the corridors could be a potential collaborator.
There's always someone making something cool and you can almost feel the creative energy pinging around.
It becomes inspiring and encourages you to go and create more cool stuff.
Arts University Plymouth has always seemed like a big family to me.
As an international student, everything was very alien in the beginning, leaving me overwhelmed quite often.
However, it didn't take long for me to realise how kind and accepting everyone is.
I found out that it was super easy making friends here because it seems like everyone knows everyone and we all love collaborating.
This especially helped my art grow as I expanded my limited perspective.
I am from Wales and did some scouring before I chose which university to go to.
Arts University Plymouth’s facilities and opportunities looked amazing and after having my interview and talking to Course Leader Cathryn Bishop it confirmed my decision as the correct one.
I have had the most amazing three years at Arts University Plymouth and wouldn’t change anything about it.
The staff are so supportive.
I studied an Extended Diploma in Fashion & Textiles at Arts University Plymouth for two years after school and I loved their way of teaching.
During my Pre-Degree study I had access to the facilities on the main university campus, so knew what they had to offer.
Although I looked around at other universities, I knew Arts University Plymouth was the best option for me.
The curriculum covers everything you need to know to be able to enter the industry confidently and the support from the lecturers throughout all three years has been amazing, which you don't get in big universities with larger class sizes.
The creative community at Arts University Plymouth is great.
Everyone is super welcoming and more than happy to collaborate on different projects.
I've found that you can really learn from everyone in the community.
They aren't afraid to ask questions or give you advice on how to improve your work.
Personally I have learnt more than I could have imagined from my peers and their feedback and encouragement has benefited me and my work greatly.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses:
Our art, design, craft and digital media programmes will equip you with the knowledge and skills necessary to thrive at the forefront of the creative industries.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/open-days:
Take a vital step towards your creative future by coming along to our next open event.
Both online and on-campus, our Student Recruitment team are ready to show you around our breathtaking facilities.
Can't make it to an Open Day in person?
Watch our recorded talks anywhere, any time.
On demand.
A new kind of Art School since 1856.
Apply now to join our range of creative BA, MA and post-16 courses.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/clearing:
Clearing is another chance for you to secure a place on one of our creative degrees in art, design & media.
At Arts University Plymouth, we know there’s more to every applicant than their results on paper and we’ll work hard to find the best route for you.
We’ll make sure you can talk to one of our academic team about your work and your journey so far, and your ambitions for the future.
Click the button below and complete our speedy form to register for Clearing, and you'll get information from our friendly team on the places we have available, and assistance on completing your application.
Take a look at our range of creative degrees, and start studying this September.
Choose from a range of accommodation options to suit all budgets
Check out our Portfolio Tips in this video, with some extra tips regarding interviews and informal discussions that you may have when you apply for a creative course.
Explore designing and making in clay, textiles, fibers, wood, metals, glass, jesmonite and new synthetic matter while developing a cohesive, forward-thinking and sustainable contemporary practice.
(Work by Bonnie Mustoe-Whitehill)
Using the latest 2D and 3D software you'll learn the skills needed to thrive in the top international gaming studios.
(Work by Bogdan Iwaniuk)
Go behind the curtain and be delighted by prop design, millinery and clothing for performance.
(Work by Kiera Bracken)
Become part of a dynamic and talented group of fashion designers.
(Work by Oliwia Nowotnik)
From social media and product shoots to print editorial, join the ranks of fashion's change-makers.
(Work by Beth Hobby)
Escape into cinema and reveal the power of film to tell stories, both personal and collective.
(Work by Jack Radford)
Explore contemporary art-making in its broadest and most critically-engaged sense.
(Work by Ashanti Hare)
Tomorrow's designers are multi-faceted and inquisitive.
(Work by Jasmine Hall)
From indie zines and comic books to editorial and packaging — immerse yourself in illustration.
(Work by Kate O'Dowd Channing)
Become an in texture, colour, surface and ambience, and get ready to transform environments around the world.
(Work by Morwenna Franks)
Rigorous, materials-based and process-driven — this is traditional artistry reimagined.
Photography preserves a single moment but tells us so much more.
See the world through different eyes.
(Work by Daniel Dayment)
Fusing digital and traditional technologies, our textiles students propose new futures for print and fabric design.
(Work by Faye Bentley)
This 4-year degree offers an exploratory first year, before progressing onto a specialist degree of your choice.
Get a taste of what it's like to study at Arts University Plymouth.
Deadline for applications for 2025 study to be received.
UCAS Extra opens for any applicants who received no offers, or who rejected all their offers
Last date to add a UCAS Extra choice
Clearing 2025 officially opens

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/apply:
Places are available on our courses, from fashion, film and fine art to graphic design, photography and animation — your future starts here.
From BA (Hons) and MA degrees, to post-16 Extended Diplomas — find your future in creative education.
We typically ask for 104 - 120 UCAS points , but also consider more than just formal qualifications.
Join our friendly team on an informal virtual meeting, every Monday at 3pm, to get help with your application.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/about-us:
Arts University Plymouth is the UK’s newest specialist arts university and a national leader in creative education.
Named University of the Year for South West England in both 2024 and 2025 at the Whatuni Student Choice Awards, and ranked second in the UK for student satisfaction by Times Higher Education in 2024, we are proud to be consistently rated the top-scoring arts university in the UK in the National Student Survey since 2022.
Tavistock Place, Undergraduate Campus.
Photo credit: Tim Gundry
The Arts University Plymouth main campus building on Tavistock Place, under construction in the 1970s.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/study:
Creativity doesn’t just happen in the studio, workshop or darkroom.
It’s a way of life.
A lot has changed here since we started out over 160 years ago, but this simple equation of living and making still shapes everything we do.
Get to know Arts University Plymouth and our vibrant community in print or PDF.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/international:
Looking to study in the historic city of Plymouth?
We will support you from the moment you start your research.
Together we will find you the right course, support your visa application and secure you the best accommodation for your budget.
Iranian MA student Sepideh Takshi talks about life at Arts University Plymouth.
Graphic designer Tatsu Ishikawa discusses his move from Japan to Plymouth and how his studies at Arts University Plymouth shaped his practice.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/student-life:
We have a vibrant, supportive and friendly student community at Arts University Plymouth, and we’re proud to be located in a city that plays host to a wealth of creative, inventive independent businesses and forward thinking cultural organisations.
Alex talks about her experience of first year life at Arts University Plymouth

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/alumni:
The Alumni Association at Arts University Plymouth is part of our commitment to supporting your continuing success beyond graduation.
Anyone who has graduated from the university is considered a member of our alumni community and is able to join the association .
Arts University Plymouth alumni gather in London to meet with Templo branding agency.
Workroom Grow residents Megan Trapnell and Mia Cooper in Workroom Grow's creative incubation space at Arts University Plymouth.
Photo by Tim Gundry.
Highlights from our 2021 Graduation ceremony at Theatre Royal Plymouth

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/visit:
Nothing beats the sense of belonging visitors feel when they are welcomed on campus, and right now we are pleased to offer both online and in-person visitor experiences.
Tavistock Place, Undergraduate Campus

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/research:
As a specialist arts university, Arts University Plymouth’s research, innovation and knowledge exchange activity reflects and underpins our vision, ethos, purpose and values.
As a community of practice-led artists and leaders we are focused on academic and innovation opportunities that respond to the social, cultural and economic needs of Plymouth, the South West region, and the wider UK creative economy.
Fulgur launches new anthology 'Visions of Enchantment' at Tavistock Place, co-edited by the university's Head of Academic Research, Judith Noble.
Making Futures, a research platform exploring contemporary craft, invites international thought-leaders and creatives to interrogate 21st-century maker movements.
Making Futures 2017

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/prospectus:
Discover our full range of undergraduate, postgraduate and pre-degree courses in our latest prospectus.
Download a digital version below or request a print copy in the post.
A picture paints a thousand words but our prospectuses will bring your future to life.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/posts:
Check out the latest news, events and opportunities from our university community and industry network.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/events:
From Open Days and online events to research symposiums and international exhibitions in our on-site gallery — view our upcoming events and start planning your next visit.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/graduate-shows-2025:
From art and design to digital media and traditional making, discover the future of creative practice across our range of creative courses, from pre-degree to postgraduate level.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/posts/arts-university-plymouth-top-five-student-satisfaction-cug-2026:
BA (Hons) Fine Art graduate Dezeta Fantie
Opening night of Richard Kenton Webb's exhibition in MIRROR, our campus gallery
Discover our state-of-the-art facilities, talk to expert staff and tour local affordable accommodation at our next Open Day

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/posts/whatuni-south-west-university-of-the-year-2025:
Student work by Bailey Doe, BA (Hons) Fashion Design graduate 2024
BA (Hons) Craft & Material Practice student Zeynep Korun in the hot glass studio
BA (Hons) Illustration lecturer Jack Viant at the opening night of his exhibition in PS1
Guests at the Private View of BA (Hons) Painting, Drawing & Printmaking Course Leader Richard Kenton Webb's exhibition in MIRROR

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/posts/arts-university-plymouth-celebrates-success-at-the-whatuni-student-choice-awards-2024:
Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2024 presented by Lenny Henry
Arts University Plymouth
Graduates at Arts University Plymouth's graduation ceremony at Theatre Royal Plymouth
Download our latest guide to Undergraduate courses

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/posts/another-excellent-year-for-arts-university-plymouth-in-the-national-student-survey-2024:
Graduate Shows 2024 at Arts University Plymouth
Professor Paul Fieldsend-Danks, Vice-Chancellor & Chief Executive at Arts University Plymouth
Ceramics at Arts University Plymouth
Filmmaking at Arts University Plymouth
Professor Paul Fieldsend-Danks with Enterprise and Entrepreneurship Award winner Sophie Checkley
Fashion at Arts University Plymouth
Painting, Drawing and Printmaking at Arts University Plymouth
There's still time to apply to start your undergraduate degree in September.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/posts/arts-university-plymouth-excels-again-in-the-national-student-survey-2023:
Hot glass blowing with the electric furnace at Arts University Plymouth
Katie McMillan's graduate collection 'Planet Kataie'
BA (Hons) Film & Screen Arts at Arts University Plymouth
Arts University Plymouth's Summer Shows
Tyrone Vera's 'Play + Work = Plork'

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/posts/arts-university-plymouths-pre-degree-sixth-form-campus-rated-ofsted-good:
Arts University Plymouth's Palace Court campus
Arts University Plymouth's Pre-Degree Annual Winter Showcase, Design to Sell
The Pre-Degree 2022 student survey revealed students who are happy with their progress, feel safe & enjoy their time studying creative qualifications

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/student-life/discover-plymouth:
Plymouth, located on the Devon coast in the South West of England, is known as Britain’s Ocean City.
Our vibrant coastal city boasts a stunning waterfront complete with beaches, a beautifully restored 1935 Art Deco Lido, and spots for wild swimming, sailing and cycling.
MIRROR (previously known as The Gallery), our on-site international exhibition space at Tavistock Place, undergraduate building.
"Plymouth is Britain’s coolest little city by the sea" — British GQ magazine
Left to right: The Bread & Roses / Radiant Space
Award-winning photographer Nicholas White embraced the wilds of Dartmoor during his studies at Arts University Plymouth.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/posts/nss-2025-student-satisfaction-success:
Students from Arts University Plymouth responding to the National Student Survey (NSS) 2025 have reported consistently high positive responses, placing Arts University Plymouth among the highest-performing universities for student experience in the United Kingdom.
Arts University Plymouth's Fashion Show at the Graduate Shows 2025
BA (Hons) Painting, Drawing & Printmaking students at the Graduate Shows 2025
The NXT GEN industry night of the Graduate Shows 2025
Photography work at the Graduate Shows 2025
Graduate Shows 2025

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/posts/arts-university-plymouth-ranked-2-in-the-uk:
Arts University Plymouth's Graduate Shows
Clearing places are still available on our creative degrees - apply now and start your studies this Autumn.
Students have rated Arts University Plymouth as the top arts university in the UK in almost every category of the National Student Survey 2024

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories:
From technical demonstrations to video diaries and studio tours, watch the latest stories filmed on campus and follow our alumni into their impressive workplaces.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/virtual-tours:
Explore our city-centre campus and surrounding local area by browsing our library of 360-degree virtual tours.
Start with a bird’s eye view or select a studio highlight.
View the full tour here.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/contact:
Please get in touch using the form below or start a live chat to speak to our main reception.
Timetables, key dates, and freshers information for new and returning students.
How to report an absence if you are a staff member, student or parent and carer of someone at the university.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/strategic-plan:
In an age defined by increasing alienation from the natural world, our research and expertise in materials is the creative knowledge we can apply to support the health and wellbeing of the planet and society.
Artist Oliver Beer’s work, on display in MIRROR at Arts University Plymouth as part of British Art Show 9, 2022.
Image: ©Lloyd Russell
Our vision for Arts University Plymouth is a new kind of arts university for the 21st century, preparing graduates who are uniquely placed to provide creative solutions to the complex global challenges of our times.
Image created by BA (Hons) Fashion Media & Marketing graduate Corey Hyne using MidJourney, for ‘Riot’, part of an exploration of the ethical considerations and ground breaking possibilities of AI in the creative industries.
Establish arts university plymouth as a leading UK arts university
Achieve sustained growth in student numbers and an outstanding student experience
Evidence the impact of our research, innovation and knowledge exchange
Extend creative opportunities through partnership and research degree provision
Deliver annual surpluses to reinvest in our students, staff and campuses
Technical Demonstrator Russell Cleave leading a sound and film workshop during an Open Day event.
Image: ©Arts University Plymouth.
Work by BA (Hons) 3D Design Crafts student Bethany Antliff at London Design Fair 2018.
Image: ©Sarah Packer
Arts University Plymouth is an independent specialist arts university, with creativity at the heart of everything we do.
BA (Hons) Commercial Photography student Matthew Marshall's picture of Tinside Lido, winner in the Single Image category of the EIZO UK Student Awards 2023.
Image © Matthew Marshall
Screenshot of ‘Ashnihilation’, an augmented reality Microsoft HoloLens project by Postgraduate Studies Course Leader and Senior Lecturer Tom Milnes, 2022.
Image: ©Tom Milnes.
In a resource-rich organisation, the principal asset of the University remains its people.
Work by BA (Hons) Fashion Media Marketing graduate Harry Langford 2023.
Image ©Harry Langford
Work by BA (Hons) Photography graduate Nathan Kavanagh, 2017.
Image: ©Nathan Kavanagh.
The financial environment of Higher Education is ever more challenging, predicated on delivery models and structures that sit atypically alongside those of the creative industries.
Detail from poster for ‘Of the Ground’, a Knowledge Exchange initiative supported by Research England’s Knowledge Exchange Funding for Smaller Providers.
Natural dyes by Emma Gribble, design by Sam Rowe, photography by Kathryn Hays and Neil Jones, 2023.
MA Ceramics student Maia Walton working in the studio in our £8m Craft, Design and Fabrication workshops, 2022.
Creative Education for a Changing World
Arts University Plymouth, 2023.
Image: ©Tim Gundry.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/our-governance-and-charitable-status:
On these pages you can find a range of information about Governance and our Board of Governors at Arts University Plymouth, England’s newest specialist arts University.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/working-here:
Arts University Plymouth is an award-winning independent arts university, run by artists and designers for artists and designers.
With over 13,000 square metres of studios and workshops and state of the art open-access resources, your creativity has no limits.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/strategic-leadership-management:
The Vice-Chancellor & Chief Executive is advised by the Vice-Chancellor's Executive (VCE), which is the senior advisory and executive decision-making group for Arts University Plymouth.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/visit/the-gallery:
A public art gallery, events programme and online resource based out of and supported by Arts University Plymouth.
MIRROR is a public gallery, events programme and online resource based out of and generously supported by Arts University Plymouth..
Left to Right: Eleanor Duffin, Huma Mulji, Katie Schwab, Maud Craigie, British Art Show 9
Gallery Shorts: Bridge The Tamar
Left to right: Katie Schwab, Simon Baylis, Envisions, Torsten Lauschmann, Laura Phillips

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/research/events-symposiums:
Arts University Plymouth Research, Scholarship and Practice Activities are gaining national and international attention.
Find out more about the upcoming events related to our research activities.
Making Futures, Beijing (2014)

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/visit/plymouth-arts-cinema:
Plymouth Arts Cinema (formerly known as Plymouth Arts Centre), based at our Tavistock Place campus, is the city's only independent cinema.
Moving from its original home of 40 years on Looe Street in early 2019, the cinema is open to the public and the 118 seat auditorium boasts a state-of-the-art sound system and cinema screen to showcase a hand-picked selection of arthouse, foreign language and modern classic films.
Rebel Film Festival 2019

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/about-us/schools-outreach:
Raising aspirations and awareness of creative pathways
Our Schools & Outreach team raise aspirations and awareness of arts education at college and degree study level.
From careers fairs to online workshops, and employability talks to portfolio support - find out how we can connect your students with meaningful creative encounters.
Students explore art, design, fashion and digital media at our dedicated Pre-Degree Campus Palace Court and Palace Studios.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/posts/arts-university-plymouth-wins-kindness-in-education-award:
Professor Paul Fieldsend-Danks

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-illustration:
This industry-informed degree delves deep into the essence of contemporary illustration, defining its role in today's dynamic landscape.
Discover how to navigate commercial briefs and express your personal vision with equal finesse.
Our program fosters a sustainable and fulfilling illustration practice, preparing you for success in a rapidly evolving industry.
Find out more about BA (Hons) Illustration at Arts University Plymouth.
Helena Dore, BA (Hons) Illustration
Student Grace Betteridge
Student Amy Ottley
Get to know us better by booking a 1 to 1 chat with one of our lecturers, where you can get the lowdown on the degree you're interested in.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fine-art:
Our BA (Hons) Fine Art course is rigorous and questioning, encouraging an ambitious diversity of approaches in thinking and making.
We promote contemporary art practice in its broadest sense, fostering an ambitious, self-directed, and critically engaged approach to creative practice.
Find out more about BA (Hons) Fine Art at Arts University Plymouth.
Students exhibit work throughout the year – including at the university's annual Degree Shows.
From forming international artist collectives and exhibiting at Art Weekenders to transforming Tate Modern's Switch House into a pop-up factory as part of Tate Exchange — our students regularly engage with the public and gaining vital artist exposure.
BA (Hons) Fine Art students enjoy access to a dedicated workspace at Studio 11.
Facilities include a photography darkroom, bookable installation area and mac suite.
Trinitatem, Paul Hillon, BA (Hons) Fine Art

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-craft-material-practices:
With almost 150,000 people employed in the UK’s craft industry, skilled craftspeople are putting the country on the map for original, forward-thinking contemporary design.
The relationship between thinking and making is constantly evolving.
Experimentation and innovation are driving a new wave of craftspeople to explore original directions, often looking to develop methods in which we can live harmoniously within natural and fabricated environments while supporting a healthy ecosystem.
Find out more about BA (Hons) Craft & Material Practices at Arts University Plymouth.
From collective installations to traditional making and digital fabrication - your experience will be filled with opportunities to diversify and try new processes.
Jason Mcanuff working in the glass-blowing house within our £8m funded Craft, Design and Fabrication workshops.
Ben Kew, Degree Shows, 2019

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-textile-design:
Our BA (Hons) Textile Design course is an exciting, industry-focused and experimental environment where you will develop essential skills needed to design for different markets and audiences.
Our course covers all aspects of the textile design sector, including trend forecasting, product development, branding, and marketing.
Find out more about BA (Hons) Textile Design at Arts University Plymouth.
Saima Rahman's 'Illumination of Islamic' Prints

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-film-screen-arts:
BA (Hons) Film & Screen Arts is a practical filmmaking course that focuses on the craft and aesthetics of contemporary filmmaking.
With a focus on cinematic storytelling, the course allows you to design and create storyworlds for a range of audiences, providing real insight into the global filmmaking industries.
Find out more about BA (Hons) Film & Screen Arts at Arts University Plymouth.
Marek Kawula BTS
Jack Kruyswijk, Impact Film

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-graphic-design:
Our BA (Hons) Graphic Design course invites you to join our award winning students from D&AD Best in Show, Creative Conscience, JDO Raw & more.
Discover the universal language of graphic design, feel empowered to understand how to influence and activate public conscience.
Join the cutting-edge graphic design program at Arts University Plymouth, where you’ll acquire the versatile skills to craft bold, impactful designs that break boundaries and drive global change.
With a strong focus on innovation, experimentation & sustainability, you’ll learn to create and thrive in an industry that empowers you to design with purpose to shape a more responsible, impactful future.
Find out more about BA (Hons) Graphic Design at Arts University Plymouth.
Simon Langer
Check out the final major projects from our Class of 2022 cohort.
Trevi and BA (Hons) Graphic Design students host event, photography by Codie Hobbs

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-painting-drawing-printmaking:
Our BA (Hons) Painting, Drawing and Printmaking course is designed to immerse you in a wide range of traditional and contemporary techniques, you will simultaneously develop a distinct creative voice as a contemporary professional artist.
Find out more about BA (Hons) Painting, Drawing & Printmaking at Arts University Plymouth.
'Eight x Four' by Nicky Harwood
By Alex Lee

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-media-marketing:
Fashion is an evolutionary and multifaceted industry that takes innovations in technology and culture as inspiration.
From fashion media and fashion marketing, through to discussions exploring disruptive technology and changing consumer behaviour – this course will place you at the forefront of fashion communication.
Find out more about BA (Hons) Fashion Media & Marketing at Arts University Plymouth.
Poppy Stroud
When the shows wrap in Milan, the best dressed head to Paris.
Our students spent four days capturing the best street style looks as seen on the elite of the fashion industry.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-interior-design:
Ranked 3rd in the UK , this course has been devised to develop your skills in interior design and styling, emphasising the impact of colour, texture, materials, surface, and ambience in a range of environments.
We will ensure you enter industry as a well-rounded interiors specialist, ready to work on projects from super yachts to magazine photoshoots.
Find out more about BA (Hons) Interior Design & Styling at Arts University Plymouth.
Student Lydia Hughes

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-design:
Join our dynamic BA (Hons) Fashion Design program, tailored to nurture independently-minded fashion thinkers and makers poised to lead change in the industry.
Our comprehensive curriculum equips you with the skills and knowledge essential for influencing change within the fashion industry.
With a focus on creativity, innovation, and practical application, our program prepares you for a rewarding career in fashion design.
Ben Shales
From cutting-room floor to international runways, BA (Hons) Fashion students discuss their journey to industry.
Fashion students debut their final collections at London's Graduate Fashion Week.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-animation-games:
Our BA (Hons) Animation & Games degree equips you for the competitive animation and gaming market and rapidly expanding environment in the entertainment industry, projected to reach a global worth of £200 billion by 2025.
Find out more about BA (Hons) Animation & Games at Arts University Plymouth.
Nathan Hardy
Real Ideas' immersive dome at Market Hall in Plymouth is the first of its type in Europe.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-photography:
Our BA (Hons) Photography program is meticulously crafted to cultivate a dynamic blend of creative and critical practice, positioning you for success in the ever-evolving field of photography.
With a keen focus on contemporary art practices, we delve into various forms of photographic image-making, empowering you to unleash your creative potential and excel in the dynamic landscape of photography.
Find out more about BA (Hons) Photography at Arts University Plymouth.
Students access high quality resources – including a darkroom, photographic cove, studios, a digital darkroom, the Digital Print Bureau, and a range of industry-standard kit, all free to hire.
Reclamation by Edyta Linnane, BA (Hons) Photography
Students exhibit their work at our annual Degree Shows.
Aaron Lovelock, 2020.
From the 'Bolerium' series by Andrew Ford

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-costume-production:
Our BA (Hons) Costume Production program offers a fresh approach to the study of design, realisation, and construction for costume.
Working from classic and contemporary texts, music, and storytelling, students will become skilled at producing bespoke costumes for a range of performance genres, whether for stage, screen, or live action events.
Sophie Prings costume in action for 'The Actors Wheels' production of Faustus | Photo credit: Claire Tregaskis
Costume Production students have access to a wide range of facilities.
The Actors Wheel production of Faustus.
Photo credit: Claire Tregaskis
Rachel Kitchen, The Curious Mermaid (2020)

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/level-0-extended-degrees:
If you want to pursue a creative degree at Arts University Plymouth but feel you have yet to acquire the experience and range of skills necessary, our Extended BA programme will prepare you for entry to one of our BA (Hons) undergraduate courses.
Max Wilson, Extended BA
Extended BA students exhibit their work in the annual end of year Summer Show.
PROGRAMME
UCAS CODE
BA (Hons) Animation & Games (Extended Degree)
BA (Hons) Costume Production (Extended Degree)
BA (Hons) Craft & Material Practices (Extended Degree)
BA (Hons) Fashion Design (Extended Degree)
W234
BA (Hons) Fashion Media & Marketing (Extended Degree)
BA (Hons) Film & Screen Arts (Extended Degree)
BA (Hons) Fine Art (Extended Degree)
BA (Hons) Graphic Design (Extended Degree)
W211
BA (Hons) Illustration (Extended Degree)
W221
BA (Hons) Interior Design & Styling (Extended Degree)
B68G
BA (Hons) Painting, Drawing & Printmaking (Extended Degree)
W102
BA (Hons) Photography (Extended Degree)
BA (Hons) Textile Design (Extended Degree)
In their artistic practice students are encouraged to take creative risks, generate ideas, experiment and develop a breadth of approaches to problem-solving.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-jan:
Our January start (Spring Term) BA (Hons) degrees allow students to study flexibly at home, in the studio or at one of our dedicated international host institutions.
You'll complete your first year of study by the beginning of August, progressing straight into your second year in September after a summer break.
Hear from our Distance Learning Course Leader Jason Hirons.
From cutting-room floor to international runways, BA (Hons) Fashion Design students discuss their journey to industry.
Graduate Fashion Week

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-illustration-jan:
Our January entry (Spring Term) BA (Hons) degrees allow students to study flexibly at home, in the studio or at one of our dedicated international host institutions.
Ariel Buhlman, Ball, 2020.
Charlotte Leadley, Scientists Discover Water, 2020.
Tatsu Ishikawa

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-media-marketing-jan:
Our January Entry (Spring Term) BA (Hons) degrees allow students to study flexibly at home, in the studio or at one of our dedicated international host institutions.
You'll complete your first year of study by the beginning of August, progressing straight into your second year in September, after a summer break.
Backstage at Graduate Fashion Week 2018.
Photo credit: Victoria Hughes, BA (Hons) Fashion Media & Marketing 2020

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-interiors-jan:
Degree Shows

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-graphic-design-jan:
You'll complete your first year of study in August, progressing straight into your second year of study in September, after a summer break.
Fiona Pearse
Learn more about Graphic Design at Arts University Plymouth

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-design-fashion:
MA Design (Fashion) at Arts University Plymouth is an opportunity to reimagine the status quo of fashion and to use a research-led, practical exploration of materials, processes and technologies to propose new strategies for the industry.
Click here to book an informal online chat about Postgraduate study with either Associate Professor Stephanie Owens , Dean of Arts, Design and Media, Becky Dodman Wainwright , Co-Course Leader for Postgraduate Studies, or Jason Hirons , Co-Course Leader for Postgraduate Studies

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-design-communication:
MA Design (Communication) builds upon your knowledge and practice experience of Illustration, Graphic Design and other communication media to explore how current social, critical and technological paradigms are changing how designers create and distribute narrative-driven artefacts or brand-led campaigns.
Work by Zara Mcdermott
Work by Sue Lewry
Work by Alan Qualtrough

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-design-built-environment:
MA Design (Built Environment) prepares you to develop a unique practice using methods of co-design and practice-led research to transform the spaces people inhabit for increased wellbeing, social agency and sense of place.You will learn how to approach space as a dynamic infrastructure that expresses the material, physical and digital forces that inform it, expanding the ways in which it can be meaningfully and sustainably occupied.
Trinitatum by Paul Hillon , BA (Hons) Fine Art and MA Fine Art graduate, and now a Technical Tutor on our Fine Art courses.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-design-textiles:
MA Design (Textiles) immerses you in the research, application and production of textiles within the fashion design, interior design and craft industries.
You will have the opportunity to focus on either structured or printed textiles, including both traditional techniques as well as emerging techniques using bio-based materials, non-extractive methods and digital 3D printing technologies.
In 2024, as part of a British Council-supported residency, Arts University Plymouth hosted a workshop by Shamji Vankar, a master weaver from the Kachchh region in north India.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-design:
MA Design at Arts University Plymouth develops products, practices and applications for contemporary society through a speculative lens to imagine design beyond the status quo of production and consumption.
It does this by teaching design as an active mode of research that seeks to positively impact human and planetary wellbeing.
Work by Owen Rees

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-immersive-media:
MA Immersive Media prepares students to translate their creative knowledge and digital skills into engaging immersive content and public media experiences for diverse audiences in this exciting and rapidly growing sector.
Learning is conducted through a unique partnership with Real Ideas’ Market Hall in Plymouth, home to Europe’s largest Immersive Dome.
Dive into a world of immersive technology with MA Immersive Media at Arts University Plymouth.
Real Ideas' Immersive Dome at Market Hall in Devonport, Plymouth.
Image credit: Jay Stone
A packed audience watching a show at Real Ideas' Immersive Dome in Market Hall, Devonport.
A dancer is silhouetted against the projections in the Immersive Dome at Market Hall.
Image credit: Immersive Me

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-museum-studies:
Our Masters programmes offer you an intensive personal programme of creative and stimulating study within a supportive critical and practical framework that enables you to examine, interrogate and reflect upon the nature and role of your chosen practice.
A group of visitors look around the Another Crossing exhibition at The Box Plymouth, organised in collaboration with Arts University Plymouth and Fuller Craft in 2022.
The Box, Plymouth's award-winning museum, art gallery and archive, with a 2022 European Museum of the Year Special Commendation, located a short two minute walk from our main Tavistock Place campus.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-glass:
MA Glass is a unique degree focused on the history, creative practice and culture of glass as a material.
Based primarily in our world-class, state-of-the-art hot glass and kiln-formed glass studios, you will be immersed in the study of traditional and contemporary applications of this specialist craft.
Balance 2, Laura Quinn, MA Glass

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-3d-design-crafts:
MA Craft & Material Practices at Arts University Plymouth is a course that takes craft as a starting point rather than a destination.
Steeped in tacit knowledge that is often transmitted through hands-on skills and customs, you will be guided in material-led research processes in clay, glass, wood, biomaterials, metals, fibre or other materials that lead to personal discovery and future-oriented, contemporary professional practice.
Made@EU artist-in-residence Adriana Ionascu works in our on-site digital fabrication suite, Fab Lab Plymouth.
Vortex Whiskey Tumblers, Laura Quinn
Crafts student Renovat Moody takes us on a tour through the university's breathtaking glass workshop.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-fine-art:
MA Fine Art at Arts University Plymouth deepens your studio practice by helping you to situate it within critical and contemporary contexts, providing you with the opportunity to develop your ideas and work in a practice-led, interdisciplinary environment, whether you work with painting , printmaking , drawing , photography , moving image , performance , social practice or installation .
Presence in Absence, Paul Hillon, MA Fine Art

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/pre-degree/ual-level-3-extended-diploma-in-art-design-famp:
Do you want to be a director, animator or work in film or TV?
Find your future in the exciting and creative world of moving image and media production.
Find out more about our Pre-Degree & Sixth form campus and the courses on offer at Arts University Plymouth

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/pre-degree/foundation-diploma-in-art-and-design-post-a-level:
The UAL Foundation Diploma in Art & Design will enable your process of thinking and making to develop within a vibrant and diverse creative environment.
This is an exciting and immersive course that prepares you for degree study in the creative arts.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/pre-degree/ual-level-3-extended-diploma-in-art-design-photography:
Discover the fundamentals of photographic image-making and gain access to industry standard equipment and specialist studios, with expert mentorship from real-world professionals.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/pre-degree/ual-level-3-extended-diploma-in-art-design:
Develop your individual creative voice and experience a diverse range of pathways including Fine Art, Painting, Drawing & Printmaking, Interior Design, Theatre Design, and 3D design through this flexible programme of creative practice.
Pre Degree's Annual Summer Show offers students the opportunity to showcase their achievements to media, industry and the public.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/pre-degree/ual-level-3-extended-diploma-in-art-design-fashion-textiles:
From fashion design and promotion to interior styling and costume, this fast-paced and practical pathway will develop your ability to conceptualise and produce ideas for a variety of fashion and textile industries.
Pre-Degree students exhibit their work as part of the annual Summer Show, including a live runway presentation for the viewing public.
Pre Degree’s Annual Summer Show offers students the opportunity to showcase their achievements to press, industry and the viewing public.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/pre-degree/ual-level-3-extended-diploma-in-art-design-giga:
From drawing to digital modelling, find your unique voice as a visual communicator and gain the specialist skills needed by future employers and university courses in the subject areas of graphic design, illustration and game art.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-masterclasses/making-change-april-2025-2:
Do you dream of starting a career in art, design or media?
Are you interested in doing a creative Undergraduate or Postgraduate degree?
Tues 15 April | 10am - 3.30pm Weds 16 April | 10am - 3.30pm Thurs 17 April | 10am - 3.30pm
Tues 22 April | 10am - 3.30pm Weds 23 April | 10am - 3.30pm Thurs 24 April | 10am - 3.30pm
A lot has changed here since we started out over 160 years ago, but this simple equation of making and living still shapes everything we do.
Our postgraduate programmes invite you to explore and refine your creative practice by critically engaging with the cultural, technological and economic changes that are shaping our world.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-masterclasses/build-your-portfolio-course-april25:
Arts University Plymouth’s 4-day Build Your Portfolio Course is aimed at 15-18 year olds and is designed to help you create a diverse range of work and build the skills you need to present a strong creative portfolio to the universities of your choice.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/young-arts/national-art-and-design-saturday-club:
Art University Plymouth’s Young Arts programme was established in 1988.
Young Arts also offers local participants the chance to join one of the National Saturday Clubs , and be part of a UK-wide initiative with over 70 clubs taking place across the country.
National Saturday Clubs provide members with an array of transferable skills that are greatly sought after by employers in the UK’s thriving creative sector and beyond.
11.00am
13.00pm
9 November 2024
23 March 2025
Free and inclusive of all materials, equipment and trips.
Browse our range of post-16 Extended Diploma courses.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/young-arts/national-fashion-and-business-saturday-club-2024:
11:00am
1:00pm

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/young-arts/young-arts-saturday-club-23-24:
Arts University Plymouth’s Young Arts programme was established in 1988.
Young Arts feature the university's renowned Saturday Arts Clubs and for over 25 years has worked to bridge the gap in arts provision for young people created by increasingly limited access to creative activity in schools.
28 September 2024
24 May 2025
Saturday (term time only)
Each session will run from 10:30am - 12:30pm
Palace Studios, Pre-Degree Campus, Buckwell Street, Plymouth, PL1 2DA
£13.75 per week (paid termly, with half term Saturdays off) inclusive of all materials, equipment, sketchbook, exhibition, trip and booking fee
Holly Fulford
Laura Brooks
Stephen Green
Ben Doney
Clare Shortcook
Guests; Becky Lawton & Kate Marshall

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/young-arts/young-arts-multi-activity-summer-club-august2025:
Young Arts feature the university's renowned Saturday Arts Clubs and for over 30 years has worked to bridge the gap in arts provision for young people created by increasingly limited access to creative activity in schools.
Monday 18 August 2025
Wednesday 20 August 2025
Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday
Each session will run from 10am - 3:30pm
Arts University Plymouth Pre-Degree Campus, Palace Studios, Buckwell Street, Plymouth, PL1 2DA
£90 for 3 days
Laura Brooks and Stephen Green

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation:
When you choose Arts University Plymouth you also get the opportunity to choose from a variety of dedicated Halls and Houses from the city's top accommodation providers.
Rooms are designed to suit a range of tastes and budgets, with options available including no deposit, no additional fees and bills included.
Homes for Students offer safe, affordable and comfortable student accommodation throughout Plymouth City Centre.
Check out this video of their Cross House property.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply:
Ready to apply for one of our undergraduate degrees?
Kickstart your future in the creative industries with a specialised qualification in art, design, craft or digital media from our independent, specialist arts university.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/about-us/our-campus:
We offer the richest, most diverse ecosystem of materials, technologies, processes, practices, and exchange of ideas at any arts university in the UK.
Find us at the edge of the ocean, at the centre of creative teaching and research, and right by your side.
Our Undergraduate Campus, Tavistock Place.
Photo Credit: Tim Gundry
The Postgraduate Centre, Studio 44, Regent Street.
Palace Court & Palace Studios, Pre-Degree Campus, Buckwell Street.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/about-us/honorary-fellowships:
At Arts University Plymouth, Honorary Fellowships are awarded to those who have made a significant contribution to the arts, education or public cultural life, particularly for those who have or have had links to the university or the region.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/about-us/young-arts:
Creativity may be something we are born with, but we believe it needs to be nurtured throughout life - from those early adventures in paint through to academic study and on to professional practice.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/about-us/sustainability:
Sustainability lies within the heart of Arts University Plymouth.
At Arts University Plymouth, we recognise sustainability as a core principle in everything we deliver, and we are committed to continually improving our environmental performance.
Students from our Pre-Degree & Sixth Form campus get immersed in nature at Poole Farm Plymouth, in partnership with Green Minds.
Explore Plymouth's rich heritage and breathtaking scenery and find out why The New York Times included Plymouth in its top cities to visit in 2020.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/about-us/teaching-for-our-time:
'Teaching for our Time’, an essential strand of Arts University Plymouth’s strategic plan ‘Creative Education for a Changing World’ , ‘captures the principles that define our university’s approach and method of teaching.
Creative Education for a Changing World – our holistic and embedded pedagogical approach
Teaching for our Time – our pedagogical principles
Arts University Plymouth was the highest scoring arts university in the UK in five of the seven National Student Survey 2023 categories: “Teaching on my course”, “Learning opportunities”, “Assessment and feedback”, “Learning resources” and “Student voice”.
Vice-Chancellor Professor Paul Fieldsend-Danks accepted the award at Kindfest 2023

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Atemporal by Harriet Kotvics, BA (Hons) Fine Art
BA (Hons) Animation students exhibit videomapping at Fete de l'Anim, Euranim Projects 2016.
Image © Morgan Rio.
Take a virtual walk through Plymouth's stunning surrounding coastline.
Get to know Arts University Plymouth and our vibrant community in print or request a downloadable PDF.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
As an MA student at Arts University Plymouth you will join our Postgraduate Centre, an active, cross-disciplinary community of makers and thinkers.
Watch this video to find out what it's like to study at Postgraduate level at Arts University Plymouth.
Matters Arising, MA Show, September 2022

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/study/pre-degree:
Our specialist Pre-Degree study programmes offer ambitious creatives a dedicated Pre-Degree & Sixth Form campus to develop their unique perspective, meet like minded people and gain the sought-after skills necessary to progress onto Higher Education study or industry.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/study/distance-learning:
Discover Distance Learning with a difference and join a truly global community of creative learners.
Starting each January, these degrees are designed to kickstart your career in the creative industries.
Watch this short video where Jason Hirons, Senior Lecturer and Course Leader, explains how our Distance Learning courses work.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/international/arrivals:
At Arts University Plymouth, the health and wellbeing of our students, staff and visitors are of the highest importance.
Once enrolled, click here to book access to our facilities and labs.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/international/artslink:
Start your UK studies online
If you are a student based in China, and you are considering a degree in art, design, craft or digital media and want to be part of a truly global community of creative learners, you can start your studies online through our connection with Artslink Go Local, commencing your degree in January 2026 alongside distance learning students from all over the world.
Find out more about Artslink Go Local: http://artslinkaup.cn/
ArtsLink Go Local students learn about Arts University Plymouth at their campus in Shanghai.
Tatsunori Ishikawa, BA (Hons) Graphic Design.
FutureLab, Shanghai China, 2019.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply:
Ready to apply to one of our creative courses?
Find out how to make your application and prepare for a future career in the competitive creative industries.
From UCAS codes to portfolio guidance, accommodation to funding - you’ll find quick links to everything you need as an International applicant on this page.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/international/turing-scheme:
The Turing Scheme is the UK government’s scheme to provide funding for international opportunities in education and training across the world.
Arts University Plymouth students explore Barcelona.
The world needs creatives now more than ever.
Find out more about our creative BA, MA and Post-16 courses at our next Open Day.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/international/international-exchanges:
Choosing to spend part of your degree living, studying and even working abroad can truly enrich your university experience, not to mention increase your employability.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/international/finance:
You should see it as an investment for your future.
£12,000 per year (two year course)
£12,000 per year (ten month course)
£17,250 per year (full time 3 year course - 4 years for Extended BA)
£17,250 per year (full time, 1 year course) £9,200 per year (part time, 2 year course)

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/international/language-requirements:
All of our students need to demonstrate that they have a good command of the English language.
If you need additional support, pre-sessional courses are available for those who do not currently meet the English entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/international/international-partnerships:
As a university-sector specialist art, design and media higher education institution that’s big on collaboration, partnership working and interdisciplinary practice, we recognise that the creative industries are now firmly an international job market, and we know the importance of connecting with creative practitioners, institutions and businesses across the globe.
Our students work with students from across Europe for the Euranim project.
Arts University Plymouth staff with student weavers in Myanmar

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/international/your-country:
Explore the application process for international students at Arts University Plymouth.
Find essential details and guidance on entry requirements, visa procedures, and connect with our students.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/international/working-with-agents:
Arts University Plymouth works with a small number of approved agents, who can provide application advice and guidance to students from across the globe.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/student-life/students-union:
Arts University Plymouth Students' Union (AUP:SU) aims to represent, campaign and provide services for you in every aspect of your university life, from academic and social, to welfare and personal support.
The purpose of a Students’ Union is to make sure that your voice is listened to and that you’re having the best possible experience during your time here.
The SU team is here to enrich your student experience, from wellbeing and personal support to social events and your academic voice.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/student-life/health-wellbeing:
The university offers a variety of free in-house services during your studies through the Student Support team, which focuses on services such as counselling, wellbeing, and learning disability support.
Support for students on our highly-specialised post-18 degree courses in art, design, craft and media.
Support for students on our Masters-level training in specialist disciplines, research methods, critical thinking, and more.
Support for students on our creative post-16 study programmes.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/alumni/workroom-grow:
Workroom Grow by Arts University Plymouth is a creative business incubation programme in Plymouth, supporting graduates to develop and grow the next generation of creative business start-ups.
Students who have graduated from Arts University Plymouth at Pre-Degree or Undergraduate level qualify for a 15% reduction in fees.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/alumni/our-alumni:
Atmosphere is a hard thing to put into words, but so many people who come here say the same thing: it feels like home.
Get to know the talented alumni who make up our close-knit university community.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/visit/book-a-tour:
If you are interested in coming to look at our facilities, but can't make it to an Open Day, why not join us at one of our Campus Tour Drop-In days.
Our city-centre main campus Tavistock Place is home to Undergraduate and Postgraduate students, MIRROR and Plymouth Arts Cinema .
Palace Court Pre-Degree Campus
Postgraduate Centre

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/visit/getting-here:
Known as Britain's Ocean City and the gateway to the South West, Plymouth is well connected.
Our campuses are located in the heart of Plymouth’s ‘Cultural Quarter’ and can be easily accessed regardless of where you’re arriving from.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/visit/the-refectory-1:
Arts University Plymouth’s Refectory is located on the ground floor next to the Reception and Students Union at our Tavistock Place campus.
The Refectory serves breakfast and lunch, as well as a range of hot and cold drinks and snacks.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/resources/material-lab:
Ceramics – Facilities include provision for throwing, raku, tile press, glazing, slip casting, hand-building and a large kiln room.
Glass – There are four main areas in glass: hot glass with two glory holes and furnace, cold working and finishing, lamp-working and kiln forming.
Plaster – The plaster room allows access to mould-making and casting in a wide range of materials.
Crafts student Benjamin Lintell shares a glimpse into his creative practice working with glass.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/resources/animation-film-and-photography-studios:
Photography and Costume students collaborate in the Cove Studio

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/resources/multimedia-lab-equipment-resource-centre:
Once you are enrolled, you can book anything you need in the LABs via our dedicated booking system.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/resources/drawing-studios:
Students take part in a drawing workshop as part of FutureLab Shanghai 2019.
Arts University Plymouth was invited to showcase different ways of learning through making as part of this expo at the West Bund Art Centre in Shanghai, China.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/resources/academic-skills:
We deliver activities, resources and workshops to support the academic and professional development of all HE students.
Geoffrey Bertram gives a free public lecture at our undergraduate campus, to celebrate the donation of a selection of original prints from Wilhelmina Barns-Graham.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/resources/plymouth-arts-cinema:
Arts University Plymouth wins Gold in 2022 and Silver in 2023 in the Best Small or Specialist University category of the Whatuni Student Choice Awards, as voted by our students.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/resources/digital-education:
Arts University Plymouth has a rich, resource-intensive digital environment to support and enhance the learning experience of students.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/research/integrity-ethics-policy-procedure:
Research integrity and ethics at Arts University Plymouth are internally governed by our Guiding principles on good conduct in staff research and scholarly activities.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/research/research-groups:
The research environment at Arts University Plymouth provides a critical space in which our academic staff can push the boundaries of their specialist interests and working practices.
Kimvi Nguyen performs at The Embodied Experience of Drawing, a one-day symposium which took place in 2018, organised by BA (Hons) Painting, Drawing & Printmaking graduate Marie Taylor and MA Drawing student Beth Heaney.
Drawing workshops take place at FutureLab Shanghai 2019: Learning Through Making.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/research/research-staff:
Meet our research community.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/research/supported-projects:
Arts University Plymouth's Research and Innovation work encompasses external activity undertaken at a regional, national and international scale.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/research/repository:
Arts University Plymouth’s research community benefits from an unique environment dedicated to practice-led creative inquiry within a world-class suite of material and digital resources which provide evolving opportunities for original scholarship and innovative outputs.
Ephemer(e)ality Capture: Glitch Practices in Photogrammetry details artistic practice using cloud-based photogrammetry that actively invokes glitches through disturbance of the imaging algorithm by utilising optical phenomena.
Reflective, transparent, specular and patterned/repetitive objects were used to confuse the imaging algorithm to produce spikes, holes and glitches in the mesh and textures of the 3D objects produced.
The research tests the limits of photogrammetry in an effort toward new image-making methods.
It builds upon the research of Hito Steyerl’s Ripping Reality: Blind spots and wrecked data in 3D in which she outlines the errors of 3D scanning media in her work and contextualises amongst thought surrounding the objectivity of photographic media.
Overview of a project produced towards an MA in Photography published in SUB, a space for the dissemination of contemporary thought, writing, and creative practice produced by the post graduate community at Arts University Plymouth.
Creative education requires a creative approach and Hirons & Brown developed the Illustration Pedagogy project using the tools and contexts of illustration itself to teaching and learning.
The journal article focuses on the invention of a new generative participatory design process that uses Tasseography.
It is a ritualistic, participatory, performance process that implements a new set of generative tools that promotes a shared language between myself and my participants resulting in a collection of co-designed abstract textile artworks.
This article considers Philip.
K.
Dick’s story in light of current forms of image-making apparatus, specifically in relation to photogrammetry.
Dick’s protagonist, Doc.
Labyrinth’s design and ambitions of The Preserving Machine to safeguard cultural heritage in the light of ecological catastrophe resonates with the application of 3D imaging technologies in cultural heritage industries.
An outline of the strategic approach being developed by Arts University Plymouth to develop students employability skills, whilst pursuing our commitment to social justice.
Atlantic Youth Creative Hubs (AYCH) was a 44-month project of European collaboration involving 14 partners from the Atlantic Area located in the United Kingdom, France, Spain and Portugal.
The aim was to develop an innovative model to strengthen the employability of young people between 16 and 30 years old in the cultural and creative industries.
A practice led case study documenting the production of Clean-Up Workers (Deluxe Series) mixed media sculpture.
Auto ethnographic narratives are explored through the lens of waste, value and abjection.
A reflective case study of practice-led research, this paper illustrates a realignment in creative methodology from a craft-based kiln-formed glass practitioner, to a mixed media sculptor exploring personal narratives.
Editorial for the special issue of DTRP exploring the relationship between drawing and learning, and the role drawing plays in the construction of knowledge within educational or learning contexts.
Exploring how the materiality of drawing has the ability to expand our relational understanding of the world around us.
An account of teaching and promoting drawing throughout a career in Higher Education, illustrating some of the ways drawing defies expectation and categorization.
This article outlines how the professional identity of third space roles was transcended via a research-focused virtual community of practice (vCoP).
Using collaborative autoethnography as methodology, ten geographically-dispersed third space professionals gathered data through two collaborative writing activities.
This data was thematically analysed (TA) which identified two connected themes.
The Cinema of Yorgos Lanthimos: Films, Forms, Philosophy is the first academic book on Lanthimos.
Bringing together essays from 16 academics from across the world, it reflects on various aspects of his works, tackling his keen eye for absurdism within the political, ethical, and aesthetic critiques of society they provide.
This paper sets out to explore thinking-through making as a complex dynamic of learnt skills and intuitive thought and to examine how these may be taught in what will be termed in this context 'learning and doing'.
The paper proposes that, whilst there are established strategies relating to the acquisition of craft skills and to creativity, it is less clear how intuition, as the act of knowing or sensing in the moment, can be taught in the context of art and design education.
The paper will take the practice of drawing as its exemplar in this exploration of intuition, examining how it might be described and imparted in an education context and its value in creative, entrepreneurial and sustainable practice.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/photographing-for-google-bbc-and-the-nhs-with-jon:
With a background in film and commercials and a passion for portraiture, Plymouth College of Art graduate Jon Attenborough talks about his return to analogue photography and his work process.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/graphics-trailer-1:
Study BA (Hons) Graphic Communication or BA (Hons) Illustration and join a new breed of professional creatives empowering brands, inspiring activism and telling stories on a global scale.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/studying-in-plymouth-1:
With a beautiful waterfront and plenty of stunning surrounding countryside, our thriving city offers dazzling views, rich history and world-class events.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/alexs-student-vlog:
From Freshers week to making friends and finding accommodation, start imagining your first-year on campus with the help of current undergraduate student Alex's video diary.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/talking-interviews-with-emily:
Avoid those interview worries with student Emily as she takes you through her university interview experience and what she included in her portfolio.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/360-virtual-tour-film:
Our multi-functional Film Studio is equipped with a green screen infinity cove, Colorama and DMX continuous lighting, making it ideal for moving image and live streaming.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/introduction-to-printworking:
Workshop Coordinator India Wilkins introduces the industry-ready Printworking facilities available at Plymouth College of Art.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/talking-interiors-with-cathryn:
Our BA (Hons) Interior Design, Decoration & Styling course is one of a rare few in the UK designed to develop your professional understanding of colour, surface, and ambience.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/graphics-trailer:
Our BA (Hons) Commercial Photography degree will prepare your for success in the competitive prepare aspiring garment creators, stylists, journalists and more.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/360-virtual-tour-glass:
Our fabrication workshops allow students to experiment with glass blowing, kiln-casting, slumping, fusing and lampworking.
You’ll also have access to fine metalwork and silversmithing processes, including lost wax casting and micro-welding.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/your-energy-1:
"We don't distinguish the decision you're making about your academic future from the one you're making about your life."

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/street-art-expert-tristan-manco-talks-about-working-with-banksy:
Tristan Manco is a published author and street artist that has worked with the likes of Banksy, Universal and EMI Records.
We recently had the pleasure of hosting Tristan as a visiting lecturer, presenting on the history of stencil art, urban environments and line making.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/working-on-star-wars-and-avengers-endgame:
Foundation Diploma in Art & Design alumnus Henry South now works for Industrial Light & Magic on some of the biggest movies in Hollywood.
Often working as a texture artist and sculptor for 3D modelling and character designs, Henry’s past job titles have included Technical Animator, Character Artist, Environment Artist and Senior Texture Artist, on films and television series that include Guardians of the Galaxy , Robocop , Gravity , Insurgent , Edge of Tomorrow , Doctor Who , Harry Potter and the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/graduate-stories-fern-robinson:
Designer-maker and BA (Hons) 3D Design Crafts alumni Fern Robinson invites us into her colourful world of contemporary jewellery.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/ben-shows-us-how-to-use-a-riso-printer:
Practising illustrator and BA (Hons) illustration lecturer at Plymouth College of Art, Ben Wright, shows us how to riso print and achieve impressive colour saturation.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/gallery-shorts-eleanor-duffin-a-phantom-limb:
The Gallery, our on-site international exhibition space at Tavistock Place, recently presented A Phantom Limb - a series of letters written by Eleanor Duffin to the artist Barbara Hepworth.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/laura-shares-a-masterclass-in-glass-lampworking:
MA 3D Design Crafts student Laura Quinn shares a masterclass in lampworking, creating glass flowers in the college's state-of-the-art glassblowing workshop.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/sublimation-printing-with-ana:
Workshop co-ordinator Ana demonstrates how to sublimation print on aluminium to create decorative jewellery and more.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/learn-how-to-print-on-wood-with-chris:
Fine artist and current student Chris Kendall walks through the creative process of wood transfer painting.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/360-virtual-tour:
From material innovation to pattern-cutting and styling, fashion is one of the largest employers of all the UK’s industries.
Challenge the future of clothing construction and communication in our professionally-kitted design studios.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/360-virtual-tour-print:
Our Imprint Lab is the only 2D printing and mark making workshop in the South West to offer modern processes such as screen printing alongside traditional printmaking processes, in addition to typesetting and bookmaking in one facility.
Here our students hone techniques such as etching, collagraph, lino, letterpress, monoprint, engraving, intaglio, lithograph up to A0, and bookbinding.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/meet-the-class-of-2020:
From art and design to digital media and traditional making, Plymouth College of Art’s 2020 graduates are ready to wow the press, public and industry.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/illustrating-best-selling-childrens-literature:
In this Pro Talk, established illustrator and Lecturer Caroline Pedler shares her illustration journey and how she came to create imaginative visuals for children's books and greeting cards.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/starting-a-swimwear-brand:
Fashion Designer Beth Richards discusses her route to becoming a brand owner and the importance of female-owned start-ups that honour women's needs.
From art school to internships, our visiting lecturers share the challenges and opportunities available in the fast-paced fashion industry.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/shooting-live-performance-and-musician-portraits:
Music photographer and Photography alumnus Andy Ford talks us through his work with some of the music industry's biggest artists, and how he went from working as a chef in Cornwall to photographing the likes of Beyoncé and Metallica all over the world.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/taking-your-studies-to-the-next-level:
Fashion Media & Marketing alumni come together to give current students informal advice on how to approach their final graduate projects and break into the fashion industry.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/agency-creatives-discuss-post-covid-design:
Join a roundtable discussion with Digital Designers and Creative Directors from the Met Office, Felt, Home and Potato, as our students gain insight into the resilience of the design industries and working with international clients through a pandemic.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/why-i-chose-to-study-in-plymouth:
Student ambassadors at Arts University Plymouth discuss what made them choose to study in the city of Plymouth.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/meet-lize-illustration-graduate-and-founder-of-sad-ghost-club:
BA (Hons) Illustration alumnus Lize Meddings developed a unique aesthetic that deals with themes of loss and loneliness, amassing over half a million Instagram followers and a cult status with zine and merchandise collectors.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/becoming-an-illustrator-with-jua:
Plymouth College of Art BA (Hons) Illustration student Jua O'Kane talks about her creative practice and becoming an illustrator.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/talking-typography-digital-with-nick:
We sat down with award-winning BA (Hons) Graphic Design grad Nick Martin to talk design, life as a creative and why he chose to study here at Plymouth College of Art.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/get-to-know-your-students-union:
AUP:SU runs a number of clubs and societies that students can join, meet like-minded people, organise events and talks and more.
Arts University Plymouth's Students' Union also organises events and trips for students to attend and annually elects a student body to represent the student community.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/check-out-the-sew-lab:
Technical Resource Manager Kathryn Hays shares an introduction to the college's Sew Lab facility.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/explore-our-ceramics-workshop:
Technical Demonstrator Dan Chapple talks us through the college's Ceramics facilities and the diverse range of tools that will be accessible to you as a Plymouth College of Art student.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/innovate-in-the-fablab:
FabLab Plymouth Manager Ben Mundy introduces our state-of-the-art digital fabrication facilities and demonstrates the breadth of processes available to all students at Plymouth College of Art.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/making-with-metal:
Jewellery Workshop Coordinator Ana Simoes gives us an overview of the extensive Metals Workshop at Plymouth College of Art.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/first-day-at-palace-court:
We dropped by our Pre-Degree campus at Palace Court to capture our students' first day of term.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/pre-degree-summer-show-2017:
Our Pre-Degree campus is transformed into an exhibition venue for our Summer Shows each year, celebrating the work created by our students.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/palace-court-opening-night:
Students, staff, friends and family celebrate the opening of our dedicated Pre-Degree building at Palace Court.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/pre-degree-study-at-plymouth-college-of-art:
Find out what it's like to study on our Pre-Degree courses at Plymouth College of Art.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/welcome-from-our-principal:
A welcome message from Arts University Plymouth Vice-Chancellor, Paul Fieldsend-Danks.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/studying-at-plymouth-college-of-art:
Discover what Arts University Plymouth has to offer, and join a creative community like no other.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/welcome-to-pre-degree-at-plymouth-college-of-art:
Join a talk with our Head of Pre-Degree, Steven Forsyth, and learn about all our post-16 study options.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/welcome-to-postgraduate-study-at-plymouth-college-of-art:
Watch a talk with Dr Steven Paige, Senior Lecturer & Subject Leader for Postgraduate Studies at Arts University Plymouth, and learn all about our postgraduate study options.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/foundation-diploma-in-art-design:
Join Maddy, our Foundation Diploma course leader, as we learn more about what a Foundation Diploma entails.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/international-baccalaureate-career-related-programme-talk-ibcp:
The International Baccalaureate Career-related Programme (IBCP) is an internationally-recognised framework of career-related education for post-16 students that seeks to develop confident, critical thinkers.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/pre-degree-employability-and-enterprise:
Our Head of Pre-Degree, Steven Forsyth, gives a talk on employability, careers and enterprise as part of our Further Education curriculum.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/learn-about-our-ual-extended-diploma-in-creative-practice-art-design:
Join pre-degree lecturer Lucy Owen to hear all about our UAL Level 3 Extended Diploma in Creative Practice: Art & Design

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/pre-degree-fashion-textiles-extended-diploma-talk:
Subject Leader Julia Stean talks you through everything you need to know about our UAL Level 3 Extended Diploma in Creative Practice: Fashion & Textiles.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/pre-degree-extended-diploma-in-graphics-illustration-game-arts:
Lecturer Jake Howell gives the lowdown on our UAL Level 3 Extended Diploma in Creative Practice: Graphics, Illustration & Game Arts.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/stories/pre-degree-ual-extended-diploma-in-photography-with-tobie-loates:
Find out about our UAL Level 3 Extended Diploma in Creative Practice: Photography in a talk with Subject Leader Tobie Loates.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/welcome:
Arts University Plymouth's Welcome Site is where you'll find essential updates on enrolment, access to google suite inductions, timetables and more, all in one place.
Welcome to Arts University Plymouth, an independent arts university run by artists and designers, for artists and designers.
Ultimately we exist for the people who come to study here - you.
Creative post-16 study programmes (equivalent to A-Levels).
An exploratory year-long course for post-16 students to discover their creative passion.
The first year of a four year degree route.
Highly-specialised post-18 degree courses in art, design, craft and media.
Transferring from another university?
Click here for information about direct entry into Year 2 or Year 3.
After successfully completing your first year remotely, you will now spend the next two years studying on campus.
Masters-level training in specialist disciplines, research methods, critical thinking, and more.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/absence:
How to report your absence if you are a staff member, student or parent and carer of someone based at Arts University Plymouth.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/reports-legal-privacy/accessibility:
This accessibility statement applies to the Arts University Plymouth website and portals.
For help with any of the information on this page please email editor@aup.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/reports-legal-privacy/equality-diversity:
Ethnicity
Ethnic Minorities
EIMD 2019 quintile
N
230
25%
4%
50
DP
30
N/A

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/reports-legal-privacy/generative-ai:
Students at Arts University Plymouth are encouraged to take a proactive approach to understanding generative AI and how it could augment or disrupt their own creative processes and whether or not it can be used ethically and responsibly, as well as to engage in robust debates around the current ethical implications and legislative restrictions of its use in the creative industries.
Find out more about the current vacancies at Arts University Plymouth.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/reports-legal-privacy/single-comprehensive-source-of-information:
Arts University Plymouth is committed to a working and learning culture that encompasses dignity, courtesy, respect, consideration and kindness for all.
An open culture of respect and trust is vital to create an environment that will enable our students to reach their potential, to achieve, progress and succeed.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/about-us/schools-outreach/outreach-workshops:
Did you know we offer studio visits, workshops, advice and more for your students?
Browse our workshops and masterclasses below.
Organising masterclasses and workshops is one of the best ways to give students an insight into studying arts subjects at degree level.
Watch the video above to see some of the workshops that Arts University Plymouth have hosted for schools.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-illustration/staff:
Our stimulating degree programmes are delivered by our team of academics, technical demonstrators and invited experts who together deliver excellence in teaching.
You’ll learn from real industry professionals, to ensure your future success in the fast-paced creative industries.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-illustration/careers-and-alumni:
We are committed to your professional development and encourage our students to regularly self-reflect and provide peer-to-peer feedback.
As one of our students, you’ll build confidence, learn to recognise your personal strengths and identify transferable skills - all essential attributes for employment and a sustainable practice beyond graduating.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-illustration/ask-a-student:
Find out about life at our independent arts university from the people who know us best — our real staff and students.
We'll aim to get back to you within 24 hours.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-illustration/resources:
As part of the university’s interdisciplinary learning environment, you will gain unrivalled access to the full spectrum of art, design and media-making facilities on-site.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fine-art/staff:
Our stimulating degree courses are delivered by our team of academics, technical demonstrators and invited experts who together deliver excellence in teaching.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fine-art/careers-and-alumni:
You will learn to develop your understanding and relationships with regional and national organisations and practitioners as well as opportunities to engage with regional and national galleries and museums including KARST, Ocean Studios, Plymouth Arts Cinema, The Box Plymouth, Tate St Ives, Newlyn Gallery and The Exchange, Cornwall.
You also have opportunities to take part in regular visits and trips, including to national and international art fairs, galleries and artists’ studios and projects.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fine-art/resources:
You will be taught by our team of highly experienced academic staff, all of whom are active makers and researchers in contemporary fine art practice.
You will benefit from their knowledge and experience of professional practice and they will encourage you to explore and test materials, concepts, media and audiences.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-craft-material-practices/careers-and-alumni:
Our students work with industry partners including the Crafts Council, the Goldsmiths’ Company, the Association for Contemporary Jewellery, Hothouse, Craftspace, the Devon Guild of Craftsmen, British Art Medal Society, the Eden Project, Mount Edgcumbe and Dartington Crystal on live briefs, competitions and exhibitions.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-craft-material-practices/resources:
Our purpose-built specialist fabrication workshops house cutting-edge facilities for glass, metal, ceramics, woods and plastics, all supported by expert tuition and technical provision.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-textile-design/careers-and-alumni:
Our strong international connections also allow our students to undertake a semester of study with one of our partner institutions within Europe and North America.
We also enjoy close links with key industry figures, including Wrag Wrap, Zandra Rhodes, Brume, Clarks , and more.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-textile-design/resources:
Based within our our city-centre campus, our impressive print studios carry 32.5 metres of printing tables, a superbly equipped dye laboratory for mixing print colours, and a range of state-of-the-art digital printers and scanners enabling you to sample fabrics with immediate turnaround.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-film-screen-arts/careers-and-alumni:
We have established links with NAHEMI , BFI London , the Royal T elevision Society , and the Aesthetica Film Festival, as well as independent filmmaking professionals in the UK and abroad.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-film-screen-arts/resources:
Our outstanding facilities include film studios, green screen studios, sound recording and post-production studios, vocal recording booths and Foley studio space.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-graphic-design/careers-and-alumni:
In collaboration with Industry Liaison Groups, we prioritise real-world experience in our curriculum as well as established links with The Design Kids, Creative Conscience, Plymouth Design Forum, Upshot Design Agency, Getty Images, James Edgar, Trevor Pettit and Ramuntcho Matta.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-graphic-design/resources:
Our students experience above-average contact time with specialist tutors and highly-skilled technicians, plus free professional kit hire from the college’s Equipment Resource Centre.
With excellent access to technical support, professional studios and audiovisual equipment, you will be able to operate as a full-stack designer, transforming your sketch concepts into packaging, web content and multichannel campaigns with ease.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-painting-drawing-printmaking/careers-and-alumni:
Throughout your studies, you will have the opportunity to develop the key professional, transferable skills for employability in the creative industries and work in partnership with other sectors locally, nationally or internationally.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-painting-drawing-printmaking/resources:
Currently, the programme is situated in 5,500 square feet of open-plan, double-height, north-light studio space.
That’s enough space to stack 33 London buses with room to spare.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-media-marketing/careers-and-alumni:
Professional practice is embedded within all of our programmes.
Throughout your studies, you will have the opportunity to develop the key professional, transferable skills for employability in the creative industries and potentially work in partnership with other sectors locally, regionally, nationally or internationally.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-media-marketing/ask-a-student:
Speak to someone today and gain personal insight into our creative community.
From finding accommodation and student finance to course content and employability, our approachable student ambassadors are available to live chat with you.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-media-marketing/resources:
Our students experience above-average contact time with specialist tutors and highly-skilled technicians, plus free professional kit hires from the university's Equipment Resource Centre.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-interior-design/careers-and-alumni:
Throughout your studies, you'll develop key transferable skills essential for employability in the creative industries.
You'll have opportunities to collaborate with local, regional, national, and international sectors.
Aspiring Interior Design and Styling professionals engage directly with industry through our Industry Liaison Groups.
Visits to events like Decorex and Chelsea Harbour, both locally and in Europe, expand your network and exposure to leading brands and agencies.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-design/careers-and-alumni:
Empowering you for a diverse array of fashion careers, our BA (Hons) Fashion Design course prioritises real-world experience.
Develop the skills and confidence to excel as a designer, consultant, buyer, stylist, illustrator, and more, ensuring you're primed for success across the fashion industry.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-design/resources:
Our Fashion Studio is a large, light space with panoramic views and is comprehensively equipped with industry-standard technologies.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-animation-games/careers-and-alumni:
From writing and making the most of your CV to gaining industry experience, the acquisition of professional skills has been written into the programmes of study by our staff teams, who have ‘real world’ experience.
They are also supported by our Industry Liaison Groups, who help inform the development of the higher education curriculum.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-animation-games/resources:
Immersed in a working animation and game arts studio, you’ll be surrounded with industry-standard 2D, 3D and stop-motion equipment and software such as VR ready Alienware computers for 3D renders, Wacom Intuos Pro tablets and large Cintiq drawing tablets.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-photography/careers-and-alumni:
During your studies, you'll engage in practical production alongside theoretical study, enriching your creative understanding.
Professional practice modules will provide essential knowledge in business, legal, and ethical considerations for your future in the creative industries.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-photography/resources:
Our photographic resources, studios and digital suites are among the best in the country and include a range of industry-standard photographic studios, one of which provides an infinity cove to create a seamless backdrop for shoots.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-costume-production/resources:
We offer you a professional working studio and equipment, including spray booth, millinery equipment, and industrial sewing machines.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/level-0-extended-degrees/resources:
Working with a dedicated team, our Extended Degree offers you the additional study time to develop the necessary skills to successfully undertake your full undergraduate degree.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-jan/careers-and-alumni:
The content of this course has been designed in close consultation with industry professionals so that you can be confident your learning will future-proof you for a dynamic and competitive job market.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-jan/resources:
Access to specialist digital resources will support your learning in your first year, with on-campus resources available to you in your second and third year.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-illustration-jan/resources:
For UK students studying on this course via our Jan Start route, our facilities will be available to supplement their studies as part of our bookable access model.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-fashion-media-marketing-jan/resources:
Access to specialist resources will support your learning but is not essential to succeed on the BA (Hons) Fashion Communication course, starting in January 2024.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-interiors-jan/resources:
Access to specialist resources will support your learning but is not essential to succeed on the BA (Hons) Interior Design & Styling course, starting in January 2024.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/ba-hons-graphic-design-jan/resources:
Access to specialist resources will support your learning, but is not essential to succeed on the BA (Hons) Graphic Design course, starting in January 2024.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-design-fashion/staff:
Our Postgraduate Centre is home to a cross-disciplinary community of makers and thinkers, all of whom are seeking a critical space in which to interrogate and push the boundaries of their specialist interests and working practices.
Your learning will be supported by our team of academics, technical demonstrators and invited experts who together deliver excellence in teaching.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-design-fashion/careers-and-alumni:
Alumni of our Postgraduate Studies programme pursue careers in the fields of fine art, craft and design, as practising artists, teachers, curators, and as gallery, theatre and technical professionals.
Others go on to prepare for doctoral study, and set up viable projects as socially engaged and community-based practitioners.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-design-fashion/resources:
At the Postgraduate Centre at Arts University Plymouth, you will find yourself at the heart of a distinctive kind of creative and collegial community – an arts university run by artists and designers, for artists and designers – a space of thinking and making, and your open threshold to an international network of arts and cultural, commercial and industrial practitioners, businesses and institutions in which we engage, exhibit, curate and publish widely.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-design-fashion/fees:
The financial help on offer and the fees you will have to pay will vary depending on the level of the course that you are studying and your own personal circumstances.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-immersive-media/careers-and-alumni:
Alumni of our Postgraduate courses pursue careers in the fields of fine art, craft and design, as practising artists, teachers, curators, and as gallery, theatre and technical professionals.
Others go on to prepare for doctoral study, or set up viable projects as socially engaged and community-based practitioners.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-immersive-media/resources:
At Arts University Plymouth we continue to invest heavily in new studios and workshops that redefine the relationship between media, fine art, digital technology and handcrafted traditions, and our partnership with Real Ideas allows students on this course to access a wide range of hardware and software related to Immersive Media.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-museum-studies/careers-and-alumni:
Alumni of our Graduate School pursue careers in the fields of fine art, craft and design, as practising artists, teachers, curators, and as gallery, theatre and technical professionals.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-museum-studies/resources:
At Arts University Plymouth we continue to invest heavily in new studios and workshops that redefine the relationship between media, fine art, digital technology and handcrafted traditions.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-3d-design-crafts/staff:
Our Postgraduate Centre is home to a cross-disciplinary community of makers and thinkers, sharing a critical space in which to interrogate and push the boundaries of their specialist interests and working practices.
Our staff are leading researchers in their fields and our curriculum is designed to bring their academic and professional knowledge directly into the teaching, meaning that both students and staff to contribute to the University’s research focus, demonstrated through our established research groups (Making Futures, Making Learning and Memory, Site and Artefact).
The impact of our research at Arts University Plymouth extends internationally, through our research groups and reflect the strategic dimensions of the University’s work.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/ma-fine-art/resources:
At the Postgraduate Centre at Arts University Plymouth, you will find yourself at the heart of a distinctive kind of creative and collaborative community – an arts university run by artists and designers, for artists and designers – a space of thinking and making, and your gateway to an international network of arts and cultural, commercial and industrial practitioners, businesses and institutions in which we engage, exhibit, curate and publish widely.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/pre-degree/ual-level-3-extended-diploma-in-art-design-famp/staff:
Our stimulating pre-degree programme is delivered by our team of academics, technical demonstrators and invited experts who together deliver excellence in teaching.
You’ll learn in a dedicated pre-degree campus, surrounded by creative inspiration and likeminded young people, all of whom are preparing for success in higher education and industry.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/pre-degree/ual-level-3-extended-diploma-in-art-design-famp/ask-a-student:
Find out about life at our independent art school from the people who know us best — our real staff and students.
From finding accommodation and student finance to course content and employability, our approachable student ambassadors are available to answer your questions on live chat.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/study/pre-degree/information-for-parents-and-guardians-of-pre-degree-students:
At Arts University Plymouth we believe in high-quality education for life in contemporary arts practice, as the creative catalyst for personal, professional and cultural transformation.
We place the aspirations and support needs of every student at the very heart of our creative enterprise.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/pre-degree/foundation-diploma-in-art-and-design-post-a-level/careers-and-alumni:
Once you have successfully completed this course, you will be ideally placed to progress onto degree study both nationally and internationally.
As part of our creative continuum, and as a reflection of your potential, we guarantee our Foundation Diploma students a place on one of our BA (Hons) programmes when you successfully complete the qualification.
For details and additional requirements, take a look at our How To Apply page.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/pre-degree/foundation-diploma-in-art-and-design-post-a-level/resources:
As a Foundation Diploma student you will be based in Palace Studios, our dedicated studio which provides space for each student to develop their core creative skills.
In addition to this you will take part in workshops in our technical studios at our Tavistock Place campus to further your material knowledge.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/pre-degree/ual-level-3-extended-diploma-in-art-design/ask-a-student:
From making friends to financial support, ask our approachable student ambassadors about their experience and we'll aim to get back to you within 24 hours.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-masterclasses/making-change-april-2025-2/entry-requirements:
To take part in Making Change, you must meet the following criteria:

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-masterclasses/making-change-april-2025-2/ask-a-student:
This course has been designed to prepare you to start university, alongside building a portfolio and gaining support for your application.
See what our previous Making Change students have said about the course.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-masterclasses/making-change-april-2025-2/resources:
Here, we continue to invest heavily in new studios and workshops that redefine the relationship between media, fine art, digital technology and handcrafted traditions.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/courses/short-courses-and-masterclasses/build-your-portfolio-course-april25/ask-a-student:
If you're interested in hearing more about life at our arts university and the wide range of courses we offer, start a conversation with one of our current students below.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/the-old-dairy:
At Arts University Plymouth, Homes for Students are our recommended accommodation partners.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/frobisher-house:
Take a look at Frobisher House.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/homes-for-students:
We are also happy to recommend Cross House, by Homes For Students, as an approved provider.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/prestige-student-living:
Prestige Student Living are another student accommodation provider in the city, with Saltwater Place on Notte Street.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/alexandra-works:
We also recommend Capitol Students properties for a range of student accommodation at a number of locations in central Plymouth.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/yugo:
Beckley Point, provided by Yugo , is a short walk from our campus.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/the-reservoir:
Located in the heart of the city with Arts University Plymouth close by, CRM Properties is one of our trusted accommodation partners.

New sentences found on https://aup.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/astor-house-by-iq:
At Arts University Plymouth, we recommend Astor House by iQ Student Accommodation as an option for your home from home whilst studying.