# Site: https://www.bangor.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 493
# --------

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk:
Clearing Open Days
Find a Course
Clearing 2025
Offer Holders' Hub
Order a Pocket Prospectus
Open Days
Virtual Tour
Student Profiles
Student Videos and Vlogs
Welcome Week
Country Specific Information
Bangor University International College
Royal Recognition: 2023 Queen's Anniversary Prize
Bangor Research In Top 30 For Societal Impact In UK
140th Anniversary
Public Lectures
Find your perfect course and start your university journey with us this September.
Have Results?
Apply Now For Clearing
Call 0800 085 1818 Live Chat
Popular searches: clearing , psychology , law , business , computer science , sport , nursing
From mastering the numbers in Accounting to exploring life itself through Zoology, our wide choice of subjects means you're sure to find the perfect fit for you.
Whatever your passion, discover the course that will shape your future and launch your career.
Undergraduate PostgraduaTE TAUGHT POSTGRADUATE Research SHORT COURSES AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT (CPD)
and #15 in the UK University Compare 2026
and Top 50 in the UK Daily Mail University Guide 2024
in the UK and 64th most sustainable university in the World Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings 2025
of the most sustainable universities worldwide QS World Rankings: Sustainability 2024
university in the UK in the Unifresher’s Alternative League Table 2023
university in the UK in the WhatUni Student Choice Awards 2023
university in the World for Responsible Consumption and Production in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2025
university in the UK in the 2024/25 People and Planet University League
university in the World in the Times Higher World University Rankings 2024
Our cutting-edge research informs our teaching and helps advance our collective understanding of the world around us.
Bangor University is a research powerhouse, A change-maker.
Our discoveries are shaping the world today with a focus on sustainability, afeguarding the environment, revitalising society's health in a post-pandemic world and promoting economic, social, bilingual and cultural vitality.
Our research is seeking solutions to some of the world's most challenging problems, from improving health and wellbeing, to advancing the global 5G economy and finding the energy solutions of the future.
Partnering with policy-makers, industry, businesses, and communities and human performance research, to train tomorrow's doctors.
Supporting the Life Sciences sector and human performance research in Sport Science.
Bangor's Covid-19 research is informing Public Health policy decisions, establishing the UK's first wastewater epidemiology network tracking infection rates.
Investigating media influences on mask-wearing choices and future pandemic preparedness.
Bangor is advancing technologies and resilience in nuclear power and medicine through our leading Nuclear Futures Institute.
Tackling Climate Change with research into Low carbon energy.
Addressing one of the planet's greatest environmental issues.
Plastic waste and the overuse of single-use plastics, and protecting the variety of species and ecosystems through biodiversity conservation research.
Our research on Wales, the Welsh language and linguistic skills, is inspiring a vibrant bilingual nation.
Our discoveries are informing teaching, enabling students to learn about research in real-time.
Our researchers share an ethos embracing courage, integrity, collaboration, confidence, and trust with a global outlook that is helping us make a real difference to people's lives.
Research at our heart since 1884.
mk 3/05/24
Bangor University has been awarded for work on developing a novel system for public health surveillance through the analysis of harmful pathogens in wastewater.
An award is given to recognise outstanding contributions to the nation.
We offer courses across the sciences, arts, business, humanities and law.
View our courses
Discover your place at Bangor University.
Explore breathtaking landscapes, from mountains to beaches, and join a vibrant community where world-leading research meets adventure.
Text: DISCOVER
Visual Description: Impactful aerial shot over Drws y Coed on a sunny day, showing mountains in the background.
Text: YOUR
Visual Description : Dramatic aerial shot over Llyn Padarn, Llanberis, on a sunny day as members of Bangor University’s Paddleboard society are paddleboarding on the lake.
In the background, the mountains of Eryri can be seen.
Text: PLACE
Visual Description : Four Bangor University students conversing and walking past the colourful mural outside of Pontio Arts and Innovation Centre.
Visual Description: Aerial shot of Menai Bridge on a sunny day with views of Menai Bridge on the left and the city of Bangor to the right.
Text: IN A BREATHTAKING LOCATION
Visual Description: Aerial shot of Porth Neigwl Beach on a sunny day on the south coast of the Llŷn Peninsula.
Visual Description: Aerial shot flying over Bangor University’s Main Arts building on a sunny day with the University’s flag flying.
Visual Description: Six individuals walking through a forest
Visual Description: Six individuals walking through Newbrough Forest, Anglesey, at sunset, reaching the beach.
Visual Description: A climber reaching out his hand to help another climber up a mountain.
Visual Description: A surfer approaching a wave in the sea from the surfer’s point of view.
Visual Description: A surfer riding a wave with a pink sky in the background.
Visual Description: A close up shot of a microscope being adjusted by a person in a laboratory that is wearing blue gloves.
Visual Description: A Bangor University student in a laboratory wearing protective eyewear and a white lab coat pouring liquid nitrogen into a large container.
Text: WHERE EXPERT ACADEMICS
Visual Description: Timelapse video footage of an individual analysing their findings in a laboratory with colleagues working in the background.
Text: AND THE LATEST DISCOVERIES
Visual Description: A smiling lecturer gesturing towards the front of a lecture hall with several students listening.
Visual Description: A Bangor University professor analysing salt marshes at Abergwyngregyn beach with two smiling students.
Puffin Island can be seen in the background.
Visual Description: A Bangor University student analysing the liquid inside of a test tube at a laboratory whilst wearing a lab coat and blue protective gloves.
Many other students are working in the background of the shot.
Visual Description: A Bangor University student pointing towards green coloured algae inside of a plastic container in a laboratory.
Text: INSPIRE WORLD LEADING RESEARCH
Visual Description: Two Bangor University students conversing and walking towards the M-Sparc building in Gaerwen on a cloudy day.
Visual Description: Four Bangor University students sat on a bench on the Teras area outside of the Main Arts Building.
They are all smiling and posing for the camera.
Text: AND EMPOWER
Visual Description: Two Bangor University students hugging and smiling whilst facing the camera on the grassy area outside of Pontio.
The sky is blue, and one student has put daisies in her hair.
Visual Description: A high five performed by two happy individuals in an office.
There is also a third person in the background who cannot contain their excitement.
Text: THE NEXT GENERATION
Visual Description: Three Bangor University students sat in the University’s Treborth Botanical Garden, smiling and conversing as the sun shines on them.
Text: WELCOME TO
Visual Description: Three Bangor University students sat in Blue Sky Café Bar which is located on Bangor High Street.
They are clinking their glasses together whilst smiling.
Text: BANGOR UNIVERSITY
Visual Description: Aerial shot of Bangor University with the Main Arts Building in the centre of the shot.
The drone is rising showing more of the city’s landscape as it goes on.
Visual description: Bangor University end of item wipe appears.
Our teaching is of the highest standard and our research is world leading.
At Bangor, you'll find excellent teaching a welcoming community and one of the best overall student experiences in the UK.
We're surrounded by nature but we're well connected to major towns and cities.
Take a look around and find out more about what Bangor University has to offer and what our current students have to say.
Join us on one of our Open Days to learn more about Bangor University and ask any questions you may have.
Discover a vibrant university in a beautiful location that offers a different dimension to student life.
Call our high quality accommodation in our vibrant student villages your home away from home.
We have an extensive range of clubs and societies.
Whether you're passionate about sports, arts, culture, or academic interests, there's a community waiting to welcome you.
Bangor's location between the mountains and the sea offers you a unique kind of student life.
Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG, UK
+44 1248 351 151
Contact Us
Bangor University is a Registered Charity: No.
1141565
© 2025 Bangor University

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/alumni:
With almost 120,000 alumni living all over the world - the Development and Alumni Relations team is here to help you stay in touch with each other and your alma mater.
The Development and Alumni Relations Office aims to keep in touch with as many of our alumni as possible so we can keep you updated on latest developments at the University and of activities organised specifically for alumni.
So remember to keep in touch and keep us updated .
Keep In Touch
Update Your Details
DONATE NOW
Whether you’re a former student of Bangor University, University College of North Wales, Coleg Normal, St Mary’s College or the University of Wales, Bangor, the Development and Alumni Relations team is here to help you stay in touch with each other and your alma mater.
The Development and Alumni Relations Office aims to keep in touch with all of our alumni after graduation so we can keep you updated on latest developments at the University and of activities organised specifically for alumni.
We organise reunions and events for alumni here at the University and all over the world.
Keep us up to date with your current contact details and we will send information to you on events being held in your region.
Philanthropic support benefits the University's innovative and groundbreaking research, conducted by academics who are leaders in their fields, as well as supporting outstanding education and excellent facilities and services.
Development and Alumni Relations Office, Bangor University, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG.
If you have any questions or would like to be in touch with a member of the team please contact us.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/applied:
Great news that you’ve applied to join us at Bangor University!
But what happens next?
This section will give you everything you need to know about your application and how to prepare for university.
Already Received an offer?
Go to the OFFER HOLDER'S HUB
Once you've applied to join us as an undergraduate, find out about the next steps.
What to expect once you've submitted your UCAS application.
Find out what happens after you've applied as an International Student.
What to expect once you've submitted your application for Medicine.
If you've received an offer to study at Bangor University, take a look at the information for offer holders.
Now, it’s time to learn all about what comes next, and how to make an informed decision once you have your offers.
Gain in-depth information about our courses and learn more about life at Bangor during one of our Open Days or Applicant Days.
All new, full-time undergraduate and postgraduate students are guaranteed a room in University accommodation.
Take a look at all the details on the Student Accommodation webpages.
All you need to know about financing your studies.
Learn about the funding opportunities we have to help ease the financial burden.
Bangor can offer you work experience opportunities to give you the best possible start in your career.
We're here to help you throughout your time here as a student.
Getting ready for university can be a little overwhelming at times but don't worry, we're here to help you along the way.
Bangor's location close to mountains, lakes, rivers and beaches makes it the perfect place to get involved in sports and outdoor activities.
There are also historic towns and villages and ancient castles nearby for you to explore.
Learn what happens next after applying to study as a Postgraduate student at Bangor University.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/parents:
As a parent or guardian, you may have many questions and concerns about choosing a university.
Here's the most important information to consider when helping someone choose the right university for them.
Bangor has advantages over many other university cities and can probably be summed up simply by the phrase “quality of life”.
We offer the highest quality teaching in a supportive learning environment and you can be assured that your dependant will be taught by lecturers who want to see them thrive.
Living in our modern halls of residence is a great first step to independence - a chance to make new friends and still feel supported.
The location, the scenery and the surrounding area are amongst the reasons why students choose to come to Bangor.
All this on your doorstep adds a different dimension to student life.
Here's more information about the process your dependant will go through when making an application through UCAS, and what to expect.
Find out more about the costs that students will face and the support available.
We place a high priority on caring for and supporting our students.
From the moment they arrive at Bangor, students are given as much help and support as possible with health and welfare matters as well as their academic work.
The best way to really get a taste of Bangor, is to come and visit.
An Open Day is the perfect place to start!

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/openday:
If you're interested in undergraduate study, get a real insight into university life by coming along to an Open Day.
We hope you can visit us and can’t wait to welcome you here.
Please let us know beforehand by emailing openday@bangor.ac.uk if you or anyone in your party has a disability or mobility problems so that we can make any necessary arrangements.
If for any reason you are unable to attend any of the Open Day dates and would like to arrange an individual visit to the University please email openday@bangor.ac.uk .
There’s a lot to fit in to one day so read the programme and make a note of everything you’d like to see and do before you arrive.
Think of any questions you have beforehand – you may have questions for staff about the entry requirements or the modules offered on your course or questions for current students about student life at Bangor e.g., the clubs and societies offered here.
Although most University buildings are within walking distance of the main building where you’ll be signing in, you’ll be amazed by how much walking you’ll do during an Open Day so wear shoes or trainers that you’ll be happy to wear all day.
We also can’t guarantee what the weather will be like so bring a coat or jacket with you.
Take a look at the August Open Day Programme
As well as our quality teaching and excellent facilities, there are many other things that make studying here a truly unique university experience.
Bangor is a small, friendly city and you’re sure to settle in quickly.
And, if you like mountain-top sunrises and beach sunsets, you'll love our location.
Be close to the University, the city and your friends by living in University accommodation.
Choose to stay in one of our two student villages - Ffriddoedd or St Mary's - and you'll be living in modern and spacious accommodation within walking distance of the main University buildings.
The location, the scenery and the surrounding area are amongst the reasons why many of our students choose to come here.
We're also easier to get to than you may think - Bangor is well connected by road and rail.
From the moment you arrive you’ll be given as much help and support as you need.
From managing your budget, to mental health advice, there is a team of staff dedicated to making sure you thrive.
Our award-winning Students' Union Clubs and Societies are a great way to meet like-minded people.
So, whether it’s a lifetime passion of yours, or a sport or activity that you have always wanted to try, there is plenty to keep you busy in your spare time.
[0:04] Croeso i Ddiwrnod Agored Prifysgol Bangor!
[0:07] Welcome to Bangor University Open Day!
[0:29] I honestly couldn't have thought of a better place as a stepping stone [0:32] to use to further my career than coming to Bangor.
[0:35] I think it was the best decision I've ever made.
[0:51] Come to Bangor - you're going to absolutely love it!
We’re far easier to get to than you might think – there are good road links to Bangor along the north Wales coast from the M56 and M6.
Postcode LL57 2DG will bring you to the Main University Building, where our Open Day begins.
There are several University car parks around the Main University Building and also in lower Bangor.
If you follow the Bangor University Open Day signs around Bangor and you'll arrive at one of our car parks (where parking is free of charge).
Open Day guides will then show you where you need to go.
See the Trainline & Traveline Cymru websites for public transport information.
From Ireland, you can cross on the ferry to Holyhead which is half an hour away from Bangor.
Both Manchester Airport and Liverpool John Lennon Airport are around two hours from Bangor, by train or car
Parking at the University car parks is free of charge.
Park and Ride facilities have been arranged for the Open Day – this will be signposted from the A55/A5 approach roads to the University.
Buses will take you the short distance from the car park to the Main University Building between 8.30am-10.30am.
Visitors can also park in any of the University’s designated car parks  around the Main University Building on College Road, but space here is limited.
The University’s Management Centre has 4* guest accommodation.
Bangor University’s 3-4* Visit Wales graded campus accommodation also offers single en-suite bedrooms - you can book online .
For those of you wishing to make your own arrangements please contact North Wales Tourism .
Do you have a question about life as a Bangor University student?
Our ambassadors will be happy to help you find the answer.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university.
Chat to current students
If you have any questions about our courses, our lecturers are on hand to help.
Below are some examples of frequently asked questions.
Can you think of any more?
Chat to a lecturer

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/graduation:
Family or friends can't join you on the day?
Don't worry, they can still share this moment with you by watching the ceremony live wherever they are.
The live stream will be available during each ceremony.
Dates for the Winter 2025 Ceremonies have been confirmed as 15 to 17 December 2025.
International students who require a visa letter for their guests will be able to request this when they reserve guest tickets online.
Download Graduation Brochure
These links will be live from TBC
Register here - current students
Register here - former students
All students eligible to attend Graduation need to inform us whether they will be attending the ceremony by TBC by following the 'Register Here' button (above) to register from the TBC
Please note students WILL NOT BE ALLOWED TO ATTEND GRADUATION unless they have registered by TBC
On the day:
All ceremonies are screened live on the University website so can be watched live.
Students should arrive in the Main Arts Lecture Theatre at least 90 minutes before the start of the ceremony to register that they are present and to collect their tickets and guest tickets
Admission to the Ceremony for all guests is by TICKET ONLY.
Students do not need to purchase a ticket .
Most students like to bring friends and family along to their graduation ceremony.
As seating in the Prichard-Jones Hall is limited, we are only able to reserve TWO GUEST TICKETS per student if reserved before TBC Tickets should be reserved when registering your attendance.
If you fail to reserve your guest tickets by TBC we cannot guarantee your guests attendance at the ceremony.
If any additional tickets become available for the ceremonies, these will be available Online TBC by following the original link you used to register your attendance.
Tickets are Free - each student will be limited to two extra guest tickets.
Additional tickets, if available, will be available on a first come, first served basis.
Any additional guests will be able to watch the ceremony on a live stream in one of the large lecture theatres in the university.
Some ceremonies have additional tickets available.
These will be available for you to reserve on TBC by following this link here
In the event of the ceremony being full – additional tickets may be available on the day of the ceremony (due to cancellations) Please ask at the ticket desk upon arrival.
Tickets can only be reserved online and are non-transferable.
Tickets will NOT be posted out to you; they will be available for collection on the day of your ceremony from the Main Arts Lecture Theatre.
All guest tickets will be available for collection at the student registration desk in the Main Arts Lecture Theatre.
All tickets must be collected at least 30 minutes before the start of the ceremony from the Main Arts Lecture Theatre.
At Bangor University, Graduation is a family occasion, and children are welcome to attend.
However, they must be accompanied by an adult.
The ceremonies last for approximately 90 minutes and experience shows that children become bored and restless, so they are not suitable for very young children.
Out of respect for other guests we request that children should be taken outside if they become unsettled during the ceremony so as not to disrupt proceedings and disturb other guests.
Children under the age of 3 (up to the maximum of two per student) must sit on an adult’s lap, and not on a seat.
They do not require a ticket.
Children aged 3 and over must have a guest ticket for entry to the ceremony.
If you are bringing an infant to the Ceremony, who is still in a pram or push chair, please can you inform us of this when you purchase your tickets.
You will be asked whether any of your guests require any special arrangements.
We would advise that children watch the ceremony from the Main Arts Lecture Theatre, where no tickets are required.
You are welcome to bring additional guests who may watch the ceremony relayed on a large screen in a nearby lecture theatre – tickets are not required for this.
If any international student requires a visa letter for their guests wishing to attend graduation, you will be able to request this when you book your guest tickets online.
Graduation is a formal occasion, and students are required to wear academic dress.
The Academic Gowns are ordered from Ede and Ravenscroft here Academic Dress from TBC Last day for pre ordering your gown is TBC
Please note it is cheaper to order your gown before the ceremony either online or by telephone than pay for a hire on the day.
Use #BangorGrad on Instagram or Twitter for a chance to be featured below.
Get the answers to all your frequently asked questions concerning graduations.
From tickets information to Robes & Gown and what will happen on the day - we have it all covered.
As a graduate you're a lifelong member of our alumni community.
Our Development and Alumni Relations Office keeps in touch with all of our alumni after graduation so we can keep you updated on latest developments at the University and of activities organised specifically for alumni.
As a new Bangor University graduate, you’ll be invited to take part in the UK’s largest annual social survey – the Graduate Outcomes Survey .
Launched in 2018, this national survey gathers insights into graduate destinations and experiences.
As a #BangorGrad, your response helps current and future students make informed choices and allows us to evaluate and promote our courses.
The survey takes just 10 minutes to complete online and is accessible on any device.
The University needs to hold up-to-date personal contact details so the Graduate Outcomes team can reach you for the survey.
Please ensure we have:
Update your contact details
The survey will be delivered by the Graduate Outcomes team which is part of the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) on behalf of the higher education funding and regulatory bodies and higher education providers.
The funding and regulatory bodies commission the Graduate Outcomes survey and require HESA and higher education providers to work together to deliver the survey.
HESA have published privacy information for students on how your contact details will be used.
If you have any questions please visit the Graduate Outcomes webpage or contact us by email.
Email us
If you need support to transition from university to the world of work, then the Careers and Employability service is here to help you after graduation.
As a new Bangor University graduate, you’ll need to activate your Graduate account to continue accessing CareerConnect.
how the CAREERS AND EMPLOYABILTY SERVICE can help you
The Group Photographs from Summer Graduation ceremonies 2024 are now available for you to view and purchase at the Ede & Ravenscroft website.
You’ve got the degree, so now buy the T-shirt!
We’ve teamed up with the brilliant Campus Clothing to provide an exclusive range of merchandise to our graduates.
Merchandise will be available on the day at our graduation ceremonies and can also be pre-ordered via our Official Online Graduation Shop.
From luxury hoodies & t-shirts with graduate’s names printed on the back, to graduation bears, mugs, and pin badges.
Choose something special to keep as a memento of your time at Bangor University.
Visit the friendly Campus Clothing pop-up shop at your graduation ceremony, where a selection of graduation merchandise will be available to purchase and take away.
All stock will be available on a first come, first served basis.
You can also place orders for items that you would like personalised at the event too and have these posted to your home address worldwide!
Browse the full range of Bangor University graduation merchandise through our Official Online Graduation Shop .
Here you can place orders AND personalise graduation merchandise to make it completely unique to you.
Orders placed online can be delivered worldwide, so don’t worry if you can’t make it to your graduation ceremony.
Don’t worry, hoodies and T-shirts with graduates’ names printed on the back are still available for all past graduations via our Official Online Graduation Shop .
Bangor University, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy:
Dyddiau Agored Clirio
Dod o hyd i Gwrs
Clirio 2025
Gwybodaeth i Ddeiliaid Cynnig
Archebu Prosbectws Poced
Dyddiau Agored
Taith Rhithiwr
Proffiliau Myfyrwyr
Gwyliwch ein Fideos
Wythnos Groeso
Dathlu 140 mlynedd
Darlithoedd Cyhoeddus
Dewch o hyd i’ch cwrs perffaith a dechreuwch eich taith prifysgol gyda ni ym mis Medi.
Efo Canlyniadau?
Gwneud Cais Nawr
Ffoniwch 0800 085 1818 Sgwrs Fyw
Chwiliadau poblogaidd: clirio , seicoleg , y gyfraith , busnes , cyfrifiadureg , chwaraeon , nyrsio
O feistroli’r rhifau mewn Cyfrifeg i archwilio bywyd ei hun drwy Sŵoleg, gyda'n dewis eang o bynciau rydych yn siŵr o ddod o hyd i’r un perffaith i chi.
Beth bynnag yw eich angerdd, darganfyddwch y cwrs a fydd yn siapio eich dyfodol ac yn lansio eich gyrfa.
israddedig Ôl-raddedig trwy ddysgu ymchwil ôl-raddedig cyrsiau byr a datblygiad proffesiynol
a 15fed yn y Deyrnas Unedig University Compare 2026
ac yn y 50 Uchaf yn y Deyrnas Unedig Daily Mail University Guide 2024
yn y Deyrnas Unedig a 64ain o ran prifysgolion mwyaf cynaliadwy’r Byd Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2025
o blith prifysgolion y byd o ran cynaliadwyedd QS World Rankings: Sustainability 2024
yn y Deyrnas Unedig Tabl Cynghrair Amgen Prifysgolion Unifresher, 2023
yn y Deyrnas Unedig Gwobrau Whatuni, 2023
yn y Byd: treuliant a chynhyrchu cyfrifol Cynghrair Effaith Addysg Uwch y Times, 2025
yn y Deyrnas Unedig Cynghrair Prifysgolion People and Planet 2024/25
yn y Byd Times Higher Education World University Rankings, 2024
Mae ein hymchwil arloesol yn atgyfnerthu ein cwricwlwm sy'n newid yn barhaus ac yn helpu i wella ein cyd-ddealltwriaeth o'r byd o'n cwmpas.
[0:00] Prifysgol Bangor,
[0:03] yn bwerdy ymchwil
[0:06] sy'n ysgogi newid.
[0:08] Mae ein darganfyddiadau yn llunio'r byd heddiw gyda ffocws ar
[0:11] gynaliadwyedd,
[0:13] diogelu'r amgylchedd,
[0:17] adfywio iechyd cymdeithas ar ôl y pandemig,
[0:19] a hyrwyddo bywiogrwydd economaidd, cymdeithasol, dwyieithog a diwylliannol.
[ 0:28] O wella iechyd a lles,
[0:32] i ddatblygu'er economi 5G byd-eang.
[0:34] a chanfod atebion ynni i'r dyfodol.
[0:37] Gweithio mewn partneriaeth â llunwyr polisi, diwydiant, busnesau a chymunedau
[0:42] datblygu Ysgol Feddygol Gogledd Cymru
[0:45] i hyfforddi meddygon yfory
[ 0:48] Cefnogi'r sector Gwyddorau Bywyd
[0:52] ac ymchwil perfformiad dynol mewn Gwyddorau Chwaraeon
[0:55] Mae ymchwil Covid-19 Bangor yn llywio penderfyniadau polisi Iechyd Cyhoeddus.
[0:59] yn sefydlu rhwydwaith epidemioleg dwr gwastraff cyntaf y DU i olrhain cyfraddau heintiau.
[ 1:02] a pharatoi ar gyfer pandemig yn y dyfodol.
[1:09] Mae Bangor yn datblygu technolegau a gwytnwch ym maes ynni niwclear a meddygaeth,
[1:13] trwy ein Sefydliad Dyfodol Niwclear blaenllaw.
[ 1:18] Mynd i'r afael â newid Hinsawdd
[1:19] gydag ymchwil i ynni carbon isel.
[1:22] Ymdrin ag un o faterion amylcheddol mwyaf y blaned
[ 1:25] gwastraff plastig a gorddefnyddio plastigau untro
[1:29] a gwarchod yr amrywiaeth o rywogaethau ac ecosystemau
[1:32] trwy ymchwil cadwraeth bioamrywiaeth.
[1:37] Mae ein hymchwil ar Gymru, y Gymraeg a sgiliau ieithyddol
[1:40] yn ysbrydoli cenedl ddwyieithog fywiog.
[1:45] Mae ein darganfyddiadau yn llywio addysgu
[ 1:49] gan alluogi myfyrwyr i ddysgu am ymchwil mewn amser real
[ 1:53] Mae ein hymchwilwyr yn rhannu ethos sy'n croesawu
[1:55] dewrder
[1:56] uniondeb
[1:57] cydweithio
[ 1:58] hyder
[ 1:59] ac ymddiriedaeth
[2:01] gydag agwedd fyd-eang
[2:03] sy'n ein helpu i wneud gwahaniaeth gwirioneddol i fywydau pobl.
[2:06] Ymchwil
[2:07] wrth wraidd ein gwaith
[2:08] Ers 1884
Rydym wedi ennill Gwobr Pen-blwydd y Frenhines 2023.
Rhoddir gwobr i gydnabod cyfraniadau eithriadol i’r genedl.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi derbyn gwobr am waith ar ddatblygu system newydd ar gyfer gwyliadwriaeth iechyd y cyhoedd trwy ddadansoddi pathogenau niweidiol mewn dŵr gwastraff.
Rydym yn cynnig cyrsiau yn y gwyddorau, celfyddydau, dyniaethau, busnes a'r gyfraith.
Gweld ein cyrsiau
Darganfyddwch eich lle ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Archwiliwch dirweddau syfrdanol, o fynyddoedd i draethau, ac ymunwch â chymuned fywiog lle mae ymchwil sy'n arwain y byd yn cwrdd ag antur.
Testun: DARGANFYDDWCH
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Awyrlun trawiadol dros Ddrws y Coed ar ddiwrnod heulog, a’r mynyddoedd yn y cefndir.
Testun: EICH
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Awyrlun dramatig dros Lyn Padarn, Llanberis, ar ddiwrnod heulog ac aelodau o gymdeithas Padlfyrddio Prifysgol Bangor yn padlfyrddio ar y llyn.
Yn y cefndir, mae mynyddoedd Eryri i’w gweld.
Testun: LLE
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Pedwar o fyfyrwyr Prifysgol Bangor yn sgwrsio ac yn cerdded heibio i'r murlun lliwgar y tu allan i Ganolfan Gelfyddydau ac Arloesi Pontio.
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Awyrlun o Borthaethwy ar ddiwrnod braf a golygfeydd o Borthaethwy ar y chwith a dinas Bangor ar y dde.
Testun: MEWN LLEOLIAD HYFRYD
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Awyrlun o Draeth Porth Neigwl ar ddiwrnod heulog ar arfordir deheuol Pen Llŷn.
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Awyrlun yn hedfan dros Brif Adeilad y Celfyddydau Prifysgol Bangor ar ddiwrnod heulog a baner y Brifysgol yn chwifio.
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Chwe unigolyn yn cerdded trwy goedwig
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Chwech o unigolion yn cerdded trwy Goedwig Niwbwrch, Ynys Môn, ar fachlud haul, ac yn cyrraedd y traeth.
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Dringwr yn estyn ei law i helpu dringwr arall i fyny mynydd.
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Syrffiwr yn nesáu at don yn y môr o safbwynt y syrffiwr.
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Syrffiwr yn marchogaeth ton ac awyr binc yn y cefndir.
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Llun clos o ficrosgop yn cael ei addasu gan rywun mewn labordy sy'n gwisgo menig glas.
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Myfyriwr o Brifysgol Bangor mewn labordy yn gwisgo sbectol amddiffynnol a chôt wen y labordy yn arllwys nitrogen hylifol i gynhwysydd mawr.
Testun: LLE MAE ACADEMYDDION ARBENIGOL
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Ffilm fideo treigl amser o unigolyn yn dadansoddi canfyddiadau mewn labordy a chydweithwyr yn gweithio yn y cefndir.
Testun: A’R DARGANFYDDIADAU DIWEDDARAF
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Darlithydd yn gwenu ac yn camu tuag at flaen neuadd ddarlithio a nifer o fyfyrwyr yn gwrando.
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Athro o Brifysgol Bangor yn dadansoddi morfeydd heli ar draeth Abergwyngregyn a dau fyfyriwr yn gwenu.
Mae Ynys Seiriol i'w gweld yn y cefndir.
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Myfyriwr o Brifysgol Bangor yn dadansoddi hylif mewn tiwb profi mewn labordy gan wisgo cot labordy a menig amddiffynnol glas.
Mae llawer o fyfyrwyr eraill yn gweithio yng nghefndir y llun.
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Myfyriwr o Brifysgol Bangor yn pwyntio at algâu lliw gwyrdd y tu mewn i gynhwysydd plastig mewn labordy.
Testun: YN YSBRYDOLI YMCHWIL SYDD GYDA’R GORAU YN Y BYD
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Dau fyfyriwr o Brifysgol Bangor yn sgwrsio ac yn cerdded tuag at adeilad M-Sparc yn y Gaerwen ar ddiwrnod cymylog.
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Pedwar o fyfyrwyr Prifysgol Bangor yn eistedd ar fainc yn ardal y Teras y tu allan i Brif Adeilad y Celfyddydau.
Maen nhw i gyd yn gwenu ac yn esgus i’r camera.
Testun: AC YN GRYMUSO’R
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Dau fyfyriwr o Brifysgol Bangor yn cofleidio ac yn gwenu wrth wynebu'r camera ar yr ardal laswelltog y tu allan i Pontio.
Mae'r awyr yn las, ac mae un myfyriwr wedi rhoi llygad y dydd yn ei gwallt.
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Dau unigolyn hapus yn curo cledrau dwylo eu gilydd mewn swyddfa.
Mae trydydd person hefyd yn y cefndir yn llawn cyffro.
Testun: GENHEDLAETH NESAF
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Tri o fyfyrwyr Prifysgol Bangor yn eistedd yng Ngardd Fotaneg Treborth y Brifysgol, yn gwenu ac yn sgwrsio a'r haul yn tywynnu arnynt.
Testun: CROESO I
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Tri myfyriwr o Brifysgol Bangor yn eistedd yn Nghaffi Blue Sky a saif ar Stryd Fawr Bangor.
Maen nhw'n clincian eu sbectol gyda'i gilydd wrth wenu.
Testun: BRIFYSGOL BANGOR
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Awyrlun o Brifysgol Bangor a Phrif Adeilad y Celfyddydau yng nghanol y llun.
Mae'r drôn yn codi ac yn dangos mwy o dirwedd y ddinas wrth fynd rhagddo.
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Mae weip diwedd eitem Prifysgol Bangor yn ymddangos.
Nid yn unig ein bod yn cynnig addysg rhagorol a phrofiad myfyrwyr heb ei ail, ond mae gennym hefyd gymuned myfyrwyr fywiog, gyfeillgar ac amrywiol wedi'i lleoli yn y lleoliad mwyaf syfrdanol rhwng y mynyddoedd a'r môr.
Dewch i weld sut le yw Prifysgol Bangor a beth sydd gan ein myfyrwyr presennol i'w ddweud.
Ymunwch â ni ar un o'n Dyddiau Agored er mwyn dysgu mwy am y Brifysgol a holi ein staff am astudio a bywyd ein myfyrwyr.
Mae ein haddysg o'r safon uchaf a'n hymchwil o'r radd flaenaf.
Darganfyddwch brifysgol fywiog mewn lleoliad hyfryd sy'n cynnig dimensiwn gwahanol i fywyd myfyriwr.
Ein neuaddau preswyl o safon uchel fydd eich cartref newydd oddi cartref.
Mae gennym ystod eang o glybiau a chymdeithasau.
Os ydych chi'n angerddol am chwaraeon, y celfyddydau, diwylliant, neu ddiddordebau academaidd, mae yna gymuned yn aros i'ch croesawu.
Mae lleoliad Bangor rhwng y mynyddoedd a'r môr yn cynnig llu o gyfleoedd i chi anturio.
Cysylltwch â Ni
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn Elusen Gofrestredig: Rhif 1141565
© 2025 Prifysgol Bangor

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/clearing:
Call the Helpline: 0800 085 1818
Have your results?
Apply now for Clearing
Please note that Medicine is full for September 2025 and is not in Clearing.
Please note that Graduate Medicine is full for September 2025 and is not in Clearing.
There may be Pharmacy places available through Clearing.
Register your interest and we'll contact those on the list directly after A-level Results are released to discuss possible Clearing options.
Search all Clearing Courses
You might be considering applying for a course at Bangor University through Clearing for several reasons:
Search our undergraduate course listings for detailed information on individual courses.
As well as our quality teaching and excellent facilities, there are many other things that make studying here a truly unique university experience .
Our accommodation is r anked 1st in Wales and 12th in the UK by University Compare (2026).
If you apply through Clearing for a course that's based at our Bangor campus, you are guaranteed a place in University accommodation as long as you choose Bangor through UCAS by Thursday, 28 August, and book your place in halls by Monday, 1 September.
Our student accommodation is modern and spacious and free Gym membership is included in the cost.
Ranked 3rd in Wales for Student Life by University Compare (2026), we’re proud to offer a vibrant and welcoming student community.
If possible, do not be on holiday or at work, keep the day free to contact universities.
You need to be available to speak to admissions tutors and make decisions yourself – your parents, teachers and friends cannot do it for you.
If you must work that day or are away travelling or on holiday, it’s worth giving your parent/guardian nominated access to your UCAS application details so that they can speak on your behalf.
You may not have got the grades or points score that you needed, but your Firm or Insurance choice university may still decide to accept you onto the course.
Contact them first and do not just assume that you are in Clearing.
If they decide not to accept you, or if you are not holding offers at any institution, you are eligible to apply for a place through Clearing.
Applicants making applications after 30th June are automatically entered into Clearing and are also eligible.
You’ll know that you are in Clearing if your UCAS application states ‘You are in Clearing’ or ‘Clearing has started’.
If you are in Clearing, you must contact universities directly to enquire about available places on their courses and whether you meet their requirements.
During Clearing, the phone lines can be busy, and you may also have to wait to be put through to the relevant department, asked to call later, or the university may ring you back.
Don’t worry, Clearing lasts for far more than one day so you do have time to make up your mind and find a course.
When speaking to universities, have your UCAS application number, Clearing number, course codes, your A Level results and relevant GCSE results to hand as the staff on the Clearing Helpline will ask for these.
We will also need your contact details and e-mail address so we can send you your Clearing offer in writing.
Just like you did with your original choices, consider, for example, course content and structure, academic facilities, social life, distance from home, sports facilities and living costs.
You may be relieved to be offered an alternative course, but you still need to choose the right course at the right university for you.
You do not have to go for the same subject you initially applied for, but if you do go for something different, the university may still expect you to have specific A Level subjects.
If your preferred choice of course is full, look at related alternatives, for example, for Medicine consider Medical Science or Biomedical Science.
You don’t have to accept the first Clearing offer you’re made.
Most universities will be happy for you to take the time to make sure that the course and the university are right for you.
Most universities, like Bangor University, will organise Open Days and events for Clearing applicants which you should attend so that you can have a look around the university and area, collect more information about the course, speak to staff and students and decide if you would be happy studying at that institution.
Find out about the experiences of some students who came to Bangor through Clearing.
Find out how to apply through Clearing if you haven't yet registered with UCAS.
If you've already applied to Bangor University, here's what you need to do next.
Find out more about what you need to do on the international webpages.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/clearing/apply:
If you have your results, you can apply now for a course through Clearing by filling in the form below.
If we have vacancies in the subject area of interest and you meet the course entry requirements, we will email you to confirm your Clearing offer.
We will get in touch if we need further information before we can offer you a place.
If you are waiting for your results, you can register your interest in Clearing to receive the latest updates.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/clearing/contact:
Apply now
Our Clearing Helpline will be open at the following times, so if you're looking for a course through Clearing, or have a question about your place at Bangor, give us a call on 0800 085 1818
If you're outside the UK, call us on +44 (0)1248 388320 .
In the run-up to A-level results day, you can contact us on 0800 085 1818 with your queries.
The opening times are:
From A-level results day, you can contact the Helpline on 0800 085 1818 .
The Helpline will be open 9am-6pm on Monday, 18 August - Friday, 22 August then 9am-5pm weekdays only (excluding the Bank Holiday Monday), until Friday, 29 August.
Already have your results?
Apply now for this course.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/clearing/live-chat:
Contact us through Live Chat to see if we can offer you a place through Clearing.
Chat Now
At other times, please call our helpline on 0800 085 1818 .
0800 085 1818

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/undergraduate-offer-holder-information-hub:
Welcome to the Bangor University Offer Holders' Hub.
We're thrilled to welcome you into our community.
Here, you'll discover what you need to do next and other useful information to help prepare you for university.
Question: Have you received an offer from Bangor University for your undergraduate course?
Congratulations on your offer!
We look forward to meeting you soon and wish you all the best as you get ready for your studies.
Accept your Offer
Book your place at our next Open Day!
Read our guide on how to choose Bangor University as your Firm Choice.
Accept your offer
Stay connected on social media for the latest updates, news, and events.
Follow us on socials
Student finance, scholarships and bursaries to help meet costs.
Learn more about finance
If we are your Firm Choice, we'll email you to book your room in Halls.
Find your room
If you're offered a place at Bangor, you’ll be given a Conditional or Unconditional offer.
GO TO your UCAS APPLICATION
Once all your chosen universities have made their decisions, UCAS will contact you with a deadline date for your decision.
You must chose one university offer as your Firm Choice , and one as your Insurance Choice and Decline all other offers.
You should check the 'Your choices’ section of your UCAS application and mark your decisions there.
You’re usually given around four weeks to think things over and make your decision.
Your Firm Choice university should be the one you most want to attend.
By making this your Firm Choice , you’re saying that you agree to study here as long as you meet the conditions of your offer.
Your Insurance Choice is your back-up university, so if you miss out on the grades for your Firm Choice , you should hopefully have met the conditions of the Insurance Choice university.
When choosing an Insurance Choice it’s wise to make sure that you’re confident you can meet those conditions.
Don’t choose a university that’s asking for similar conditions as your Firm Choice .
GO to your UCAS APPLICATION
Confirmation of your place to study here will be confirmed by UCAS.
For September entry, we will email you in August with information about the student registration process, arrival and Welcome Week activities.
There is support available to help meet the costs of studying for an undergraduate degree - the exact financial support available to you will depend on which part of the UK you are from.
More about Student Finance for Undergraduates
We also offer a range of Scholarships and Bursaries to new students.
More about Scholarships and Bursaries
UK/Ireland applicants holding Bangor University as their Firm Choice are guaranteed a room in University owned student accommodation for the first year of their undergraduate degree.
You must be based at the Bangor campus, starting a course in September and apply for accommodation before the deadline.
We'll email you when it's time to apply and you will be able to select your room through our online booking system.
Find your perfect room
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Aerial view of Bangor, with the Menai Straits stretching majestically in the background.
[VOICEOVER] Welcome to Bangor University’s student halls - safe, affordable and designed to help you feel at home from day one.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Students strolling through Ffriddoedd Village, surrounded by lush trees and vibrant greenery with Bar Uno in the background.
Students walking towards the entrance of a modern flat, cars driving past on the adjacent road.
Two students sitting on a cosy double bed in St Mary’s Village, chatting warmly while one holds a textbook.
[VOICEOVER] Whether you're starting your journey as an undergraduate
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A pair of students enjoying a conversation on a charming little bridge in St Mary’s Village.
[VOICEOVER] or seeking postgrad accommodation, we’ve got options to fit your needs.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A group of four students sitting on a bench on the Main Arts terrace, the camera zooming in to capture their lively expressions.
[VOICEOVER] Bangor has just over 2,400 accommodation places,
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Aerial footage of Ffriddoedd Village beginning at the all-weather pitch and Reichel Building, gradually panning up to reveal the sleek new halls, Canolfan Brailsford, and the classic-style halls above.
A bird’s-eye view of St Mary’s halls, framed by the nearby supermarket and high street.
Students gathered in a St Mary’s kitchen: two relax on green armchairs while another sits at the dining table with a laptop, chatting to an off-screen friend.
[VOICEOVER] which means that accommodation is guaranteed for all new undergraduate applicants
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Close-up of student seated at a dining table, smiling at the laptop screen, while others enjoy casual conversations in the background.
[VOICEOVER] who apply within the timeframe.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Aerial footage of Ffriddoedd Village from the Menai Strait
[VOICEOVER] Our halls are situated at either:
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Aerial footage of Ffriddoedd Village also from the Menai Strait but showcasing a different angle of this picturesque community.
[VOICEOVER] Ffriddoedd Village, known to students as ‘Ffridd’ or St Mary's Village.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Elevated footage of St Mary’s halls, highlighting the blend of traditional and modern architecture.
[VOICEOVER] But, which village is right for you?
Ffriddoedd is located in Upper Bangor,
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Three students walking through Upper Bangor, passing vibrant bars, shops, and takeaway restaurants.
[VOICEOVER] a thriving student district.
It’s a 10-minute walk to the
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Students enjoying pizza and laughter in Jones’ Pizza, a cozy pizzeria in Upper Bangor, spread across three tables.
A barista skillfuly creating intricate latte art.
[VOICEOVER] main University building on College Road and to Bangor train station.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two students seated in Reubens Coffeehouse: one sipping a green drink, the other with their back to the camera drinking a latte.
Two students walking along College Road under a canopy of trees.
[VOICEOVER] St Mary’s is located on the opposite side of Bangor, overlooking the city centre,
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Aerial footage of Bangor from St Mary’s, with sweeping views of the city centre, Hirael Bay, and glimpses of Anglesey.
Students walking past a colourful mural on the high street.
Friends relaxing at Blue Sky Taproom: two embrace while others share hearty laughs.
[VOICEOVER] around a 20-minute walk from the main University building and the train station.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A panoramic view of the Main Arts Building’s Outer Quad, dotted with students on picnic benches and three law students in their robes crossing the quad.
[VOICEOVER] Ffriddoedd is the largest and busiest of the two villages – there’s always a great atmosphere here, and lots going on.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two students wearing eye-catching red jumpers walking along a path in Ffriddoedd Village, framed by contemporary buildings.
Three students chatting animatedly in front of a bike shed.
[VOICEOVER] Students can head to Bar Uno for a hot meal and affordable drinks,
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two students strolling past Bar Uno, with its distinctive sign in the background.
Students seated across three tables inside Bar Uno, some deep in conversation while others focus on work.
A cheerful group of students chatting outside Bar Uno, with the iconic sign prominently displayed.
[VOICEOVER] or attend one of the many student events held here!
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A person dusting chalk on their hands in the fitness room, readying for weightlifting.
A determined student lifting weights at Platform 81
[VOICEOVER] Also onsite is gym and sports centre, Canolfan Brailsford,
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Students immersed in a lively netball game inside Canolfan Brailsford’s sports dome.
[VOICEOVER] with a whole range of fitness activities on offer.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A tennis player executing a strong forearm stroke.
[VOICEOVER] St Mary’s is the smaller student village, with a relaxed atmosphere.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two students walking through St Mary’s, with alternating camera angles capturing their journey.
Close-up of Barlows signage.
[VOICEOVER] Students can head for a coffee at Barlows café; enjoy fun activities in the onsite entertainment space, Acapela;
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A cozy scene in Barlows’ common room: two students chatting on comfortable seating.
Two Campus Crew members having fun with a game of table tennis at Acapela.
An athlete lifting a dumbbell.
[VOICEOVER] or pop to the on-site fitness room for a workout.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A runner hitting their stride on a treadmill.
Sweeping aerial views of Ffriddoedd and St Mary’s Villages, capturing their unique layouts.
[VOICEOVER] Both villages have everything you need on site,
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A customer interacting with staff at Barlows shop, completing a purchase.
[VOICEOVER] including a shop, laundrette, coffee shop, common room and computer room.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A student opening a dryer in the Ffriddoedd laundrette, preparing to unload their laundry.
Students socialising in a St Mary’s common room, glimpsed through a window.
Fingers typing diligently on a laptop keyboard.
Two students chatting while walking down a corridor in a St Mary’s flat.
[VOICEOVER] So, what about the rooms themselves?
A standard room at Ffriddoedd has a
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A student studying on her bed in a Ffriddoedd standard room, surrounded by notes and a textbook.
[VOICEOVER] private ensuite bathroom, with shared kitchen facilities for up to 8 people.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A student spritzing perfume in front of a mirror in her en-suite.
Five friends gathered around a dining table in a Ffriddoedd standard kitchen, with one cooking in the background.
[VOICEOVER] There are a limited number of budget rooms at Ffriddoedd, available on a first-come first serve-basis.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Aerial footage of Ffriddoedd Village focusing on the budget accommodation and some car parking spaces.
[VOICEOVER] These are older-style rooms, but they still include en-suite facilities and shared kitchens.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A joyful student showcasing a budget room in Ffriddoedd, her arms outstretched in delight.
A cosy gathering of two students in a budget flat in Ffriddoedd, sharing hot drinks and lively conversation.
[VOICEOVER] St Mary’s Village has a wider range of rooms to suit all tastes.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] The signage at St Mary’s, framed by the flats in the background.
[VOICEOVER] A standard room at St Mary’s has a private en-suite bathroom, with shared kitchen facilities for between 5-8 people.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] The same two students are now at in the kitchen looking at a mobile phone while smiling and chatting.
[VOICEOVER] There are some budget rooms available at St Mary’s too, which have shared bathrooms.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Student sitting on the bed in a bedroom in Bryn Eithin, St Mary’s budget options, while looking and scrolling on their phone.
Two students sitting in a studio flat.
[VOICEOVER] Students can opt for more privacy when they chose one of four different types of studio flats at St Mary's The studio flats have a private kitchenette and en-suite.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A townhouse exterior at St Mary’s, its modern design standing out.
[VOICEOVER] There are also townhouses, which give that feeling of living in a student house.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A student preparing a quick meal in a St Mary’s townhouse kitchen, placing something into the microwave.
[VOICEOVER] Kitchens are shared up to 12 people, and bathrooms are shared between 2 people.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A zoom into the microwave’s interior.
Exterior of Snowdon Hall in Wrexham.
[VOICEOVER] If you’re a radiography student, you can apply to live in Snowdon Hall, near our Wrexham campus.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A tidy standard room in Snowdon Hall, complete with a bed, desk, chair, and window view.
[VOICEOVER] These en-suite rooms are arranged in flats of 6 rooms with a shared kitchen.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A student immersed in conversation in a St Mary’s standard kitchen.
[VOICEOVER] So, why should you choose to live in Halls?
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Students gathered in a St Mary’s kitchen: Student sits at the dining table with a laptop, chatting to an off-screen friend while two relax on green armchairs.
[VOICEOVER] One of the main benefits is that everything is included.
[VOICEOVER] That includes, fast Wi-fi; all bills like water, heat and electricity,
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Water flowing from a tap as hands are thoroughly washed under it.
Two students engrossed in a video game in a standard bedroom in Ffriddoedd, laughter and focus filling the room.
[VOICEOVER] plus free membership to the main sports centre, Canolfan Brailsford, as well as Campus Life membership -
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A student from the trampoline club gracefully jumping on a trampoline inside Canolfan Brailsford.
The Campus Crew gathered in St Mary’s, wearing bright orange hoodies and cheering energetically while holding free goody bags.
[VOICEOVER] a huge calendar of free social events and activities to bring students together.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two Campus Crew members enjoying a light-hearted game of table tennis in Acapela.
[VOICEOVER] You can also feel safe in the knowledge that all
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two students engaged in a friendly conversation with a member of the security team outside the Ffriddoedd Security Office.
A close-up shot of the word ‘diogelwch/security’ embroidered on the security staff’s jacket.
[VOICEOVER] the halls at Bangor have 24-hour campus security, 7 days a week.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Another angle showing two students chatting with a member of the security team outside the Ffriddoedd Security Office.
[VOICEOVER] We understand that every student has different needs and budgets,
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A cosy moment with a student chatting on a comfortable green sofa in a St Mary’s kitchen.
Another student seated on the same sofa, enjoying the casual atmosphere.
[VOICEOVER] and we have a range of affordable rooms to suit you.
Various accessible options are available, with adapted bedrooms, kitchens and bathrooms.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two students having a lively conversation in an accessible room in Ffriddoedd, decorated with cuddly toys, knick-knacks, and personal photos pinned on the notice board .
A student stirring food in a pan while seated in an adapted kitchen.
[VOICEOVER] We also have specially-allocated halls for Welsh-speakers, healthcare students,
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A student focused on their laptop, typing and working intently.
Two students enjoying a game of pool in the JMJ common room, surrounded by a relaxed vibe.
A cheerful group of healthcare students standing together in their scrubs, laughing and sharing a light-hearted moment.
[VOICEOVER] quiet halls, female-only flats, and alcohol-free flats.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two students in a standard bedroom in St Mary’s: one lounging on the bed laughing, while the other is absorbed in their laptop.
The scene is cleverly captured via the room’s mirror.
Two students walking into the halls office, smiling and chatting as they approach the front doors.
[VOICEOVER] If you have any issues during your stay, our Halls Office staff can help you.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A person ringing the bell at the halls office, signalling for assistance.
[VOICEOVER] Each of our residential locations has a Residential Support Team responsible for your welfare, which includes student mentors living in the halls, plus senior wardens.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A student interacting warmly with a staff member at the halls office, the scene radiating a friendly atmosphere.
[VOICEOVER] When choosing to live at Bangor University halls, you can be sure of comfortable,
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A student relaxing in a St Mary’s standard kitchen, with a bright background of white walls.
Two students sitting near the fence by the St Mary’s outdoor sports court, engaged in a casual conversation.
A student sitting on a bed in a St Mary’s standard kitchen.
[VOICEOVER] affordable and safe accommodation in the heart of Bangor, with support every step of the way.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] The scene moves to reveal a second person in the bedroom, working on their laptop while the other is on the bed.
Three students in a local café bar, raising their soft drinks in a cheerful toast.
Two friends sharing an embrace, their happiness and connection evident.
Six students seated on the steps of Pontio, smiling directly at the camera, exuding a sense of unity and pride.
[VOICEOVER] Find out more on our website.
Join our CampusConnect app and come to our Live Events - it's a great way to connect with your future course mates and flatmates and get brilliant, first-hand advice on university living before you even set foot on campus.
We'll be sending out information on how you can download and start connecting on the app.
Upcoming Events
Take a look at our dedicated subject pages with tailored information for offer holders and get a real feel for student life here.
Click on your subject below to uncover everything you need to know and get ready to embark on your Bangor adventure.
We offer a friendly and caring study environment, and your health and wellbeing are important to us.
To help you make the most of your time at university, you’ll be given as much help and support as possible with health and welfare matters as well as your academic work.
Peer Guides are second and third year students who are trained to help new students settle-in to university life.
Find out more
Services include advice on money and private housing, dyslexia, health and welfare support, and counselling.
Our dedicated Disability Team provides advice and guidance on a range of disability-related matters.
You'll be assigned a Personal Tutor from your academic School so you'll always have someone to turn to.
Accept your offer >
It's not too late to apply for most of our courses starting this September.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/clearing/events:
We’re delighted that you’re considering Bangor as your Clearing choice and would love you to come and visit us to see for yourself the extraordinary university experience on offer.
We’d love to see you at our Open Day on Sunday, 17 August .
As you’d expect on a main University Open Day, you’ll be able to:
As a Clearing Offer Holder, we’d like to invite you to a Clearing Visit Day held on Wednesday, 20 August .
This is a shorter more tailored event, which will include an introduction to Bangor and a campus tour as part of the programme .
We’d love to see you here.
If you can’t make either the Open Day or the Clearing Visit Day, then we’d be happy to organise a personal visit for you to help you decide about your Clearing place.
Please e-mail openday@bangor.ac.uk to arrange your visit.
You can contact our Clearing Helpline on 0800 085 1818.
View the helpline opening times

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation:
Reserve your room today - no upfront deposit or payment needed.
Our accommodation is modern, spacious and conveniently located so it’s no wonder we’ve been consistently rated as being amongst the best university halls in the UK.
Most recently, we ranked 12th in the UK for Accommodation and 1st in Wales for Accommodation by University Compare (2026), and we were rated in the Top 10 for Halls and Accommodation at the What Uni Student Choice Awards 2024.
Our accommodation conforms to the The Universities UK Code of Practice for University Managed Student Accommodation .
This protects your rights to safe, good quality accommodation, wherever you are studying.
Both our student villages are within walking distance of the main University buildings, shops, cafés, bars, fitness centres, launderettes and common rooms, so you’ll never have to go far to find exactly what you need.
The cost of Halls includes the following:
If you live in Halls, you’ll have automatic gym membership meaning you can use both the main Gym at Canolfan Brailsford at the Ffriddoedd Village and the Fitness Room at St Mary’s Village , regardless of where you are living.
You’ll also have automatic membership of Campus Life which gives you access to a whole host of activities and events for the halls community.
More GREAT Reasons To Live in Halls
All new, full-time undergraduate students, including those who come through Clearing, and postgraduate students are guaranteed a room in University accommodation.
Take a look at the details below.
But our commitment doesn't stop there.
We also care about your physical and mental health.
With us, you get a free membership to the top-rated Canolfan Brailsford Gym (4.6 ⭐️ on Google) .
We want to make it easy for you to de-stress, stay active, and find a healthy balance between your studies and your social life.
With a wide range of accommodation to suit every budget and lifestyle, you can find your perfect home and focus on what truly matters: your success and your well-being.
Take a look at the details below to secure your room.
When you’ve selected Bangor University as your Clearing choice on UCAS, and we have processed and formally confirmed your place via UCAS, you will be sent an e-mail* with details of how to make an application for a place in University halls of residence.
It will usually take 24–48 hours for the automatic halls application e-mail to be generated and sent to you.
You will be asked to go online and complete an application for a room in university halls of residence.
The sooner that you confirm that you are taking up your Clearing place at Bangor University the sooner you can make your halls application.
If you apply for a room before Monday, 1 September, you may still be able to book the room of your choice online.
For applications from Monday, 1 September, we will ask you to note your preference in terms of location, hall and room type, and we will allocate a room for you.
*Please note: The accommodation e-mail will be sent to the e-mail address you provided to UCAS.
So you need to ensure that your contact details (and in particular your e-mail address) are correct at UCAS.
We guarantee accommodation to new undergraduate applicants that:
Please note that our undergraduate accommodation is primarily single-occupancy, en-suite, and self-catered.
If you apply for a place in halls before the 31st of July deadline, you’ll have the opportunity to choose your preferred room, subject to availability at the time of booking.
We’ll email you when our booking system opens at the end of January, giving you the opportunity to choose your preferred room through our online booking system.
We guarantee accommodation to new postgraduate applicants that:
Please note, our postgraduate accommodation is primarily single-occupancy, en-suite, studios and townhouses.
If you apply for a place in halls before the 7th of August deadline, you’ll have the opportunity to choose your preferred room, subject to availability at the time of booking.
Our friendly Halls Advisor is on hand to help so you can select your perfect room.
CHAT NOW
We have dedicated accommodation for Welsh speakers and learners.
Neuadd John Morris Jones (or JMJ to those who live there) is the hub of Welsh social life, offering a close-knit and friendly community to students from all corners of Wales.
JMJ is located in modern buildings in the Ffriddoedd village.
We understand every student is different and has different preferences to their living environment.
At Bangor, you have the freedom to pick accommodation that matches your personal preferences so you’ll feel more at home here.
Scroll to the right to read more about the types of designated areas we offer:
We will inform all residents in these halls that a quieter environment is expected.
However, it’s important to understand that no form of communal living is completely silent, and it may not always be possible to control noise from other areas of the hall or outside.
Quiet halls have limited availability, and we cannot guarantee they will be available at the time of your application.
These halls are located at Borth and Elidir in the Ffriddoedd Village.
While St.
Mary’s Village doesn’t have designated Quiet Halls, its tranquil surroundings and smaller flat options make it an ideal option for focused studying and relaxation.
You can select an alcohol-free flat on the booking page.
If you accept your offer of alcohol-free accommodation, you agree not to consume or store alcohol within the flat, which includes your bedroom.
You will not be placed in an alcohol-free flat without prior notification.
There is limited availability for these flats - we cannot guarantee their availability at your time of application.
In some halls we offer female only accommodation.
Residents should understand that they are permitted to have male visitors, though we would expect that they advise the rest of the flat as a matter of courtesy if a male visitor is staying overnight.
There will also be visits to the flats by male members of the Halls Team, Mentor Team, Campus Life team, Maintenance staff and Domestic staff.
If an entirely single sex environment is particularly important to you for cultural reasons it is unlikely that we can provide this in a Halls environment.
We have two accommodation villages, Ffriddoedd and St Mary's.
Both are within walking distance of the main University buildings and the city centre.
Located in Upper Bangor, around 10 minutes' walk from the Main University Building, Ffriddoedd Village has around 1, 960 rooms.
Located close to the city centre, in an elevated position, St Mary's Village has around 650 rooms and offers a mix of accommodation types.
We're committed to creating a comfortable, inclusive environment for all students.
Our halls offer these accessible features:
Please contact us with any questions.
If you are a full-time registered student at Bangor University we have single-occupancy short-term stay rooms available at Ffriddoedd Village.
Ffriddoedd Village
Opening Hours: Monday - Friday: 09.00 - 17.00 (excluding bank holidays, public holidays and College Days)

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms:
We offer a variety of accommodation types to suit every student.
Whether you're looking for a room with an en-suite bathroom or accommodation with a private kitchen, browse our selection of all room types below to find the perfect space.
The following icons signify student type for each room:
SOLD OUT FOR SEPTEMBER 2025
LIMITED AVAILABILITY FOR SEPTEMBER 2025
LIMITED AVAILABILITY FOR SEPTEMBER 2025
SOLD OUT FOR SEPTEMBER 2025

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/about:
We're steeped in history and we strive for innovation.
Founded in 1884, Bangor University today is a thriving, forward-looking institution offering excellent opportunities.
Around 10,000 students currently study with us and our teaching and research is grouped into ten academic Schools.
Established in 1884, Bangor University has a long tradition of excellence and exceeds expectations, both for academic standards and student experience.
We are situated on the North Wales coast, between the mountains of Snowdonia and the Menai Strait.
Although we're surrounded by nature, we're well connected to major towns and cities.
The academic activities of the University are grouped into three Colleges and ten academic Schools.
Browse the list of our Services and Facilities.
Bangor University is aware of the special connection between the institution and the area in which we’re based.
We work closely with our community to raise aspirations and improve quality of life.
We are recognised regionally, nationally and internationally as a centre of excellence for a varied portfolio and our strategic themes reflect this.
Bangor University has a successful track record of working in partnership with businesses and the wider community and we are committed to our vital role in the social, cultural and economic life of the area.
We aim to explore the possibilities for working collaboratively with other institutions and partners in Wales, the UK and overseas with the aim of becoming ever stronger and more successful in teaching and research.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/virtual-tour-of-bangor-university:
Welcome to our Virtual Tour of Bangor University.
Get ready to discover what makes Bangor University a truly special place to live and learn .
Let's begin your journey.
Looking for an accessible version of the tour?
It’s available directly below the tour titled 'Virtual Tour Descriptions'.
You can skip to a section with the following links:
Nestled between the stunning mountains of Eryri (Snowdonia) and the North Wales coastline, Bangor University offers a unique and inspiring environment for learning and discovery.
Prepare to explore our historic buildings, modern facilities, and vibrant student spaces from the comfort of your own home.
Our virtual tour will guide you through our academic departments, world-class research centres, accommodation options, and a wide array of support services designed to help you thrive.
Take a virtual step inside and explore every angle in full 360° detail.
Use the toolbar on the right side of the screen to navigate and interact with the virtual tour.
The scene displays the Main Arts Building at Bangor University , captured in a wide-angle view.
The building features traditional architecture, characterised by large windows , arched doorways , and stone detailing .
At the centre of the scene is a courtyard with a raised platform that holds statues or sculptures .
The sky above is partly cloudy , allowing some blue sky to show through.
Text overlaid on the image reads: "MAIN BANGOR UNIVERSITY VIRTUAL TOUR – MAIN ARTS BUILDING."
This virtual tour displays the Inner Quad of the Main Arts Building at Bangor University, a peaceful courtyard surrounded by historic architecture.
Navigation Tip: Use keyboard or mouse controls to explore the full 360° environment.
This virtual tour shows the Terrace at Bangor University , an outdoor stone-paved area designed for relaxation and scenic views.
The terrace is lined with benches and planters , creating a welcoming and peaceful environment.
On the right side , a decorative lamp post stands near a low stone wall , which offers a view of distant hills and trees .
On the left , the exterior of a historic building is visible, featuring large windows and arched doorways .
The sky is mostly clear , with a few clouds scattered above.
This virtual tour displays the interior of Prichard-Jones Hall at Bangor University , a spacious and elegant venue.
The hall features high arched ceilings , ornate architectural details , and a polished wooden floor laid in a herringbone pattern .
Rows of red cushioned chairs with small wooden writing desks are arranged facing a stage at the front.
The stage includes a large screen displaying an image, and above it, the text "PRICHARD-JONES HALL" is visible.
The walls are lined with tall windows draped in red curtains , and chandeliers hang from the ceiling, providing warm lighting.
This virtual tour shows the the interior of Powis Hall at Bangor University , a spacious and formal room designed for events or presentations.
The hall features wood-panelled walls , arched ceilings with skylights , and large windows draped with red curtains along one side.
At the front is an elevated stage with steps on both sides , containing a podium , a piano , and additional furniture.
Behind the stage is a large mural depicting various scenes, with a projection screen mounted above it.
Rows of chairs are arranged facing the stage.
Text at the top of the image reads: "MAIN BANGOR UNIVERSITY VIRTUAL TOUR – POWIS HALL."
This virtual tour displays the front entrance of the Rathbone Building, part of the Student Services at Bangor University.
The building is constructed from red brick and features multiple white-framed windows.
At the center is a modern glass entrance structure with double doors leading into the building.
Above the entrance, signage reads: "Main Entrance to Bangor University Student Services Support Centre."
The main image shows a pathway leading to a building, bordered by grassy areas and lined with black and white bollards .
A large tree stands on the right side, next to an empty notice board .
On the right side of the image, there are two smaller inset images.
One of them, labeled "Wellbeing Garden," shows a peaceful garden area with green grass , trees , and benches for seating—designed as a tranquil space for relaxation and student wellbeing.
This virtual tour showcases the entrance to the Brigantia Building, which is home to the Psychology Department at Bangor University.
The entrance features a covered walkway with a sign above that reads "Brigantia." On the left side, a glass block wall is visible, and the entrance itself features double glass doors.
The surrounding area includes a paved walkway and windows on either side of the entrance, contributing to a modern and accessible design.
The image shows an MRI simulator located in the Department of Psychology at Bangor University.
The simulator is decorated with space-themed stickers, including rockets, planets, stars, and the sun.
Inside the MRI machine is a mannequin, covered with a blanket that also features space-themed designs.
The room is well-lit, thanks to overhead fluorescent lighting, which creates a clean and professional environment.
The image shows the Anatomy Suite located in the Brigantia Psychology Building at Bangor University.
The room features a wooden floor, white walls, and a blue door.
At the centre stands a life-sized anatomical model of a human body, clearly displaying muscles and tendons.
On the left side, there are shelves holding various anatomical models of human heads and brains.
A TV screen is mounted on the wall, and several chairs are arranged around tables, suggesting a space designed for teaching and demonstration.
The room is well-lit with overhead fluorescent lighting.
The Music Building at Bangor University features a red brick exterior with multiple windows and a sloped roof.
A pathway leads to the main entrance, which is accessible via both stairs and a ramp.
A red bench is positioned near the entrance, and the path is lined with plants.
Inside the building, visitors will find a reception area where they can obtain information and assistance.
The facility also features a music hall for performances, recording and creative work studios, and practice rooms for individual or group rehearsals.
The Hen Goleg building at Bangor Business School features a classic architectural style with pointed roofs and large windows.
In front of the building, there are two parked car - one white and one black.
The entrance is accessible via a paved area leading up to the main doors.
Inside the building, there is a reception area, and it houses several key facilities including a Moot Court, which is used for simulated legal proceedings and academic exercises.
The Computer Science and Engineering building at Bangor University, located on Dean Street, is a multi-story structure with large windows and a central entrance marked by a red canopy.
The entrance is accessible via both stairs and a ramp, ensuring inclusive access.
The building faces a street with cars parked along the front, and the sky above is mostly clear, with a few clouds visible.
Inside the building , there are several specialist facilities, including:
The Sport Science Building at Bangor University’s Normal Site features classic architectural design, with stone columns and arched details framing the main entrance, which includes a blue door.
A sign next to the entrance identifies the building as part of the university’s facilities.
In front of the building, there is a parking area with marked spaces, one of which is occupied by a white car.
There are specialist facilities including a Physiology Lab , as well as teaching and research spaces dedicated to physiology and sport science .
The image shows an interior view of Aria Film Studios at Bangor University.
The perspective is from a small room or hallway, looking through a doorway into a larger studio space.
In the foreground, a coat rack holds several jackets and coats, while storage boxes are arranged on shelves above.
A laundry basket filled with clothes is placed on the floor.
A large green plant is positioned to the right of the doorway.
Through the doorway, the main studio area is visible, featuring a large patterned rug, sofas and chairs arranged in a set-like layout, and a colourful painting mounted on the far wall.
The space is well-lit, featuring overhead lighting fixtures, and includes various TV sets used for filming and production purposes.
The image shows the interior of the Brambell Natural History Museum at Bangor University.
The space features high ceilings with exposed beams and tall windows that allow natural light to enter.
The wooden floor adds warmth to the room, which is filled with display cases showcasing a variety of marine and grassland specimens, including preserved animals, shells, and other natural artefacts.
Additional features include mounted animal heads on the walls and a large fish model positioned on top of one of the display cases.
The room also contains tables and cabinets used for further displays and educational materials.
Text in the image includes:
The image shows an indoor space at Treborth Botanic Garden , part of Bangor University’s botanical and research facilities.
The room is well-lit, with natural light streaming through the windows, and features tables, chairs, and cabinets arranged for educational or research purposes.
Various plant specimens are displayed on the tables and counters, including a tank with purple lighting used for growing or displaying specific plants.
A vertical menu on the right side of the image lists several key areas within the garden, including:
These areas represent the diverse environments and collections within Treborth Botanic Garden, which also includes outdoor gardens and specialist plant houses such as the Tropical House and Orchid House .
This virtual tour presents the Medical Sciences building at Bangor University.
The building is a modern, multi-story structure with a grey exterior and numerous large windows.
A bilingual sign on the wall reads "Ysgol Meddygaeth / School of Medical Sciences", indicating the academic focus of the facility.
In the foreground, several parked cars, stone walls, and lush greenery suggest a scenic and well-maintained campus environment.
On the right-hand side of the screen, interactive navigation options are available, allowing users to explore various areas of the facility.
These include:
This virtual tour is designed to provide prospective students and visitors with an immersive and informative look at the university’s medical education environment.
This virtual tour highlights the Ocean Sciences building at Bangor University, located on the Menai Bridge campus.
The scene features a multi-story white building with numerous windows on the left, and another smaller white building on the right.
A pathway runs between the two buildings, leading toward another structure in the background, suggesting a connected and walkable campus layout.
At the top of the screen, the title reads: "Main Bangor University Virtual Tour – Ocean Sciences (Menai Bridge Campus)"
On the right-hand side, a vertical navigation menu lists various campus locations, with "Ocean Sciences" highlighted in red, indicating the current view.
This virtual tour offers an engaging way to explore the university’s facilities dedicated to marine and environmental sciences.
This virtual tour displays the Students’ Union reception area located in the Pontio Building at Bangor University.
At the centre is a reception desk with bilingual signage reading “CANOLFAN MYFYRWYR / STUDENT CENTRE.” Above the desk, colourful letters spell out “CROESO” (Welcome), alongside the UNDEB (Union) logo.
In the background, office chairs and equipment are visible, indicating an administrative or support area.
On the left side of the image, advertisements for Domino’s pizza deals are displayed, and a black dog statue wearing a yellow scarf stands on a blue box labelled “Guide Dogs.” On the right, shelves display various items, and another Domino’s advertisement is visible.
This space serves as a welcoming hub for student support, engagement, and services within the Pontio Arts and Innovation Centre.
This virtual tour displays a modern and brightly lit seating area within the Student Union at Bangor University.
The space features a mix of colorful armchairs in red, yellow, green, and purple, arranged around small circular tables.
A dark grey sofa is positioned on the right side of the room, offering additional seating.
The walls are decorated with posters and text promoting various student activities and services, adding vibrancy and information to the space.
A large glass wall separates this area from another room in the background, maintaining an open and connected feel.
The ceiling is fitted with recessed lighting, providing bright and even illumination throughout the area.
This virtual tour shows a vibrant and modern social space named “Y Lolfa” at Bangor University.
The room features brightly painted walls with geometric shapes in colours such as blue, green, orange, and pink.
A black accent wall displays the name “Y Lolfa” in large white letters.
The space is furnished with a small table surrounded by four colorful chairs (green, yellow, blue, and red), a gray couch with yellow cushions, and a floor lamp.
A television is mounted on the wall, currently displaying an image with motion blur.
Additional features include bean bags near the couch and trash bins in one corner, creating a relaxed and informal environment for students.
This is a cozy, inclusive space designed for students to relax, socialize, or take a break.
The room is part of Bangor University's virtual tour and is located in the Pontio building.
Café Teras is a warm and welcoming dining space located within the Main University Building at Bangor University.
The Teras Lounge is a stylish and comfortable communal space located in the Main University Building.
It blends traditional architecture with modern design, offering a relaxing environment for students, staff, and visitors.
Bar Uno is a modern, social venue located within the Ffriddoedd Village student accommodation.
It serves as a popular spot for dining, relaxing, and socializing among students.
Cegin Café is a bright, modern space located in the Pontio building at Bangor University.
It offers a relaxed environment for dining, studying, or socializing, with a strong emphasis on natural light and greenery.
Barlow’s Café Bar and Shop is a convenient and welcoming space located within St Mary’s Student Village.
It serves as a combined café, bar, and retail area for students to grab refreshments, snacks, or essentials.
College Park is a peaceful and scenic outdoor space on the Bangor University campus.
It offers a natural setting for relaxation, walking, and enjoying the outdoors.
Bangor Pier is a historic and scenic structure extending into the Menai Strait.
It offers panoramic views and a peaceful setting, making it a popular spot for walking, sightseeing, and relaxation.
Visual Description:
PL5 Lecture Theatre is a formal academic space located in the Pontio building at Bangor University.
It is designed for lectures, presentations, and large group events.
The PL2 Lecture Theatre is a modern academic space located in the Pontio building at Bangor University.
It is designed for lectures, seminars, and presentations, offering a clean and functional environment.
This virtual tour displays the cardio section of the gym at Bangor University, located in Canolfan Brailsford.
The space features a high ceiling with exposed beams and is brightly lit by both overhead lights and large windows that let in natural light.
The gym has a wooden floor and is equipped with rows of cardio machines, including treadmills, stationary bikes, and rowing machines.
The walls are painted in red and grey tones, creating a vibrant and energetic atmosphere.
At the far end of the room, a large screen is mounted above an arched window, adding a modern touch to the space.
This virtual tour displays the weights section of the gym at Bangor University, located in Canolfan Brailsford.
The space is equipped with a variety of weightlifting equipment, including benches, machines, and multiple racks of colour-coded weights.
A person is seen using one of the machines in the foreground.
The gym has a modern design with bright overhead lighting and large windows along the right side, allowing natural light to enter.
The environment is spacious and well-organized, supporting both individual workouts and strength training.
This virtual tour displays the spinning studio at Bangor University, designed for indoor cycling workouts.
The room features several stationary bikes arranged in neat rows on a wooden floor.
A large mural on the back wall depicts an open road flanked by mountains, creating an immersive and motivating environment.
On the right side of the room, a banner displays workout intensity levels labelled "WARM-UP," "EASY," "MODERATE," and "HARD." The space is well-lit with square ceiling lights, contributing to a bright and energetic atmosphere.
The image shows the interior of Platform 81 , a gym facility at Bangor University located in Canolfan Brailsford.
The space is equipped with a range of workout equipment, including dumbbells, weightlifting platforms, and various exercise machines.
A large sign on the back wall reads "PLATFORM 81" with an arrow pointing to the right, helping to orient users within the facility.
The gym has a clean, modern design and is part of the university's virtual tour, as indicated by the text at the top of the image.
The image shows an indoor rock climbing facility featured in the Bangor University virtual tour.
On the left side, there is a vertical climbing wall with colorful holds arranged in various routes for different skill levels.
On the right, a more natural-looking rock formation is designed for bouldering.
The entire floor is covered with thick padded mats to ensure safety.
The space is well-lit and designed to support both recreational and training activities.
This virtual tour displays a squash court at Bangor University, located in Canolfan Brailsford.
The court features polished wooden flooring and white walls marked with red boundary lines typical of squash courts.
On the back wall, the logo "KARAKAL" is prominently displayed along with the tagline "Evolution by Design." The space is clean, well-lit, and designed for indoor racquet sports.
At the top of the image, the text reads: "MAIN BANGOR UNIVERSITY VIRTUAL TOUR – SQUASH COURT (CANOLFAN BRAILSFORD)."
This virtual tour displays the interior of the Sports Dome at Bangor University, located at Canolfan Brailsford.
The facility features a full-sized tennis court with a blue playing surface and green surrounding walls.
A net stretches across the center of the court, and various pieces of sports equipment are positioned around the edges.
The dome is supported by a white, curved inflatable ceiling, creating a spacious and weather-protected environment for indoor sports.
At the top of the image, the text reads: "MAIN BANGOR UNIVERSITY VIRTUAL TOUR – SPORTS DOME (CANOLFAN BRAILSFORD)."
This virtual tour displays the Astro pitch at Bangor University, located at Canolfan Brailsford.
The pitch features a synthetic playing surface marked with multiple colored lines—white, blue, and yellow—indicating different sports boundaries.
Goalposts are visible in the background, suggesting the space is used for football or similar field sports.
Surrounding the pitch are trees and a building on the right-hand side, providing a scenic and functional outdoor sports environment.
The top of the image includes the label: "MAIN BANGOR UNIVERSITY VIRTUAL TOUR – ASTRO PITCH (CANOLFAN BRAILSFORD)."
This virtual tour displays a gym room at Bangor University, located within St Mary’s Village Accommodation.
The space includes several exercise machines such as treadmills and stationary bikes, arranged neatly for individual workouts.
A large window in the background allows natural light to brighten the room.
On one wall, there is an air conditioning unit and a board titled "PRICING & MEMBERSHIPS," which lists various membership options and prices.
The environment is clean, well-lit, and designed to support student fitness and wellbeing.
The top of the image reads: "MAIN BANGOR UNIVERSITY VIRTUAL TOUR – GYM AT ST MARY'S VILLAGE ACCOMMODATION."
This image shows the outdoor gym at Bangor University, located in St Mary’s Village.
The gym area features two pieces of exercise equipment installed on a red rubber mat, providing a safe and cushioned surface for workouts.
In the background, there is a white building with multiple windows and a second building made of brick.
A paved pathway runs between the buildings, connecting the gym area to the rest of the village.
The space is open-air and designed to encourage physical activity in an accessible and convenient outdoor setting.
The top of the image reads: "MAIN BANGOR UNIVERSITY VIRTUAL TOUR – OUTDOOR GYM (ST MARY'S VILLAGE)."
The outdoor athletic facilities at Treborth Playing Fields, part of Bangor University, feature a full-sized running track surrounded by lush green grass and trees, set against a clear blue sky.
Several paths lead toward the track, and a building is visible on the right side.
On the right of the scene, three smaller labelled images highlight different areas of the facility: "Treborth Pitch," "3G Pitch," and "Athletic Track." The top of the scene includes the label: "MAIN BANGOR UNIVERSITY VIRTUAL TOUR – TREBORTH PLAYING FIELDS."
This virtual tour presents the interior of the Main University Library at Bangor University, showcasing a grand and historic reading space.
This virtual 360-degree tour presents the exterior of the Pontio Arts and Innovation Centre at Bangor University.
The building has a modern design with large windows and a beige stone facade.
There is a grassy area in front of the building, and the sky is partly cloudy.
This virtual 360-degree tour presents the student accommodation area at Ffriddoedd Village, Bangor University.
The scene captures a welcoming residential environment surrounded by greenery.
You are viewing an outdoor scene near Bar Uno , a social and dining space at Bangor University.
Foreground: A paved pathway runs through the centre, guiding your view toward a modern building.
Building: Ahead is a structure with large glass windows and an elevated walkway, suggesting a contemporary design.
Right Side: A grassy area with trees and benches provides a green, relaxing space.
A person is seated nearby on the steps, adding a sense of scale and activity.
Centre: A lamppost stands prominently in the middle of the scene, offering a visual anchor.
Orientation: The scene is well-lit and open, with clear lines guiding the eye from the path to the building.
Text Overlay: At the top, the label reads: "BANGOR UNIVERSITY VIRTUAL TOUR – BAR UNO, SHOP AND BAR"
Foreground: Two multi-story brick accommodation halls with windows and a grassy area in between them.
Background: Trees and picnic tables on the grass.
Sky: Clear and sunny.
The image shows an En-Suite Single Classic room at Bangor University.
The room features a single bed with a blue mattress on the left side, a wooden desk with drawers and a chair in front of the window, and shelves mounted on the right wall.
There are also two hooks on the right wall and an electric heater below them.
The window has purple curtains, and outside, greenery is visible.
The text at the top reads "BANGOR UNIVERSITY VIRTUAL TOUR EN-SUITE SINGLE - CLASSIC."
You are viewing an En-Suite Classic Welsh Speaker, a tidy room with a single bed, a desk with a chair, and a window with red curtains.
There is also a wall-mounted shelf above the bed.
The text at the top of the image reads: "BANGOR UNIVERSITY VIRTUAL TOUR EN-SUITE CLASSIC WELSH SPEAKER - JMJ." On the right side of the image, there are two smaller images labelled "En-Suite Classic Welsh Speaker" and "Kitchen (JMJ)."
You are viewing an En-Suite Modern room, well-lit bedroom with a single bed, desk, and chair.
The room has two windows with blue curtains, allowing natural light to enter.
There is a colourful tree artwork on the wall above the bed.
The text at the top of the image reads "BANGOR UNIVERSITY VIRTUAL TOUR EN-SUITE MODERN." On the right side of the image, there are smaller images labelled "En-Suite Modern," "En-Suite Large," and "Kitchen."
This virtual 360-degree tour presents the St Mary’s student accommodation at Bangor University, viewed from an elevated walkway between two buildings.
Visual Description: The image shows a budget single room from Bangor University Virtual Tour.
The room features a single bed with grey and white bedding, a window with blue curtains, and a radiator beneath the window.
There is also a desk with various items including books, a plant, and stationery.
On the right side of the image, there are wall-mounted shelves holding more items such as plants and decorative objects.
Note: There are similar rooms available which include en-suite rooms, deluxe en-suite rooms, and various studios.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/why-choose-to-study-in-north-wales:
From our vibrant main campus in Bangor to our renowned School of Ocean Sciences at Menai Bridge on Anglesey, and our specialist Radiography courses in Wrexham, Bangor University connects communities across North Wales – making us truly the university of the region.
Bangor University received an outstanding outcome Following its recent Institutional Quality Enhancement Review (QER).
You will be taught by world-leading experts who are involved in a variety of research projects, making use of the top-class facilities at Bangor University.
Staff expertise is incorporated into our teaching activities, giving you direct access to the latest developments in your area of study.
You get the peace and quiet of a beautiful region, but you're still well-connected.
Major roads like the A55 connect you directly to the North of England, while excellent rail links get you to Chester, Manchester, Liverpool, or London without hassle if you fancy a change of pace.
Whether it's the expansive sands of the North Wales coastline or the dramatic beaches of Anglesey, you can literally study with your toes in the sand or catch a sunset surf session after your seminar.
Imagine an UNESCO World Heritage site as your backdrop while you study.
Historical towns such as Beaumaris, Conwy and Caernarfon - all with their own castles - and scenic villages like Beddgelert and Betws y Coed aren't just tourist attractions, they're your neighbours.
Towns like Bangor and Wrexham offer all the cosmopolitan energy you crave – independent coffee shops, diverse restaurants, live music venues, and buzzing student scenes – but surrounded by mountains and beaches.
Rock climbing, mountain biking, hiking, kayaking, surfing, zip-lining – North Wales is literally the UK's adventure capital.
One thing’s for certain, all this on your doorstep definitely adds a different dimension to student life.
From the world's fastest zip line to underground trampolines in old mines, from steam railways to Britain's smallest house – North Wales packs a lot of unique experiences per square mile so there’s plenty to do in your spare time
Immerse yourself in a genuinely bilingual environment where Welsh and English flow naturally together.
Even if you don’t speak Welsh, we’re sure you’ll enjoy the experience of living and learning in a bilingual environment.
We understand that student budgets are tight.
Living in North Wales is significantly cheaper than most big university cities.
Lower living costs mean higher quality of life.
More money for experiences, less for rent.
That means more gigs, more trips, and more fun.
North Wales is experiencing a culinary renaissance.
You'll experience award-winning eateries using local Welsh ingredients, artisan food producers, farmers' markets, and traditional pubs.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-life/bangor-and-area:
Nestled between the mountains and the sea, our campus is surrounded by a breathtaking natural landscape.
But don’t just take our word for it – travel guide Lonely Planet named North Wales as one of the best regions in the world to visit.
The location, the scenery and the surrounding area are amongst the reasons why many of our students choose to come to Bangor.
One thing’s for sure, all this on your doorstep definitely adds a different dimension to student life.
We're surrounded by nature, but we're easier to get to than you may think.
Bangor is well connected by road and rail.
Our Radiography students will be based at our Wrexham campus in north east Wales.
More about our Wrexham Campus
Discover a university in a truly spectacular environment.
In the centre of Bangor you'll find a wide-range of supermarkets, food shops, high street chains, cafes, bars and restaurants.
Most of the University buildings and Halls are within walking distance of the city centre.
The University’s Canolfan Brailsford Sports centre has recently been redeveloped and includes a two storey gym, performance gym, state of the art fitness equipment, sports halls, climbing wall, squash courts and a brand new sports dome which is home to indoor netball and tennis courts.
The Pontio centre is a social hub as well as an internationally significant centre for learning, innovation and the performing arts.
In addition to being a home for our Students’ Union, it includes a cinema, theatre, lecture theatres, exhibition spaces, bar and café.
We have two student villages, Ffriddoedd and St Mary's, which are both within walking distance of the main University buildings, city centre and train station.
There is also accommodation at our campus in Wrexham for Radiography students.
Bangor is perfectly placed for sports enthusiasts, but even if you're not into outdoor sports there's still plenty to explore in the surrounding area.
You can visit historic nearby towns such as Beaumaris, Caernarfon and Conwy, which all have impressive castles, or scenic villages like Llanberis and Betws-y-Coed.
Anglesey is one of the most popular destinations in North Wales.
When the sun is shining, get your friends together and explore Anglesey's many beaches and miles of beautiful coastline.
The town of Menai Bridge, which is where our School of Ocean Sciences is based, is around 15 minutes' walk from Upper Bangor.
Menai Bridge has several cafes, restaurants and bars and a number of locally-owned shops and boutiques.
Anglesey is also your gateway to Ireland and regular ferries run from Holyhead to Dublin, with the journey taking around two hours.
You can travel to Holyhead by direct train from Bangor.
The Snowdonia National Park’s 25 miles of mountains, lakes and rivers offer plenty of opportunities for you to enjoy the great outdoors.
Walking, climbing, kayaking and canoeing are just some of the sports that can be enjoyed in the area, which is also home to Surf Snowdonia surfing lagoon, Europe's longest and fastest zip wires at Zip World Velocity and Zip World Titan, and Bounce Below, a cavern of underground trampolines!
Many of the University’s sports clubs organise regular trips to Snowdonia.
Why not make the most of the wealth of opportunities on your doorstep while studying at Bangor?
Some of the adrenalin fuelled activities in the area include riding the waves at Surf Snowdonia, experiencing the longest zip line in Europe at Zip World and bouncing on giant underground trampolines at Bounce Below!
Whether you're into outdoor sports or you just like being in a beautiful environment, there's something for everyone.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-life/clubs_societies:
Get the most out of your time at Bangor - get involved!
Joining in with clubs, societies and volunteering is a great way for you to try new things and meet new people.
Our Students’ Union has an extensive range - whether you're passionate about sports, arts, culture, or academic interests, there's a community waiting to welcome you.
.
During Welcome Week, you’ll be able to see what’s on offer at our Welcome Week fair, Serendipity (Serendipity means an unplanned or fortunate discovery).
All our clubs, societies and volunteering projects will be under one roof so you can stop by their stalls to grab information and sign-up for taster sessions.
Whatever sport you’re interested in, there’s a club for it at Bangor.
From traditional sports such as rugby, netball, football and tennis to outdoor activities like surfing, paddleboarding, canoeing and windsurfing.
You can also try your hand at something different like underwater hockey(octopush), pole fitness and ultimate frisbee.
Many of our sports clubs compete in British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) events, with regular fixtures against other universities taking place.
One of the highlights of the year is Varsity, a weekend of sporting competition between Bangor University and Aberystwyth University.
Our Students’ Union societies bring like-minded people together.
There are course related societies, such as Langsoc, Zoosoc and Psych Soc; societies that celebrate nationalities and cultures and societies for students with the same interests, such as drama, music, film, photography.
Our list of societies is incredibly varied, but if you want to start your own, that's possible too.
During your free time, you can join in with the Students' Union's student-led volunteering projects.
Volunteering is a great way to give back to the community, whilst gaining valuable skills.
Visit the AU website to view our full list of sport clubs and find out about fixtures, news and events.
See the full list of societies you can join.
Your opportunity to give back whilst gaining your degree.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-life:
Great teaching, award-winning accommodation, and a stunning setting.
Learn about why you’ll love your time here in beautiful Bangor.
The Student Crowd website analysed thousands of student reviews and rated Bangor University 2nd in Wales 2023.
We're consistently rated highly for student satisfaction and are currently in the top 20 in the UK and 2nd in Wales (National Student Survey 2022).
Continue with a sport or hobby or try a new one - we have an extensive range of Clubs and Societies to choose from at Bangor.
As a Bangor student, you'll live in some of the best university accommodation in the UK, meet new friends and receive support every step of the way.
Find friends for life on campus.
We're known for our friendly and welcoming approach.
We guarantee accommodation to all first years who choose Bangor University as their Firm Choice.
We offer a range of scholarships and bursaries for undergraduate students, to help you during your studies.
With a wide range of Clubs and Societies to choose from, there's a lot going on at Bangor.
Our location makes us the ideal choice for outdoor adventurers.
We also have modern on campus gyms and sports facilities.
Bangor is located in beautiful North Wales.
Although we're surrounded by nature, the mountains and the sea, we're well connected and you can travel to us easily by rail or road.
Our Radiography students will be based at our Wrexham campus in north east Wales, which can offer a more urban lifestyle.
Our Open Days are a great way for you to learn about our courses and student life.
You can talk to our staff and students, watch presentations and take tours of the campus and accommodation.
Bangor is a small city with a big community.
We welcome international students from across the world.
We're here to help you throughout your time as a student.
Our team of Disability Advisors can offer you advice before you arrive and during your studies.
More
Each new student is assigned a Peer Guide to help you settle-in.
Peer Guides are second and third year students who will help you during Welcome Week and beyond.
You can arrange one-to-one counselling sessions through our Student Services centre.
If you need advice on student finance or if you're experiencing any money issues, our Money Support advisers can help.
Your health and wellbeing matters to us.
Take a look at the initiatives and resources available to our students.
We aim to create an environment for you to live and study that ensures you can be yourself, take advantage of every opportunity and reach your full potential.
The International Student Support Office can prepare you for your arrival at Bangor, advise you on visas and help you settle-in to life at Bangor.
If you have already applied to study with us, you can find useful information on what happens next in our Applicant hub.
We offer hundreds of courses across the sciences, arts, humanities, business and law.
Take a look at what you could study.
You can access a range of support to strengthen your academic skills.
Our Employability services will ensure that you're prepared for life after graduation.
Our work experience and study abroad options help you broaden your horizons.
Work experience is a critical factor in gaining future graduate employment.
We offer a variety of options to gain valuable employability skills, which includes supporting you in work placements and internships that you may wish to undertake.
If you have ever wondered about taking a gap year, or a trip over the summer and have regretted not doing so, then our study abroad programmes give you the opportunity to really make the most of your study experience.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/reasons-to-stay-in-north-wales-to-study:
Let’s figure out why sticking around in North Wales for your studies could be a brilliant move.
We understand that the grass can seem greener elsewhere, but North Wales has some strong selling points.
If you’re from North Wales, studying at Bangor gives you the chance to build on your existing connections and contribute to your home region.
You get the independence of university life, learning to live away from home (even if it's just a short drive away).
But if you ever feel homesick or need a proper Sunday roast, home isn't too far.
It's a stepping stone to full independence, but with a safety net if you need it.
That means more gigs, more trips, and more fun without constantly checking your bank balance.
Cities like Manchester, Liverpool, and Chester are easily accessible for a day trip or a night out if you fancy a change of pace.
It's the best of both worlds.
In Bangor, you're minutes away from epic mountains, stunning coastlines, and incredible outdoor activities.
Think Eryri (Snowdonia) National Park for hiking, mountain biking, kayaking, surfing...
you name it.
There are often local opportunities and connections through Bangor University that can lead to part-time jobs during your studies or even graduate roles.
Businesses in North Wales value local talent, and studying here can give you a real head start.
We offer specialized courses that take advantage of the local environment – think marine biology, environmental science or outdoor education.
This means practical experience that's genuinely relevant to the area and its industries.
Bangor University offers more Welsh-medium modules and courses than any other university.
You can do all or part of your degree through the medium of Welsh in several academic Schools and as there is a great demand for young professionals who can work bilingually in Wales, this really does make a difference to your career.
In a smaller academic environment, it's often easier to get involved in projects, research, or student societies.
This can give you invaluable experience and help you build a standout CV, making you more attractive to future employers.
Smaller universities often mean more personalised attention.
Lecturers know your name, and there's a strong focus on student welfare.
If you need help, you'll get it quickly, which can make a massive difference to your overall experience.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/clearing/visit:
If you're interested in studying at Bangor, we'd encourage you to visit us.
By visiting the campus, you'll get a get a real insight into student life here and can familiarise yourself with the University buildings and Bangor itself.
We look forward to welcoming you here.
Once you’re made a Clearing offer, we’ll invite you by email to our Clearing Visit Day.
This is a tailored event, which will include an introduction to Bangor and a campus tour as part of the programme.
Please be sure to check your emails for your invite to the Clearing Visit Day - we’d love to see you here.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
See what you could be studying at Bangor.
Explore our undergraduate subject areas.
See what you need to do to apply for a place on our undergraduate courses.
Learn more about our tuition fees and living costs so you can plan your budget and apply for finance.
See costs
Our vibrant student villages and award winning halls will be your home away from home.
Find a place to live
Learn more about Bangor University.
Request one today
If you're looking for flexibility, our part-time study programmes allow you to take your time.
Explore part-time options
See where in the world your degree can take you.
Studying Abroad
Gain transferable skills and set yourself apart from other applicants with our work placement programme.
Prepare for your future
Find out more about the support we have on offer for our mature students at Bangor.
Find our more
The traditional full-time university degree isn't for everyone, so take a look at these other options we have for you
If you want to combine full-time work with part-time university study, the degree apprenticeship could be perfect path for you.
For those who want more flexibility when it comes to studying, our part-time options might be the best fit for you.
The Management Centre offers professional qualifications, bespoke programmes and training packages designed for continuous professional development.
You can study at a distance or even combine distance learning with traditional face to face study at some of our schools.
We offer you the opportunity to spend time working or studying abroad as part of your degree.
You can study part or all of your course through the medium of Welsh in many Schools, enhancing your career prospects.
Join our close-knit, supportive community that makes academic exploration exciting and fulfilling.
Join us on one of our Open Days - it's the best way to learn more about Bangor University and ask any questions you may have.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply:
Bangor University Code: B06
Apply through UCAS
To apply for an undergraduate place at university you need to apply through UCAS (Universities and Colleges Admissions Service) who will then pass on your application to your chosen universities.
You’ll be able to choose up to five courses, but remember that the same application form and personal statement will go to each choice.
Bangor University's UCAS code is B06.
Apply via UCAS
We advise you to apply as early as you can as we will start considering applications and making offers straight away.
For 2026 entry, the initial UCAS deadline is 14 January 2026 , however we welcome applications after this date.
Applications received between 26 February and 30 June will continue to be forwarded to universities by UCAS and will receive consideration where places are still available.
The application deadline for medicine is 15th October 2025 .
If, from the 5 July, you don’t have any offers, you can apply through Clearing at Bangor University.
Clearing
To get started, you’ll need to set up your UCAS Hub account with UCAS (University and Colleges Admissions Service) – the organisation that manages applications to all UK universities.
You can start your application from UCAS Hub.
Find the course that’s right for you by searching through the courses on the University website.
Find a course
Consider the following when choosing your course and university:
Make sure that you save the courses you like in your UCAS account by clicking the heart button on the online UCAS course search.
All your liked courses will be stored in one place so you can go back and review them another time.
You can choose up to five applications.
You could choose up to five different courses to the same university or apply for the same course in five different universities.
Do this as soon as you can in June / July so you can get stuck in to researching your courses.
When you’ve compiled your shortlist, you’ll be ready to start your application.
As part of your profile on UCAS, you’ll need to write your personal statement.
This is a very important part of the application
The UCAS personal statement is an important part of your application.
This is where you get to persuade the university that they should accept you onto your chosen course.
You only get 4,000 characters to explain why you want to study the course and the skills or experience you have that are essential for university study.
To write a winning personal statement you must have a good understanding about the course and what you’ll be studying.
Remember that you write only one personal statement for your five choices so make sure that the courses are similar, if not the same, and make sure that you don’t mention a specific course or university.
How to draft a winning personal statement and watch our video
Go over your application and get someone else to check it too – make sure you’ve applied for the right course at the right university.
You will need a reference from your teacher, adviser or someone who knows you academically or professionally.
When you are happy with your applications, pay the UCAS application fee online by debit or credit card and hit submit!
All the universities you have applied to will now consider your application and will respond – usually with either a conditional offer (grades they want you to achieve) or an unconditional offer.
Apply now!
We receive around 350 exchange students every year from all over the world.
45% of these students come from Europe and the remainder from as far as Singapore, South Korea and Australia.
The University’s International Exchanges Office is responsible for welcoming these students.
If you've used all five choices on your application, and you're not holding any offers for 2026 entry, you could still find a place using UCAS Extra between 26 February and 4 July 2026.
UCAS Extra
Our undergraduate courses offer an engaging mix of lectures, reading assignments and hands-on applied learning modules that allow you to explore both the theoretical and the practical aspects of your chosen area of study.
Not all applications will be straight forward.
Are you thinking of deferring for a year?
Are you sponsored by your employer?
Or are you making a late application?

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentfinance:
Information for new undergraduate students from the UK and Ireland
Information for new International undergraduate students (including EU)
From your tuition costs to living costs, there’s certainly a lot to consider.
Learn about the costs you can expect for Bangor University's upcoming academic year, and learn what kinds of funding opportunities exist to help ease the financial burden.
Information for current students studying at Bangor University can be viewed on MyBangor.
Current Students
Find out about the funding opportunities available for Postgraduate students.
Information about funding for part-time students.
Staff here at Bangor can provide advice, information and guidance on all aspects of student funding.
Information on payment of tuition and halls fees for students.
Details on payment of tuition and halls fees for international/EU students.
Our Fees and Access Plan outlines how we demonstrate our commitment to our students through the development of our objectives.
See our fees information
Find out more about the Scholarships and Bursaries available to undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Find out about the funding opportunities available for our Undergraduate students.
View how we can help you with your studies as a Postgraduate student.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentfinance/new-undergraduates:
As a full-time UK undergraduate student starting your course you will have two main costs to meet:
There is help available to meet these costs, with the exact financial support available to you depending on which part of the UK you are from.
Fee information for 2025 entry can be found on our Tuition Fees pages.
The University will inform all applicants and students of the regulated fee levels for 2025/26 and any increases for successive years of study as soon as confirmation of the maximum regulated fee is received from Welsh Government and will publish updates on the website .
The University may increase the fees for each subsequent year of study by the amount permitted by Welsh Government.
The important thing to remember about the tuition fees is that UK students do not have to pay the tuition fee upfront – you study first and pay back when you’re earning.
Once you leave University, you will start to repay the loan in the April after you graduate.
You only start repaying when you're earning over the repayment threshold.
Choose from the options below for more detailed information about the funding available to you .
At Bangor you can also apply for various Bangor University bursaries and scholarships which could help with your living costs.
If you'll be looking for part-time work during the holidays and/or term-time to help cover your costs, the Student Employment Bureau ' Bangor CareerConnect ' can help you find part-time work.
There's also work experience opportunities available through the Careers and Employability Service which will enhance your CV and help you find employment when you graduate.
Taking part in the Bangor Employability Award could also make a difference to how you perform in the graduate jobs market.
If you are an International Student, please visit the International Education Centre website for more information about fees and finance.
There are additional sources of financial support available to students in the form of scholarships and bursaries.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/contextual-offers:
Bangor University is committed to widening participation in Higher Education (HE) and accepts students from a broad range of backgrounds.
To support students into Higher Education, we use a number of indicators to identify students who may be at a disadvantage in their ability to access Higher Education, in order to provide additional support.
During the admissions process in the 2024/25 cycle for admission to the University from September 2025, the University will use contextual data available to inform whether each applicant is eligible for a Contextual Offer, as a result of our widening access policy.
This means that your offer is likely to be lower than you may have otherwise received.
The offer will reflect the fact that we are keen to ensure that you decide to study here.
Our contextual offer process also incorporates the Bangor University and HEIW's (Health Education and Improvement Wales) partnership mission to support students onto our health professional training programmes.
If your postcode indicates that you live in a HE low-participation neighbourhood (including Communities First areas in Wales) you may receive a contextual offer as a result of our widening access policy.
Postcodes are categorised according to the POLAR4 coding system, which identifies 5 tiers of Higher Education participation.
Tier 1 has the lowest proportion of residents who have attended Higher Education and Tier 5 the highest.
All contextual offers will be made on the basis of potential to achieve highly at this University and no offers will be based solely on contextual data.
During the 2024/25 application cycle for admission in September 2025, UCAS will be supplying universities with contextual information of other socio-economic indicators, as provided by applicants when completing their UCAS applications.
Bangor University will be reviewing this additional information to inform the consideration of eligibility for a contextual offer.
This data includes:
UCAS also supplies universities with contextual data regarding School performance (e.g.
examination results).
This information might be used at confirmation (summer exam results) to help inform decisions where applicants have not quite met the terms of their offer.
The University will review the above policy at the end of each admissions cycle.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/cymraeg:
If you would like to study through the medium of Welsh and live in a truly bilingual community, Bangor University is the place for you.
The Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol has a course finder tool that indicates how much of your course is available in Welsh.
In this engaging series of podcasts, former students talk about their experiences of studying through the medium of Welsh, their career path and how Welsh has opened doors for them in their professional careers.
Did you know that financial support is available to study through the medium of Welsh?
When registering to follow Welsh-medium modules, you may be eligible to receive the following:
Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol Main Scholarship - £1,000 per year for up to three years when you study 80 credits per year through the medium of Welsh.
Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol Incentive Scholarship - £500 per year for up to three years if you study 40 credits per year through the medium of Welsh.
Welsh bursary - £250 per year if you study 40 credits per year through the medium of Welsh.
This bursary can be received in addition to the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol scholarships.
Naturally, there is much more to university life than lectures and socialising.
To support you during your time here, the entire range of the University’s student services - from advice on finances to counselling support - is available through the medium of Welsh.
If you would like to socialise or relax with other Welsh speakers you are in the right place.
Undeb Bangor is Bangor University's Students' Union.
Undeb Myfyrwyr Cymru Bangor (UMCB) is a part of Undeb Bangor.
UMCB has a president who works to support Welsh-speaking students and promote the Welsh language and culture at Bangor University.
The Cymric is the social wing of UMCB which organises social events throughout the year.
We have Welsh choirs, a literary society, sports clubs and a student radio station - and if you would like to set up a new Welsh medium club, support is available to do so.
Why not make Neuadd John Morris-Jones (JMJ) a home away from home?
JMJ is a hall of residence for Welsh speakers and learners, and it has en-suite rooms and communal spaces – put the kettle on to have a panad and a chat in a natural Welsh atmosphere.
If you are a Welsh learner or if you would like to improve your spoken or written Welsh, there is nowhere better to practise.
Take advantage of the specialist support available to Welsh students from Canolfan Bedwyr , the University’s Centre for Welsh Language Services, Research and Technology.
You can develop your academic writing and presentation skills and you will be supported to take the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol Language Skills Certificate exam.
Improving your language skills will help you with your academic studies and your future career.
A post shared by Cangen Bangor (@cangenbangor)
The Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol’s aim is to build a Welsh and bilingual education and training system which is open to everyone and to develop a bilingual workforce for Wales.
There is a 'branch' of the Coleg in every university in Wales, and the Bangor branch is located in Canolfan Bedwyr.
Give Welsh a go!
Here are some simple Welsh phrases you can learn that you'll find useful around Bangor.
If you'd like to learn more phrases you can do so here.
[0:01] Helo, shw'mae?
(Hello, how are things?)
[0:02] Since Bangor University is located in North Wales,
[0:05] you'll probably see and hear the Welsh language being used around campus and around the local area.
[0:12] Here are some simple phrases that you might find useful during your time here in Bangor.
[0:18] Bore da (Good Morning)
[0:21] Bore da (Good Morning)
[0:23] P'nawn da (Good Afternoon)
[0:26] P'nawn da (Good Afternoon)
[0:28] Noswaith dda (Good evening)
[0:31] Noswaith dda (Good evening)
[0:33] Croeso (Welcome)
[0:36] Croeso (Welcome)
[0:39] Lleucu dw i (I'm Lleucu)
[0:41] Lleucu dw i (I'm Lleucu)
[0:45] Ti'n iawn?
(Are you ok?)
[0:48] Ti'n iawn?
[0:50] Sut 'dach chi?
(How are you?)
[0:53] Sut 'dach chi?
[0:57] Iawn diolch (Fine thanks)
[0:59] Iawn diolch (Fine thanks)
[1:03] Da iawn diolch, a chi?
(Good thanks, and you?)
[1:06] Da iawn diolch, a chi?
[1:12] Diolch (Thank you)
[1:14] Diolch (Thank you)
[1:17] Diolch yn fawr (Thank you very much)
[1:20] Diolch yn fawr (Thank you very much)
[1:23] Hwyl fawr (Good bye)
[1:26] Hwyl fawr (Good bye)
[1:29] Pob lwc (Good luck)
[1:31] Pob lwc (Good luck)
[1:33] If you're interested in learning some more Welsh words and phrases,
[1:37] take a look at the 'Help with Welsh' page on the university's website.
[1:42]Diolch!
If you're interested in learning some Welsh during your time as a Bangor University Student watch this video.
Please note that registration for this course opens in September and closes in October every year.
[0:04] Online Self-study Welsh language course
[ [0:05] For beginners
[ [0:12] You can work your way through the course at your own pace and at a time that is convenient for you.
[ [0:21] You’ll be able to access the course any time, anywhere using your phone, tablet, or computer.
[0:25] As long as you have internet connection...
[0:29] You’ll also receive support from a tutor to help you complete the course.
[0:33] Got any questions?
[0:34] Or to register please send an e-mail to:
[0:36] cwrsarlein@bangor.ac.uk
For more information on studying in Welsh, visit the Study pages (Welsh medium) .

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/part-time:
If you're looking for flexibility, then part-time, blended or distance learning may be the right choice for you
Looking to gain a qualification while balancing work, family, or other commitments?
Our part-time, blended, and online learning options provide the flexibility you need.
At Bangor University, we offer:
If you have any questions about our part-time degree options, please email admissions@bangor.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/degree-apprenticeships:
Earn a degree.
Grow your career.
Stay in work.
Whether you're already working in software engineering, cyber security, data science, electrical/electronic engineering, or mechanical engineering, a degree apprenticeship with Bangor University gives you the opportunity to gain a respected university qualification – without taking time out of your career.
Degree Apprenticeships provide an alternative route to traditional higher education.
They combine full-time work with part-time university study..
Designed for ambitious professionals who want to progress, our programmes blend academic learning with real-world experience.
You’ll study part-time while continuing to work full-time – applying what you learn straight away in the workplace.
Degree apprenticeships combine university study with practical experience in your current job.
Your employer agrees to release you for one day and one evening per week to attend structured teaching sessions.
The course is delivered through interactive lectures, tutorials and workshops.
You’ll be assessed through a variety of methods such as practical and theoretical assignments, reports, oral presentations, project work, portfolios and team-based assignments.
Nothing!
These programmes are fully funded by the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales, so there are no tuition fees for the learner or the employer.
You must already be working in a relevant sector and have your employer's agreement to support your studies.
You will be required to submit a letter of support from your employer as part of the application process.
Please note: This course is not open to international students.
Already working in the software or ICT sector and ready to move forward in your career?
This applied software engineering degree apprenticeship offers a flexible alternative to traditional higher education, allowing you to gain a full BSc degree while remaining in full-time employment.
Designed for professionals looking to upskill, the programme covers a wide range of core software engineering skills.
You'll develop strong foundations in programming, website creation (HTML5/CSS), user experience design, mobile app development, formal software engineering methods and security.
In the final year, you'll complete a major project directly linked to your workplace, applying your learning in a real-world context.
You’ll also explore emerging technologies and consider their ethical implications, equipping you with future-ready skills for a fast-moving industry.
There will also be presentations by guest speakers.
Learning is practical and informal.
This applied cyber security degree apprenticeship provides an innovative and flexible way to gain a degree while remaining in employment.
It is available to employees only and is not open to international students.
The course has been developed in close collaboration with industry and is designed to meet the growing needs of the IT sector.
It equips learners with the core knowledge and skills required to manage and secure modern computer systems.
Topics include programming, network fundamentals using Cisco CCNA, legislation around system management, and web security.
In the final year, you’ll study advanced modules including formal cryptography, penetration testing, and enterprise Java development, alongside an industry-focused project in advanced security solutions.
This programme provides immediate value both to you and your employer by enhancing your capabilities and supporting workforce development.
If you're working in IT, operations or analysis and want to build specialist data skills.
The course combines academic study with practical application, covering the full breadth of data science.
You'll develop programming and analytical skills using Python and SQL, explore database design, and gain insight into how businesses manage and analyse data.
Supporting topics include mathematics for computing, data ethics, and legal frameworks for data collection.
In the final year, you’ll study machine learning, data visualisation and advanced data management, and complete a major project in artificial intelligence and one in visualisation.
Completion of the first two years offers an optional FdSc exit qualification, which is accredited under the Higher Apprenticeship Framework through Tech Partnership.
This is a forward-looking degree designed to give you and your organisation a competitive edge in an increasingly data-driven world.
This applied mechanical engineering systems degree apprenticeship is ideal for professionals working in manufacturing, production or engineering environments who are looking to advance their careers.
Combining academic theory with real-world application, the course develops a solid understanding of mechanical and electrical/electronic engineering principles, as well as core business knowledge.
You'll gain practical skills in areas such as design, testing, health and safety, and mathematical modelling.
In the final year, you'll explore advanced topics in power and industrial engineering, bringing together your knowledge and skills in a professional context.
Designed for those already working in the electrical and electronic engineering industry, this applied electrical/electronic engineering systems degree apprenticeship allows you to earn a degree while continuing in full-time employment.
The course provides a broad understanding of electrical/electronic and mechanical principles alongside business and project management skills.
You’ll gain practical experience in areas such as circuit design, systems testing, safety, and control systems.
In the final year, you'll focus on power engineering and control systems, applying your learning to complex real-world challenges.
This is a practical and forward-thinking programme designed to help you build confidence and capability as a professional engineer.
This course is fully-funded and combines all the benefits of a conventional degree without the financial drawbacks.
Degree Apprentices employment is part of the course, meaning they will earn a salary whilst studying.
This qualification is directly related to industry, giving employee and employer the skills needed to be a success.
The Apprenticeship will allow you to both continue practical work experience and progress in your career and gain an academic qualification.
All applications for a Degree Apprenticeship must be made directly to Bangor University through our Applicant Portal
Once you have created an account you will be able to return to your application at any time and view the status of your application once it has been submitted.
Important: You will need access to the email address you specify while creating your account to confirm it.
The system will send a verification email to the email address you have provided.
The email address you use in your application is the one we will use for all correspondence.
You will find Degree Apprenticeships listed under the Programme tab in the online portal.
These are the current options:
Please be sure to select the correct course and preferred location
Those applying for a Degree Apprenticeship will need to complete the personal and contact details when prompted.
You will also need to provide:
Under the Finance tab, please complete the fields listed below as follows:
Once all sections are completed, you will receive confirmation on the screen.
You can review the application details by selecting View Summary.
Please remember to 'SUBMIT YOUR APPLICATION'.
Once your application has been submitted, a confirmation message will be sent to the email address provided.
Employers will need to contact us directly to discuss the opportunities available for their employees.
You will need to be in either full or part-time employment (minimum 16 hours a week) in the IT industry and should contact us directly for more information.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-life/studying_abroad:
If you have ever wondered about taking a gap year, or a trip over the summer and have regretted not doing so, then our study or work abroad programmes give you the opportunity to really make the most of your study experience.
Read on to find out what you could gain from studying or working abroad.
You can take an International Experience Year, where you will study or work abroad for 1 additional year, whilst studying on most of our undergraduate courses.
When you graduate, you will have ‘with International Experience’ added to your degree title.
You will have the opportunity to fully consider if this option is for you at any time during your degree at Bangor and make your application.
If you have any questions in the meantime, please get in touch.
Studying abroad is a great opportunity to see a different way of life, learn about new cultures and broaden your horizons.
If you plan to study in a country where English is not spoken natively, there may be language courses available for you at Bangor and in your host university to improve your language skills.
You're sure to return to your studies more motivated, independent and confident.
Where can Bangor take you?
Visit our Student Exchanges website to find out more about our International Experience options.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-life/employability:
The University provides a wide range of resources to help you achieve your graduate ambitions.
Developing your personal skills and enhancing your employability while at university is key in today's job market.
The Careers and Employability Team are on hand to provide information, inspiration, resources, advice and guidance to our students and graduates, to help develop your employability and confidence, and explore, pursue and realise your career aspirations, whatever they may be!
Find out how we can support you while you study here and also what to expect if you're thinking of studying here .
In partnership with the University’s well-established Enterprise by Design (EbD) programme, BUILT is an annual competition open to all Bangor University students where participants across all study disciplines and all academic years form teams of 5-10 to simulate a startup company and to generate ideas and develop solutions for a specific community challenge.
The programme culminates in the teams presenting their ideas to an independent panel, who judge which team have developed the most innovative solution.
The winning team receive funding and support to launch and implement their product or service, as well as ongoing mentorship and guidance from experts.
Alumni mentors support each team along the way to refine their ideas and solutions and potentially develop the product or service prototype.
Learning sessions for all teams are facilitated by the University through the EbD programme - a ten-week series of workshops focusing on inspiration, creativity, sustainability and commercial awareness - in areas such as how to develop a business plan and financial planning basics.
BUILT is an excellent way to enhance participants’ CV experiences and employability credentials, meeting the job market’s demands for innovative thinking and entrepreneurial mindsets.
Through BUILT and EbD, students develop a range of employability skills, including team-working, creative problem-solving, communication and commercial skills.
Working in a multidisciplinary team helps participants to develop their ability to work with people from different backgrounds and perspectives and the final exhibition and presentation component of the challenge helps to develop public speaking and presentation skills, which are valuable in many careers.
Read about the 2024 awards.
The placement year provides you with a fantastic opportunity to broaden your horizons and develop valuable contacts through working with a self-sourced organisation relevant to your degree subject.
You will be expected to find and arrange a suitable placement to complement your degree, and will be fully supported throughout by a dedicated member of staff at your academic School and the University's Careers and Employability Service.
Previous and current students have worked with a wide variety of placement providers, ranging from private companies to educational organizations, charities, government authorities and non-governmental organizations.Students have been placed on work experience with hosts such as Santander Bank, Siemens Healthineers, Coutts, Venue Cymru, WRU, BBC Cymru, Zip World and Gen2.
Our students who have undertaken a placement year have highlighted how the experience has helped them to develop invaluable networks, confidence and life experience as well as subject knowledge and skills that have boosted their employability.
Please note: The fee for all placement, sandwich and international years is £1,350 (2024 entry).
Our CareerConnect hosts the University's Student Employment Bureau; they advertise the following opportunities:
Students (and Graduates of up to three years) can also use the platform to book careers and business startup guidance appointments, book places on our webinars and workshops, complete informational ‘pathway’ activities, and much more.
To access these opportunities on CareerConnect you need to log in with your student account.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/order-prospectus:
We're proud to be one of the world's leading universities for sustainability.
The Pocket Prospectus is a much smaller publication than our usual prospectus, which means we're significantly reducing our resource consumption while providing the course listings and helpful information you require when making your university choices.
We have a wide range of undergraduate courses on offer and, if you choose to study here, you'll be taught by passionate lecturers who want to see you thrive.
Find out more about studying at Bangor.
A scenic city in north Wales with breath-taking views, Bangor is also a city rich in history with a vibrant community and easy access to major cities.
It offers the best of both worlds - the perfect university location.
Our Open Days are held in the Summer and Autumn and offer the opportunity to find out more about the course and see the campus.
We hope you can visit on one of these dates and can’t wait to welcome you here.
Do you have any questions about life as a student at Bangor?
Our students are on hand to tell you about their experiences.
If you've got any questions about the course, our lecturers will be happy to help.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
Deepen your understanding by continuing your higher-education journey with us
Explore our postgraduate subject areas.
All you need to know about applying for one of our wide range of postgraduate courses.
Learn more about our fees and living costs so that you can plan your budget and apply for finance.
We offer dedicated accommodation for postgraduate students in award-winning student accommodation.
Register for information about postgraduate study and discover what it's like to study here.
Register your interest
There's no better way to learn more about Bangor than to join us on an Open Day or Postgraduate Event.
Learn more about the University and ask any questions you may have.
Book your place
We provide strong support for research activities and have a number of subject related specialist resources.
Learn more
Help fund your studies with one of our many Scholarships, Studentships and Bursaries
Take a look at these options to help you tailor your studies to suit your needs.
If you’re looking for an alternative to full-time study, take a look at our part-time and flexible study options.
You can study part or all of your course through the medium of Welsh giving you better career prospects in Wales.
Join our close-knit supportive community that makes academic exploration exciting and fulfilling.
Join us on one of our Postgraduate Events - it's the best way to learn more about Bangor University and ask any questions you may have.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/apply:
Use the Code B06 to apply for Bangor University online on the UCAS website.
If you're not quite sure how to apply and where to start, we're here to help.
Find out if you are eligible for a contextual offer.
Apply for Postgraduate Taught Courses
Apply for Postgraduate Research Programmes

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentfinance/postgraduate:
When deciding to study a postgraduate degree at Bangor University, it’s important to know about the living and studying costs.
We’ve compiled information to help you learn about tuition fees, living costs, and the wide range of postgraduate bursaries and scholarships options available.
As you would expect from a university that places great emphasis on student support, Bangor is keen to offer extra help to students.
A range of Bursaries and Scholarships are available for new and returning students.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentfinance/postgraduate/funding:
Scholarships, Studentships and Bursaries are funded by the University and our Academic Schools.
In addition, the International Education Centre also supports international students through a range of awards for international students.
Find out more about our University-wide and School specific awards below.
The Price Davies Scholarships (which also incorporates the Price Davies Entrance Scholarships) are provided from the income of a bequest made to the University of Wales in 1900 by the late Mr Price Davies of Leeds.
For scholarships awarded in 2025/26, candidates must be pursuing a scheme of study for a postgraduate research degree in Arts or in Science at Bangor University.
The Price Davies Scholarships are provided from the income of a bequest made to the University of Wales in 1900 by the late Mr Price Davies of Leeds.
Eligibility criteria for Price Davies scholarships awarded in 2025/26
Additional Information
Download the application form
(Y Werin Legacy Fund)
The scholarship offers up to £1,500 to support talented graduates from Welsh Universities with an interest in language, literature, history and antiquities of Wales.
Further information and application
The Llewelyn Williams Postgraduate Studentship enables research in Welsh History, including Welsh laws and economic aspects of Welsh life.
The scholarship offers up to £7,000 to support talented History, Law and Economics graduates with an interest in postgraduate research in a Welsh University.
The scholarship offers up to £2,000 to support talented graduates from Welsh Universities with an interest in Journalism or International Affairs.
Bangor University is a member of the Athena SWAN Gender Equality charter and as such committed to gender equality and diversity, and to creating and promoting an inclusive culture for staff and students at all levels.
The Inclusive Bangor scholarships are to support graduating students in continuing their studies at Bangor - particularly in areas where our student numbers show an underrepresentation of certain groups.
These Scholarships are for a masters degree (taught or by research) in any discipline.
One scholarship per College will be awarded.
What’s included?
Payment towards tuition fees for one-year taught or research postgraduate Masters (or for two years if studying part-time).
This will be capped at £9,500.
For more information please contact: athenaswan@bangor.ac.uk
Further Information
Registered UK students (excluding students from Wales and NHS funded) may be eligible for a Postgraduate Taught Access Bursary .
The bursary is intended for undergraduate students (in the 2023-24 academic year) who progress to a postgraduate taught programme of study at Bangor University in 2024-25.
It is also intended for those that do not already have a postgraduate qualification and are unemployed prior to starting a postgraduate taught programme of study at Bangor University.
A bursary will be awarded to:
Eligibility Criteria
Were you :
Application Process
Students should contact the Money Support Unit for an application form, returning the completed form with evidence of their 2023-24 student finance award, a bursary or welfare benefits award letter.
For more information and to request and application form, contact the Money Support Unit .
Bangor's Sports Scholarship scheme aims to recognise and support sporting excellence and achievement.
The Scholarships, which are worth up to £3,000 a year, aren't limited to any particular sport or to students on any specific courses.
More information
Further information
The Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding Online is all about alternative sources of funding - especially charities - which can make awards (fees, maintenance, research costs) to any student regardless of subject or nationality.
The Alternative Guide Online contains a huge database of funding opportunities, comprehensive guidance, and numerous tools to help you prepare a winning grant application.
To assist our students, Bangor University has purchased a licence to the Guide, and so it’s free for all Bangor students and staff to use!
Login Now!
If you are a prospective student who has applied to Bangor University, please email to get an access PIN.
Masters scholarship on offer from FindAMasters.com.
Available for all subject areas at any university currently listed on FindAMasters.com.
Register now .
PhD scholarship on offer from FindAPhD.com.
Available for all subjects at any university currently listed on FindAPhD.com.
Postgrad Solutions now offer 15 bursaries across a number of subject areas.
Click here to apply.
Bangor University are delighted to offer fully funded Wales Graduate School for the Social Sciences (WGSSS) (ESRC DTP) studentships starting in October 2025 in the following pathway subject areas.
Entry Criteria:
To receive WGSSS studentship funding, you must have qualifications or experience equivalent to an UK honours degree at a first or upper second-class level, or a masters.
Students with non-traditional academic backgrounds are also welcome to apply.
Duration of study:
The duration of study varies from 3.5 to 4.5 years full time (or part time equivalent).
The duration study is dependent on prior research experience and training needs of the student which will be assessed by completing a Development Needs Analysis.
We welcome applications for both full and part-time study.
Research in practice placement: All WGSSS funded students are required to complete a funded Research in Practice placement of 3-months in total (or part-time equivalent).
All students will have the opportunity to complete a placement in academia, policy, business or civil society organisations.
International Eligibility:
WGSSS studentships are available to home and international students.
Up to 30% of our cohort can comprise international students.
International students will not be charged the fee difference between the UK and international rate.
Applicants should satisfy the UKRI eligibility requirements.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion:
WGSSS is committed to supporting and promoting equality and diversity and creating an inclusive environment for all.
We welcome applications from all members of the global community irrespective of age, disability, sex, gender identity, gender reassignment, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy or maternity, race, religion or belief and sexual orientation.
Assessment:
Short-listed applicants will be invited to interview.
As part of the interview process, applicants will be asked to give a short presentation and answer a series of panel questions
How to apply:
Applications should be received no later than 11/12/24 including all required documents.
Due to the volume of applications received, incomplete applications will not be considered.
All applications should be submitted using the following links (please use the correct email address for the pathway being submitted to:
Please include the following documents with your application:
Funding:
The studentship funded by the ESRC covers tuition fees, an annual tax-free living stipend of in line with UKRI minimum rates (currently £19,237) and includes access to a Research Training Support Grant.
If you have a disability, you may be entitled to a Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) on top of your studentship.
See which subject-specific Postgraduate scholarships, studentships and bursaries are offered by the Academic Schools.
The Initial Teacher Education (ITE) Priority Subject Incentive Scheme is a legal scheme made by the Welsh Ministers.
The scheme makes provision for eligible students who undertake a postgraduate ITE programme in specified subjects (priority subjects) to access this incentive.
Under this scheme an incentive grant of £15,000 is available to all students who meet the eligibility criteria.
To be eligible for an ITE priority subject grant, a person must hold a degree qualification of 2.2 or higher and be studying wholly or mainly in one of the following subjects:
Full details
The Iaith Athrawon Yfory Incentive Scheme is an incentive paid to eligible persons who complete an accredited secondary postgraduate ITE programme in Wales that enables them to teach through the medium of Welsh or teach Welsh as a subject.
A total of £5000 for eligible student teachers paid in two instalments:
i.
£2,500 for eligible persons on completion of an eligible secondary postgraduate ITE programme in Wales leading to QTS;
ii.
£2,500 for eligible persons on successful completion of induction at a maintained Welsh-medium or bilingual secondary school or teaching Welsh in any maintained secondary setting in Wales.
The School of Education at Bangor University are delighted to offer fully funded Wales Graduate School for the Social Sciences (WGSSS) (ESRC DTP) studentships starting in October 2024.
Start date: October 2024
Location: Bangor (WGSSS funded students are required to complete a funded Research in Practice placement of 3-months in total).
Open to: UK Students, EU Students, International Students
Funding amount: Fully funded durations of study may vary from - 3.5 to 4.5 years full time (or part time equivalent).
Hours: Full time; Part time
Closing date for applications: Saturday 11 May 2024 (12pm GMT)
MPhil or PhD postgraduate students in the College of Arts, Humanities and Business at Bangor University may be eligible to apply for a travel bursary award during the period of registration in order to attend an academic conference or to make a visit to a relevant academic archive/library.
Each application is assessed on its own merits, and the bursary or bursaries awarded to any single postgraduate will not exceed the sum of £150 in total within any academic year.
All enquiries should be directed to the College postgraduate administrator.
No Scholarships at present
No scholarships at present
Bangor University are delighted to offer fully funded Wales Graduate School for the Social Sciences (WGSSS) (ESRC DTP) studentships starting in October 2024 in the following pathway subject areas.
The duration study is dependent on prior research experience and training needs which will be assessed by completing an Initial Development Needs Analysis (Initial DNA) at the application stage and a Full DNA prior to award if successful.
Durations of study may vary from - 3.5 to 4.5 years full time (or part time equivalent).
This may include:
Research in practice placement:
All WGSSS funded students are required to complete a funded Research in Practice placement of 3-months in total.
To receive WGSSS studentship funding, you must have qualifications or experience equal to an honours degree at a first or upper second-class level, or a masters from a UK academic research organisation.
Schools to include institution specific English language requirements
Eligibility:
Applicants are reminded to submit all relevant documents (transcripts, supporting statement, etc) by the deadline.
As part of the interview process, applicants will be asked to give a short presentation and answer a series of panel questions consistent with previous practice on the pathway during the Wales DTP, and guided by the WGSSS’s commitments on EDI.
Interviews may be held in person, but should also be available through Zoom/Teams for all students who wish to participate in that way.
Applicants can expect to hear the outcome of their interview normally within 3-4 weeks.
Applications should be received no later than 12/1/24 including all required documents.
Bilingualism/Linguistics – bilingwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Psychology – psychwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Sport and Exercise Science – spexwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Criminology and Law – crimwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Sociology/Science and Technology Studies – socwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Data Science, Health and Wellbeing - dshwbwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Education eduwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Social Work, Social Care, and Social Policy – socialworkwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Economics econwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Management and Business businesswgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Environmental Planning envirowgsss@bangor.ac.uk
1) Cover letter (two pages maximum)
The cover letter must include the following bullet points as subheadings:
2) Academic CV (two pages maximum)
3) Research proposal
The proposal should be up to a maximum of 1000 words , not including bibliographic references.
We suggest that you use the following five headings in your research proposal:
4) Two academic or professional references
Candidates must approach referees themselves and include references with their application.
The reference must detail the applicant’s research strengths.
5) Degree certificates and Transcripts (including translations if applicable)
6) If relevant, proof of English Language Competency (see institutional requirements for entry)
The studentship funded by the ESRC covers tuition fees, an annual tax-free living stipend of in line with UKRI minimum rates (currently £18,622) and includes access to a Research Training Support Grant.
The School of Environmental and Natural Sciences at Bangor University are delighted to offer a fully funded Welsh Graduate School for the Social Sciences (ESRC DTP) studentship in the Environmental Planning Pathway starting in October 2025, open to UK and International applicants.
Deadline: 12 noon 5th May 2025 (UK Time).
Project description: Environmentally driven migration will pose an increasing challenge throughout the 21 st Century and will contribute to further environmental change, as migrants move in search of resources, often drawn to forest frontier areas with high value for biodiversity and ecosystem services.
However, rural-rural migration is poorly studied compared to migration to cities and the mechanisms by which migrants impact natural habitats are poorly understood.
Madagascar has suffered severe droughts linked to climate change, leading to significant internal migration, reaching almost every part of the island.
This puts additional pressures on protected areas and on the communities who rely on their natural resources.
Mangabe Protected Area in eastern Madagascar is managed by the Malagasy conservation NGO Madagasikara Voakajy and supported by Chester Zoo’s Global Conservation Programme .
Together, they have identified immigration as one of their most serious challenges.
Therefore, working with partners, the successful applicant will use Mangabe as a model system to explore some of the key questions in rural-rural migration, contributing to both protected area management and theoretical debates.
The PhD will involve periods of field work in Madagascar.
Data collection methods are likely to include quantitative methods, including surveys with immigrants and longer-term residents, choice experiments or experimental games and social network analysis, as well as qualitative approaches including focus groups and semi-structured interviews.
Supervisors
Dr Neal Hockley n.hockley@bangor.ac.uk
Prof Julia Jones julia.jones@bangor.ac.uk
Dr Freya St John f.stjohn@bangor.ac.uk
Bridget Johnson b.johnson@chesterzoo.org
Dr Sarobidy Rakotonia sarobidy.rakotonarivo@gmail.com
This fully funded studentship is part of the ESRC Welsh Graduate School for the Social Sciences and is a collaboration between Bangor University , Chester Zoo , Madagasikara Voakajy and the Mitsilo research lab .
The student will be based in Bangor’s thriving Conservation Science Research Group, part of the Conservation and Restoration of Resilient Ecosystems Research Theme .
PhD start date: 1 st October 2025
Essential Criteria
Desirable Criteria
Location: The post is based at Bangor University, UK, with some time working with partners at Chester Zoo, and will involve field work in Madagascar.
It cannot be undertaken remotely.
Duration of study: The duration of study varies from 3.5 to 4.5 years full time (or part time equivalent).
International Eligibility: WGSSS studentships are available to home and international students.
International candidates should be aware that they may need to cover relocation costs (e.g.
visa and NHS surcharge).
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion: WGSSS is committed to supporting and promoting equality and diversity and creating an inclusive environment for all.
Assessment: Short-listed applicants will be invited to interview.
As part of the interview process, applicants will be asked to prepare a short presentation on a task (which will be communicated with the notification of interview, no later than the 9 th May) and answer a series of panel questions.
Interviews will be conducted during the week commencing 12 th May.
How to apply: Applications should be received no later than 12 noon 5 th May 2025 including all required documents.
All applications should be submitted by email to n.hockley@bangor.ac.uk copying envirowgsss@bangor.ac.uk .
with the subject line “WGSS Madagascar collaborative PhD application”.
Funding: The studentship funded by the ESRC covers tuition fees, an annual tax-free living stipend in line with UKRI minimum rates (currently £20,780) and includes access to a Research Training Support Grant.
No scholarships available ar present
As a UK Top 5, internationally recognised or World leading (REF 2021) research department, we are very keen for research excellence to be rewarded.
We are extremely pleased to offer one successful Postgraduate Researcher financial reward towards presenting their research at an academic conference of their choosing.
The award offers one postgraduate student within the Department of Sport and Exercise Science up to £500 to present their research at an academic conference of their choice.
To be considered for the award, applicants must present their work at the School of Psychology and Sport Science Annual Conference.
The award will be presented to the successful researcher following the Conference close.
The award includes financial support (up to a maximum of £500) towards conference registration, flights, accommodation, and subsistence.
The donor, a professor at the University of San Francisco (USF) since 1997, Professor Howell was the first full-time professor hired into the Sport Management Master's program where he has taught numerous courses that focus on the intersection of sport, culture and commerce.
After graduating from Bangor in 1981 in Physical Education/Educational Studies, he gained an MSc at the University of Washington, Seattle and PhD in the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 1985-1989.
In 2015, Professor Howell was awarded an Honorary Fellowship at Bangor University for services to Sport Science.
* awards marked with an asterisk may not be available every year For any questions about the award, please contact the School of Psychology and Sport Science Director of Postgraduate Research

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/executive-education:
Cutting edge and innovative learning for the global financial services sector
The only qualification in the world combining an MBA and Chartered Banker status
The world's only dual qualification of an MBA and Financial Intelligence Specialist.
Bangor Business School at Bangor University is a leading teaching and research focused business school offering cutting edge and innovative Executive Education to the global financial services sector.
Discover a range of innovative distance learning programmes designed to aid the professional development of company leaders and managers.
Participate in a world-class executive education experience designed specifically for working professionals with the flexibility of studying remotely to fit around work commitments.
Engage with globally renowned faculty and industry experts and network online with your peers.
out of 85 for the Overall measure
Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2023
of all UK universities for research in the field of Banking, 25th globally
RePEc, August 2021
in the UK for Accounting and Finance
Guardian University Guide 2024
A unique dual award qualification of an MBA from Bangor University together with the prestigious Chartered Banker Designation - the highest professional award available to banking professionals worldwide.
Chartered Banker status is awarded by the Chartered Banker Institute, a global professional education body and the only banking institute in the world which can confer this designation.
Learn More About CBMBA
A new dual award qualification for specialists in national security and defence, awarding an MBA from Bangor University, alongside a professional designation of Financial Intelligence Specialist (FIS).
Financial Intelligence Specialist designation is awarded by ManchesterCF, global providers of financial intelligence training.
Learn More About IFMBA
An innovative and relevant dual award qualification, allowing you to gain an MBA from Bangor University together with the professional designation of Financial Intelligence Specialist (FIS).
FIS designation is awarded by ManchesterCF, global providers of financial intelligence training, the FIS designation sets a new standard in the world of financial intelligence.
Learn More About FCCMBA
A standalone professional and academic qualification for banking and financial services professionals who wish to improve their practical understanding of bank management and technology.
This programme is equivalent to 1/3 of an MBA and provides a fast-track learning pathway to the prestigious Chartered Banker qualification.
Learn More About Certbmt
Please click on the link below to download a PDF Version of the CBMBA Brochure:
CBMBA Brochure (PDF)
Please click on the link below to download a PDF Version of the IFMBA Brochure:
IFMBA Brochure (PDF)
Please click on the link below to download a PDF Version of the FCCMBA Brochure:
FCCMBA Brochure (PDF)
The information in the course brochures are correct at the time of publishing and can be used as guidance only.
Module information, course structure and fee information are subject to change per academic year.
Please see course content and cost on the programme webpage for the up-to-date information for this academic year.
Study flexibly and choose modules to suit your own professional development needs.
Single modules can be taken informally for Professional Development or with the option to complete the formal assessment and gain internationally recognised postgraduate credits.
Aimed at mid-career professionals working in the financial industry or regulation.
Entry consideration will be given to individuals with minimal experience or qualifications.
Learn More about Single Module study
Applications are invited for the 2025-26 Autumn Semester for the Executive Education programmes delivered by Bangor Business School.
Further details and requirements on how to apply for each programme can be found through the following links: Chartered Banker MBA , Financial Crime & Compliance MBA , Illicit Finance MBA and Postgraduate Certificate in Bank Management & Technology (CertBMT) .
Apply for an Executive Education Programme
Senior Manager, ScotiaBank Trinidad & Tobago
Chartered Banker MBA Graduate
"There is no better time than the present to invest in yourself and sharpen your financial acumen.
The Chartered Banker MBA is relevant, real life and revolutionary and it's cutting-edge learning is designed to prepare leaders for the future".
OECS Regional Compliance Officer, Unicomer Group, St Lucia
Financial Crime & Compliance MBA Student
"Studying the FCCMBA has enhanced my ability to identify, assess, and mitigate financial crime risks, which is an essential aspect of my role and for safeguarding an organization’s financial health and reputation".
Finance Manager, First National Bank South Africa
Chartered Banker MMBA Graduate
"Fosters innovation, problem-solving, and forward-thinking in banking, addressing industry pressures and the rise of fintech".
Chief Compliance Officer/ MLRO, Plus500, Bahamas
"Studying the Financial Crime & Compliance MBA has challenged me to explore real life scenarios and to delve deeper in analysing the impact of financial crime on all stakeholders.
The ease and flexibility of studying by distance allows me to accomplish my educational goals without missing out on important milestones".
Cluster Manager, NBS Bank Plc, Malawi
"Bangor University is one of the best universities in the world, from registration, communication, modes of deliveries, the materials, the lecturers & general support.
Now I do understand banking business better than before, enabling me to contribute meaningfully to my employer’s strategies as we strive to serve all the stakeholders excellently".
Head of Content, ManchesterCF, Canada
"The Financial Crime & Compliance MBA has broadened my perspective of financial crime threats around the world.
Through their unique experiences and expertise, the knowledgeable and dynamic instructors have provided points of view on this global problem that I had not considered before".
Global Business Partner, Chartered Banker Institute, Scotland
“I found the CBMBA programme particularly beneficial, I learnt about topics pertinent to every organisation – such as marketing, HR, strategy, research methods – providing a holistic view of business.”
Private Banker, Coutts & Co.
London, England
“The Chartered Banker MBA has allowed me to apply both new and existing skills to my work and has opened doors to promotions as well as new career opportunities.
The flexibility to do all learning and exams from home has allowed me to be committed to my work whilst studying.”
Bank Manager, Metro Bank, England
"The CBMBA programme not only enhanced my knowledge which is directly relevant to my role and beyond, but also got the opportunity to network with fellow seasoned financial services professionals globally.”
AVP, Deputy Head of Client Register, Tax & Reporting, Pictet Bank & Trust Limited, Bahamas
"I thoroughly enjoyed Bangor University’s CBMBA Programme.
From admission to graduation, the professionalism and support consistently exhibited by the University made the journey a memorable one.
Without the slightest hesitation, I highly recommend the programme to anyone seeking to further develop their knowledgebase and enhance their critical thinking ability.
Innovative, Stimulating and Relevant.”
CEO of Judo Bank, Australia
"As a financial professional you never stop learning & being well qualified is fundamental"
Compliance Manager, Cloud Carib Limited
“In an ever-changing global market, the diverse, pragmatic and challenging courses found in the Chartered Banker MBA programme equips its students to adequately meet the demands of today and think constructively to build a better tomorrow.”
Project Manager/Consultant, Bahamas Investment Authority
"Studying the Chartered Banker MBA allowed me to view the industry through a different, more knowledgeable lens.
Studying by distance was convenient with access to the educational portal at any time, along with the reliability and availability of technical and human support available".
Compliance Analyst, CG Atlantic Group, Bahamas
"The CBMBA programme was balanced, relevant and comprehensive.
It challenged me to grow as a Financial Services Professional and has enhanced my knowledge of the industry.
"
Senior Branch Manager, First National Bank of Botswana
"I have benefitted immensely from the rich and extensive offerings of the Chartered Banker MBA.
The program enhance my understanding of banking and the challenges faced by the financial services sector as a whole, and fine tuned my grasp of issues of  financial risk and compliance across the globe.
I strongly recommend it to anyone who is interested in acquiring a solid command of banking and finance."
Senior Project Manager, Tesco Bank
“Studying for the Chartered Banker MBA Programme was more than an amazing experience.
It provides you with top quality professors, subject matter experts, access to unlimited academic resources and coverage of themes that are uniquely combined worldwide.”
Team Lead- Restructure Project, JN Bank
"The CBMBA Programme has added significantly to my growth, knowledge and experience in the financial services industry.
During my studies I was able to have a great balance between work and school.
I was guided and taught by experienced professionals who ensured there was a full grasp of each module via Live, Pre- recorded and revision sessions.
The Bangor team was very responsive and helpful throughout the programme and ensured relevant notifications were disseminated timely."
Deputy Manager, Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation
"Having worked for over 17 years in the Banking industry, I must say that I found this program to be extremely rich in content.
The insight I have gained through interactive and practical case study sessions, as well as the opportunity to learn from very experienced and diverse experts in the field, are undoubtedly invaluable.
I strongly recommend this program to anyone who wants to build a career in the Banking industry."
Managing Director of International Financial Services, Berkeley Research Group
“I have found the experience and learning from the Chartered Banker MBA to be a significant benefit in my dealings with financial institutions, not just in the UK but also all over the world.”
Legal Officer, Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation
“The CBMBA has broadened my knowledge and given me insights into the significance of business administration.
The flexibility of the programme and responsiveness of the team was amazing.”
Acting Ebusiness Assistant Manager, JN Bank Jamaica
"Studying the CBMBA has greatly enhanced my employability by improving my personal & professional development.
I would wholeheartedly recommend the programme to anyone seeking to enrich their skills especially in the financial services industry."
Director, Corporate and Commercial Banking, NatWest Bank
"The Chartered Banker MBA was an engaging and interactive learning experience that equipped me for the ever-changing financial services landscape.
I would highly recommend to any banking professional looking for that added USP in today’s world."
Contact the Executive Education team with any questions you may have before you get started:
Email: executiveeducation@bangor.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0) 1248 38 38 00
WhatsApp: +44 (0) 7599 65 79 33
Address: Executive Education, Bangor Business School, Bangor University, Bangor, Gwynedd, UK, LL57 2DG

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/january:
Our January start courses have the same course content, academic quality, teaching, learning and assessments as our regular September start courses – providing you with another opportunity to start your studies with us here in Bangor.
The following courses are available with January Start dates.
Some of our January start courses offer options for international students to develop their skills, including English language skills.
If you are an international student, please visit the January start pages within the International Education Centre website.
International Education Centre
If you’re a Home/EU student then the following information is applicable to you:
For all January Start courses please apply online here to make your application.
We may be able to offer accommodation to students beginning their study in January, please view our postgraduate accommodation.
The Student Housing Office can also help you find private accommodation.
The fee structure for a January start will follow that of the current academic year.
Then visit our postgraduate Already Applied site and join our Facebook group.
Post questions, ask/provide advice, network with those who will become your friends and peers.
Discuss and enjoy!
Join us on an Open Day.
We’re happy to help you find out everything you need before making your final decision.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/short-courses-and-cpd:
Enhance your skills, explore new subjects, or take the next step in your career with Bangor University’s flexible short courses and CPD.
Whether you’re looking for a bite-sized learning experience, a professional qualification, or a stepping stone to a degree, we offer a range of opportunities designed to fit around your commitments.
Whether you're an individual learner or a business looking to invest in staff development, we’re here to help.
Explore our courses below or book a meeting to discuss bespoke training opportunities.
Why Choose Bangor University?
What We Offer
📧 Email our Short Courses team 📅 Book a Meeting
Welcome to Bangor University, where lifelong and life wide education meets flexibility and excellence.
Are you ready to enhance your skills, boost your employability or simply learn something new?
Our short courses and professional development programs are designed to work around your busy lifestyle,
offering you the chance to learn at your own pace and on your own terms.
With a wide range of subjects available both on campus and online.
You'll find the course that's perfect for your needs.
Join the community of motivated learners and benefit from our experts tutors.
Visit our websites today and start your journey with us at Bangor University.
Bangor Business School’s Executive Education offer a range of innovative distance learning programmes.
All modules on the Chartered Banker MBA and Financial Crime & Compliance MBA are available to study as a standalone module.
Aimed at mid-career professionals working in the financial services industry or regulation.
Postgraduate Credit Bearing Modules
Accelerating Expertise
Coaching Dyad
Individual Performance Psychology
performing under pressure
PSYCHOLOGICAL SKILLS TRAINING
PSYCHOLOGY OF TEAM PERFORMANCE
Talent Development
Understanding Personality
no courses at the moment.
Advanced Research and Enquiry Skills
Collaborative and professional Practice
Exploring pedagogies
Evidence-informed practice
Emotional Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing
Inclusive classroom practice
Leading Organisational Change
Modern Families
Pedagogy and Practice
Sustainable Leadership in Education - 1.
Making the Change
Sustainable Leadership in Education – 2.
Implementing the Plan
Post-registration CPD for professionals
HEALTH EQUITY AND HUMAN RIGHTs (Academy for Health Equity, Prevention and Wellbeing
HEALTHY BEHAVIOUR CHANGE (Academy for Health Equity, Prevention and Wellbeing)
MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLBEING
Infection Prevention 1
Infection Prevention 2
Independent Authorisation Of Blood Component Transfusion
An introduction to iSupport for Young People - Supporting young people who live in a family affected by dementia
MOOC IN INFECTION PREVENTION BEST PRACTICE AND BEHAVIOURS
PHYSIOTHERAPY CLINICAL EDUCATION CPD COURSE
Writing for publication for health and care practitioners
ACTIVE WORKPLACE CHAMPION TRAINING
The Norman Conquest and Norman Britain, 1066–1087
Languages for All offers a range of evening classes in Three languages:
French
Spanish
Chinese (Mandarin)
These 10-week language courses are designed to cater for a variety of levels - from beginners to learners who may want to brush up rusty language skills and/or continue from GCSE/A-level studies.
Language learning is both enjoyable and challenging, and will encourage you to broaden your horizons, open doors to other cultures and widen your social circle.
The classes are designed to cater for a variety of levels - from absolute beginners (A1) to advanced learners (B1) seeking to develop their language skills.
Find out more about the different levels here.The modules will be in audit mode only – that means there will be no formal assessment of the module and no credits will be awarded on completion of the module.
*Courses run subject to minimum numbers.
Some courses are very popular - in cases where courses are over-subscribed, we will operate enrolment on a first-come-first-served basis.
The minimum age is 18.
MA MEDICAL AND HEALTH PROFESSIONS EDUCATION
PGCert MEDICAL AND HEALTH PROFESSIONS EDUCATION
ASSESSMENT IN MEDICAL AND HEALTH PROFESSIONS EDUCATION
CONTEMPORARY APPROACHES TO Medical and health Professions education
Curriculum in Medical and Health Professions Education
Pharmacogenomics and Stratified Healthcare
Foundations of UK Policing: History, Specialisms, and Homicide
MA Mindfulness based approaches
MA teaching Mindfulness-based courses
MSc Counselling
MSc Neuroimaging
PGDip counselling Children and Young People (4-18 years)
Accelerating Expertise (micro-credential)
Coaching Dyad (micro-credential)
Introduction to Neuroimaging
Introduction to Neuroimaging Analysis
Individual Performance Psychology (micro-credential)
performing under pressure (micro-credential)
PSYCHOLOGICAL SKILLS TRAINING (micro-credential)
PSYCHOLOGY OF TEAM PERFORMANCE (micro-credential)
Talent Development (micro-credential)
Understanding Personality (micro-credential)
Competency Assessment: Mindfulness facilitation
Learning Rounds - Neuropsychiatric Rehabilitation Case Conference.
Inner Change Works: Empowering Resilience and Responsivity for Leaders and Change makers
Mindful Self-Care at Work: A Six-Week Programme
The Principles and Methodology in the Teaching of Learners with SpLD (Dyslexia)
Visceral Mind (Summer school)
Discover the human mind: Webinar series
Whether you're a complete beginner or looking to develop your Welsh language skills further , Bangor University offers a structured and effective programme designed to support adult learners at every stage.
To register go to learnwelsh.cymru and follow the ‘find a course’ link.
Contact us for more information: 01248 383928 / dysgucymraeg@bangor.ac.uk
⏰ 5 Weeks Flexible
💻 100% Online
⏰ 12 Weeks
⏰ 5 weeks flexible
⏰12 weeks

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research:
Practice your research skills surrounded by peers and professors who share your passion
Explore our postgraduate research subject areas.
There's no better way to learn more about Bangor than to join us at an on-campus or virtual Open Day or Postgraduate Event.
The Doctoral School is there to give guidance and to enhance your experience as a postgraduate research (PGR) candidate at Bangor.
Information for PGR candidates
Our cutting-edge research breathes freshness into our ever-changing curriculum and helps advance our collective understanding of the world around us.
Learn more about our research
Join our close-knit supportive community that makes academic exploration exciting and fulfilling.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/apply:
There are several different ways of applying for our postgraduate courses.
You can apply online for most of our postgraduate degree programmes.
Choose the option below that’s relevant to the course you want to study.
You can apply online for all postgraduate taught programmes and postgraduate research programmes at the University (with the exception of the PGCE, Diploma in Occupational Therapy and DClinPsy).
Home/EU students : apply online yourself with the help of our Guidance Notes on online application for Home/EU students.
We strongly recommend you read these before you start to apply online.
Apply online
Need help applying?
Home/EU students please contact:
Postgraduate Admissions:
postgraduate@bangor.ac.uk
Admissions Office Bangor University Gwynedd LL57 2TF
+44 (0)1248 383717.
More information about how to apply as an international student can be found here.
International Education Office:
international@bangor.ac.uk
International Education Centre Bangor University Gwynedd LL57 2DG
+44 (0) 1248 382028
These courses have a different application route.
Applications for research degrees differ substantially from applications for taught courses such as Masters degrees.
Although the application form is the same, the way in which you approach your application can make all the difference.
As with all of our courses, you can apply to fund yourself through a PhD/Mphil at Bangor, or you may already have sourced external funding (e.g.
from your employer or government), and we warmly welcome all expressions of interest in so doing.
However, rather than simply filling in an application form, there are a few steps that you can take in order that your application stands a greater chance of being successful.
All PhD/Mphil students require supervision from at least one academic member of staff at the University, and if you are considering a PhD/Mphil, you will already have a good idea of the specific area or theme that you want to research.
In order to ascertain that we hold sufficient expertise in your chosen topic to provide supervision, you should first look at our staff pages.
This will provide you with a breakdown of each staff member’s area of academic focus.
Once you have found a member of staff whose research interests broadly accord with your own, you should contact them directly with a concise research ‘brief’ that outlines your proposal and ask whether s/he would consider supervising your project.
If the academic expresses his/her interest, you may then further discuss your ideas and develop a full PhD/Mphil research proposal.
At this stage, you should formally apply online for the PhD/Mphil programme.
You should fill the form out thoroughly, including academic references, your research proposal and the name of the academic member of staff under whose supervision you intend the research to be conducted.
A good research proposal is essential if you are applying for a PhD or MPhil.
The proposal should include:
More advice about preparing a research proposal
Funded PhD studentship opportunities arise frequently throughout the year, and are advertised as specific opportunities for which you must formally apply.
The application process for funded PhD studentships may differ according to the academic School in which the studentship opportunity is held, so please check the relevant School’s homepage and follow the application advice therein.
If you are unsure of any part of the application process, please contact the individual School for advice, or e-mail postgraduatestudy@bangor.ac.uk .
View our latest postgraduate studentships
You can check the status of your application by logging into our Bangor Direct Applications system .
If you have any difficulties with the on-line system or if you have any questions about your application, please contact us at:
Admissions Office:
+44 (0)1248 383717
International Admissions Office
Please contact your country manager .
Want to know what happens next?
Find out more about fees and finance, accommodation, our stunning location and any important information that you need to know about.
Applicants Hub

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/ds:
We are an interdisciplinary and integrated research community with postgraduate researchers and their development at its heart, promoting equality of opportunities and a healthy work- life balance.
We are your first step to academic excellence.
The main purpose of the Doctoral School is to enhance your experience as a postgraduate research (PGR) candidate at Bangor, and to ensure that you fulfil your full potential.
As part of this mission, we also provide support and training for supervisory staff.
More from the Dean of Postgraduate Research
Find out more about the routes by which you can access postgraduate research programmes, whatever the discipline you choose.
Developing and supporting an interdisciplinary and integrated postgraduate research community, with postgraduate researchers as its nucleus, while promoting equality of opportunities and a healthy work-life balance.
Essential information and guidance for supervisors on policies, processes and regulations to support your PGR candidates.
A significant proportion of the UK Research Councils' funding for postgraduate research studentships is now awarded to institutions via Centres for Doctoral Training (also known as DTC or CDT) and Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTP).
Our Newsletter will appear each semester, and provide you with updates about training available, any opportunities to apply for funding or other enhancements to your experience, and to celebrate your successes by showcasing your research.
The Doctoral School Newsletter
See the latest tweets from the Doctoral School.
Bangor University, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG, UK.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-life/social:
At Bangor, you’re close to your friends and close to the action.
If you ask someone what’s good about being a student at Bangor, one of the most popular answers is that when you walk down the street you always bump into someone you know.
Being surrounded by friends is what makes Bangor such a special place to study, and our size and friendly nature mean our students tend to settle-in quickly.
Much of your social life at University will revolve around the Students’ Union, which provides services, support, activities and entertainment for students.
What does life look like at Bangor?
Let us show you.
Whatever you study at Bangor, the time and dedication you receive from your lectures is amazing.
I feel like a name and not a number.
The majority of my course is taught via lectures and seminars in modern lecture halls like this one.
I spend a lot of time in the labs.
The facilities are amazing.
It really helps me gain hands on experience of real life topics.
I do lots of independent study.
Could you imagine a more beautiful library?
There’s also time to relax.
The SU provides so many opportunities
whether that's taking part in sports,
joining one of the many societies on offer,
or making a difference to your community with volunteering projects like this one.
The sense of community on campus is amazing.
I live in Uni halls and tonight is games night.
I live at home and travel into Bangor, but I am still a part of the Bangor student experience, whether that's enjoying a quick cuppa between lectures or catching up with study in one of our social learning spaces.
I love going to Campus Life events.
There's something almost every night.
My favourite is going on trips.
There are lots of opportunities to improve your employability.
I'm currently gaining some hands-on experience at Undeb Bangor.
I took a year studying abroad in both Belgium and Italy and I gained a new perspective on life.
We love spending time in these forests, that's why we ride mountain bikes.
If you're struggling, the student support and wellbeing service means there's always someone to talk to.
If you're looking to walk alongside your studies, there are a lot of opportunities in Bangor.
I'm a student ambassador , which means I get paid to work at events like Open Days and even create content for the university.
Bangor already feels like home.
It's such a welcoming community and it's so easy to make friends.
I love being able to enjoy film, music and arts in one of the most vibrant student communities in the country.
What will your university experience look like?
A student walks across the screen with the Pontio mural in the background.
A montage of life at Bangor, including aerial footage of the Main Arts Building with the Menai Strait behind it.
Mountain bikers speed down a track in Braichmelyn, one zooming past the camera.
Three students walk up the Pontio staircase, chatting.
Two students sit laughing.
The camera focuses on one of their faces.
Five students on a beach in Anglesey, one taking a selfie while the others smile in the sunshine.
Three students chat and lean against the railing on the pier.
Two students embrace while looking directly into the camera.
A student walks through the Shankland Library as sunlight casts golden shadows.
A student stands in PL5, a modern 450-seat lecture theatre.
They talk to the camera, then turn to reveal the full space.
In the Ocean Sciences lab, a student in a white lab coat looks into a tank of marine animals, then lifts their head to speak to the camera.
Another student, also in a white lab coat, holds a starfish and turns to the camera, while a third student observes the sharks and takes notes.
A student leans against a bookshelf in Shankland Library, reading, then turns to speak to the camera.
Still holding the book, the student walks down the library corridor, glancing up at the windows.
In Y Lolfa, a student lounges on a sofa, listening to music with wireless ear pods before removing them to speak to the camera.
On the 3G pitch, a men’s football team plays.
A player wearing number 4 receives the ball and passes it on.
Students from the music society play the trumpet.
A student volunteer stands in the Students’ Union sensory room, with a child and another volunteer watching the sensory lights.
In a student kitchen, a group plays cards and laughs.
One student at the end of the table turns to speak to the camera.
A student closes the passenger door of a blue car, then walks toward the camera.
A student sits in the Pontio café, holding a cup.
In a yellow booth in a Social Learning Space, a student types on a laptop.
A student stands in front of a door with the Campus Life logo on the window.
Behind a desk at the Students’ Union, a student works on their placement.
Aerial footage of a city in Belgium, with a cathedral as the focal point.
A close-up of gondolas in Venice, with St.
Mark’s Square in the background.
Two images of a student studying abroad—one in Belgium, the other in Venice.
Mountain bikers race down a trail.
One stops in front of the camera to speak.
A student sits on a grey sofa, talking to the camera.
The camera zooms out as they smile and start chatting with someone else.
A student stands on the second floor of Pontio, with the café behind them.
Two Student Ambassadors in red t-shirts give a thumbs-up.
A student records themselves on their phone and makes a peace sign.
Students sit on sofas in Bar Uno, chatting over coffee.
A student stands in front of the cinema sign in Pontio.
In the cinema, students eat snacks and laugh.
A student sits on a terrace wall, looking directly into the camera.
Bangor University logo
There are plenty of bars, cafés and restaurants in and around Bangor, with many places on the University campus.
Bar Uno at Ffriddoedd Village is open until late and serves food, drink and Starbucks coffee.
At St Mary’s Village, Barlows is a great place to meet up with friends.
It offers a choice of food and drink options, including Starbucks coffee as well as a range of essential grocery items.
Academi is Bangor’s student club.
As well as the club, Academi has two bars, a café and a shop.
The Pontio centre is a social hub for students as well as a centre for learning, innovation and the performing arts.
Inside you’ll find a cinema and theatre as well as a bar and café.
The Students’ Union is on the third floor and there are lecture theatres and social learning spaces throughout.
The Students' Union runs events throughout the year, giving you opportunities to meet other students and get involved with clubs, societies and volunteering opportunities.
Campus Life run events especially for students living in University halls of residence.
Take a break from your studies, meet new people and take part in activities you already enjoy, or why not try your hand at something different!
The International Student Support Office runs a social programme that includes free events as well as trips around the local area and further afield.
Although the programme designed with international students in mind, it is open to all students.
There is also a One World Gala concert held every year that celebrates the many nationalities of our students.
There's so much to see in and around Bangor.
We have beaches, mountains, rivers and lakes on our doorstep.
Pontio is a student hub.
Here you'll find lecture theatres, social spaces, a theatre, cinema, bar and cafês.
Campus Life is a free programme of events for students living in University accommodation.
Clubs and societies play a huge part in our students’ social lives.
The Students’ Union has an extensive range of different ones you can sign up to.
There’s a wide variety on offer, from sports such as football, netball, rugby and tennis to more unusual activities like underwater hockey and quidditch.
Our location, close to beaches, mountains, lakes and rivers means that students can get involved with outdoor adventure clubs like surf, kayaking, mountain walking and windsurf.
But we’re not just about adrenaline, you can also sign-up for societies such as drama, photography, gaming and even dog walking.
The University’s sport centre, Canolfan Brailsford, has a large gym, fitness studios, sports halls, courts, pitches a climbing wall and much more.
There is a fitness room and multi games area at St Mary’s Village and outdoor playing fields at Treborth.
Within Bangor, there is a swimming pool, close to the city centre.
You can also take part in a wide range of oudoor sports.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-life/sport:
You'll be spoilt for choice with all the opportunities we have to offer.
You can get involved with a huge variety of sports.
Our Students' Union has a wide range of sports teams and clubs which you can join, including traditional sports such as football, rugby and tennis as well as more unusual activities such as quidditch, underwater hockey and ultimate frisbee.
We also have excellent fitness facilities on campus, and of course our location means that you can spend time outdoors climbing mountains, paddle boarding, kayaking, surfing and much more.
Canolfan Brailsford , the University's sport and leisure centre, is located at the heart of the main student accommodation site at Ffriddoedd.
Facilities include two main sports halls, three well-equipped gyms, a gymnastics hall, a multi-route climbing wall with ascents varying in difficulty.
Outdoor facilities include grass pitches for football, rugby and American football, a floodlit synthetic pitch for hockey games and training, a shared athletics track and multi-purpose facilities for tennis, five-a-side football and netball.
Facilities at Treborth, which is located next to the Menai Suspension Bridge, include football, rugby and American Football pitches and an eight-lane athletics track.
A Fitness Room is available to students living at St Mary's Village.
The state of the art equipment supplied by LifeFitness includes treadmills, cross trainers, bikes, a water rower as well as a range of resistance machines.
For all students living in University Halls of Residence, gym and Campus Life membership are included.
If you are already interested in outdoor pursuits you will be spoilt for choice by the huge range of sports available on your doorstep.
Snowdonia is the adventure capital of the UK with a high concentration of opportunities, from exceptional rock climbing to scrambling and hill walking to an abundance of water sports including, canoeing, kayaking, surfing, sailing and sea kayaking.
In Bangor itself there is a 25-metre swimming pool with 1m, 3m & 5m diving boards.
Other popular attractions in the area include Zip World Snowdonia in Bethesda and Blaenau Ffestiniog, the Llandudno ski slope and snowboarding centre, Surflines Outdoor and Water sports centre in Llanberis, the National Mountaineering Centre at Capel Curig and the National Water sports centre at Plas Menai and Surf Snowdonia, a watersports park and artificial surfing lagoon in the Conwy Valley.
The University supports students with sporting ability by offering a number of sports scholarships worth up to £3,000 a year.The awards aim to develop sporting potential and are open to students studying for any degree.
Visit our scholarships and bursaries pages for more information.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/bangortv:
Watch our videos and vlogs to get a taste of Bangor University.
Watch our videos to see what makes Bangor an extraordinary place to study.
Are you ready for Bangor?
Take a look at our videos to get to know the University and students and see why Bangor could be the place for you.
Watch our collection of videos on hot topics such as Plastic Pollution, VR Technology and popular culture.
Find out about the exciting opportunities that await you at Bangor University.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/welcome-to-bangor:
All the information you need to successfully start your journey at Bangor University
This Welcome website will help you on your way to starting your journey as a Bangor student.
It will direct you to all the essential information you will need as you settle into your life as a student.
Our Welcome Week is the ideal introduction to University life.
It gives you the chance to make new friends and meet academic staff as well as finalise your modules, and find your way around before you start your studies.
Our Peer Guides are specially trained second and third year students who are on hand to help you to settle in.
Look out for them in their brightly coloured shirts - they will be out in force greeting new arrivals and encouraging everyone to join in all the activities.
If you're a new student arriving to Bangor, here's a short checklist of what you should be doing next to make sure you are Bangor Ready!
Be Bangor ready in just 10 steps.
Prepare to explore the extraordinary.
Here you'll find all the Welcome Week information you'll need as an undergraduate student.
Everything a postgraduate student needs to know about Welcome Week.
Studying at our Wrexham Campus?
Here's everything that you need to know.
Our interactive campus map will show you how to get from Academi to Canolfan Brailsford, from the Main University Building to Pontio, and everywhere in-between.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-life/support:
We want to help you thrive in all aspects of your time here.
From Welcome Week onwards, you'll be given as much help and support as possible with health and welfare matters as well as your academic work.
The Peer Guide scheme and the Personal Tutor system mean that there is always another student or academic member of staff that you can turn to.
Every student is assigned a Personal Tutor, who is a member of staff in your academic school.
Student Services and Administration provide a professional support service for students.
The services offered include money advice, health and welfare support, advice on private housing, dyslexia support and counselling.
There is also a dedicated Disability team to provide advice and guidance on a range of disability-related matters.
The University's Teaching and Learning Support Team offers one to one appointments, workshops and learning resources to help develop the skills needed to succeed at university.
The Centre offers help with academic writing, maths and statistics, presentations, reading and research.
Our Student Services Centre provides a wide range of support, from before you arrive and throughout your studies.
Visit their website for more information.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international/exchanges/outgoing:
Studying or working abroad during your degree is the opportunity of a lifetime.
Study and work abroad programmes give you the opportunity to really enhance your study experience.
If you are interested in any opportunites listed on the web pages, please discuss your eligibility to study or work abroad firstly with the international co-ordinator in your academic school.
Spending time in another country is an opportunity to:
Your options depend on your current degree programme.
Undergraduate students can normally go abroad for a full year, a short period over the summer or, in limited cases, just a semester.
Click on Study/Work Abroad options below to see more information about study and work abroad opportunities.
Please also come along to one of the information sessions about study and work abroad opportunities, where we will run through your options and talk about destinations, finance and the application process.
You will also have the opportunity to ask questions to the International Exchanges Coordinator.
All students are welcome to attend, however, please be advised that most of our programmes are currently only available to undergraduate students.
Assistance
During Your Degree

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-ambassadors:
Are you passionate about your university and Higher Education?
Do you love meeting new people and sharing your experiences?
If so, then you should consider becoming a Student Ambassador!
Being a Student Ambassador is a varied role that offers many opportunities for you to develop your leadership, team building and communication skills.
This will enhance your CV and employability as a graduate.
Student Ambassadors are employed on a casual contract basis and are offered a wide range of paid opportunities throughout the academic year.
You will work alongside Student Ambassadors who study on different courses and who are in different years of study to yourself.
As a Student Ambassador you will build connections and collaborate with a wide range of university and educational staff.
You will talk with prospective students and their families about studying at Bangor University.
As a Student Ambassador, you will have a key role in the recruitment process as you help prospective students find their perfect fit.
Student Ambassadors will represent Bangor University to help deliver recruitment events both on and off campus.
Read the full specifications for the post below.
Applications are invited for the role of Student Ambassador on a casual contract basis.
Qualifications/Training
Essential
Experience/Knowledge
Desirable
Skills/Abilities
The University is committed to supporting and promoting equality and diversity and to creating an inclusive working environment.
We believe this can be achieved through attracting, developing, and retaining a diverse range of staff from many different backgrounds.
We strive to develop a workforce from all sections of the community regardless of sex, gender identity, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation, trans identity, relationship status, religion or belief, caring responsibilities, or age.
We promote and facilitate the use of the Welsh language through our progressive Welsh Language Policy.
We comply with the Welsh Language Standards and are committed to equality of opportunity.
You are welcome to apply for any job in English or Welsh and all applications submitted will be treated equally.
We are a member of Advance HE's Athena SWAN Gender Equality charter and hold a Bronze award in recognition of our commitment to and progress towards gender equality within the University's policies, practices, and culture.
We are proud to be a Disability Confident employer.
All members of staff have a duty to ensure their actions are in line with the overall environmental aims of the University and minimise their environmental impact.
All offers are made subject to proof of eligibility to work in the UK and receipt of satisfactory references.
We have a legal responsibility to ensure that you have the right to work in the UK before you can start working for us.
When you apply for this post you will be required to explain the basis upon which you believe you will able to live and work in the UK legally on the commencement date of the role should your application be successful.
If you do not have the right to work freely in any position in the UK already, any offer of employment we will make to you will be subject to you obtaining a right to work visa.
This link provides information on the various visa routes into employment and the eligibility requirements (including switching visa status where permissible).
If you are successful in your application we will discuss visa options with you at the time of making the offer of employment.
Please note that, in the event of applications being received from candidates on the University's Redeployment Register with a reasonable skills match to the post specification, these applicants will be given prior consideration.
If you would like to represent Bangor University by becoming a Student Ambassador and be a part of recruitment events and activities, please register your interest on the form below.
REGISTER YOUR INTEREST
Once you have registered your interest, a member of our team will contact you once applications for the scheme are live.
Please contact the team if you have further questions.
Contact us
By completing this form you agree to be contacted by Bangor University with further information about the Student Ambassador Scheme.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-life/news-videos:
Learn more about the University and its location and find out what our students think about their time at Bangor.
Get Ready for University with our student vloggers.
Watch advice videos, see what a typical week is like for a student and start preparing for university life.
Our alumni are forging successful careers all over the world.
See what they have to say about how their time at Bangor has helped them on their path.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/get-ready-for-university:
Our university experts will help you prepare for student life.
Getting ready for university can be a little overwhelming at times, so we've teamed up with our students and experts to help you along the way.
We’ll help you get started on how to do your research and find the right university for you.
The application process, the UCAS form and the UCAS Personal Statement
From classrooms to lectures and from teachers to tutors.
What happens when you get your results?
Did you secure your place?
What is Clearing?
You'll be given as much help and support as possible while studying here.
Not sure what all this means?
Have a look at our FAQs
As well as attending on-campus open days, you may also be connecting with universities online.
See how you can make the most of the web, apps and social media to research your university options.
When you start university, you’ll probably be leaving home for the first time so finding the right place to live can make a real difference.
Living in university owned halls of residence is a great way to meet new people who are in the same position as you.
You’ll make friends, socialize and there’s a really great support network to help you settle in.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international:
Nearly 2,000 international students from 126 countries choose to study at Bangor University.
Founded in 1884, dedicated to academic excellence for more than 140 years, Bangor University is one of the most  prestigious degree awarding institutions in the UK.
About Us
Overall Excellent Rating
QS Star Rating System
UK University
The Times & The Sunday Times Good University guide 2024
in the UK for Student Accommodation
WhatUni 2024
in the UK for Lecturers and Teaching Quality
UK University for Personal Tutors
StudentCrowd University Awards 2024
UK University for Teaching Quality
The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide, 2024
of Bangor University's research is world-leading or internationally excellent
REF 2021
Situated on the North Wales coast, Bangor is well connected and easy to reach from any part of the UK.
Manchester Airport is only a two-hour train journey away and London is less than four hours away by train.
Everyone in Bangor has been very supportive, welcoming and friendly from the international student support team to lecturers and tutors.
Select from a range of Undergraduate, Postgraduate and Research degrees.
The University also offers Pre-sessional, Pre-Masters and English Language courses.
Ask us a question
No Application Fee.
International students can apply directly to us, either by themselves or with the help of our authorised Agents.
Guaranteed accommodation for all international students provided the application is made before the deadline.
We provide a wide range of resources to help you achieve your career ambitions
Advice and guidance on a range of welfare related matters for all international students and their families
Guidance about what to do next after submitting your application to us
Our International Student Support Office provides free guidance to all international students about any problems or concerns regarding student life, visa, family, accommodation, and general well-being matters.
Too far away to make it to campus?
Never fear.
We've got plenty of options to help you decide if Bangor University is the right place for you.
Our Country Managers regularly travel to meet with prospective students to answer your questions.
Experience life on campus anytime, anywhere.
Take a look around and see for yourself!
Bangor University Rathbone Building College Road Bangor Gwynedd LL57 2DF
Email: international@bangor.ac.uk Tel: +44 1248 388633
Oswalds Building Bangor University Bangor Gwynedd LL57 2EN United Kingdom
E-mail: buic@bangor.ac.uk Tel: +44 1248 383785 Enquiry Form
2 Emuhi Road off Airport Road Warri Delta State Nigeria
Contact Name: Jerry Djebah Email: nigeriaoffice@bangor.ac.uk Tel: +234 9048534577

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international/about:
We offer the highest quality teaching, excellent student support and a breathtaking location, there are so many reasons to choose Bangor University for your studies.
Best University in Wales
StudentCrowd Best University in Wales League Table 2025
UK University of the Year
University in the World
Times Higher World University Rankings 2025
UK University for Course Content
in the UK for Teaching Quality
The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024
Global Rating for Employability
of our graduates progressed to employment or further study within six months of graduation
DLHE 2021
UK University for Career Prospects
Students are provided with a variety of options for work experience - either within the degree, through University internships or by volunteering.
Some degrees are run in partnership with the industry such as Teacher Training, Nursing and Social Work.
To help develop students' careers, many of the degrees are accredited by professional bodies of global repute, such as IBMS, ACCA, CIMA, CIM, BCS, BPS, IET, ICF, SRA, and NMC.
Find out more about our Careers & Employability Services
in the UK for Value for Money
in scholarships available for international students
Bangor University
Find out more about our Scholarships opportunities .
6th Safest overall UK University - Unifresher’s Alternative University League Table
*Please note our September intake offers all undergraduate and postgraduate courses, and our January and May intakes offer a selected number of postgraduate courses only.
Bangor University, UK
Bangor is situated on the North Wales coast and is easy to reach from any part of the UK.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international/city-and-surroundings:
How to reach us
Explore and Book
View our Virtual Student Experience
I think Bangor University and its surroundings are too beautiful.
I went to the pier, the beach, Snowdonia Mountain, the main building of Bangor University, and the surrounding castles.
The scenery was spectacular.
A cathedral city, Bangor is set between the Snowdonia Mountains and the sea, and is a beautiful place to study.
With miles of beautiful coastline and the nearby Snowdonia National Park, the area boasts some of the most spectacular scenery in the country.
Snowdon; England and Wales' highest mountain is only a half hour journey from Bangor.
Bangor is a compact city; university buildings, accommodation buildings and the city centre are all within a safe walking distance, so there is no need to rely on a bus or train to travel to the university if you're based in Bangor meaning you'll save money on travel costs.
Students who wish to travel within or outside Bangor can purchase an Arriva Student Saver ticket which offers unbeatable savings (up to 30% savings on bus fares).
Find out more...
The cost of living is lower than in larger city universities.
Accommodation costs are much lower and with no need to pay for public transport - students can save up to 50% on living costs.
Bangor is ranked amongst the top 5 University cities in the UK in terms of cost of living (accommodation, food etc).
Bangor is not an industrialised city, pollution levels are low, so it's a clean and healthy place to live.
More details about the Cost of Living here.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international/support:
Bangor University Welcomes International Students
The International Student Support Office is here to help you get the best out of Bangor.
We can provide advice and guidance on a range of welfare related matters to all international students and their families.
Support is available to you from acceptance to graduation and beyond.
View the links to your right and below for information that will be of use and of interest to you during your stay in Bangor.
Students can contact the Service by email: internationalsupport@bangor.ac.uk , or telephone: 01248 382882/388070.
Staff will be available from 10am to 4pm.
Before you arrive.
At Campus.
Please contact the International Student Support Office if you have any problems or concerns regarding yourself or your family or if you need information on any aspect of your stay here in Bangor.
Facebook: BangorUniversityInternational Instagram: bangorinternational
We also offer Microsoft Teams drop-in sessions, please email us to book a Teams appointment.
Our International Student Ambassadors are here to help you.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international/contact:
If you have not yet applied to Bangor University but have questions with regards to courses, eligibility, fees, scholarships, accommodation, student support, student visas or anything else in relation to studying at Bangor University then please complete the short form below:
Enquiry Form If you would like to speak to a student recruitment advisor then please give us a call on the number below and we will be happy to help:
+44 (0) 1248 250008
Applied through our Online Application Portal?
Any admissions and/or application related enquiries can be sent directly to our admissions office through the Online Application Portal .
Sign into the portal using the same log in and password information you used when you created the account, click the 'Contact Us' button, select the course you have applied for, type your query in the message box and click send.
You can also use the online application portal to upload any supporting documents etc.
Applied to Bangor University using an official representative/agent?
Contact the official representative that you used and request them to send a message directly to our admissions office via their own Agent Applications Portal that will have been allocated to them by the university.
Applied to Bangor University via UCAS (UG applicants only)?
If you are a UCAS applicant then you can contact our UCAS admissions team by emailing them direct on: admissions@bangor.ac.uk .
Note: Only contact the admissions team if you have already made an application to study at Bangor University.
Our International Student Support Office is here to help you and can provide advice and guidance on a range of welfare related matters to all international students and their families, work and volunteering, visas, study tips, airport and travel and much more.
Please contact: internationalsupport@bangor.ac.uk
Study Abroad and Exchange Programmes - For information on Study Abroad and Exchange partnerships, staff mobility and incoming student mobility and International Exchanges, please contact Ms Christine Monks: c.m.monks@bangor.ac.uk
Partnerships Office - For information on pathway programmes, articulation/progression agreements, joint award, franchised/validated provision, dual award/double degrees and Bangor off-campus programmes, please contact: a.r.charlesworth@bangor.ac.uk
Recruitment agents - If you are interested in becoming one of our student recruitment agents then please contact: kerry.jones@bangor.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international/applying/entryrequirements:
If your school-leaving qualification means you do not qualify for direct entry to our undergraduate programmes then we are able to consider you for entry onto one of our 4-year International Incorporated Bachelor degree (IIB) programmes, the first year or Year Zero is delivered at Bangor University International College* ( BUIC ) located at the heart of our University Campus.
After successfully completing year zero at BUIC, you will progress onto a Bachelor degree program at Bangor University.
For entry onto the first year of our 3 or 4 year undergraduate / Bachelor degree programmes, we ask for a school leaving qualification which is equivalent to the British school leaving qualification, (A-levels / International Baccalaureate).
To find out more about which qualification is acceptable from the country you studied in, please refer to our country-specific information page.
It is possible to transfer into the 2nd year of an undergraduate degree programme at Bangor University, if the studies undertaken at any other university (UK or overseas), correspond by level and content to the 1st year of a programme at Bangor University.
In order to assess an application for transfer, students are required to provide an official certified transcript detailing the study undertaken to date with their application.
University may also recognise the relevant professional experience of 2 years or longer for entry onto our degree programmes.
We strongly advise all such applicants to submit an online application which MUST be accompanied by the following documents, so that admission office can consider your candidature for the course you applied for;
Entry onto our postgraduate Masters' courses requires an undergraduate/bachelor degree of equivalent standard to the British undergraduate/bachelor degree with a minimum grade equivalent to British second-class honours.
If you do not qualify for entry onto the master's degrees in our School of Business then you could consider applying for our International Incorporated Masters degrees (IIM).
The pre-masters part of the course is delivered at Bangor University International College* ( BUIC ) by our partner Oxford International Education Group.
You will then progress onto your chosen masters programme at Bangor University.
Bangor University may also recognise the relevant professional experience of 2 years or longer for entry onto our degree programmes.
Entry onto our postgraduate research/PhD courses requires a Postgraduate / Master's Degree of equivalent standard to the British Postgraduate / Master's Degree.
To find out more about which qualification is acceptable from the country you studied in, please refer to our country-specific information page .
Explore
Contact details
* Disclaimer: Please be aware that in order to be considered for entry into courses delivered by Bangor University International College (BUIC) which is run by our partner Oxford International Education Group (OIEG), your personal details will need to be shared with both BUIC and OIEG Admissions Team under the terms of Bangor University's Agreement with OIEG.
For more details go to www.bangor.ac.uk/buic/

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international/tuition:
Fees and Finances.
& Instalment options

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international/applying:
Follow the links below for detailed information for International students about applying for the course of your choice at Bangor University.
UCAS is an online application system allowing students to apply for up to five courses in the UK through one application.
You can apply for more than one programme at a specific university, for example, you could apply to study BA Psychology and BSc Psychology with Clinical and Health Psychology at Bangor.
Find out more about how to apply to Bangor University through UCAS
If you have applied through UCAS already then you may wish to visit the International Student pages of UCAS website for further information.
Online applications can now be made by prospective international applicants for all postgraduate taught programmes (except few programs listed below) and postgraduate research programmes at the university.
Exceptions:
There are selected few courses for which you need to follow a different application procedure;
The University will accept applications throughout the year, but we would generally advise that you send in your application form by the end of June (for September intake) or the end of October (for January intake) to ensure that you have time to make any funding and/or accommodation arrangements, and for documents such as transcripts and references to be obtained if not submitted with the application.
This will also give you more time to meet any conditions we may potentially attach to an offer (e.g.
taking an IELTS Test to meet the English Language requirement).
If you are making an application for one of our professional courses, which has limited place availability, you are advised to contact the academic school for advice on the final dates for applications.
All PhD/MPhil students require supervision from at least one academic member of staff at the University.
Depending on the specific area or theme that you want to research, you need to ascertain whether we hold sufficient expertise in your chosen topic to provide the required supervision.
Refer links below for major research themes and expertise  of our three academic colleges: Arts, Humanities, & Business Environment Sciences, and Engineering Human Sciences
We also encourage visit relevant academic school's webpages , where you can also check academic staff pages which may include their area of academic and research interests.
Once you have found a member of staff whose research interests broadly matches with your own, you may contact them directly with a concise research 'brief' that outlines your proposal and ask whether s/he would consider supervising your project.
If the academic expresses his/her interest, you may then further discuss your ideas and develop a full PhD/MPhil research proposal.
Occasionally, the University advertises PhD Studentships.
Studentships are funded/sponsored PhD placements which cover tuition fees and sometimes living costs, usually for a period of 3 years.
They are offered for specific research projects.
Studentships are advertised on the University website and Academic Schools' websites and there is normally a deadline for submitting applications.
The terms and conditions of Studentships vary and may become available at different times of the year.
If you are applying for a Studentship, enter the name of the studentship on the application form.
You will need to gather scanned copies of the following documentation to present with your PhD/MPhil application:
Essential Documents (you must submit these along with your application) :
Optional Documents (if any of these documents are not available to you now, you may submit them later on) :
You can apply at any time of the year.
It is possible to start a PhD degree at any point in the year at most academic Schools, subject to agreement with the supervisor.
We advise that you submit your application in enough time to:
As with all of our courses, you can apply to fund yourself through a PhD/MPhil at Bangor, or you may already have sourced external funding (e.g.
Refer to our dedicated webpage here about how to write a good research proposal.
For guidance and to enhance your experience as a postgraduate research (PGR) candidate, visit The Doctoral School pages.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international/alreadyapplied:
Thank you for your interest in studying at Bangor University.
After submitting an application for the course you are interested in, there are a few other things that will need your attention.
This page provides all of the details regarding the steps you will need to follow or the information you need to know after submitting your application to us.
We will also be sending you relevant information and instructions directly to the email address you have provided to us when you submitted your application.
If you need further support at any point during the application process, with your visa application or prior to your arrival at Bangor University please email international@bangor.ac.uk or feel free to call us on +44 (0) 1248 250 008 .
We recommend you start following our official social media channels listed below, where you will find relevant news/updates about studying at Bangor University;
Facebook: www.facebook.com/BangorUniversityInternational Twitter: www.twitter.com/BangorUni_Intl Instagram: www.instagram.com/apply2bangor
The key steps in the application and admissions process are outlined below.
If you have applied via Bangor University’s application portal, please login https://apps.bangor.ac.uk/applicant/ to the application portal to view your offer letter.
If you have forgotten your password you can reset it at the login page.
If you are working with one of our agents then they should have emailed you a copy of your offer letter.
If you have made an undergraduate application through UCAS then you can view the details of your offer at UCAS Track .
If you have a conditional offer you need to meet each of the conditions listed on the offer letter.
These could include:
Once you have the required documents to meet these conditions, please upload them onto our application portal.
If working with an agent they will do this on your behalf.
If applying through UCAS please email a copy of your documents to admissions@bangor.ac.uk
If you don't understand any of the conditions stated on the offer letter, please send our admissions team a message through the application portal or ask your agent for advice.
If you applied via UCAS, please email admissions@bangor.ac.uk
You can accept or decline your offer on our application portal.
If you applied via UCAS, please confirm your decision on UCAS Track.
There is no deadline for meeting the conditions of your offer.
But you must meet these conditions in time to allow you to apply for your visa to study in the UK.
Preparing for your visa application and visa processing can take up to 2 months in some countries.
An unconditional offer means you have already met all of the university requirements.
If you are a self-funding student then your next step is to pay a tuition fee deposit as specified in your offer letter , and this payment will be taken as formal acceptance of your offer.
For more details please go onto Step 3 - Pay Your Deposit.
The following groups of students may NOT need to pay a tuition fee deposit:
If you don't need to pay a deposit please go onto Step 4 - Apply for your accommodation or Step 5 - Apply for your Visa .
If you wish to decline your unconditional offer please log in to our application portal and complete the relevant section.
If English Language Proficiency is one of the conditions mentioned in your offer letter then you will have two options:
Option 1:  Apply to study a Pre-sessional English (PSE) programme at Bangor University's ELCOS department.
The length of the course will depend on your current IELTS score (or equivalent).
Please refer to the ELCOS Pre-Sessional English Course page for more information.
If you apply to undertake a Pre-Sessional English course and English is the only condition attached to your offer, i.e.
you have already met the academic entry requirement, we may be able to issue a joint CAS , which means you can apply for one visa to cover both the Pre-Sessional English and the Academic programme.
A joint-CAS will only be issued if you:
Option 2:  Complete one of our accepted English Language Tests and submit your results
Payment of the deposit will be taken as formal acceptance of your offer.
Once your tuition fee deposit payment is received, and have satisfied any other outstanding condition(s), Bangor University will issue you a Certificate of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) statement, which you will need to apply for your visa.
Pre-CAS Checks: Please be advised that Bangor University reserves the right to carry out pre-CAS checking/assessment to assist with your visa application and this may lead to a delay in issuing your CAS .
If we need to do pre-CAS checks we will contact you by email to inform you of what information we require.
For full information about how to pay your deposit and Bangor Universities' payment methods and policy click here .
The following groups of applicants are NOT required to pay a tuition fee deposit:
We strongly recommend you make the deposit payment as soon as possible to avoid unnecessary delays which could result in the below:
Our admissions office will aim to release your CAS as soon as you become eligible for one, i.e.
if you have met:
Generally, our turnaround time for releasing the CAS is three working days after you have satisfied all points listed above .
It is important to confirm your accommodation arrangements as early as possible before you come to the UK.
Accommodation options available at Bangor University are:
More information can be found here .
To apply for your visa you will need a Certificate of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) statement.
For details about How and When you can get a CAS issued, please refer to the details under "Step 3 - Pay your Deposit" above.
For detailed advice on how to apply for your visa, go to our Visa and Immigration section.
Our International Student Support Team is fully trained to provide information and advice about visas and immigration and will be happy to help you.
Please read the visa and immigration pages carefully, and if you have any questions please contact our International Student Support Office at;
Email: internationalsupport@bangor.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 1248 382882 / 388070
If you are working with one of our agents please go to them for help with applying for your visa.
They will check that you have everything in place before you submit your visa application.
If you would like one of our agents to help you with your visa application then click here for information about representatives working in your region.
DO NOT apply for your visa until you are sure that you have all the required documents and are ready for your credibility interview.
We have prepared a guidance document to help you prepare for the UKVI Credibility Interview.
As part of the standard student visa application process, students from some countries may be asked to complete a credibility interview which will be carried out by the Home Office UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) service staff, this usually takes place via a video link.
If you are required to do an interview then you will receive an invitation via email to the email address you used during the application process.
The interview will normally last up to an hour and is designed to allow you to provide a detailed explanation of your reason for studying in the UK and why you have chosen to study with us at Bangor University.
We are committed to providing students with the best possible application experience and have created a guidance document as a tool to help you prepare for the UKVI Credibility Interview, and understand the format and types of questions you may be asked.
You can access the guidance document here .
We have also put together a CASShield Interview Guidance Webinar which can be viewed here .
If you are asked to attend an interview but do not go, then your student visa application will be refused.
If you have any questions please contact our International Recruitment Team at:
Email: international@bangor.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 1248 250 008
Our International Recruitment Officers visit many countries throughout the year to meet with prospective students, applicants, and offer holders.
You can find out when we are visiting your country by clicking here .
Select your country from the list and click the 'visits' tab.
If we are not scheduled to visit your country in the coming months then you are welcome to contact your relevant International Recruitment Officer with any questions.
We also have a number of in-country agents and representatives who can provide guidance regarding studying at Bangor University, your application etc please click the 'Agents & Partners' tab on the relevant country on the country pages for more information.
You MUST arrange your accommodation BEFORE you travel to Bangor.
Refer to 'Step 4' above for further details.
We recommend to arrive into Manchester International Airport as we offer an Airport Pick-Up Service for international students from that airport on a selection of dates.
However, if you are arriving on a different date, or at a different airport, see ' How to Get to Bangor ' .
After reaching Bangor, students who have booked University accommodation should go to the Halls Office to collect their keys between 9am - 5pm.
Outside those working hours, please go to the Security Lodge on Ffriddoedd Site to collect your key.
But if you are not staying in University accommodation, you should make an arrangement with the private landlord, agent, or hotel about how to collect your key.
We strongly recommend that you arrive in Bangor within our working hours Monday to Friday between 9 am to 4 pm UK time, so that we can assist you if needed.
If that is not possible and you need any assistance, please go to Reception in Main Arts Building on College Road or call the Security Team at +44 (0) 1248 382795.
Please ensure that you are carrying the following documents/items;
If you arrive in Bangor on one of our airport pick-up services, we arrange shopping trips for our new arrivals to go to a local supermarket to buy essential supplies (food, cooking equipment, etc.).
For more information, please refer to your 'Registration and Orientation' or 'Welcome Week' Programme.
Most of our international students will qualify for free National Health Service (NHS) treatment.
However, if you will be studying in the UK for six months or less , make sure you arrange suitable medical insurance as you will not be covered by NHS.
If you are an EEA national, make sure that you apply for a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC).
More information about healthcare in the UK .
If you disclose any disabilities that you have, our Disability Team in Student Services & Administration & Administration will be able to give you extra support.
Please email disabilityservice@bangor.ac.uk .
Follow our official Bangor University International facebook page, which has a full list of the social events and trips we arrange and gives students a chance to communicate with each other before coming to Bangor.
Welcome to Bangor University!
The International Student Support Team will be here to help you when you first arrive at Bangor University and throughout your studies.
Your first few weeks will be very busy with a range of events and activities designed to help you settle into University life.
Remember you are not alone, we are here to help!
Our International Student Support Website is full of useful information.
Any questions please get in touch:
Email: internationalsupport@bangor.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 1248 388633
The major attraction was the teaching staff.
They are just amazing, informative and student-friendly.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international/studyabroad:
"Stellar academics in a beautiful, small-town location but with big-city connections and wicked affordability"
Students studying a degree course at another university can study at Bangor for a semester or a whole academic year and are able to transfer the qualifications and credits they've achieved back to their home university - to count towards their final degree.
They complete their degree within the same amount of time, but benefit from studying in a different part of the world, which broadens their horizons and they enjoy new experiences.
Visiting students receive the same level of service and benefits as Bangor University graduating students.
Most colleges and universities are happy to consider Bangor University as a host study abroad location, no matter which university they attend.
If the student is not a university study student please contact Christine Monks to discuss our Study Abroad (non-graduation) programme.
If you have any questions regarding the programme, tuition fees, or if you would like more information please contact Christine Monks: Email: c.m.monks@bangor.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 1248 388 326

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international/exchanges/incoming:
Bangor University receive around 350 exchange students every year from all over the world.
Students come from Partner Universities mainly in Europe, USA, Canada, Japan, China, Chile, South Korea and Australia.
The University's International Exchanges Office is looking forward to welcoming all exchange students for one semester or academic year.
If you are interested in coming to Bangor as an exchange or Erasmus+ student, please use this area of our website: to learn more about making your application and about our programme.
If you are not a student from one of our Partner Universities and you are interested in studying with us for a semester or a year, please refer to our Study Abroad pages.
All exchange students should make their initial application through their home university, please do not apply through the UCAS system.
Your home university will send us a nomination confirming your participation and we will then send you an application information pack which will include all information and forms.
Please read the Instructions page for further information on how to complete your application form.
Please take note of the dates of application deadlines and academic dates on our Semester Dates page.
For any further enquiries please contact exchanges-incoming@bangor.ac.uk .
Exchange Program Information

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/worldwidepartners:
Bangor University has an excellent selection of partners across the globe, these partnerships allow students to progress to Bangor.
To see what programmes we have available at Bangor University please click here .
Recognition of the following Pre-Sessional programmes for English language provision onto undergraduate and postgraduate study at Bangor University.
You may study Bangor University degrees at our partner institutions in a select few countries.
We would welcome an application to study from you, there is no fee to make an application to Bangor University, for details on how to apply click here .
We offer generous scholarships valued up to £10,000.
Meet the Partnerships Team .
For more information please contact our Partnerships Office: global@study.bangor.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/clearing/international:
Register your interest in clearing
We still have places left on many of our Bachelor degree courses for this September for international students who have the relevant qualifications.
You can search our undergraduate course listings for more detailed information on individual courses and if we have places available on courses, including Foundation Year degrees, those courses will be marked as 'Clearing' courses on our website from July.
If you have applied to study an undergraduate programme at universities in the UK through UCAS and you are not holding any offers from those universities, then the Clearing process can help you gain admission to a course of your choice at universities that still have places available.
What you should do next depends on whether or not you are already in the UCAS system:
If you have already applied through UCAS and are now in Clearing then you can either apply online for a place through Clearing, or call our Admissions Helpline on +44 (0) 1248 388320 during opening times if you have any questions.
If you are looking to start a course in September and have not already applied through UCAS, then you can apply direct through our Online Application Portal or email: internationaladmissions@bangor.ac.uk .
If you need further information or advice about studying at Bangor University please contact your Regional Manager.
Information on your next steps
If you apply through Clearing for a course that's based at our Bangor campus, you are guaranteed a place in University accommodation as long as you choose Bangor through UCAS by Thursday, 28 August , and book your place in halls by Monday, 1 September 2025 .
Our high-quality accommodation is located in two student villages, both with leisure and social spaces on-site.
Students living in University accommodation benefit from free gym membership and access to our Campus Life social events.
UK University for Lecturers and Teaching Quality

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international/countries:
We welcome applications from prospective students from all corners of the world.
We try to provide as much detailed information as possible, but if the place you reside in is not listed below please contact us at international@bangor.ac.uk for further help and advice.
Choose your country/region from the list below to find relevant information such as:
Details of any upcoming visits to your country
If you are an international student domiciled in the United Kingdom, please visit this webpage to explore further study options at Bangor University.
for Internationalisation

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/buic:
Bangor University International College (BUIC) is an embedded on-campus college for international students to start their studies at Bangor University.
Bangor University International College (BUIC) is a specialist Embedded College offering Incorporated Programmes, where international students can begin their studies at Bangor University.
BUIC delivers the first stages of the International Incorporated Bachelors Degree, International Year One, and the International Incorporated Masters.
Whilst Oxford International holds responsibility for the academic provision, all quality assurance and maintenance of quality standards for all teaching at the Bangor University International College remains strictly with Bangor University.
Your time at Bangor University International College is part of your degree.
Following successful completion of Stage 1 BUIC, you will continue your studies directly with Bangor University.
This means by attending the college, students can complete their degree in four years at undergraduate level, or two years at postgraduate level.
Explore the courses offered by BUIC at Bangor University.
More details on courses offered by BUIC.
At Bangor University International College (BUIC) you will become part of our family.
Our staff will get to know you and are here to help you throughout your studies.
Here's your chance to learn more about them.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/research:
Research at Bangor is helping to solve the world’s biggest social, health, economic and environmental challenges.
Bangor University’s pioneering and impact-driven research is tackling some of the biggest questions facing the world today.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, published in 2022, recognises that 85% of Bangor University’s research is either world-leading or internationally excellent.
We are also ranked in the Top 30 in the UK for research impact, demonstrating the real-world contribution of our research.
With a research and innovation vision to be a global centre of excellence in sustainability, the University takes a distinctive and holistic approach to sustainability that resonates with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the Wellbeing of Future Generations Act (Wales).
As a research-intensive institution we prioritise investment in interdisciplinary research that has existing or emerging scale, is aligned with sustainability, and addresses challenging global questions.
This translates into inspirational research-led teaching reflecting the role of universities in creating new knowledge.
Our research focuses on three key themes: Energy and the environment; Health, wellbeing and behaviour; and Language, culture and society.
Find out More
in the UK for the Impact of our Research
Research Excellence Framework (2021)
in Wales for Research Quality
of Bangor’s research is world-leading or internationally excellent
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 measures research quality across UK universities.
Underpinned by a focus on sustainability, Bangor University’s research delivers social, cultural, environmental, health and wellbeing benefits, working with a range of partners to deliver impact and innovation.
The REF 2021, published in 2022, recognises that more than 85% of Bangor’s research is either world-leading or internationally excellent.
The REF is jointly conducted by the four UK higher education funding bodies: the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW), Research England, the Scottish Funding Council, and the Department for the Economy, Northern Ireland.
They use the REF to inform allocation of £2 billion of research funding each year.
Bangor University’s impact case studies can be viewed here:
Bangor University’s research on ‘Emotional Artificial Intelligence’ (eAI) has revealed a pressing and global need to consider ethical dimensions of developing technologies that gauge and interact with affective and emotional states.
Bangor-led research has demonstrated the negative social impacts that conservation can have for some of the poorest people in the world.
Bangor-led research demonstrated how arts interventions improved the quality of life of people affected by dementia.
View all REF 2021 Impact Case Studies on our Research Themes pages
Our researchers publish across a wide range of subjects and topics, covering news platforms including The Conversation.
Read Articles
Find out about the range of postgraduate research programmes we offer.
Find out about the training and development support for postgraduate research students.
Explore the inspirational activities and projects our current researchers and postgraduate researchers/students are working on.
Find out how the Research, Innovation and Impact Office provide an integrated research support service for all Bangor University researchers and are building sustainable relationships with local, regional and national business partners.
The Collaboration Hub is the University’s portal for businesses and other external organisations looking to access the expertise, facilities and skills at the University.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/research/about:
Bangor University provides an environment where great research ideas are born and can flourish.
85% of our research is world-leading or internationally excellent (Research Excellence Framework 2021).
Our expertise is helping to solve the world's biggest social, health, economic and environmental challenges.
And, with a distinctive and holistic approach to sustainability underpinning all our research, the quality of our Sustainable Development impact is ranked 1st in Wales, 11th in the UK and 53rd internationally out of 1,500 institutions in the Times Higher Education University Impact Rankings 2022.
Through our research, collaborations and partnerships we are at the forefront of emerging societal priorities and challenges and are contributing to future Government policies and practices to address them.
Among our flagship initiatives, Welsh Government-backed plans for a North Wales Medical School at Bangor University from 2024 will deliver an innovative inter-professional School that builds on our research strengths in Human Sciences and helps develop future health and social care that is sustainable, place-based and supports the growth of the regional life sciences sector.
From finding the energy solutions of the future to tackling elements of the COVID-19 pandemic and our researchers, academic centres, and partnerships are helping us make a difference to people’s lives around the world.
Bangor University has one of the largest groups of environmental scientists in the UK.
Our internationally renowned work in Ocean and Natural Sciences ranges from global environmental change to sustainable food production.
Bangor’s research takes a holistic ‘systems’ approach, with a special focus on a range of low carbon energy activities including nuclear and marine energy systems and sensor technologies.
Our work is heavily focused on enhancing the readiness of new technologies, strengthened through significant industrial partnerships.
Bangor’s prestigious Nuclear Futures Institute includes extraordinary facilities being used by researchers and industry stakeholders to aid nuclear technology development, while our Smart Efficient Energy Centre is advancing engineering, computer science and modelling to increase the sustainability of energy supply and use while minimising negative environmental impacts.
In the world of business and finance, the Bangor Business School is at the forefront for research and training in the areas of accounting, banking, and finance in the UK and is a Top 50 institution in the world for Banking research.
Sport scientists are carrying out research into mental resilience, elite performance, human performance and health in extreme environments, dietary behaviour and metabolism, and exercise and vascular health.
And with a research focus on Welsh and Celtic Studies, Creative Writing and Performance, and Linguistics we are drawing on the distinctly Welsh culture of Bangor’s location and situating it in an international context.
Where the research expertise of the University maps onto specialisms of local industry, this creates a powerful hub for innovation activity.
Importantly, part of the ethos of Bangor University is to link our research to the regional environment of North Wales so that its impact can help drive economic and social regeneration.
As well as boasting the highest proportion of Welsh/English bilingual staff in Wales, with notable expertise in the history and culture of Wales and the Welsh language, our researchers come from 30 countries worldwide and collaborate with colleagues in over 120 nations.
Engaging with our communities and demonstrating our research value to society is our core DNA.
We are committed to sustaining a positive and successful relationship with stakeholders encompassing a quadruple helix of Bangor University research, industry expertise, government and civic society.
The University values and invests in developing researchers of the future.
We integrate postgraduate research student provision into our distinctive areas of research excellence whilst providing a high-quality experience facilitated by the University’s Doctoral School .
Bangor participates in several national Doctoral Training Centres and Programmes and we manage the pan-Wales business focused KESS II PhD/MRes programme on behalf of all Welsh universities.
Underpinned by fundamental research in the biological, chemical and physical sciences of natural systems, Bangor’s work in this area is strategically linked to the engineering of complex systems, modelling, and devices, especially in the area of energy, and to the social sciences, especially in the area of conservation.
We address questions like: how can we rapidly pivot to assess the spread of COVID-19 in the UK’s cities?
How can we effectively harvest energy from ocean tides?
How can resilient, productive strains of food crops be identified most efficiently?
With a focus on the development of empirically-informed, robust and context-relevant interventions, grounded in a fundamental understanding of human behaviour, this research supports health and wellbeing via impacts on individuals, policy makers and practitioners or through wider culture change.
We address questions like: how can we improve conditions in the classroom to enhance learning?
How can we use insights from the arts to aid those with dementia?
How can we identify and support those with the potential for Olympic greatness?
Addressing the interplay of identity and community from diverse disciplinary perspectives, this research explores the interface between individual and society, and how sense of belonging is accumulated through culture, media, language, and history, and affected by the changing nature of communities and nations, including structures of governance, finance and administrative justice.
We address questions like: what is the experience of using Welsh in daily life and how can we support it with technologies for digital language equality?
How can the public best hold secretive state and commercial surveillant entities publicly accountable?
How does literary and creative output enhance our sense of place as well as promote it to the world?
From the food we eat, the environment we live in, our health and wellbeing to improving the economy and the law and of the land, Bangor's research transforms the lives of millions of people around the world.
Take a look at our Research Strategy to find out how we're consolidating our position amongst the top 40 UK universities for Research Quality.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the current system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions.
Find out about our current and past research activities.
Bangor University has achieved the Athena SWAN Bronze Award which identifies our commitment to gender equality and diversity.
Providing environments, events and activities to support innovation.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/research/schools:
Visit the College's RESEARCH website
Visit the COLLEGE's Research Website
Visit the College's Research Website

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres:
Research Institutes and Centres are a central part of Bangor University.
The University encourages the establishment of research centres as a framework for promoting and facilitating interdisciplinary research and postgraduate teaching initiatives.
They provide a vehicle for the University to achieve its strategic aims in relation to research excellence, impact and increasing research income.
Find out more on the process of establishing Research Institutes and Centre
The following Research Institutes and Centres are based across a number of Universities with a significant presence at Bangor University:
The following Institutes and Centres are located entirely within Bangor University and operate across a number of Schools and Colleges:
The following Research Institutes and Centres are based mainly or exclusively within one School or College:
More about our Research Centres
The following Research Institutes and Centres are no longer operational.
However, information on previous activity can be found at the following links:

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/iris:
The role of the Integrated Research and Impact Support (IRIS) Service is to:
To find out more about our wide-range of support for staff, postgraduates and businesses please visit the relevant section of our website via the links below.
Keep up-to-date on our latest news from the Integrated Research and Impact Support (IRIS) Service.
Latest News
IRIS, Bangor University, Bangor, Gwynedd, Ll57 2DG
Integrated Research and Impact Support (IRIS) Service remains open and is currently able to deliver all services as normal.
A significant number of staff will be delivering these services via Homeworking so response times may be a little slower but we are confident that our systems are robust enough to maintain adequate services.
Please contact IRIS staff by their Bangor University e-mails as office telephones will be largely unanswered.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/energy:
Bangor is at the heart of collaborative low carbon, energy, and environmental research in Wales.
The University is home to the pan-Wales, Sêr Cymru ‘National Research Network for Low Carbon, Energy and Environment’ and the Sêr Cymru Nuclear Futures Institute .
The network supports collaborative research into the interactions between land, water, food, and energy production.
It is a network of over 36 partner organisations made up of research institutions, government bodies, SMEs, industry partners and over 80 researchers, focusing on sustainable intensification, low-carbon energy pathways, developing the bio-economy, alongside the mitigation and impact of climate change.
The Nuclear Futures Institute is led by Prof.
Bill Lee FREng and aims to build a world-leading nuclear energy research capability here in North Wales.
Their growing group covers areas including the fuel cycle, reactor design, materials behaviour and regulation.
By coupling computer-based simulations with experimental effort s, they are building a network within industry and the broader academic community to advance the field and to build up local expertise.
Examples of its research output include the quantification, optimisation, and environmental impacts of marine renewable energy and Geo-Carb-Cymru; a collaboration across the UK leading to the Royal Society report on “ Nuclear Cogeneration: civil nuclear in a low-carbon future ”; part of the a consortium working on the BEIS funded Advanced Modular Reactor competition; a number of projects initiated through the Nuclear Innovation Programme ; and a project which is assessing, characterising and enhancing geothermal energy in Wales.
Bangor’s research in future energy sustainability and generation is world class.
For example, the Research Excellence Framework 2014 found that 89% of Bangor’s submitted Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences research were internationally excellent or world leading .
Over 40% had an internationally excellent impact.
Submissions included research into turbulence to improve ocean forecasting and marine energy infrastructure.
Bangor University has many specific research groups advancing the sustainable energy agenda in their own ways.
Examples include:
Home
+44 (0)1248 351151
© 2020 Bangor University

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/iris/ref-2021:
Bangor research in Top 30 for societal impact in UK
Bangor University’s research has been ranked highly in the Government’s most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF2021), with 85% judged to be world-leading (4*) or internationally excellent (3*).
Bangor University’s research delivers social, cultural, and environmental benefits, from advances in healthcare to combatting global environmental change and finding the energy solutions of the future.
Bangor’s Sport and Exercise Sciences is ranked in the Top 5 overall in the UK.
With an excellent score in terms of the societal impact of its world-leading and internationally excellent research, our leading sport scientists are carrying out research into mental resilience, elite performance, dietary behaviour and metabolism, and exercise and vascular health.
Bangor’s research is changing the world in Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences and is 1st in the UK for the impact of its research.
With one of the largest groups of environmental scientists in the UK, our research is ranked sixth in the UK and 1st in Wales for research power.
Our scientists are tackling climate change and addressing some of the planet’s greatest environmental issues on land and sea, such as the overuse of single-use plastics, and protecting the variety of species and ecosystems through biodiversity conservation research.
Our research in Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy is ranked 15 th overall in the UK.
This work supports the University’s Welsh Government-backed flagship plans for a North Wales Medical School at Bangor University from 2024 that will build on our research strengths in Human Sciences and help develop future health and social care that is sustainable, place-based and bolsters the growth of the regional life sciences sector.
More than 150 UK universities and other research institutes were assessed in the exercise.
These results put Bangor University at the forefront of developing significant responses to the challenges of the world we live in, namely sustainability, low carbon, preventative health, promoting technology and innovation, and culture and the arts.
It is at the edge of disciplines that researchers achieve real innovation and Bangor’s interdisciplinary globally significant research is demonstrating real-world impact.
Our ranking of second overall in Wales demonstrates our commitment to supporting research, industry expertise and civic engagement for the benefit of the economy and society in North Wales and beyond.
Integrated medical and health-related research are part of Bangor University’s leading Institute for Health and Medical Research.
The institute prioritises research to enhance patient outcomes.
Our portfolio contributes to the global programme of research into the COVID-19 pandemic.
And our researchers engage with government, regulatory, NHS, and third sector partners to enhance policy research.
Our research reflects five principal methodologies: Pharmacoeconomics and public health economics; clinical trial design and the evaluation of complex medical interventions; novel secondary research; implementation science with participatory research; and cellular biology.
All of these enable interlinking research to address psychosocial interventions for dementia, oral health, primary and palliative care research, and cellular mechanisms of cancer.
Dementia is a global public health priority with no cure and limited medical treatment.
Fortunately there is a growing range of drug-free treatments for health and care services.
Bangor University leads interdisciplinary research in dementia care, with a focus on visual arts activities as therapeutic services.
Through a combination of professional training, public events and the success of the collaboratively produced online practitioners’ guide, ‘Dementia & Imagination’, for arts and health service delivery, many people with dementia heir carers improved their wellbeing and quality of life.
Care professionals showed improved skills and confidence.
The research also led to enhanced dementia care service provision, improved public perceptions and public policy influence including changes to national dementia service delivery whereby Age Cymru secured additional funding to extend the arts services in dementia care service for 2 years.
The service delivered an additional 864 arts sessions across care homes in Wales and in total 1840 art sessions have been delivered to 25% of care homes across Wales.
Our research showed how arts services improved the quality of life of people affected by dementia, with £5 of social value generated for every £1 invested.
We evidence improvements to care and service provision, public perceptions and influence on public policy.
Most importantly, our research enabled the promotion of the wellbeing and quality of life of people with dementia and those who care for them.
Gill Windell, Professor of Ageing and Dementia Research
The research also led to enhanced dementia care service provision, improved public perceptions and public policy influence including changes to national dementia service delivery whereby Age Cymru secured additional funding to extend the arts services in dementia care service for 2 years.
Research lead by Bangor University has informed the design of NHS dentistry services in Northern Ireland (NI) and Wales.
This has included national contract reform programmes and the use of infrastructure funding to promote ‘skill-mix’ in Wales.
With 50.2% of the adult population in Northern Ireland (NI) and 54.8% in Wales using the NHS dental service, policy objectives in both nations are to increase access to services, prevention focused dentistry and the quality of care provided.
Skill-mix is also a key policy area in Wales.
Bangor University led an assessment of the influence of financial incentives on the provision of NHS dentistry.
The results directly informed contract reform decisions made in both the home nations, and helped them navigate the COVID-19 pandemic and its consequent dramatic reduction in clinical activity.
The research suggested that Dental Therapists (DTs) were comparable with general dental practitioners for undertaking check-ups in low-risk patients; the results of the process evaluation were fed-back early to the Welsh Government and helped to inform NHS contract reform.
As a result of this work, the Welsh Government commissioned Bangor University to establish the All-Wales Faculty for Dental Care Professionals (AWFDCP), in order to improve the quality of training for Dental Care Professionals across the nation.
Informed by Bangor’s research, AWFDCP is developing qualifications for Dental Hygienists and Dental Nurses and links to the on-going NHS Contract Reform process across Wales.
This postgraduate NHS facility was initiated in January 2020 to promote a “step-up prevention and utilise the preventative-skills of the whole dental team to meet patients’ needs” across Wales.
The AWFDCP now has two qualifications validated by the General Dental Council and by Skills Higher Education and Lifelong Learning in the Welsh Government.
Our research has resulted in policy changes and strategic investment in Wales and has shaped dental contract reform policy in Northern Ireland (NI) and Wales and has helped to provide a step-change in dentistry training in Wales.
Research at Bangor University’s School of Psychology reflects two approaches with long-established histories: the development and application of interventions to promote health and wellbeing from early childhood to older age; and cognitive neuroscience, where the School has invested in researcher expertise and specialised facilities.
The School’s research focuses on:
Low literacy attainment affects one in five 15-year-olds in Europe, with consequences for a range of long-term prospects, but may be averted with early diagnosis of risk and timely interventions.
A Bangor-led international group of researchers developed the Multilanguage Assessment Battery of Early Literacy (MABEL) - the first freely-available, web-based resource, uniquely offering a battery of tests across five languages for monolingual, bilingual, and second language assessment.
Primary beneficiaries of MABEL since September 2019 are 750 practitioners in 22 countries previously lacking objective, high quality, evidence-based assessments for early detection of children’s risk for, and manifestations of, literacy failure.
MABEL is the only multi-lingual battery for assessing monolingual, bilingual, and second language learners of any combination of the MABEL languages.
Additionally, MABEL is the only available norm-referenced diagnostic battery specifically focusing on early literacy and related skills in Czech, Slovak and Welsh and is now being used by a broad range of practitioners.
Bangor University is internationally renowned for its mainstream influence on the quality of delivery of Mindfulness-Based Programmes and has been at the forefront of leading the translation of research into practice.
Mindfulness-Based Programmes (MBPs) can help people manage long-term mental health conditions such as depression and anxiety.
Bangor University’s Rebecca Crane led the development of the Mindfulness-Based Interventions: Teaching Assessment Criteria (MBI:TAC) tool – the only tool that defines and assesses the elements of MBP teaching competence and fidelity for evidenced based MBPs - Mindfulness Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT) and Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR).
Teacher training which includes the Mindfulness-Based Interventions: Teaching Assessment Criteria assessment leads to better outcomes (increased well-being and reductions in perceived stress) for Mindfulness-Based Programmes participants in mainstream settings.
Millions of children in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC) experience inadequate learning opportunities and harsh punishment by caregivers.
These are important risk factors for poor child development.
The provision of high quality, early childhood caregiving environments promotes long term benefits to children’s educational achievement, mental and physical health, and the economic prosperity of future generations in LMIC.
Research at Bangor has led to two highly effective intervention programmes to improve early childhood development in LMIC.
The first programme is The Irie Classroom Toolbox, an early childhood, teacher-training violence-prevention programme.
The Irie Classroom Toolbox has shown benefits to children, teachers and the classroom environment.
This includes large reductions (>65%) in violence against children by early childhood teachers and reductions in child behaviour problems, and increases to the quality of the classroom environment, teacher well-being and to child prosocial skills and inhibitory control.
The Irie Classroom Toolbox has now been adopted by the Jamaican government’s Early Childhood Commission as the national training programme to train all early childhood practitioners and is also included as an example of an effective teacher-training programme in positive discipline by the World Health Organisation.
The second programme is The Group Reach Up and Learn parenting programme that promotes responsive parenting and stimulation in the home.
This programme has been adapted for use in seven countries across South Asia, the Middle East and South America.
For example, the group-based parenting programme has been adopted for use in Bangladesh where it is integrated into the primary health care system and it has also been adopted by the Mayor of Bogota for use with vulnerable families with children under two years of age across the city.
It has also been adapted for use with the refugee population in Jordan, Lebanon and Syria by the International Rescue Committee.
This research into evidence-based programmes to promote young children’s development in LMIC has reached over 5,500 teachers, and more than 7,000 mothers, and has ultimately benefitted over 500,000 children globally.
This programme of work involves developing, implementing, evaluating and scaling-up early childhood interventions to promote young children’s development in low- and middle-income countries.
The work is very fulfilling and I feel very privileged to work in partnership with so many committed colleagues across different countries.
Its internationally recognised School of Ocean Sciences, together with the School of Natural Sciences, are supported by interdisciplinary centres of excellence including the Centre for Environmental Biotechnology, the Centre for Applied Marine Sciences, and the Biocomposites Centre which is at the forefront of research, development and commercial application of bio-based alternatives to synthetic materials leading to significant impact on manufacturing industry.
Our scientists benefit from partnership with the Environment Centre Wales funded by NERC (the Natural Environment Research Council) UK Centre for Ecology and Hydrology.
Our research ranges from global environmental change to sustainable food production.
Bangor has an integrated portfolio of research that links the fundamental ecology of natural systems with their conservation and sustainable use, right through the value chain to food - both marine and terrestrial - and forest products.
Research focuses on four themes:
Mobile bottom-fishing provides 35% of global catches worth over £27 billion, but it can cause serious ecological damage.
The impact of bottom fishing is often perceived as an environmental risk.
Bangor’s research has provided quantitative evidence-based tools to assess the ecosystem effects of bottom-fishing at regional and global scales.
This underpinning research provides the tools to estimate bottom fishing impacts worldwide, which is essential for the fishing industry, conservation, management, and certification bodies to guide the choice of management measures needed to meet sustainability objectives.
Significantly, because of these estimated globally applicable parameter values, Bangor’s model can be applied to data-poor fisheries, e.g., much of the southern hemisphere.
The tools have been the primary tool recommended for use by the Marine Stewardship Council to ensure biodiverse and resilient seabeds for their certified fisheries.
They have been endorsed by the International Council for the Exploration of Seas for use in the EU Marine Strategy Framework Directive to achieve key policy requirements and were used by Welsh Government to underpin a consultation and decision on scallop dredging in a marine protected area.
We collated all existing research that studied the impact of bottom trawling on seabed habitats, and synthesized this large body of research in a meta-analysis to provide the best-available estimates of the depletion of seabed fauna by bottom trawling and their recovery rates.
By using these estimates in an ecological model, we can provide predictions of the regional scale impact of bottom trawling activity that stakeholders such as MSC require.
Greenhouse gas research has impacted policy and industry through the generation of new country-specific nitrous oxide emission factors.
Agriculture contributes towards greenhouse gas production, via nitrous oxide emissions following nitrogen inputs to soil, via methane emissions from livestock and the management of their manures, and via carbon dioxide following land use change and use of machinery that runs on fossil fuels.
However, agricultural land also offers the opportunity to remove greenhouse gas from the atmosphere through carbon sequestration– especially peat and wetlands.
Dave Chadwick led the Defra and Devolved Administrations funded  >£6.5M consortium project to improve the nitrous oxide component of the UK’s agricultural greenhouse gas emissions inventory.
The aim of the project was to generate new nitrous oxide emission data from the range of nitrogen inputs to soil (fertilisers, manures and dung & urine deposited by grazing livestock) to contribute to the derivation of country specific nitrous oxide data for use in the UK’s greenhouse gas inventory.
This was achived by measuring nitrous oxide fluxes from 37 field plot-scale experiments throughout England, Scotland Northern Ireland and Wales.
Bangor’s evidence significantly lowered calculated nitrous oxide contributions in the UK’s Agriculture greenhouse gas Inventory and informed changes to guidelines at the international level.
The research also highlighted that enteric methane now represents the greater proportion of the UK’s total agriculture greenhouse gas Inventory (expressed as carbon dioxide equivalents).
Bangor has also worked with red meat /and dairy sectors in Wales to enable co-identification of practical greenhouse gas emission mitigation practices.
The new improved Agriculture greenhouse gas emissions inventory now better reflects the UK’s range of climates, soils and nitrogen management, as well as the UK’s livestock breeds and their diets.
Whilst the reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions that has resulted from the new accounting method does not represent mitigation per se, it does mean that less carbon sequestration is required to offset the sector’s greenhouse gas emissions.
This means that there is greater potential to sustainably intensify on some land, sparing other land which is more suitable for delivering other ecosystem services, including climate regulation via carbon sequestration.
Research, funded by the Department for International Development (IRRI), demonstrated that the adoption of a better-cross strategy, where rice-breeders more carefully select parental lines before crossing, improves efficiency in rice breeding.
IRRI rice breeding programmes advocated a high-volume cross strategy, based on the assumption that all crosses are equally likely to succeed, hence the probability of finding a beneficial cross increases as more crosses are made.
This assumption was rejected by Bangor researchers because it is based on the extraordinary premise that the rice-breeder has no ability to choose crosses that are more likely to succeed.
The research showed that the better-cross strategy had more power to succeed in breeding a difficult-to-breed varietal type with aromatic grain, for which previous conventional breeding had limited success globally and none in Nepal.
It resulted in the improved rice variety (Sunaulo-Sugandha), which provides food security and household incomes to Nepalese smallholder farmers of over £1million per year.
Bangor’s research success also led to a paradigm shift in the International Rice Research Institute, which adopted Bangor’s better-cross strategy in 2014 in a key project ‘Transforming Rice Breeding’.
This increased efficiency of the International Rice Research Institute innovation-transfer to rice farmers globally, with a minimum estimated return of £36,770,000 per year in 2020.
Globally, the Bangor-led research has had a significant impact on the activity of the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI)’s public-good rice breeding programme.
Switching to the better-cross strategy of rice-breeding was shown to increase efficiency, by reducing the considerable resources used for crossing, halving the land required for growing the progeny of crosses by reducing the wastage on failed crosses, and improving the quality of the crosses.
Bangor University’s research partnership with World Agroforestry (ICRAF) produced a paradigm shift in agronomy, supporting agroecological transitions across three continents, made hugely more urgent by the fertiliser and food price crises driven by the war in Ukraine.
Many smallholder farmers, collectively responsible for a large proportion of global food security, lack locally suitable agricultural practices that regenerate rather than degrade the environment.
Applying Bangor’s ‘options by context’ (OxC) approach profoundly changed international, national and private sector policy and practice across 15 countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America.
OxC supports local innovation by farmers through fostering the transition to more agroecological farming practices, including agroforestry – the integration of trees in fields and farming landscapes.
These maximise the use of natural processes, such as biological nitrogen fixation, rather than forcing agricultural systems with external inputs.
Diverse and inclusive agroecological options for major crops from corn to coffee and cocoa, that result from applying this approach, are already increasing food security, farm income and environmental resilience for over two million people, restoring over 2.5 million ha of land, through investment of over £101 million in projects using OxC.
Dr Fergus Sinclair, Director of the Bangor-ICRAF research partnership said
Innovation in agronomy by large numbers of smallholder farmers will need to accelerate if global commitments to end hunger are to be achieved in the face of major climate and other global change that are both caused by, and impact, agriculture.
Efforts to implement OxC approaches establish that a paradigm shift in agronomic innovation is well underway.
Whether it will be sustained will largely depend on the demonstrable extent to which it is successful in accelerating development impact.
As evidenced by the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, pathogenic viruses represent a major global threat to human health and wellbeing.
Over the last decade, Bangor research has developed a range of analytical tools, technologies and models for the effective surveillance of harmful viruses in the wider environment, leading to risk-based industry standards.
Working in partnership with UK and devolved governments, our wastewater-based surveillance tools have been adopted, piloted and rolled out at the national scale for whole-community monitoring of COVID-19 incidence, to provide an early warning system to protect critical national infrastructure from SARS-CoV-2 outbreaks.
It is also used as a decision support tool to show which city areas should be targeted for mass testing and allows evaluation of the success of COVID-19 mitigation measures.
With funding from Welsh Government, researchers monitored the changing state of the pandemic in Wales, supported and informed public health policy decisions, and built national capacity for future pandemic preparedness.
It has highlighted the important role the wastewater industry plays in national public health.
Scientific excellence: Wales has pioneered the use of wastewater for national level COVID-19 surveillance.
This was adopted by England and rolled out by the Joint Biosecurity Centre at 44 sites, scaling to 250 by 2021.
Disease incidence: The University was responsible for setting up a national-level wastewater monitoring programme for COVID-19 which covered 20 key sites and captured close to 70% of the Welsh population.
This is now part of the Armakuni dashboard which reports on national disease incidence to support public health agencies in Wales.
In addition, the work has supported targeted mass testing both in England and Wales.
Research excellence and impact: Wastewater research is highly novel and has produced eight journal papers underpinning the national science programme.
The University has contributed expertise to international collaborative efforts to develop wastewater-based epidemiology best practice across Europe and further afield.
The funding also provided opportunities to build on research strengths in Wales in environmental sciences, disease surveillance and pathogen genomics.
We have been monitoring viruses like Norovirus and Hepatitis in human sewage for the last decade, as part of a programme to evaluate levels of these viruses in the community.
Naturally, COVID-19 was added to our surveillance list and it showed viral levels in wastewater mapped really well onto the success of lockdown measures in the first COVID-19 wave and the emergence of the second wave.
The research has profoundly altered how governments, industry and donors implement conservation: one of the world’s largest nickel mines (Ambatovy, Madagascar) has changed how it approaches biodiversity offsets, the Ugandan government has incorporated recommendations into its national offset strategy, and USAID has used research findings in funding decisions for a mine in Myanmar.
In Madagascar, Bangor-led research has influenced how the government and donors implement safeguards to reduce negative impacts of protected areas on the poor.
As part of the Forest4Climate&People project, researchers are working with Malagasy colleagues at the University of Antananarivo, to bridge the gap between policy makers and local communities in discussions about forest conservation and restoration.
Tropical forests, such as those in Madagascar, store carbon which helps stabilize the global climate.
There is therefore huge international attention on these forests and the high rates of deforestation.
Unfortunately local people, the ones most affected by conservation policies, often lack a real voice in these discussions.
The team made a film which gives voice to forest edge communities and their concerns and suggestions of how forest conservation efforts could be improved.
Part of that film (Voices from the Forest) was shown at COP26 by Madagascar’s minister of environment and sustainable development.
Dr Neal Hockley, Senior Lecturer in Economic and Policy, School of Natural Sciences said,
Madagascar’s Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development has been carrying out a major reform of its conservation policies and we, together with our Malagasy partners, have been working very closely with them, to ensure that our research informs their policy making in real time.
This is the best way to ensure our research has a positive impact, not just on policy, but ultimately on thousands of people living around Madagascar’s protected areas.”
Our research, is meant to be useful so we are delighted to see it being used by policymakers, NGOs and companies.
We work closely with a wide range of stakeholders, especially in Madagascar where Bangor University has had deep collaborations with research partners for 2 decades.
The research we are doing together has genuine real-world impact.
Engineering research at Bangor University is focused around three themes aligned with industrial sectors of international significance:
Bangor University’s development of the Virtual Reality (VR) application Ocean Rift, one of the first and most popular consumer VR apps in the world, has helped spearhead the now burgeoning global VR industry, in partnership with Samsung, Facebook and Google.
Ocean Rift is a Virtual Reality (VR) experience that immerses the user in a vivid underwater world.
It gives the user the experience of swimming with various aquatic creatures including dolphins, turtles, sea snakes, rays, sharks, whales and even extinct prehistoric reptiles.
The app lets users select from a series of habitats, ranging from coral reefs and shipwrecks to lagoons, the deep sea and even Atlantis.
They can interact with creatures animated by a state-of-the-art artificial intelligence system developed specifically for the project, which aims to produce life-like animation and behaviour.
Ocean Rift was an invite-only launch title for most major VR headsets between 2014 and 2019, including the Samsung Gear VR, Oculus Rift, HTC Vive, Google Daydream, Xiaomi Mi, Oculus Go and Oculus Quest.
With an estimated 1,800,000 downloads it has received consistently positive reviews from users and developers.
The app was based on underpinning research in VR best practices and procedural animation, including new computer graphics and artificial intelligence techniques for producing life-like animation and behaviour.
Recent global benefits have been generated from its use in educational and healthcare contexts.
VR has grown rapidly from a hobbyist emerging technology to a multibillion-dollar industry.
The research undertaken at Bangor University has been at the forefront of this process.
Ocean Rift started as an experiment to see how far I could take emerging virtual reality technology to make someone feel like they are underwater.
You get a real sense of the scale and majesty of a Blue Whale when you swim alongside it in Ocean Rift, which is something you can’t get in any other medium.
The education feature enhances this even further, allowing you to learn about life in Earth’s oceans while being immersed in them.
I’m also proud to have worked with partners to develop the narrative in Welsh, enabling Welsh-speaking children and adults to learn about aquatic life in this new and exciting way’
During 2009-2020, Bangor University’s Ocean Energy Research Group pioneered an understanding of the opportunities and challenges faced by the international tidal energy industry, in converting the energy from less energetic ‘second-generation’ tidal energy sites.
Researchers identified a unique set of challenges and opportunities relating to less energetic tidal energy sites.
The loadings on turbines at these sites allow for lower-cost devices.
There is also increased sea space available for lower energy sites compared with high energy “hot spots”, and more opportunities for grid connectivity.
However, less energetic sites are generally in deeper, more exposed environments, and so the resource is influenced by wave processes.
As a direct result of this research, the tidal energy industry has evolved by developing smaller “second generation” tidal devices (100-200kW) that are now competitive in the UK, and created a pathway for international development via reassessment of the tidal energy resource of countries previously considered below the threshold of financial viability.
Bangor-led research into tidal asymmetry and misalignment of waves and tides (making energy more challenging to exploit and putting tidal turbine structures under stress) has led to the development of new wave-tide interaction engineering models and has informed the design of state-of-the-art laboratory facilities to directly quantify/model the forces acting on scale models of tidal turbine structures when tides and waves are out of line.
This research has re-focussed the tidal energy industry, moving towards the development of less energetic tidal sites that are complementary in the timing of the aggregated power output.
Our research has directly informed the development of new wave-tide interaction engineering models, the design of state-of-the-art laboratory facilities (to simulate the forces of oblique tides/waves on scale-models of tidal turbine structures), and the selection criteria for second-generation tidal energy sites and tidal turbine design.
The Global Positioning System (GPS) and other global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) are embedded in the world’s critical infrastructure, from aviation and shipping to telecommunications and smart phones.
Despite economic, social, and governmental dependence on satellite navigation and precise timing, GNSS are vulnerable to failure and security threats.
Professor David Last, and other members of the Bangor University Radio-Navigation Group, have worked with US, EU, UK and South Korean governments to develop and implement ‘Enhanced Loran (eLoran)’ as a back-up in the event of GNSS failure.
Last and his team have been fundamental to the international development of Enhanced Loran (eLoran), and were the first to implement a large scale working prototype in the UK in 2015.
The eLoran system served enhanced maritime navigation and delivered precise timing for telecommunications users across the UK and beyond.
The UK, US and South Korean governments have directly invested in the development of technology developed collaboratively by Bangor, leading to a vital economic safety-net for mariners and cross-sector users in relation to trade and defence.
Bangor Business School is at the forefront for research and training in the areas of accounting, banking, and finance in the UK and is a Top 50 institution in the world for Banking research.
Research focuses on three themes:
Retail financial services markets have long been the focus of considerable regulatory attention.
As these services have become ubiquitous, how these products are priced and used has significant societal implications.
Professor Ashton provided the first assessment of the loyalty penalty.
He looked at how loyal customers pay more than new customers; and complexity costs, how providers raise prices of complicated products, within UK retail financial services markets.
These findings have informed UK and EU regulations.
Ashton advised on work considering complexity for the European Commission’s Directorate General for Health and Consumer Protection.
The subsequent directive has estimated benefits between €2,352,210,000 (04-2013) and €4,582,900,000 (04-2013) for EU personal current account holders between 2016 and 2026.
The UK’s Financial Conduct Authority has reported that its policies addressing the loyalty penalty and informed by Ashton’s research, will benefit UK customers by £261,000,000 annually.
Nikolopoulos’ research focuses on Predictive Analytics employing the Theta forecasting method he initially developed.
His empirical research at Bangor University has led to significant efficiency savings and enhanced decision-making for multinational companies by improving forecasts.
Nikolopoulos’ forecasting models have proven accuracy and superior computational speed in international competitions.
Uber has applied Nikolopoulos’ Theta models worldwide since 2017 for their financial forecasts with an efficiency saving of over approximately USD750,000,000 (04-2020) per annum.
BOSCH and Amazon Web Services use Theta for forecasting product demands and sales.
The wider use of Nikolopoulos’ Theta Method within commerce is highlighted by over 6,500,000 downloads of the implementation of the Theta Method within the freeware
Research at Bangor University has significant regulatory change in interchange and merchant fees of payment cards in the European Union (EU) between 2013 and 2016.
Acceptance of card payment platforms by both cardholders and merchants was essential for increasing the use of electronic payments in the EU to integrate payment systems for EU countries.
By demonstrating that lowering interchange and merchant discount fees would be beneficial to all parties and by providing evidence critical to EU decision-making concerned with regulatory changes, Carbo-Valverde’s research led to reduced fees from June 2015.
These changes benefitted all merchants that use electronic payments, and all cardholders and financial institutions across Europe, with annual savings between 2015 and 2017 of EUR1,200,000,000 (03-2020) for EU merchants and EUR587,000,000 (03-2020) for EU consumers.The findings are also directly benefitting other, non-EU jurisdictions.
Sociologists at Bangor University produce leading research relevant to the unfolding dynamics of our changing world.
Our focus is on the empirical, critical and theoretical study of social structures, power, everyday values and practices, including social theory and historical and comparative studies.
A rich diversity of theoretical and empirical approaches are used to explore different societies, with specialisms in England and Wales, Germany, North America, China and Greece.
Research focuses on five themes:
Four research centres are key to our collaborations and societal impact: The Wales Institute for Social and Economic Research and Data; the Sir William Roberts Centre for Sustainable Land Use; the Emotional Artificial Intelligence Lab; and the Network for the Study of Media and Persuasive Communication.
Research into ‘veillance’ (a scholarly term for mutual watching) highlighted the harms to citizens arising from digital profiling by state and commercial entities including privacy violations and exposure to targeted online disinformation.
Following revelations by Edward Snowden, the US National Security Agency whistle-blower, of routine mass surveillance of people’s digital communications by intelligence agencies to identify security threats, this issue became a wider public concern.
This research enables civil society to develop a better understanding of how to hold secretive state and commercial surveillant entities publicly accountable.
Under the umbrella term veillance, the research identified three clear processes of mutual watching, and an understanding of its power dynamics which include:
The research has directly informed a range of national and international stakeholders and policymakers, including the UK parliament; the EU; the Indian and Jamaican Supreme Courts; the South African High Court; British and Irish professional journalist practices; nongovernmental organisations; and the wider public via global media coverage.
State and commercial surveillance of digital communications is complex and abstract.
Policymakers, lawmakers, civil society and the public were unaware of how their online behaviour feeds these practices.
They were also unclear on how to resist and/or hold surveillant organisations publicly accountable.
This research impacted national and international bodies by illuminating the causes of, and problems with, such ‘veillance’, including the power imbalances thereby guiding and enabling more informed solutions’.
Research on ‘Emotional Artificial Intelligence’ (Emotional AI) has revealed a pressing and global need to consider ethical dimensions of developing technologies that gauge and interact with affective and emotional states.
The research has influenced governance, policy, business models and creative artefacts in the design and ethical application of emergent technologies globally.
Impacts include co-creation with US stakeholders of the world’s first ethical benchmarks for emotional AI; informing global design standards and protocols for emotion and affect-based technologies; clarifying digital privacy rights regarding emotional AI for the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights; distilling multi-stakeholder perspectives to guide decisions on emotional AI ethics across UK Government departments, regulators and US/UK companies; and shaping an international festival programme, inspiring artists and informing citizens.
As we begin to interact with technologies by means of the body and intimate dimensions of human life this research helps solve how these technologies can be shaped to serve, enhance and entertain, rather than exploit’.
Bangor’s prestigious School of Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences carries out research into mental resilience, elite performance, human performance and health in extreme environments, dietary behaviour and metabolism, and exercise and vascular health.
Our researchers work within two institutes :
Research into the diets of soldiers has demonstrated that illness, injury and underperformance are significantly influenced by deficits in the soldiers’ diet.
This has led to a change in Army policy, implementing additional dietary energy and vitamin D intake.
The Bangor team demonstrated that arduous military training weakened the immune system and increased infection in Army recruits compared to age-matched controls.
7% of recruits were shown to suffer at least one clinician-diagnosed infection during initial Army training, with each infection leading to an average of three days’ training lost.
It also showed that the high physical demands of Army training increased the risk of musculoskeletal injury resulting in further lost training days and medical attrition, at significant financial cost.
Subsequent laboratory and field studies showed that inadequate nutrition was identified as an important and significant contributor to the increased infection and musculoskeletal injury observed during arduous military training.
Further research determined that soldiers provided with an energy-rich training supplement each evening as a ‘fourth meal’ were prevented from the detrimental effects on body composition, physical performance, immune and bone health of training in an energy deficit.
Research on the iron and vitamin D status of male and female recruits also found that recruits with inadequate levels of vitamin D had poorer physical performance, poorer immune function and were more likely to suffer respiratory infections and injury than those with optimal vitamin D status.
The team were consequently commissioned to develop and investigate the effectiveness of winter vitamin D supplementation.
This research showed that vitamin D supplementation was effective in reducing infection burden and by achieving vitamin D sufficiency in almost all recruits [greater than or equal to 95%] informed the previously unknown correct doses for future Army supplementation.
The British Army has a duty of care to all its soldiers, which includes provision of adequate and appropriate nutrition.
Our research established on behalf of the British Army that illness, injury and underperformance during military training are partly explainable by deficits in the recruit’s diet.
A consistent feature in all this work is that the beneficial impacts occurred at the point of the research, and nutrition policy changed to benefit the Army and its personnel.
Research into the development profile of the UK’s most successful athletes led to changes in UK Sport’s approach to talent development programmes.
Bangor-led research compared the life biographies of serial-medalling, super-elite athletes against those of matched, non-medalling athletes.
Participants were 32 former GB Olympians.
Sixteen of these were super-elite athletes who were multiple gold medallists at more than one Major Championship, such as the Olympic Games or World Championships.
The other 16 elite athletes were funded, international, athletes who had won championship medals but had not medalled at Major Championships.
The results revealed important commonalities and differences between the two groups in terms of demographic, practice, training, and competition history variables, and psychosocial experiences, development, and personalities.
Super-elite athletes were more likely than elite athletes to have: experienced a significant negative life event during their development years; been ruthless and selfish, and obsessive and perfectionistic, in the pursuit of the sporting career; been both mastery- and outcome-focused; used total preparation and/or a counterphobic attitude to maintain higher levels of performance under pressure; come back from severe performance setbacks during adulthood and experienced significant career ‘turning points’ that led to enhanced determination to excel; experienced more diversification coupled with extensive sport-specific practice and competitions during youth sport; and continued performance improvement over more years during adulthood.
This research provided a world benchmark for talent identification and development research.
The findings of the Great British Medallist Project led to increased investment in sports intelligence and capture of data regarding pathway athletes.
These changes have had far-reaching consequences in terms of national governing bodies’ ability to interrogate their talent-related data, case conference their pathway athletes and design more appropriate talent development programmes.
Scholars from across the Arts and Humanities are enabling the creation of a sustainable, language-based, culturally diverse portfolio of research that reflects the historic strengths of the Bangor University and impacts on culture, society and the arts.
This has been enhanced through close collaboration with the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol (the Welsh National College) which plays a key role in creating a sustainable Welsh-medium research base at local and national level.
Our research underpins the four pillars of the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales’s Vision for Research and Innovation in Wales – excellence, place, innovation, and collaboration.
With a research focus on Welsh and Celtic Studies, Interdisciplinary Cultural Studies, Creative Writing and Performance, and Linguistics and Language Planning we are drawing on the distinctly Welsh culture of Bangor’s location and situating it in an international context.
Our innovative research addresses current global concerns with a long chronological research time-frame from the medieval period to today.
Bangor University research undertaken by two AHRC-funded projects on ‘European Travellers to Wales: 1750-2010’ involved the discovery, study and interpretation of almost 500 accounts by travellers from all over Europe.
Extensive public engagement activities including a travelling exhibition, the creation of freely available educational materials and a variety of on-line resources has helped the public to better understand Wales.
The research provided completely new resources for studying Wales, broadening travel writing to encompass more than English-language portrayals of Wales.
Working with heritage partners on the ‘Journey to the Past’ website enabled the creation of multi-media resources which include themed trails and a virtual reality experience of Tintern Abbey all of which have been used as good practice examples with other heritage organisations across the UK.
The resulting research also included the co-authored book ‘Hidden Texts, Hidden Nation’, which makes an original contribution to studies in travel writing, providing a brand-new perspective on Wales.
The creation of a database of previously forgotten or unknow travel texts about Wales in various European languages benefitted researchers preparing the winning bid to recognise the Slate Industry of North Wales as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Govannon Consultancy, who coordinated the bid along with Gwynedd Council maintain that this research greatly enhanced the application.
The research has enhanced the understanding of Wales as a travel destination for both tourists and the tourism sector, providing new promotional materials disseminated by many stakeholders including Visit Wales.
We found previously unstudied accounts providing insights into how others have viewed Wales.
Some of the writing is in diaries or letters, and many were not intended for publication.
The breadth of the topics discussed shows a long-standing interest in Wales.
Not all the visitors were tourists in the modern sense, some were refugees or on business, but they all provide insights into Wales by visitors from other European nations.
The material covers a period of great change in the landscape, culture and heritage of Wales and modern-day visitors will be able to 'experience' those changes through the eyes of their travelling predecessors, revealing a unique view of Wales to a new generation of travellers from Europe, but also casting a new light on the perception of Wales over time for visitors from the United Kingdom and other parts of the world.
This research was jointly undertaken with Swansea University and the University of Wales Centre for Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies.
Bangor University research has significantly developed the understanding of Welsh language use and language transmission impacting Welsh Government language policy across a range of sectors.
Bangor-led research analysed Welsh language use within society with an emphasis on understanding how Welsh speakers use Welsh and the barriers that affect language usage within communities.
This enhanced understanding is essential in terms of implementing effective language planning strategies to create sustainable Welsh language communities and revitalise communities that need specific language resurgence.
Researchers also explored the role of bilingualism and education within the language revitalisation agenda in Wales.
Innovative e-resources were created to maximise language progression in the educational sphere.
This research has significantly influenced Welsh Government priorities in language planning and has contributed to the evidence based available.
In addition, the researchers have been regularly approached to provide expert input to key WG reports and evaluations, for example, Process Evaluation of Cymraeg for Kids: final report.
The Welsh Language Commissioner regularly refers to this research to support decision making and to inform public bodies legally required to adhere to Welsh Language Standards.
This research underpins a co-produced report assessing the use of Welsh within the voluntary sector in Wales which is referred to in the Welsh Language Commissioner’s training sessions for third sector organisations.
A key development from this research is the co-production of a training toolkit which supports the work of Mentrau Iaith initiatives to promote the use of Welsh in the community.
The toolkit contains valuable examples of innovative programs that can be adapted to work in various communities in Wales.
This research also identified the need for enhanced availability of Welsh materials for teenagers and young people, resulting in the development of unique multimedia Welsh-medium Sociology materials and new standardised terminology.
These are used to teach A Level, Welsh Baccalaureate, and degree-level Sociology across Wales.
Our research impacted on key Welsh Government language policy areas including community language usage and intergenerational language transmission where research findings have directed how Welsh Government and the office of the Welsh Language Commissioner approach the ongoing revitalisation of the Welsh language as outlined in the current Welsh language strategy, Cymraeg 2050.
Bangor University research in the field of language technology for Welsh as a less-resourced language has enabled the development of online resources, transformed the use of Welsh in a wide range of digital environments, has helped companies develop new products, and has influenced policy in Wales and on a global level.
Bangor’s Language Technologies Unit (LTU) developed Cysgliad – a software package that includes the Cysill Welsh-language grammar and spelling checker as well as the Cysgeir collection of dictionaries.
The Welsh Language Commissioner credited Cysgliad with helping the public to gain confidence in writing Welsh as well as being an essential aid in education, for translators and professional administrators.
These tools are in daily use in Wales and the Welsh Language Commissioner has mandated all public authorities to install Cysgliad on their computers.
In 2020, the Welsh Government sponsored free Cysgliad licences for the public, schools and SMEs to help during the COVID-19 pandemic.
During the first six months of the offer, an additional free 4,125 licences were downloaded.
Since August 2013, the Ap Geiriaduron, including Geiriadur Termau’r Coleg Cymraeg, has been downloaded 274,260+ times.
With many people in Wales using devices such as Alexa and Siri in English, the development of the Macsen voice assistant has created new possibilities to similarly use speech technology in Welsh.
Macsen can be asked to do various tasks or ask for information, for example, to turn the light on or off, get the news, weather, play music of Welsh language bands, or information from the Welsh language version of Wikipedia.
LTU research in Welsh speech technology has improved the lives Welsh speakers that are about to lose their ability to speak as a result of diseases such as Motor Neurone Disease or Throat Cancer.
Through a partnership with the NHS in Wales, the LTU created a platform that allows patients with the aid of speech therapists to create their own personal synthetic voice in Welsh and in English.
The project was the subject of a documentary program ‘Achub Llais John’ and was awarded a Giving Voice Award in 2019 by the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists.
LTU research has also led to work with local companies to enhance existing and develop new products and services.
For example, a translation company in Caernarfon benefited from LTU’s research to create their own machine translation software.
LTU researchers have served as advisors on the Welsh Government Welsh Language Technology Board, helping to inform the approach to language revitalisation through language technologies.
They also advised UNESCO’s LT4All initiative and the successful EU Parliament Resolution on Language Equality in the Digital Age.
Research-led development of resources has helped to promote Welsh as a modern, forward-looking language, as well as enhancing practice in industry and informing government policy.
Impact has extended beyond Wales, influencing the digital language equality roadmap internationally and informing the practice of global concerns.
Drawing on the distinctly Welsh culture of Bangor University’s location, researchers in English Literature and Creative Writing, Film, History, and Music are investigating the impacts of culture, society and the arts in national and international contexts.
Our three research focus areas are:
Research into late medieval literature has been part of the University’s work since its inception in 1884.
More recently, research into medieval English literature has demonstrated how relevant it is to the modern world by expanding global access to medieval texts and archives; influencing and shaping English literature in primary and secondary school curricula in Wales and England; influencing and informing the practices of cultural heritage institutions; and demonstrating, through varied media, the continued relevance of a crucial part of literary heritage to modern concerns among local, national and international audiences.
The Material Texts research cluster in the School of Languages, Literatures and Linguistics, which encompasses the Stephen Colclough Centre for the History and Culture of the Book, the Centre for Arthurian Studies (CAS), and the Institute of Medieval and Early Modern Studies (IMEMS), has fostered a wide range of research in the field of medieval literature, revealing the enduring relevance of these texts for contemporary audiences.
Research at Bangor has had a significant and lasting impact on global access to the oldest copy of Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales which provides scholars and the general public (worldwide) with online access for the first time to the Hengwrt copy of the Canterbury Tales via the NLW’s Digital Mirror and since 2014 it has received 23,345 views.
Research in Arthurian studies has helped shape the new creative learning curriculum in Welsh and English schools, and the educational policy for the Welsh government in its delivery of secondary school teaching and the CADW ‘continuing education’ programme.
Overall research in medieval literature has also changed the A-level curriculum and teachers’ approaches to early literature.
Arthurian and non-Arthurian romance was disparaged by the school-teachers of the post-medieval period as not suitable for gentlewomen and ladies (for example, on the grounds of adultery and manslaughter abounding in the key medieval romance ‘The Death of Arthur’ by Thomas Malory).
Yet the appeal of the legends across time, linguistic and geographical locations has been such, to the present day, that re-introducing this fascinating area of study to the curriculum is hugely important.
We have seen significant increases in pupils’ engagement with literacy, and the public’s interest in the legends has never been stronger.’
Pioneering research into translation, creative writing and poetry criticism from Wales in the English language has influenced creative practice and raised local and international audiences’ awareness of Wales’ bilingual literature.
The connection between translation, intercultural understanding and literary creativity are brought to the fore through the novels of Alys Conran, Zoë Skoulding’s poetry and her research into poetry translation as a creative practice, and Carol Rumens’ poetry and poetry criticism.
Bangor research has increased awareness of how translation, as a topic and a practice, is a means to enhance public awareness of their culture.
Translation is also a way to develop a new understanding of Wales’ dual but shared identity, language and culture.
Media attention singled out how the bilingual publication of Alys Conran’s debut novel Pigeon and its reception foster transcultural creativity, and Literature Wales now uses it as an example of how the Wales Book of the Year prize 'increases the perceived value of Wales’s literature amongst our citizens and those of other nations'.
Cross-cultural influences and cultural understanding are central to Rumens’ poems.
Rumens’ collected poems have been published in the USA and her weekly blog for the Guardian Online has an international influence.
The blog engages with global poetry networks, often presenting poetry from other cultures.
It is discussed on social media by poets and readers of poetry across the English-speaking world.
Her selection and in-depth discussion of individual poems are informed by her high-profile work as a poet and translator.
She highlights the capacity of online and social media to transcend national boundaries, stimulating discussion between non-academic readers of poetry and poetry in translation on several continents.
She also explores with schoolchildren via lectures and included as part of AQA’s GCSE English Literature syllabus from 2017 onwards.
Working in English in Wales's bilingual context, Bangor University researchers have engaged with audiences around the world via prestigious local, international and virtual platforms.
Their practice-based research enacts, reflects and strengthens cross-cultural relationships through creative writing and criticism.
Skoulding’s Hidden Rivers ESRC Impact Acceleration Account project involved citizens in remapping Bangor through poetry walks along the culverted Afon (River) Adda, including groups such as the North Wales Society for the Blind and schoolchildren at Ysgol Glanadda.
Comments from local people in both Welsh and English about their changed perceptions informed a collaborative poem sequence in her collection Footnotes to Water, which later won the Wales Book of the Year Poetry Award 2020.
The power of this work, as observed in Poetry Wales by Dai George, is that local people are central to the creative process as they see their city from a new perspective.
Writers at Bangor University contribute to local and international audiences’ awareness of Wales’s bilingual literatures.
Because we live and work in a bilingual environment, we are attuned to the diversity of languages in other cultures and the connections that can be made between them..

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/news/2023-11-16-bangor-universitys-novel-system-for-public-health-surveillance-through-analysis-of:
His Majesty The King has approved the award of The Queen’s Anniversary Prizes to twenty-two Higher and Further Education institutions across the United Kingdom, including Bangor University.
Bangor University was recognised for its work on developing a novel system for public health surveillance through the analysis of harmful pathogens in wastewater.
The system was deployed nationally during the COVID-19 pandemic and has now been adapted to measure a wide range of public health indicators.
The Prize-winners were announced at a reception at St James’s Palace in London.
A formal Honours ceremony will take place next year.
Professor Paul Spencer, Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Research added: “Congratulations to the wastewater team on receiving this prestigious Award.
This project is a great testament to Bangor University’s interdisciplinary approach to research, and illustrates the powerful real-world impact which can be achieved through collaborative working between researchers, industry and government.”
Sir Damon Buffini, Chair of The Royal Anniversary Trust said: “The Queen’s Anniversary Prizes for Higher and Further Education are an integral part of our national Honours system, shining a light on the groundbreaking work taking place in universities and colleges across the UK.
All 22 Prize-winners demonstrate excellence, innovation and impact, with many tackling some of the toughest problems we as a society face today.
They are to be commended for reaching this pinnacle of achievement in the tertiary education sector.
Congratulations!”
The Queen’s Anniversary Prizes for Higher and Further Education are part of the UK’s national Honours system, recognising outstanding work by UK universities and colleges which demonstrates excellence, innovation and benefit to the wider world.
First awarded in 1994, the Prizes are granted every two years by the Sovereign on the advice of the Prime Minister following a rigorous and independent process of review carried out by The Royal Anniversary Trust, an independent charity.
The winners of the fifteenth round were announced at St James’s Palace on 16 November, 2023; the Prizes will be presented at a formal Honours ceremony in 2024.
You can browse all the award winners here www.queensanniversaryprizes.org

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/about/about-the-university:
A strong, confident institution recognised regionally, nationally and internationally as a centre of excellence for its varied portfolio of teaching and research, and for the unique, multicultural, inclusive experience it provides for its staff and students.
Bangor University has a long tradition of academic excellence and a strong focus on the student experience.
Around 10,000 students currently study at the University, with teaching staff based within fourteen Academic Schools.
The Quality Assurance Agency’s (QAA) Institutional Review has commended the way the university manages academic quality.
We received a number of commendations which highlighted particular areas of strength, including the way in which we use a data-driven approach to inform and enhance the student experience.
Other areas which received commendations were the University’s partnership with students, and the fact that bilingualism is embedded within all aspects of the student experience.
The University has responded to the QAA report with its action plan.
The University is made up of three Colleges housing nine academic Schools , as well as over fifty specialist research centres, enabling the provision of courses spanning the Arts, Humanities and Sciences.
We offer hundreds of courses across the arts, humanities and sciences.
We pride ourselves on the quality of our teaching and our courses and lecturers were rated second in the UK at the What Uni Student Choice Awards 2018.
Bangor University is committed to sustainable development and global citizenship.
We aim to promote sustainability in research, business and enterprise activities.
Much of what we do is based on our desire to bring sustainability to life, whether through our teaching, research or public engagement.
We have the ISO14001:2015 accreditation for environmental management , and a range of sustainability measures in place, including high rankings in world Sustainability League tables.
For more information on the wider sustainability agenda at Bangor University, visit our Sustainability webpages .
Bangor’s location – close to the mountains and the sea – has been described as the best university setting in the UK .
In 2016 North Wales was named as the 4th best region in the world to visit by the travel guide Lonely Planet due to its stunning location and “shiny new adventure sports facilities”.
The University’s recent investments in facilities and services include the Pontio Arts and Innovation centre , a multi-million pound development which includes teaching facilities a theatre, cinema, bar, cafes and an innovation space.
Pontio is also home to our Students’ Union.
Other investment is the redevelopment of the University’s sports facilities at Canolfan Brailsford .
Student life at Bangor University is vibrant and diverse.
We have more than 150 Students’ Union Clubs and Societies , covering a range of interests, activities and sports, which means there’s something for everyone.
Student membership is free, so all our students can take advantage of the extra-curricular opportunities offered.
Our Clubs and Societies were named best in the UK at the WhatUni Student Choice Awards 2019.
Students are given help and support from the moment they arrive.
Our Student Services Centre provides advice and guidance on matters from money and housing to disability support, counselling, dyslexia, study skills and local faith provision.
Every year hundreds of second and third year students are trained as Peer Guides to welcome new students to Bangor and provide practical advice to help them settle-in.
Bangor University’s accommodation was ranked in the Top 10 at the 2024 Whatuni Student Choice Awards.
We guarantee accommodation for first year students who select Bangor as their Firm Choice and apply before the given deadline.
We have close links with business and the NHS in Wales through the Besti Cadwaladr University Health Board.
The University is a major provider of training and education for the NHS and is also one of the main partners in the North Wales Clinical School.
*excluding specialist institutions and single-submission universities

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/strategy-2030:
A Sustainable World for Future Generations.
Strategy 2030 – Full PDF Strategy 2030 - Accessible PDF

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/annual-report:
DOWNLOAD OUR ANNUAL REPORT AS A PDF
Annual Raport
DOWNLOAD OUR ANNUAL REVIEW AS A PDF
Download Transparency Statement 23/24
How much Student Fees does my University receive?
We received £88,651,000 in tuition fees in 2022/23 accounting for 50% of our University’s income.
Accessible version of information in the image above:
The total income for 2022/23 was £178.0m.
Our remaining income comes from Funding Body grants for specific areas of spending, funding sources to pay our Research Costs, Halls and Catering receipts as well as other income from areas such as non-credit courses, Pontio, Academi, Tir Na Nog nursery, the Management Centre, Menai Science Park, Canolfan Brailsford and other sources.
What is this spent on?
This chart shows all our expenditure, including costs which are non-tuition fee funded such as Research, Service Rendered e.g.
consulting work and Halls.
To help show where tuition fees are spent we’ve provided further analysis below.
Accessible version of the information in the image above:
The total expenditure for 2022/23 was £172.3m.
What are my fees spent on?
We spend the income from your tuition fees to best deliver your education and support all our students’ aspirations and future prospects.
To do this tuition fees are mostly spent on Academic teaching and support as well as spending on IT, Library and Buildings to facilitate your studies.
Teaching and assessment
Staff teaching and contact time, timetabling, providing online resources, exam set up, personal tutor time
Support staff in schools
Administrative and technical staff working in University Schools to support teaching delivery
Non-staff costs of running schools
Equipment and consumables to support teaching, academic staff training and travel and student recruitment costs
Student Support services (staff costs)
Student support and administration staff costs
Student Support services (non-staff costs)
Staff Provision of IT and Library Services
Staff costs of running IT and Library Services
Non-Staff Cost Provision of IT, Equipment and Library Services
Non-staff costs of IT equipment, shared computers, wifi, network costs, Library books & journals
Maintenance and building running costs
Costs of running and maintaining the University estate including lighting, heating and maintenance costs
Professional Services
Costs to support the University operate the functions above.
Specific Student Support Services spending
Within Student Support costs we provide the following services to improve students’ opportunities for success.
This is funded by Student Fees over and above grant funding of approximately £756k.
Student Wellbeing
Supporting and promoting student wellbeing
Skills / Employability
Improving students study skills and to gain employment
Disability Service
Assisting students with the aids needed to support their studies
Widening Access
Working with potential new students to raise awareness and aspirations to higher education

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/about/our-location:
Bangor is on the North Wales coast, a few miles from Snowdonia National Park.
We're well connected by road and rail.
There are direct trains from London, Manchester, Crewe and Cardiff.
There are also frequent ferries from nearby Holyhead to Ireland.
The nearest airports to Bangor are Liverpool John Lennon Airport and Manchester Airport, which are both around 1.5 to 2 hours away.
The nearest port is Holyhead, which has direct sailings from Ireland.
It is a 30 minute journey from Holyhead to Bangor.
See where our buildings, including our halls of residence, are located around the city.
View our map of the campus

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/about/academic-schools-and-colleges:
The academic activities of the University are grouped into three Colleges:
The College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences comprises the following Schools and academic centres:
Visit the College website
The College of Science and Engineering comprises the following Schools and academic centres:
The College of Medicine and Health comprises the following Schools and academic centres:

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/about/services-and-facilities:
Browse the list of our Services and Facilities:

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/vice-chancellor:
"I am extremely proud to be the Vice-Chancellor for Bangor University.
We exist to create a sustainable and flourishing world to live in, for our planet, for our country and individuals across communities.
Sustainability is a core value and guiding principle for the University, ranking 15th in the world, for our renowned research and commitment to safeguarding the environment.
We are also a committed bilingual University, taking great pride in our Welsh heritage and language.
North Wales is an incredibly beautiful place to live and work and staff and students here, enjoy a rich experience and quality of life.
Bangor University is award winning, for both student experience and for leading-edge research and innovation, that has far-reaching, global impact.
I am committed to driving forward our Strategy 2030 to ensure sustainable growth, exemplary education, research with impact world-wide, and outstanding student experience, so that the University upholds its role in in creating a healthy and prosperous world to live in."
With a career dedicated to higher education and the pursuit of academic excellence, Professor Burke has held senior positions at the University of Nottingham, University of Stirling, Queen Mary University of London as well as, most recently, at the University of Leicester.
He has a distinguished international research profile in Operational Research.
His research investigates intelligent decision support methodologies in complex environments and lies at the interface of Computer Science and Mathematics.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering and President of the Operational Research Society.
As an institutional leader, he has demonstrated strategic vision and operational effectiveness by driving new initiatives, managing complex programmes of change and generating significant and sustainable growth.
Vice-Chancellor’s Office, Bangor University, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG, UK

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/collaborationhub/index.php.en:
Bangor University has a successful track record of working in partnership with businesses to develop people, products and processes.
Please contact us directly to discuss ways of engaging with the University to meet your organisational needs.
collaborationhub@bangor.ac.uk
01248 383000
Knowledge Exchange (KE) schemes create a mutually beneficial business/University strategic programme led by a suitably qualified graduate.
These partnerships aim to embed new expertise, stimulate business growth and power innovation.
Supported with grant funding up to 75% of the project costs, a KE project provides businesses with cost-effective access to the unique resources within the University’s knowledge base: it’s research expertise, cutting-edge technology, and equipment.
Knowledge exchange programmes can run from 6 to 36 months.
The core knowledge exchange programmes are Knowledge Transfer Partnership (UK) and SMART Partnership (Wales).
More information about Knowledge Exchange
Research councils offer support for collaborative research projects involving industrial partners.
There are many different types of funding available for collaborative projects and the specific attributes of these funding opportunities depend on the project size, scope and funder aims.
Innovate UK are key funding council that place an emphasis on business led innovation.
Collaborative research projects are a significant commitment and require a strong working relationship between all partners.
More information about Collaborative Research Projects
An internship is a method of on-the-job training for professional careers.
An internship can vary in length from a few weeks to several months and can be paid or unpaid, depending on the employer.
Internships consist of an exchange of services or experience between the individual and an organisation.
These are a great way for organisations to engage with talented students and scope out potential future employees.
More information about Internships
Industrially sponsored PhDs or MPhils are a fantastic way to build a sustained, ongoing and long-term relationship with an academic department.
A 1-2 year MPhil or 3-4-year PhD project provide a mechanism to develop a detailed understanding of a research area and embed that knowledge within a company.
An industrially sponsored MPhil or PhD creates research and development outcomes that will enhance the company’s core activities, products, processes and/or services.
More information about PhD / MPhil Studentship
Bangor University offers direct access to academics and research groups through bespoke consultancy projects.
Consultancy allows businesses to access University expertise to find solutions to specific problems in a highly focussed and efficient manner.
Bangor University employs world leading academics who are committed to shaping and maintaining state-of-the-art subject specific knowledge.
Consultancy services include, but are not limited to; advisory, analysis, testing, expert opinion, expert witness, and training.
Bangor University‘s training programmes and short courses are delivered by academic experts and industry professionals across a variety of disciplines and formats, aimed at both individuals looking to enhance their own skills or career prospects and employers looking to develop their workforce.
More information about Short Courses and Continuing Professional Development
The Skills and Innovation Voucher (SIV) scheme offers businesses which operate in the counties of Gwynedd, Isle of Anglesey and Flintshire an opportunity to collaborate with us at Bangor University through the Shared Prosperity Funding Scheme .
More information The Skills and Innovation Voucher Scheme
Collaboration Hub, Bangor University, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG, UK.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/civic-mission:
Since the University’s foundation in 1884, we’re aware of the special connection between the institution and the area in which we’re based.
Tudur Owen Since those First days of Bangor University almost 150 years ago, the deep-rooted connection to the local area has been so important.
And working with the community to raise aspirations and to improve quality of life was part of its beginnings, and it remains at its core to this day.
The ability of the University to contribute to our economic, environmental, cultural and social wellbeing is crucial and valuable.
And this is why the University’s civic mission is this: To prioritise the wellbeing of our communities and the area.
By working together with our community partners, Bangor University can help to create a sustainable world for the current and future generations, right here in north Wales.
Join us as we hear from just some of those benefiting from that very mission.
This film is about their stories, their voices.
Aaron Pleming My name is Aaron Pleming and I volunteer here at Pontio, and I live with cerebral palsy.
Volunteering here at Pontio has helped me develop my confidence in other stuff that I do outside of Pontio, like meeting new people and people that I wouldn’t basically meet if I wasn’t volunteering here at Pontio.
We’re basically like a big family, everybody knows each other, like I’ve worked with most of the volunteers here, so basically we’ve become like a big family.
I’ve had massive support from Pontio because they don’t see me as Aaron with cerebral palsy, they just see me as Aaron, so there’s basically no barrier there really: I’m just me.
Rhian Parry Jones My name’s Rhian Parry Jones, I’m the headteacher of Ysgol Dyffryn Nantlle in Penygroes.
The school is a secondary school, for pupils between the age of eleven to eighteen years old.
The support that we have from the University has enabled us as staff to make sure that we are able to give the correct advice and support to pupils, and enabled them to think maybe wider about the possibilities they have in the future, regarding their careers maybe in STEM subjects that they may not have considered before now.
Huw Evans So we started off working with Bangor University through Widening Access, quite a few years ago, and we’ve had quite a few projects since then.
We’ve had projects with Reaching Wider, and also we’ve worked closely with M-SParc in Gaerwen.
So today we have a focus on STEM and science, so we have a group working with Reaching Wider looking at the local energy, and then we have Explore, which are Techniquest, and they are looking at the universe, astrophysics, and also looking at driverless car technology.
Alaw In my opinion my best part of the project is that we get different types of things to do and we can have a taste of different things.
Efa I like how we’re wanting to learn new things and have the opportunity to do it.
In my opinion I think that the World of Work was the best one, because different employers came in and taught us different things.
Huw So over the years we’ve had quite a few projects going on between Widening Access and M-SParc and Reaching Wider.
So we’re looking mainly at STEM and STEM projects but we’re also looking at career paths and expanding pupils horizons to careers in science or careers in STEM and also to develop soft skills for the pupils for the future.
So the support we’ve had from Bangor University through these projects has enabled the pupils to gain valuable skills that they wouldn’t have in other areas of the school curriculum.
For the teachers it’s also expanding their horizons to the potential available for the pupils.
Guto Wyn Hughes I’m Guto Wyn Hughes, I’m a PhD student here at Bangor University.
So I’m Bangor born and raised, and started coming to Brailsford, or as it was back then Maesglas when I was still in primary school when there were sports lessons and such, and even did my work experience here in secondary school, and have kept coming back here ever since.
So I’m studying a PhD here in Bangor University in human physiology, specifically integrative physiology and autonomic blood pressure regulation is my area.
So Canolfan Brailsford has this fantastic setup for weightlifting.
We’ve got the Welsh National Training Centre for weightlifting here, but what you really find that is unique about it is that in most places where you have specialty sports you have these really closed off facilities, where you don’t get any members of the public, you don’t get any interaction with anyone apart from elite athletes, but here this training centre is open to the public, so you’re there doing training with people who are elite in their sport, but you also have members of the general public coming in and seeing this going on and they’re asking ‘How can I get involved in this?’ So we’ve currently got the setup going on for the British University Weightlifting Championships which is happening this weekend.
It’s traditionally always been down in London, but this is the first time it’s ever been anywhere else, and it’s largely because we hosted a group of the British national team here for a competition and they loved the facilities.
I would absolutely recommend to people to come along to Brailsford if they want to get involved in any sort of sport, a bit of weightlifting or anything else.
We’ve got a little bit of everything going on, and there’s a community and a group for everything here.
Tansy My name’s Tansy and I am one of the outdoor education assistants and leaders.
Wild Elements is all about getting people outside and getting them connected with nature and excited about nature.
So we look at why we should be looking after it, why we should respect it, how we can look after it, and our ethos is about being environmentally friendly and sustainable.
So today we’re at Draig Beats, this is a festival that was set up years ago as fundraising for a lecturer at Bangor University.
Here today we’ve got all sorts of different events going on for families, all sorts of different workshops.
There’s greenwood working, there’s archery, there’s s’mores, and I am doing craft activities for the kids to come and have a go at, and we’ve got our little eco-friendly shop!
My first touchpoint with Bangor was coming to do my undergraduate degree in childhood studies and I had a really great time, knew that I wanted to do further education, so I went on to do my masters in research through KESS, which is a European fund for further education.
I was volunteering with Wild Elements and then the opportunity with the funding came up, and I had a chat with my tutor at the University and we realised well we can all work together on this, and this is the perfect partnership for it.
The new Welsh curriculum is a lot about getting children outside, which obviously ties in really well with Wild Elements ethos as well.
So we work a lot with the local schools in supporting them to get the children outside and to be able to take their classes outside, whether that’s through developing outdoor spaces or just going in and doing some training to show them how to do that.
I think one of the best things about working with Treborth Bangor University is having the access to be able to use these Botanical Gardens, with the forest school site that we’ve got, the work that we’re doing to develop it, working closely with Natalie the curator here, she’s really easy to talk to.
If we want to bring a school she’s really accommodating, finding dates when it’s free and available, and the space, it’s easy to get the kids in and out.
It’s just a perfect site really.
Anna Roberts I’m Anna Roberts, I’m the CEO and founder of Explorage.com, and we’re based here in M-SParc in Anglesey.
Bangor University is our local university, it’s on the doorstep, so we’ve always been familiar with it, but my personal engagement with it was initially with ION Level 5 Leadership Course, and that was something that I hadn’t really considered until I was doing some work for another company and I thought I’ve actually got my professional qualifications but now I really need something to give me that rubber stamp around my leadership capabilities.
And so that’s why I looked at the ION Leadership Course but actually the results of the ION course and the content of it and the contacts that I’ve made through doing it far exceeded my expectations, so that was great.
And then beyond that, they’ve also been quite supportive when we’ve been based here in M-SParc in terms of speaking with various faculty leaders about possible student collaborations that we can do with Explorage as we continue to innovate and grow.
You’re very much part of like a hub of activity basically, so you’ve constantly got your ear to the ground of things that are going on.
We’ve actually worked directly with several of the other tenants in the building, so we use their services and pick their brains as well on things!
We’ve had a skills academy placement which has come as a result of M-SParc as well, so that’s transformed into a full-time employee so they’re now a member of our team, we’ve had an intern as well.
If we hadn’t had the support from M-SParc and Bangor University that we have had, it certainly would have been a much more difficult hill to climb and it would have taken us way longer to get to where we are.
The support has really made us feel part of something and helped us to keep that momentum going, and it’s opened up doors when perhaps we would have just been banging our head on a brick wall with certain things!
So yeah, we’re very, very grateful for it.
Tudur This, the story of individuals connected to the University in so many different ways.
Here to work with you, and to support you.
Bangor University: Your University, Your Community.
Bangor University has a long history of working with our community to raise aspirations and improve quality of life.
If you would like to work with us, whether as an individual, a group, a school, or an organisation, please contact community@bangor.ac.uk or complete this enquiry form .
Our new Civic Engagement Strategy outlines how we work with our communities.
Our work in this area falls under three umbrella themes:
Through partnerships and collaborations, we seek to contribute to the economic, environmental, cultural and social well-being of our area.
Take a look at examples of this work below.
(e.g.
health, climate, Welsh language, housing, poverty, ageing population)
In 2022, the Community Board was established.
The Board replaces the former Bangor University Liaison Group (BULG), and includes representatives from a broad range of organisations, institutions and public services partners within Bangor and across north west Wales.
The Board is an important way of connecting the University with our communities, to discuss areas for collaboration and to work together on issues of common interest
Scientists from Bangor University initially developed the process of testing wastewater for COVID-19 , and this work, carried out in partnership with the Welsh Government, Cardiff University, Dŵr Cymru Welsh Water and Hafren Dyfrdwy was used in the early detection of the Omicron wave across Wales.
The team at Bangor have now added communicable diseases and hospitals to its capabilities.
The programme provides vital data on the prevalence of coronavirus in the community and adding these key sites and additional communicable diseases to the monitoring already in place across Welsh health boards and local authorities will deepen the insight and localised knowledge required in public health decision-making.
A more recent study has investigated whether wastewater testing could be used as a way of monitoring the general health of passengers on flights coming into the country in future.
The MA in Social Work programme was established in 2012 to ensure a supply of bilingual social workers, who mainly meet the needs of the local social-work workforce.
This is done in partnership with Anglesey, Gwynedd and Conwy Councils who provide work placements for students and this accounts for around 50% of their professional training.
By educating the local population to serve the local population the programme works with individuals to establish their well-being outcomes and collaborates with agencies and other professionals such as the police, health-workers, the education sector and the housing sector, to provide services that improve quality of life, protect against harm and abuse, and improve people’s prospects so that they can live as full a life as possible.
The University supports people living with dementia, their partners, families and carers in a number of ways, including the Caban Group, the North Wales Dementia Network, and working towards becoming a Dementia Friendly University.
Research is developed alongside people affected by dementia.
Ecoamgueddfa Pen Llŷn Ecomuseum – a partnership promoting Pen Llyn as a home not merely a destination or playground for visitors.
Simply put, an ecomuseum is a collaboration aiming to develop a reflection of place or region, its people and its communities.
The idea originated in France, where the term ‘ecomuseum’ was coined in 1971.
‘Eco’ is an abbreviation of ‘ecology’ but refers specifically to an innovative way of interpreting cultural heritage in all its glory rather than concentrating on certain artefacts of particular periods of history, as is the tendency with a traditional ‘museum’.
Our aim since the ecoamugeddfa was established in 2015 is to ensure that communities today and the communities of the future can thrive in their own locale on their own terms, enriching the visitor experience whilst moving away from ‘extractive’ tourism towards a more resilient visitor economy.
Funded by UK Government, and powered by Cyngor Gwynedd Levelling Up.
The University led on new research in 2021 to explore the influence of media messaging on people’s mask-wearing choices during the Covid-19 pandemic.
In 2020, a map showcasing Llandudno’s Jewish history was completed.
The map celebrates the presence of Jews in Llandudno from the late nineteenth century until the present day.
It accompanies the earlier map of Bangor’s Jewish history
The project is designed and run by researchers at the School of Psychology and Sport Science, and the Miles Dyslexia Centre at the University.
It comprises a short language and literacy programme for Key Stage 2 children, and was launched in response to the Covid-19 pandemic and resulting national lockdown in April 2020.
The project is now running in around 100 schools in Wales and England and has reached over 1,000 children.
The mission is to ensure that children – particularly those who struggle to read and write - receive the best possible literacy instruction.
A campaign started in order to encourage people who’ve moved out of Wales to return to live and work.
So far five people have returned, one now based at M-SParc, and coming from as far afield as Liverpool, London, and Texas!
The campaign is run in partnership with the North Wales Economic Ambition Board, Llwyddo’n Lleol, and others.
In a unique collaboration with the NHS, between 16-20 Bangor University MSc Counselling students are offering 2000 or more counselling support hours per year within Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board (BCUHB)’s Primary Mental Health Service.
This type of placement collaboration is unique to Bangor University and was the result of higher public demand for the NHS service, and a lack of ‘client ready’ students coming out of university.
The North & Mid Wales Law Clinic is a partnership of seven Local Citizen Advice branches and the University’s School of History, Law and Social Sciences which provides a service to support Litigants in Person at every stage of their journey.
Bangor University students are trained in key areas such as family law, community care and employment law and are offered the opportunity to develop and use their legal knowledge in a real-life setting.
The Language Technologies Unit at Bangor University is conducting research into how people can communicate with each other in Welsh through the help of new computers and smart devices and developing technology that recognises what people say in Welsh, then type it out or answer questions in Welsh.
Their Cysgliad programme, which includes Cysill (the Welsh spelling and grammar checker), and Cysgeir (a collection of Welsh electronic dictionaries) is available free of charge through the Welsh Government's generosity.
The Unit is also responsible for standardising Welsh terms for education in Wales, including The Education Terminology and the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol Terminology Dictionary.
Student Volunteering Bangor organises a plethora of activities aimed at local residents and includes tea parties (which have been running since 1952), day trips for older people, afternoon tea outings and even visits to the popular Snowdonia Donkey Sanctuary.
Students regularly volunteer at local care homes and help to organise a host of activities as well as providing a much-needed ear to those residents who simply ‘want to chat’.
Likewise, the Hafan Café in Bangor City Centre provides an opportunity for students to volunteer at a community hub which promotes wellbeing, independent living and offers a place for members of the local community to visit for a ‘panad’ and to socialise.
BLAS is funded by the Arts Council of Wales and Children in Need, and is the youth art participatory programme run by Pontio.
Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS 2) is a major pan-Wales operation supported by European Social Funds (ESF) through the Welsh Government.
KESS 2 links companies and organisations with academic expertise in the Higher Education sector in Wales to facilitate collaborative research projects, which work towards a PhD or Research Masters qualification.
Led by Swansea University in partnership with Bangor University, the ION Leadership project is supported by the European Social Fund via WEFO.
The project is designed to develop and enhance the leadership skills of owners, managers and key decision-makers of businesses located across West Wales and the Valleys.
Leadership and Business Growth Wales at Cardiff Metropolitan University, in partnership with Bangor University, have an established track record for delivering high quality leadership and management skills and sustainable business growth in Wales.
A unique executive development leadership and management course designed to help you to grow your business.
Further information may be found here.
In order to support businesses outside of the low carbon, energy and environment, digital and life science sectors, M-SParc and Menter Môn have partnered on the Enterprise Hub.
Funded by European Regional Development Funding through the Welsh Government, the Hub allows M-SParc to support new businesses in any sector by providing fully funded office space, events, and business support.
The Employability Service supports students and graduates through a range of services including one to one support, workshops, self-employment advice, aspirational mentoring , employer presentations, internships and work placements, as well as a range of online resources.
The service also works with employers of all sizes, especially local companies, national and international to source opportunities for engagement and development.
All organisations can register with our online service to work with any of our teams or projects and advertise suitable jobs, placements, internships and volunteering opportunities.
Graduates of Bangor University are eligible to access our services for three years post-graduation, and may also be eligible for funded work experience and training through the Graduate Support Programme .
The role of the IRIS Service is to support research excellence and impact activities in the University and the team is central to the delivery of the university’s new Strategy 2030: Research and Impact Strategy.
IRIS works with researchers to build sustainable relationships with local, regional and national business partners and other key stakeholders identified as potential collaborators and/or beneficiaries of our research.
As well as supporting researchers to secure research funding, IRIS also plays a key role in reporting and assessment exercises, such as the Research Excellence Framework (REF) and HE-BCI.
The University centre offering an exciting and unique blend of arts and culture, innovation, education and community.
The University’s sports centre and provides sports and recreation facilities for University staff and students, and the general public.
Wales’ first Science Park, M-SParc is the home of innovation and excitement in north Wales, with a focus on the low carbon energy, ICT and environmental sectors.
We are more than just a building; our mission is to support Anglesey, Gwynedd, Conwy and indeed beyond through our MSParc #OnTour project.
Situated on the shores of the Menai Straits, Treborth Botanic Garden is owned by Bangor University and used as a resource for teaching, research, public engagement and enjoyment.
Our aim is to further the conservation, sustainable use and enjoyment of plants and the natural world.
A new project scheduled for completion in 2024.
The University vision for the park is to open it up and create a welcoming and pleasant green space in the heart of the city.
SVB offers a variety of opportunities, including afterschool activities, sessions for autistic children, one-to-one mentoring at local primary schools and days out for children affected by family illness.
Founded in 2019, a local football club with a significant community engagement profile, played its matches between 2019-2023 at the University's 3G surface at Treborth Playing Fields.
Working in partnership with the University to provide scholarship opportunities to players whilst on their pathway into professional rugby and collaborating on various research project.
Formed in 2009 to help raise funds and awareness for good causes.
The team has grown well beyond our initial purpose, forming a women’s football team in 2021 as we continue to support charities, community groups and businesses
Bangor University participation in local food festivals, music festivals, agricultural shows and the National Eisteddfod is an important way of meeting and talking with people, to showcase and promote what the University has to offer, and to make the connections between University staff and communities in north west Wales and beyond.
The International Education Centre offers free International Cultures and English Courses (ICE) to anyone who wishes to improve their English during their time at Bangor.
Confucius Institute is an international collaboration between Bangor University and the China University of Political Science and Law (CUPL) in Beijing.
We aim to provide the people of north Wales with the opportunity to experience and learn more about the Chinese language and culture.
CMRP is a self-funding organisation based in the School of Human and Behavioural Sciences and is committed to the promotion of wellbeing through the application of mindfulness-based approaches.
Visit our website and join us for our free weekly meditation sessions.
A collection and long-term preservation of manuscripts, archival collections and a diverse range of rare books and printed material that are accessible to all researchers and free of charge.
We actively engage with the wider community in our activities as well as the staff and students within the University.
Bangor University has two open access libraries (Bangor and Wrexham) and welcome members of the public to browse our collections on a reference basis without charge.
You can also apply to join free of charge through local or national reciprocal borrowing schemes such as Linc Y Gogledd or Sconul Access.
Whatever your printing needs, we offer an extensive range of products and services, and deliver with fast and flexible turnarounds.
Our professional quality digital printers offer solutions for any project, from simple flyers to glossy brochures, along with large format poster printing and various binding capabilities.
In 2020 Bangor University and Coleg Cambria announced a new partnership vision to develop their relationship for the benefit of learners and the businesses of North East Wales.
In our strategic relationship, the two organisations are working together to establish new programmes and pathways into higher education whilst also delivering essential skills and opportunities for businesses in North East Wales through the Medru programme.
MEDRU combines industry and education expertise, which means we’re perfectly placed to equip people and businesses with the skills they need both now and for the future and is delivered in collaboration with the Open University, allowing the offer to be both in person and online showcasing the newest and most exciting advances in Industry 4.0, Digital Manufacturing, and Smart Factories.
The relationship between the organisations is targeting an ongoing process of development and progression as we respond to learner and business needs across a range of sectors and linking to the opportunities offered by the University’s campus in North East Wales and the broad offering of Coleg Cambria.
The University has enjoyed a long and sector-leading partnership with Grwp Llandrillo Menai across its various campuses in North West Wales.
With a portfolio of more than 40 validated programmes and a range of joint teaching collaborations the partnership is delivering across the North Wales workforce, from Health to Tourism and construction.
Recently the partnership has grown to include joint delivery in a range of Degree apprenticeships across the computer science and engineering disciplines and leading a partnership that has grown to include colleagues at Coleg Cambria.
Alongside teaching collaborations the partnership also delivers against increasing access and widening participation in HE, targeted interventions such as skills for nuclear and more widely collaborating in developing the regional economy through linking innovators across our teams to support economic policy development and deliver across the region.
Bangor University and Adra, North Wales’ largest social housing provider, have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to advance skills and research into decarbonising housing stock.
Further information about the collaboration between Bangor University and Adra
For further information regarding our Civic Engagement work, please contact:
Mrs Gwenan Hine leads on the delivery and effective operation of a strategic Vice-Chancellor’s Office, the provision of legal services, contracts and information compliance, research governance and ethics, ordinances and policies.
Gwenan also leads on the operational oversight of civic engagement.
Osian has been Director of Pontio Arts for five years, after joining from Arts Council Wales, in 2019.
Previously, Osian was a freelance opera singer.
Originally from Llanelli, in South Wales, Osian enjoys attending gigs and orchestral concerts and is a keen athletics and rugby union fan.
Iwan Williams is the Senior Civic Engagement Officer.
Iwan began in post in January 2022.
Iwan’s previous roles include working for the Welsh Local Government Association, the Older People’s Commissioner for Wales, Gwynedd/Anglesey Councils and Bangor City Council.
Kathryn Caine is the Civic Engagement Officer.
Kathryn began in post in November 2021 following various roles within the University including Campus Services, Pontio and most recently IRIS.
Prior to joining the University, Kathryn spent 10 years working in the Financial Services sector.
Kathryn is also the Wellbeing Champion for the Vice-Chancellor’s Office, IRIS, Legal & Compliance, and Planning and Strategic Projects
Follow our many Bangor University related accounts on Twitter:
@BangorUni
@PontioTweets
@TreborthBG
@BangorSport
@M_SParc

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/sustainablebangor:
At Bangor University we plan on making our university synonymous with sustainability.
in the UK
Times Higher Education Impact Ranking assessed against the United Nations’ Sustainability Development Goals, 2025
in the world
People & Planet University League, 2024/25
in the World
for Responsible Consumption and Production, Times Higher Education Impact Rankings, 2025
Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
Our goal is to inspire our academic community, our professional services teams and our students to create a more sustainable world in alignment with our vision to drive success through transformative, innovative, impact-driven research and teaching.
We believe this University has a role to play in society, building on our focus on discovery, sustainability, safeguarding the environment and promoting economic, social, bilingual and cultural vibrancy.
As a research-led University and as individuals who care deeply about the world we live in, we want to contribute to solving the world’s challenges, such as climate change, health inequalities, and workforce development.
We are passionate about promoting a culture and scholarship of environmental stewardship, living in harmony, and caring for the world in ways that meet our economic, social, environmental, and cultural needs.
Underpinned by our world-renowned research, we will support the development of Wales as a bilingual learning country with a knowledge driven economy for the benefit of the world and future generations.
We realise that sustainability is not just about the environment.
Alongside natural resources, we also need social, cultural and economic resources, meaning the four pillars of sustainability are: environment, culture, society and economy.
Our sustainability targets encompass all four aspects and develop a set of relevant key performance indicators.
We will become a leader in sustainability and to do this we must be ambitious in the targets we set our self.
However, these ambitions and the actions required to achieve them will avoid knee-jerk reactions and fads.
They will be based on robust multi-disciplinary evidence, which will be supplied by our own experts and researches at Bangor University.
We are on a journey to be the most sustainable university in the UK and we will be honest and transparent about what we have done well, and equally so on what we could do better.
Bangor University will never be able to be accused of ‘greenwashing’.
Sustainability will become more ingrained in all aspects of life at Bangor University and all the activities our staff and students are involved in.
Particularly, we will ensure that sustainability becomes a central theme in our curriculum and research specialisms.
Developments across our campus, procurement processes, staff training and community engagement activities will also embed the principles of sustainability within them.
Here's what our students at the College of Environmental Science and Engineering have to say about sustainability:
Being a truly sustainable university means not only looking after our natural resources and the environment – it means caring for our communities, our culture and our economic resources.
Sustainability is more than the environment and it’s more than the work of a single department – it’s in everything we do.
Working with the Welsh Government’s Well-being of Future Generations (Wales) Act 2015, and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, we are committed to making an impact to the challenges our global community is facing.
From our undergraduate modules to our research project, everything we do is being mapped onto the 17 UN Sustainability Goals and using the principles of the Welsh Government’s Well-being of Future Generations (Wales) Act 2015.
Well-being of Future Generations (Wales) Act 2015
UN Sustainable Development Goals
An estimated 30-40% of Uganda’s fruit and vegetables are wasted before reaching the market.
Bangor University is working with colleagues at Makerere University in Uganda to develop sustainable food packaging alternatives.
Hungry Dragon is a Bangor University student-led food project, saving surplus food in Bangor.
Recently partnered with Fair-Price Café, they convert surplus fruit and vegetables from local supermarkets into preserves and meals.
As a University, we understand that our use of fossil-fuel-derived energy is contributing to global climate change.
In 2019, we declared a Climate Emergency and announced that 100% of our electricity is now supplied from guaranteed renewable sources.
We have expertise in marine renewables (including mitigating the impacts on marine wildlife) and nuclear energy, vital to continue decarbonising electricity generation, which underpins emissions reductions in other sectors.
North Wales is geographically placed to be a leader in environmental technologies.
In 2019/20 the University diverted 100% of its waste from landfills.
Out of the waste diverted, 2% was reused, 59% was recycled and 39& was recovered.
617T of waste was generated in total, a 196T (24%) reduction from the previous year.
We aim to reuse/recycle 70% of our waste by July 2025, as laid out in Wales’ overarching waste strategy – Towards Zero Waste.
We are working on many items to improve our environmental and ethical performance, in areas such as education for sustainable development, staff and student engagement, and finance and procurement
Our policies and strategies shape the future of the University as well as focus on issues that face current staff and students.
Whilst our Reports evidence our efforts so far.
All people involved in Sustainability at Bangor share the same vision and values despite bringing different expertease and experiences to it.
When it comes to team we believe the whole is greater than the sum of its parts- but if you would like to browse the names check the list below.
If you have any questions about sustainability at Bangor University please email sustainability@bangor.ac.uk
Follow and use the hashtag #SustainableBangor for all things sustainable at Bangor University on social media.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/health-and-wellbeing:
These pages offer information to University staff about the welfare provision available to them.
If you are looking for support for students, you can access Student Wellbeing Service .
FOLLOW LLes STAFF Bangor ON X

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/about/contacts:
If your enquiry is about undergraduate or postgraduate study at Bangor University, please use the form below to contact us.
If you're getting in touch about anything else, please see the useful contacts at the bottom of this page.
You are welcome to contact the University in Welsh or English as noted in our Welsh Language Scheme.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/governance-and-compliance/policy-register/index.php.en:
Or browse by policy area Academic Issues Children and Young People Corporate Licensing Estates & Facilities Ethics and Research Ethics External Examiners Finance Freedom of Speech and Electoral Campaigning Guidance Governance Health & Safety Human Resources Information Governance IT Services Legal Compliance Library Services Modern Slavery Act 2015 Personal Relationships and Declarations of Interest Quality Assurance Recruitment (Student) Research Research Programmes Student Assessment Student Wellbeing Visas and Immigration Vulnerable Adults Welsh Language
The aim of this site is to provide a repository for University policies.
A University policy is defined as one with broad application throughout the University, that helps ensure coordinated compliance with applicable laws and regulations; promotes operational efficiencies; enhances the University’s mission; and reduces institutional risk.
This site includes Policies, Procedures, and other associated documentation approved by Council or by delegated authorities, such as Guidelines, Regulations, Codes of Practice, Frameworks, Standards, and Schemes.
Many important College, School, Department or Central Service policies serve similar purposes but are unit-specific and are not included on this site.
The University’s Colleges, Schools, Departments, or Central Services should link to this site rather than create their own pages with University policies.
This will help ensure that everyone in the University is referencing the most current versions of policies.
This online centralised repository for institutional policies, procedures, and associated metadata:
This Policy Development Framework sets clear expectations in relation to policy-writing at Bangor University, and creates a common approach to the development, implementation, and management of all Bangor University policies.
Policy owners and writers are encouraged to use the Framework, and the template included, both for existing and new policies.
Guidance can be obtained from Colin Ridyard in Governance Services.
If you are aware of a University Policy, Procedure or Guidance Note that is not currently included in the Register, please contact Colin Ridyard in  Governance Services: mhsa08@bangor.ac.uk .
Services and Facilities

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/about/university-management-and-governance:
The Council is the governing body of the University as set out in the University Charter and is responsible for the exercise of the University’s powers.
The Council Ordinance
The Court is the stakeholder group for Bangor University, and provides a forum in which members of the community can interact with the University.
The Court includes representatives from local authorities, members of parliament and members of the Senedd, the local health board, university alumni representatives, as well as other key stakeholders.
The Court Ordinance
The University Executive Board is Bangor University’s senior management group, and is responsible for the overall management and administration of the University.
The Senate is the academic authority of the University and is the ruling body on matters which require academic judgement.
The Senate also may engage in discussion of strategic matters affecting the academic domain.
The Senate approves Honorary Appointments, which acknowledge a voluntary, unpaid contribution to a School’s or the University’s activities.
on the recommendation of a Head of School.
The Senate Ordinance

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/about/pontio:
An exciting and unique blend of Arts and Culture, Innovation, Education and Community.
Bangor University welcomes you to Pontio – our centre offering an exciting and unique blend of Arts and Culture, Innovation, Education and Community.
The name ‘Pontio’ – a Welsh word which means “to bridge” – captures the essence of our new centre.
Pontio brings town and gown together in a real and tangible manner as
everyone comes together in innovation , learning, cinema , theatre and places to eat and drink.
Pontio showcases the very best from the world of arts and culture, including drama, music, dance, and contemporary circus both local and international.
It provides valuable inter-connecting space for innovation and enterprise, bringing the University’s expertise in research, design and product development together with business and enterprise in our region.
Pontio also serves as a focal point for students, with new Students’ Union offices and high quality teaching and social spaces to be enjoyed by all.
Most importantly, Pontio adds significantly to the amenities within Bangor and the surrounding areas for the economic, social and cultural benefit of both the University and of the wider community.
In doing so, the Pontio centre lives up to its name and its vision by providing a bridge between various facets of the University and the community within north-west Wales.
Pontio has been funded by Bangor University, together with significant assistance from the Welsh Government, the European Regional Development Fund and the Arts Council of Wales.
*Pontio is funded through the Welsh Government’s Strategic Capital Infrastructure Fund (SCIF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), Bangor University and the Arts Council of Wales.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/sportbangor:
Join the gym
Book a fitness class
Inductions
Our focus is 100% on supporting YOU to become the best version of YOU.
Explore More
We'll help you reach your fitness goals.
Fill out Survey
Canolfan Brailsford is a state-of-the-art gym located in the heart of Bangor.
You can buy or renew membership and book classes and activities online.
We're open from early morning until late night.
View our opening times.
Learn how to use the gym safely and get the most out of your workout.
Our facilities include pitches, indoor and outdoor courts, an athletics track and climbing wall.
Take a look at our timetable.
See our full price list.
We offer a range of activities and services.
Our programme for juniors offers weekly classes and sports camps to keep children entertained during the holidays.
Active Staff is our programme of fitness activities specifically for Bangor University Staff.
Therapy treatments are available at Canolfan Brailsford through our partnership with LEAF Health.
Our on-site accommodation is perfect for teams, coaches and athletes travelling to the University or local area to compete or train.
Our programme is designed to help develop players to achieve their full potential.
Through a combination of individualised training and team sessions, you will see significant progress and improve your overall development either through the performance programme or our development and social teams.
Join us and take your rugby game to the next level!
We offer opportunities for you to develop your skills, experience and knowledge and we work in partnerships with many organisations.
Get to know our friendly and knowledgable team of staff and trainers who will be on-hand to help you in the gym.
The Athletics Union (AU) is part of the Students' Union and offers a huge range of sporting opportunities for students.
Discover more
Campus Sport is a free programme of sports available to all students.
You can access scholarships and bursaries to support you in your sporting career.
Get involved in sport volunteering and gain valuable experience.
Discover More
Canolfan Brailsford, Ffriddoedd Road, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2EH

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/commercial-services/conferencing.php.en:
Nestled  between the mountains of Snowdonia and the Menai Strait, Bangor provides an  excellent backdrop to your event.
The  University is easily accessible to both national and international visitors.
With  space to suit, all occasions, from historic halls to rooms with a contemporary  look and feel with capacities from 4 to 450.
Our selection of conference and  meeting locations means we are able to offer organisers maximum flexibility  with the option of using a combination of venues across the campus.
Reichel
Main University Building
Pontio
The Management Centre

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/commercial-services/places-to-eat-and-drink.php.en:
When it comes to food and drink  we have a wide range of options available.
Whether you're looking to grab a  quick coffee, a hearty breakfast, light lunch or delicious supper we have something to suit everybody.
We’re committed to delivering tasty, great value  food using fresh and where possible, local ingredients.
We are a Fairtrade accredited University.
We offer Fairtrade accredited products in all our outlets; we use fish from sustainable sources and all our eggs are free range.
Click on the links below to find out more about our  various outlets.
Bar Uno
Teras Lounge
Pontio Food and Drink
Café Teras
Barlows
@EATDRINKBANGOR Facebook Instagram Twitter
Catering Summer opening hours 2025

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/widening-access/index.php.en:
Raising aspirations, attaining success.
Bangor University is committed to supporting students who are also young adult carers and care experienced to meet their aspirations in education and work.
We understand you may have concerns regarding finance, balancing studying with your care responsibilities and leaving those who depend on you for care.
A Carer is someone who looks after a member of the family, partner or friend with a physical or sensory disability, learning disability, medical condition, mental health issues or someone addicted to drugs, alcohol or gambling.
Care experienced simply means that you will have been in the care of your local authority for at least 13 weeks at any time since the age of 14.
If you are a young carer interested in attending our residential this year, please contact your local care provider to book your place.
Although caring can have a positive impact on carers and be a hugely rewarding experience, it can also impact on the physical and emotional well-being of Carers.
Bangor University is carer aware and established it’s Carers Policy to help support staff and students with carer responsibilities.
We understand that balancing your academic studies may prove challenging.
Whether you feel like you want to disclose your circumstances or not, we are here to support you in a holistic way.
At Bangor University, we place a high priority on caring for and supporting our students.
We offer a comprehensive student welfare service.
As a student entering Higher Education from care or as someone advising a Care Experience student, you can be assured that Bangor will provide you with the necessary support and information.
This support is available while you’re still deciding what or where to study, continues through the university application process, and is on-going once you’ve started your course.
There is a named contact person for Care Experience students within the University’s Student Services, and that is the person you should turn to for help and advice at any stage of your journey into and through Higher Education.
As a Care Experience student, or as someone advising a student, your first point of contact is: Wendy Williams, Student Adviser in Student Services.
Wendy can give you more details on all aspects of the University’s support provision – both prior to admission and whilst studying here.
Contact Wendy on 01248 383637 or e-mail: studentsupport@bangor.ac.uk.
YOUNG CARERS RESIDENTIAL CONFERENCE
Each year, in partnership with Reaching Wider, Bangor University hosts a 3-day Residential Event, which give 16-24 year-old carers a taste of university life and the support offered to them here at Bangor.
This is an extremely popular event where Bangor University welcomes between 50-60 young carers and their outreach workers on campus.
During the event, many academic schools deliver subject taster sessions.
There is an opportunity to see the University, Pontio, the Students’ Union, Canolfan Brailsford Sports centre, meet academic staff and current students.
Carers spend 2 nights in our Halls of Residence.
It's also a wonderful opportunity to share your experiences with other young carers.
Thank you so much for providing such an inspirational and rewarding residential.
The young carers were really buzzing afterwards as were the staff!
Roll on next year!
Carers Outreach Staff
UCAS have introduced a new section in the application so you can share more information about your circumstances with the university – including whether you have caring responsibilities.
This information means we can connect you with support for your needs quickly and easily and ensure you have all the information you need.
If you provide unpaid care for another person or you are a care leaver, just select ‘yes’ from the drop-down box in the question that asks if you have any caring responsibilities in the ‘More about me’ section of the application.
Additional support and resources for carers attending university is also given by the Carers Trust and your local care providers.
These include practical support such as providing bedding, utensils, and towels for your arrival at university.
The Young Carers ID card will give young carers a quick and easy way to inform lecturers, staff, and community services such as leisure centres and local transport, that they look after someone.
We partner with Reaching Wider to deliver various projects.
The Reaching Wider Partnership mission is to widen access by increasing the number of Reaching Wider priority groups who would not have otherwise considered entering Higher Education from the most deprived areas in North and Mid Wales.
Young carers - they are most of their life cared for someone else.
They have been what someone else wants them to be.
They don't actually be themselves and they need to just actually have that time to sit down, reflect and realise that they matter too.
It would be a struggle at first to realise that actually they have their own choice.
But once, especially once these start to happen, you've come into yourself,
feel more relieved and they realise actually they aren't bound to that caring responsibility.
It's they have a life outside of that caring role.
I am Brandon Horton.
I'm doing a business management course with a foundation year.
I do think that sometimes carers do look at university and go, well, I'm too far away.
I can't.
Who else is going to care for that person while I'm gone?
Especially young carers who've been brought up to feel that they are the only person that can care for that person.
There are support and systems out there to help, and while they're away, they can still give support over the phone.
And now at Bangor University,
there are people out here to support the young carers as well with their transition into university and away from that, the major caring role.
It does bring out your inner child in the fact that that person that you're caring for isn't there, and you can actually be yourself.
You get to have time to reflect on your life.
You do have great moments where the university is seen as this time where it's always busy, you're always on the go.
But actually, there's a lot of time in university where you have that time to wind down and reflect,
and actually you realise that maybe you didn't have a normal childhood growing up, but you get that time now.
You can mess around with new friends.
You can go out and do the things that you've always wanted to do as a kid.
I think once they actually get here and realise how good the independence feels and how it enabled them for them to grow within themselves,
I think they would actually feel better within themselves and realise that they
actually have got more of a future than what they might originally realise they had.
The things I've picked up from my course is confidence.
There's a difference in managing people and and caring for people.
Almost two sides of the same coin, really, that you are as a manager and a caring.
You are caring for someone.
But it's different in the fact that you are.
You have to have the confidence to tell people what's what.
Having that autonomy to push a business into the vision that you see getting and choose what I want to be and who I want to be instead of that.
And the people decide.
Having them options available to be, um, it lifts a few weight off my shoulders.
It kind of gives me that drive and purpose of what to do in life and how to move forward.
And I can plan certain steps of my life around these goals and how to progress further.
Being a full-time carer and a full-time student is tough and it takes a special kind of person, but the University staff are extremely supportive and will do all they can to make it a little bit easier.
At Bangor, we're proud to welcome students from all backgrounds.
If you're over 21 years of age, you're classed as a mature student.
Here's some information and advice to help on your new journey.
Our support for mature learners include
Book a chat with our friendly and experienced Widening Participation Officer with any questions you may have.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/mrc/schools.php.en:
Bangor University offers a range of activities for schools and colleges, with the aim of increasing awareness of Higher Education and encouraging young people to consider the opportunities available to them.
These activities range from pre-application advice and guidance talks to interactive sessions aimed at raising the aspirations of younger pupils.
The following are some of the activities which your school might be interested in:
Presentations on Bangor University and advice on preparing for Higher Education are offered by the University’s Schools Liaison Officers.
The topics covered include; How to choose, Where to choose; Completing the UCAS Form; Preparing your Personal Statement; Preparing for interviews.
Arrange for us to come to a careers fair, give a talk or visit Bangor University.
Current Bangor students can visit your school to lead a question-and-answer session on student life and what it’s like to study at University.
A tailored programme is drawn up for each school wishing to bring a group of pupils (or the whole year group) on a visit to Bangor.
The activities available include talks by particular academic departments; guided tours of the campus (including student accommodation and sports facilities); a visit to/presentation by the Students’ Union; workshops/presentations on team-building, graduate careers, study skills and progression to Higher Education.
The visits can be either day-long visits or residential visits .
A school bringing a group of younger pupils on an aspiration-raising visit to the University would usually be offered a broad programme consisting, for example, of a visit to an academic department, a guided tour of the campus (including student accommodation and sports facilities), and a general introduction to university and student life.
For more information on any of the activities aimed at either Years 12 and 13 or younger pupils, please contact:
UK Recruitment Team
UK Recruitment & Admissions Bangor University
Tel: 01248 388144/382005 E-mail: marketing@bangor.ac.uk
Bangor is an ideal base for a residential visit, and dozens of schools return here on an annual basis for activities ranging from fieldwork and activity weeks to Sixth Form Induction and Introduction to HE programmes.
The choice of accommodation is either standard accommodation in traditional halls of residence or en-suite study bedrooms in the newer halls, while the catering provision includes both cafeteria meals and packed lunches as required.
A full information pack giving more details of the residential facilities and services for schools is available from the Conference Office.
For your pack or to discuss a possible residential visit, please contact the Conference Office on:
Tel: 01248 388088 Email – aros@bangor.ac.uk Web – www.bangor.ac.uk/commercial-services/conferencing.php.en
The School of Educational Sciences at Bangor University provides initial teacher training (BEd, BSc leading to QTS, and PGCE courses) for those wishing to enter a career in education, as well as continuing professional development courses for teachers.
Bangor University also offers support and resources for schools and teachers across a range of courses and programmes, see more here
Further information can also be found on our resources hub for schools, teachers and parents
For information on any of the above, please contact:

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/business-services:
Bringing a range of business services to you.
Bangor University has a variety of business services ranging from collaborative research and development opportunities to consultancy, business facilities and training.
We also have a range of catering and conferencing services available to you.
Whether a micro, SME, not-for-profit or a large organisation, the Collaboration Hub provides access to the wide range of business and innovation support opportunities.
Intellectual Property (IP) originates from the research, teaching and knowledge transfer activities of University academics and post-graduate research students.
Find out more about Intellectual Property (IP) & Commercialisation
We have a selection of conference and meeting locations across the campus offering space to suit all occasions.
Our business dining option offers a perfect place to conduct a business lunch or to entertain guests.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/commercial-services/business-dining.php.en:
Located in the historic Main Arts building Teras Lounge has a relaxed yet refined atmosphere and prides itself on its carefully crafted menu - a perfect place to conduct a business lunch  or to entertain guests.
Open Monday to Friday 8am – 6pm the Teras Lounge is also available for private hire during the evenings and weekend.
For further information visit the Teras webpage
Gorad Restaurant can be found on the second floor of the Pontio building.
With its modern design and an emphasis on fresh ingredients it lends itself well for business dining.
For more information visit the Pontio food and drink webpages .

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/intellectual-property:
It also originates through collaborations with partner organisations such as businesses, universities and public sector organisations.
By working in partnership with these organisations, Bangor University identifies new IP, know-how and technology from University research, teaching and knowledge transfer activities and turns it into a commercial reality.
This successful exploitation of IP, known as commercialisation, is either through licensing or spin-out company creation.
commercialisation@bangor.ac.uk
Bangor University actively promotes exploitation of its research outputs.
This is frequently done through licensing of its IP to businesses and organisations.
For more information please get in touch via commercialisation@bangor.ac.uk
In some cases, a new company may be set up to exploit the University’s research, teaching and knowledge transfer activities and in this case the IP is licensed to the new company.
In recent years the University has spun out several companies which are at different levels of development.
Bangor University and the Independent Review of University Spinouts
Bangor University welcomes the Independent Review of University Spinouts .
We are committed to fostering innovation, entrepreneurship, and economic growth through university spinouts.
In alignment with the recommendations of the Independent Review of University Spinouts, we are adopting a set of principles and practices designed to maximise the impact and success of our spinout activities while supporting our researchers, students, and the wider community.
Bangor University will continue to review and adapt its strategy, policies, and processes for spinout in line with sector, and national, guidelines.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/bangor-140:
Celebrating 140 years of Bangor’s academic excellence and global impact.
2024 marks the 140th Anniversary of Bangor University, celebrating 140 years of academic excellence, world leading research, and transformative student experiences.
Join us as we revisit the legacy that began in 1884, and stay tuned as we share news on captivating events, and heart-warming stories to celebrate this big milestone.
In the early 1880's a 3,000-strong procession of Gwynedd farmers, quarrymen and their families marched for education down Bangor High Street.
They raised £1,200 to transform an old coaching inn, Penrhyn Arms into what was then known as University College of North Wales.
The University opened its doors on the 18th October 1884 to 58 students and had ten members of staff.
Students were initially conferred degrees by the University of London, until 1893 when Bangor became one of the three original constituent colleges of the University of Wales.
The very first student to enrol at Bangor University was female.
Mary Ellen Williams was a lady of ordinary background, not one of wealth and stature as you might expect.
She was a local girl, the daughter of a grocer.
Female students actually made up a third of the student population in those formative years – which was unusual for its time.
One of the first females to graduate from the University was Margaret Verney from Plas Rhianfa on Anglesey.
Women were to contribute greatly to the growth of university education in Wales.
In 1903, Bangor's city council donated a 10-acre plot of land overlooking the city for construction of a new, bigger university building.
Lewis D Jones (Llew Tegid), a local headteacher, led fundraising efforts across Gwynedd and Anglesey to help fund the new building.
Thousands of farmers, quarrymen, local people contributed towards the goal of raising a huge £120,000.
The foundation stone was laid in 1907, and four years later in 1911 the main building was opened by Royal visit.
Throughout this Anniversary year, the University is launching a series of six films telling the captivating story of the history of Bangor.
Join local historian and businessman, Gari Wyn as he takes us on a journey through campus and the city of Bangor, with some special collections also showcased by Bangor University’s Archives Department .
00:01 Join us as we explore the captivating story of how Bangor University came to be.
00:10 The story of how Bangor University started is a captivating one.
00:15 I'm Mari, studying Childhood and Youth studies here at Bangor University and this is the first in a series of six films where we 00:26 explore the history of Bangor University and how the small University on the Hill became the global influence that is today.
00:33 Here to take us on this fascinating journey is Gari Wyn, local historian, businessman, and graduate from Bangor University School of History.
00:41 So what can you tell us about how this story began?
{Gari} Well, it all started in in the 1880s, and the first college was opened in 1884.
00:50 But we're standing here now in the new college, which was opened in 1911.
00:59 And right above us, we have the central tower of the college, which has four statues on it.
01:04 The ones we see from here are David, the patron Saint of Wales.
01:09 Next door to him is Llywellyn Ap Griffith.
On the other side, we have Owen Gwynedd, who's buried in Bangor Cathedral down the road here, 01:13 down at the bottom of the hill, and also Owain Glyndwr 01:21 And the important person amongst those four is Owain Glyndwr because he had the vision in 1404 to have an independent Parliament 01:24 for Wales and an independent church for Wales and possibly more significance for us here, 01:33 an independent self autonomous university for Wales.
01:38 And how long did that take?
{Gari} Well, when you work it out, it's 480 years isn't.
01:43 And with the drive and the vision of the people of Gwynedd and Anglesey, we finally had what Owain Glyndwr hoped he would have in 1404.
01:48 It's all started with the local people getting behind the local business leaders, 01:58 securing this building called the Penrhyn Arms and adapting it to be the university.
02:03 The doors opened and the processions came from all over for the opening ceremony.
02:09 I suppose you could say it was one of the earliest records of crowdfunding.
02:18 That's a good way of putting it.
The whole community came together.
02:22 A non-conformist, traditional, old fashioned Welsh community farmers, poor farmers, 02:25 wealthy farmers, prominent businesspeople and especially the Quarrymen.
02:30 The Quarrymen actually gathered together 1200 pounds of their own money to start off the 02:34 conversion of the Penrhyn Arms Hotel to turn it into some kind of modern university.
02:40 And this was a massive challenge at the time.
02:46 The next step, obviously, was to gather the rest of them, and actually came to 35,000 to add that to the building.
02:48 Then we had a great procession to open the building in front of the Penrhyn Port here and down at the sea, 02:55 and opened the building in October 1884.
That actually was a fantastic day in the history of Bangor.
03:02 We had a great procession and we should remember that Bangor High Street is the longest high street in Wales.
03:08 So the culmination of the day was 3000 people, a cross-section of all people in the local society, and we were on the way.
03:15 This obviously is the foundation of the education that you are receiving here today.
03:25 And how many students were registered here back then?
03:30 Well, there were 58 in the first year.
But the staggering statistic is that there were 19 women out of those 58.
03:34 And that was totally unheard of throughout education in the whole of the UK at the time.
03:42 And for this to happen, the little city of Bangor shows that we've always been on the forefront of education, 03:48 always thinking of new ideas and developing and evolving as we go along.
03:54 Do we know anything about those first female students?
03:59 We have a lot of information about them.
Probably the most prominent one was Margaret Verney, a member of the Plas Rhianfa family on Anglesey.
04:02 She became the first woman graduate.
But more important is that she gave 30 years of her life towards promoting women's education.
04:11 And she became a member of the university council, which she remains for for the next 30 years.
04:21 And she contributed greatly to the history of the University of Wales and to women's Eduication in the UK generally.
04:28 Hello, Sian.
What can you tell us about the first principal and professors here?
Who were the first to teach?
04:36 Well, how did a Hill, an Irishman of German descent.
04:43 Was the first principle here.
And he played an important role in establishing the university for nearly 50 years.
04:46 He learned Welsh fluently.
He had the vision for the for the college, and he established and bought new people around him.
04:55 And how did the university establish itself and develop financially?
05:02 Again, by making connections.
We had people like William Rathbone, the Liverpool MP who became an MP for Caernarfonshire also.
05:07 But later on, as Lloyd George became more prominent and liberalism, 05:15 he pulled in very wealthy business people from Merseyside and also from all parts of North Wales and everybody contributed.
05:20 He started new subjects, a forestry, for example.
05:27 Also the classics came to Bangor with possibly more pioneering than anything was his contribution to agriculture, 05:31 because agriculture was obviously a prominent part of the life of everybody here in Gwynedd and Anglesey.
05:38 What a great way to end this, first in a series of films.
05:44 Thanks.
Follow the next part of this fascinating story by joining us in part two.
05:48 The vision of 1884, the growth of the university and its buildings.
1 00:00:02,960 --> 00:00:09,950 This is Bangor University, one of the first universities built in Wales and now within the top five in the UK.
2 00:00:11,670 --> 00:00:16,080 I'm Mari studying childhood and youth studies here at Bangor University.
3 00:00:16,470 --> 00:00:25,380 And this is our second in our series of six films where we explore the history of Bangor University and how the vision of 1884 evolved.
4 00:00:26,190 --> 00:00:35,160 Here to take us on this fascinating journey is Gari Wyn a local historian, businessman and graduate from the Bangor University School of History.
5 00:00:35,520 --> 00:00:38,850 So what can you tell us about how this part of the story starts?
6 00:00:38,970 --> 00:00:49,710 Well, from 1884 onwards, the college gradually expanded from its base down there by the port in the old Penrhyn Hotel.
7 00:00:49,860 --> 00:01:00,870 We needed a bigger university going gradually from an University of 60 students gradually by about 1890 to about 600 students.
8 00:01:01,650 --> 00:01:05,670 All of a sudden, the rural communities called for a new college.
9 00:01:06,180 --> 00:01:17,040 Between 1884 and 1893, the college evolved and more prominent local people, local businesspeople,
10 00:01:17,040 --> 00:01:28,680 local farmers and the coming of Lloyd George as an MP in 1890 made it inevitable that before long a new grand university would have to be developed.
11 00:01:29,130 --> 00:01:35,910 We're now obviously standing beneath the climax of the progress which was going to be built by 1911.
12 00:01:36,210 --> 00:01:46,330 So we needed money.
The college and the MP's, such as William Rathbone and Asquith in London, also was behind this a prime Minister to be before long.
13 00:01:46,350 --> 00:01:51,030 Was there large amounts of crowd funding?
14 00:01:51,180 --> 00:01:53,639 This all started with a man called Llew Tegid
15 00:01:53,640 --> 00:02:01,200 who was appointed as the chief fundraiser towards the building of the new college, and that started in about 1905.
16 00:02:01,380 --> 00:02:09,180 This culminated in 1907 with the actual unveiling of this stone by Edward VII, as you see, in July 1907.
17 00:02:09,330 --> 00:02:19,560 Underneath the stone as a matter of interest are the publications in the local press at the time celebrating the actual event underneath the stone.
18 00:02:19,740 --> 00:02:26,100 Further down here is the name of Henry Hare, the architect who was responsible for this magnificent piece of architecture,
19 00:02:26,400 --> 00:02:30,120 which can't really be compared to anything in the whole of the UK.
20 00:02:30,320 --> 00:02:36,300 Yes.
Gosh, that's incredible.
And here we are in the stunning Shankland Library.
21 00:02:36,600 --> 00:02:44,000 What can you tell us about this building Gari?
Well, the structure of the building was paid for by the Royal Drapers' Society.
22 00:02:44,010 --> 00:02:48,690 Very apt considering that the woollen industry was so important for the people of this area.
23 00:02:49,020 --> 00:02:58,740 So they paid for the structure.
A man called Owen Owens, who was a foremost department store business man from Liverpool and London.
24 00:02:58,980 --> 00:03:03,720 He paid for all the wood work which is made by with Austrian Oak.
25 00:03:04,230 --> 00:03:14,430 We also have a unique feature in the roof of all the coats of arms for the different counties and purchases of Wales between 1907 and 1911
26 00:03:14,430 --> 00:03:23,400 Thomas Shankland was given the task of creating a massive collection of the most valuable books and rarest books in the history of Wales.
27 00:03:23,700 --> 00:03:28,559 So we have just one totally unique, unbelievable building,
28 00:03:28,560 --> 00:03:37,470 which I don't think can be matched by any university anywhere across the world.
29 00:03:37,530 --> 00:03:44,160 So here we are inside the building.
What exactly can you tell us about the history of this hall?
30 00:03:44,190 --> 00:03:49,320 Well, we need an hour to do it all Mari but as you can see, it's a really majestic building.
31 00:03:50,460 --> 00:04:00,390 Sir John Pritchard Jones who was given the Baronetcy award for his contribution financially of £15,000 to build this magnificent hall.
32 00:04:00,600 --> 00:04:06,509 And it was based really on an idea that it would then include a great hall
33 00:04:06,510 --> 00:04:12,649 and this was basically the Lloyd George's idea, because he did feel that if we were going to have such a fantastic building in Bangor
34 00:04:12,650 --> 00:04:16,480 as a new university that we would also need a great hall like they did
35 00:04:16,530 --> 00:04:23,960 in Balliol and Jesus College in Cambridge and as you can see, the building itself held 1500 people.
36 00:04:24,360 --> 00:04:34,679 We're standing on the balcony now around us, these oak panels from Austria, these great windows, the cultural arms of all of the countries of Wales,
37 00:04:34,680 --> 00:04:43,470 and possibly more interesting than anything, the first Great Hall in any university in the UK to have what they called electroliers.
38 00:04:44,550 --> 00:04:53,040 These lights were actually chandeliers infused with electricity and that is a really,
39 00:04:53,040 --> 00:04:59,160 really pioneering thing for any hall to have in Britain in in the 1911 period.
40 00:04:59,970 --> 00:05:06,900 Thanks again, Gari.
It really does put a different perspective on these corridors that our students walk through daily.
41 00:05:08,010 --> 00:05:12,180 Join us next time when we discover more about this amazing university.
00:00:02,380 --> 00:00:08,170 Join me, Mari, as we explore the history of Bangor University and the key people involved.
00:00:08,870 --> 00:00:12,370 Hi Gari.
Why are we here in Glanadda Cemetery?
00:00:12,530 --> 00:00:17,889 Well, we are right at the centre of the cemetery here, where a number of prominent people
00:00:17,890 --> 00:00:22,180 who played such an important part in the establishing of the early years of the university
00:00:22,420 --> 00:00:31,270 as we come down to the corner here, we come to William Cadwaladr Davies, the first secretary, the first registrar of the college, a Bangor boy from Hirael district
00:00:31,270 --> 00:00:33,710 at the bottom here who played
00:00:34,030 --> 00:00:42,070 a very prominent part in the establishment of the body of the University of Wales ten years after the university was sold.
00:00:42,160 --> 00:00:45,490 We have a number of other people here around as well, Llew Tegid
00:00:45,760 --> 00:00:51,280 the man who was responsible for collecting all the money.
And on the other side, the mayor of Bangor, Sir Henry Lewis.
00:00:51,300 --> 00:00:57,550 But just nearby, we have another very, very important player in the in the whole story.
00:00:57,790 --> 00:01:01,310 So here we are at the grave of Sir Isambard Owen, why are we here?
00:01:01,320 --> 00:01:07,600 Isambard Owen was very influential in all aspects of development of the college.
00:01:07,840 --> 00:01:14,799 He also played an important part in the development of universities in London, in Paris and in Durham.
00:01:14,800 --> 00:01:23,170 So he's one of the possibly one of the the most important people in the history of university education in the whole of the United Kingdom.
00:01:25,060 --> 00:01:34,770 Right.
So we're here in Neuadd Reichel and was this building named after Harry Reichel who was the first principal of the university
00:01:34,950 --> 00:01:38,819 Harry Reichel, from his Irish and German descent,
00:01:38,820 --> 00:01:44,430 was the first headmaster or first principal of the college from 1884 till 1927.
00:01:44,730 --> 00:01:48,720 And yes, this building which is a hall of residence was built in his memory.
00:01:49,050 --> 00:01:54,090 He's a very, very important part of the development of not only the University of Bangor,
00:01:54,090 --> 00:02:03,989 but of education in Wales and also in parts of the UK as well, because he was a pioneer in developing new departments.
00:02:03,990 --> 00:02:10,680 For example, in Bangor he united all the religious denominations to create one theology departments.
00:02:10,900 --> 00:02:19,440 He created the classics departments.
He created the forestry departments under very important and significant agricultural departments.
00:02:19,680 --> 00:02:31,260 So the realms of the influence he has had on education in, within the University of Wales is just unbelievable.
00:02:31,770 --> 00:02:36,240 From this same period, Sir J.
E.
Lloyd became registrar of the College.
00:02:36,510 --> 00:02:41,430 He published research and the volumes of notes on the history of Wales to this day,
00:02:41,430 --> 00:02:49,380 his work on the history of the Middle Ages and Owain Glyndŵr remain the main source of the history of Wales in that period.
00:02:49,590 --> 00:02:53,460 A prominent woman also in the history of the College was Mary Rathbone,
00:02:53,910 --> 00:03:00,510 a member of the famous Rathbone family from Liverpool, who had grown up in Llandegfan, Anglesey.
00:03:00,510 --> 00:03:05,729 Was she related to William Rathbone, who helped set up the university?
00:03:05,730 --> 00:03:11,280 Didn't we speak about him in our previous film?
Yes, they were a very influential family.
00:03:11,280 --> 00:03:14,730 During that time, Mary became a member of the University Council,
00:03:14,910 --> 00:03:21,090 and she was also a generous patron of the cause of women's education throughout the United Kingdom.
00:03:21,330 --> 00:03:29,880 She was also a member of the board, which was responsible for the great fight for the rights of women to have independent halls of residence.
00:03:30,390 --> 00:03:33,450 So there was a female only halls of residence then?
00:03:33,450 --> 00:03:40,890 The first official one was probably the one that was opened in 1893, which was the University Hall.
00:03:41,310 --> 00:03:46,530 The first girls in the college would range in age between 16 and 26 years of age.
00:03:46,890 --> 00:03:57,750 and finally in 1893, Reichel made sure that they had the money and they built the new University Hall, which is presently Rathbone Hall.
00:03:58,020 --> 00:04:04,530 And that was the start of a totally independent way of life for the young women within education in Wales.
00:04:04,710 --> 00:04:11,610 And that was at the time, something really pioneering that hadn't happened in most universities throughout the United Kingdom.
00:04:11,790 --> 00:04:15,450 I think everyone would agree we've come such a long way since then.
00:04:16,650 --> 00:04:22,950 Join us next time as we move to more recent history to find out how the university embraced bilingualism.
0:01 This is Bangor University, a global university powered by a common spirit.
Its pride in its Welsh history and heritage, and a deep commitment to being part of and building communities.
0:15 Hello again Gari.
So we're now moving into more recent history aren't we?
In this episode, we will be discussing how students' voices make big changes.
0:26 I suppose then we have to start in about 1958 with the coming of Sir Charles Evans, a famous mountaineer, a member of the 1953 Everest team who started here as principal in 1960.
That was a beginning of a really age of conflict in the history of the university, because all of a sudden, all universities in Britain, because of the Robbins report, were under pressure to expand.
0:55 And obviously, as time went by, it meant that Bangor had new University Halls, such as Plas Gwyn and Emrys Evans, which we have around us here.
And the after effect of that is that there were many people from the Welsh contingency of the college were very worried about the effect this would have on the Welsh culture and the Welsh language as a teaching medium within the college.
1:25 And here we are now in Pontio with our current president of UMCB, Celt John.
And Gari, can you tell us a bit about how UMCB came to be?
Well, before the Welsh speaking Students' Union started, there was a society called the Cymric.
And during the beginning of the 70s it gradually changed from being an organisation which organised social events and literary events and debating events to be more political in its outlook towards the college and that was basically because of the simple fact that the college was expanding following the Robbins Report and
2:05 Sir Charles Evans, the famous mountaineer who was so keen to expand the whole college.
And and those days were days of tumultuous changes.
The next part of the story is organising rallies and the students taking over and occupying many of the buildings.
The New Arts buildings for example.
And the after effect of that was to organise a great rally with Dafydd Iwan, the famous international singer, by now addressing a crowd of 3000 people.
And it went from one step to another.
Protest in 1974 led to four of the leaders of the new Cymric society being banned from the college.
2:50 And another four years after we established the UMCB, the the Welsh speaking union, the protests became much more severe, and that led in 1978 to four leaders having to leave the college for two years.
In 1976, the UMCB became the official body on behalf of the Welsh students and the body which you are the president of today Celt.
3:23 Yes.
What became of that unrest then, afterwards?
I suppose what you would say is that for a time nothing happened.
But the college itself realised that they had to do something.
They appointed two prominent professorship, Gwyn Thomas and Alwyn Roberts to take charge of promoting courses and new syllabuses through the medium of Welsh and gradually the respect shown towards the Welsh language and that was due in the end to this body which we refer to today as UMCB.
4:02 Yes and just to add on to that, I can say as the current president that, you know, the fruits of your labour has definitely paid off.
We are the leading university in Wales regarding the provisions of Welsh language and the amount of courses that one can study through the medium of Welsh.
4:23 And just to add on to that, I can say as well that the student voice is more important nowadays than it ever has been.
Inclusivity is very, very important to our values here at Bangor University.
Thank you once again, Gari and Celt.
The 70s and 80s were a really fascinating time in the university's history, marked by big transformations and led by both students and staff.
4:52 It seems Bangor University's always valued its vision, bravery and pioneering spirit.
Join us next time for the penultimate film in our series.
00:00:01 This is Bangor University, an institution that for over 135 years has made incredible contributions to a global society.
Join us as we continue our journey through the corridors of educational history.
I'm Mari and this is the last in a series of six films.
We end this series by celebrating some of the huge successes from those early female graduates.
00:00:26 Here to tell us all is Sian Robinson from the Bangor University's Archives Department.
Hello, Sian.
I'm looking forward to hearing about how those female graduates were treated in those early days.
We've already heard in some of our previous films that the female students made up a third of the population in those formative years.
Now, that was unusual for its time, wasn't it Sian?
Well, yes, it really was.
00:00:54 The founders of Bangor University wanted to set up a university that wasn't political, that wasn't based on wealth and was liberal.
Women were actually welcome to UCNW right from the beginning.
In universities like Oxford, women were not allowed to graduate until the 1920s, and in Cambridge not until 1948, so much later.
00:01:22 Here at Bangor, women were welcomed right from the start, and they graduated right from the start.
Am I right in saying that the first students to enrol in the university in 1884 was actually female?
Yes.
And she came from a very ordinary background.
Her name was Mary Ellen Williams and she lived in Upper Bangor.
She was the daughter of a grocer.
In fact, she only completed three terms here at Bangor and we don't know the reasons why, but that was actually quite the thing at the time for women.
00:02:00 They would come to Bangor, but they wouldn't always graduate.
We're so lucky in that we have the first registration book for these early students at the Bangor Archive.
And the first name on that register is a woman's name - Mary Ellen.
Fascinating.
And we've already discussed Mary Sutherland, who is the first female forestry graduate.
00:02:27 Who else made an impact on the world?
Well, what about Rosa Mabel Lee?
Now we have a photograph of Rosa taken about 1903 with her co students.
Rosa was a girl from Conwy.
Her father was a civil servant and Rosa studied mathematics here at Bangor and got a B.A.
She was actually our first woman student to graduate in mathematics here at Bangor
00:02:57 and she went on to become a statistician and had an incredible career, which led her to to be the first woman who worked for the Marine Biological Association.
So why are we stood in front of this mural.
Well, I want to introduce you to Kate Roberts.
Kate was a quarryman's daughter from Eryri, Snowdonia and she graduated from Bangor in 1913.
00:03:28 Now, Kate went on to run a major printing press and publish the main Welsh national newspaper.
She helped found Plaid Cymru, the Welsh nationalist Party and she campaigned tirelessly for the Welsh language.
Kate also challenged gender stereotypes in traditional patriarchal Wales.
And she produced a body of literary work in the Welsh language, which ranks her as one of the greatest Welsh writers of the 20th century.
00:03:56 She is known as the Queen of Welsh literature.
Wow that's amazing.
And what about scientists?
Were there any female scientists?
Well, what about Phyllis Violet McKie?
She was a chemistry graduate in 1917.
Her father was a clerk at the Penrhyn Quarry offices in Bangor.
Phyllis, among other chemistry graduates, took a very important role during the First World War.
00:04:26 But Phyllis was the main woman.
She went on to devise explosives for the War Ministry.
Thank you, Sian.
This has been truly inspirational.
So as we end our journey through the history of Bangor University, we are reminded that Bangor has always been at the forefront for innovation and progress.
Throughout this series, we have explored the stories of the pioneering individuals who have shaped the university's history, from the first Welsh Students' Union, to the trailblazing female graduates who challenged gender norms and helped pave the way for future generations.
00:05:07 We hope that this series has given you a greater appreciation for the remarkable legacy of Bangor University and inspired you to learn more about what the University offers the world today.
Thanks for joining us on this journey and we look forward to the many more chapters yet to come.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/our-public-lectures:
Join us at a free Bangor University Public Lecture - open your mind, spark your imagination, and be captivated by experts in their field.
From astrophysics to ancient legends, artificial intelligence to the art of storytelling, our Public Lecture series spans the full spectrum of human knowledge.
We’re sure to have something to ignite your passion.
Hear directly from renowned academics, award-winning authors, and industry leaders – the very people shaping the future.
Engage in lively discussions, ask burning questions, and gain unique insights from those at the forefront of their fields.
Our Public Lectures are open to everyone – students, alumni, community members, and curious minds of all ages.
All of our Public Lectures are FREE to attend.
We've created a dedicated online library of past Public Lectures, hosted on YouTube so you can subscribe and be the first to know when a new recording becomes available.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/news/2025-06-09-bangor-university-ranked-top-in-wales-and-15th-in-the-uk:
Bangor University has been named the top university in Wales in the 2026 University Compare Rankings.
The University has also made significant progress nationally, rising 49 places to 15th in the UK, placing it firmly within the top 20 universities across the country.
This improvement reflects positive developments across multiple areas of our student experience.
The University Compare rankings are based on a combination of verified student reviews and key performance metrics.
These include course quality, graduate employability, student life and accommodation.
Bangor University’s 2026 Rankings:
The rankings reflect feedback from the student community, University Compare uses a review-based methodology, collecting tens of thousands of ratings from students across four key areas.
Reviews are scored on a scale of 1 to 5, and rankings are calculated using a weighted system—similar to platforms such as TripAdvisor or Airbnb.
Bangor University also ranked 1st in the UK for Medicine and Dentistry in the subject-specific rankings, reflecting the highest of student satisfaction in these disciplines.
Professor Nicky Callow, Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education & Student Experience), said, “These results highlight the quality of our teaching, the strength of our support services, and the positive relationship we have with our students.
I am particularly pleased to see the improvements related to employability and student life as we have been working extremely hard in these areas across the institution.
As staff are aware, we gained six commendations in our recent external Quality Enhancement Review related to our educational delivery and student experience, and it is fabulous to also have the quality of our provision endorsed by our students.”

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/news/2023-09-12-bangor-named-as-welsh-university-of-the-year:
Bangor University has been named Welsh University of the Year in the Daily Mail’s first ever University Guide .
Bangor University has been named Welsh University of the Year in the Daily Mail’s first ever University Guide.
In addition to being awarded Wales University of the Year, Bangor University was placed in the top 50 among British Universities and third in Wales.
The accolade describes the launch of the University’s new Medical School as a “game-changer” and one of the most significant developments in the University’s history.
Welcoming the news, Vice-Chancellor, Professor Edmund Burke said,
Being awarded the title Welsh University of the Year in this inaugural University Guide is a welcome recognition of the University’s achievements.
“These results reflect our ambitions to provide a world-leading, research-inspired education for our students and to equip them with the necessary experiences to make valuable contributions in their chosen careers.
This will be a significant year in the history of Bangor University.
The opening of the North Wales Medical School is a game-changer with the first medics due to be admitted next September.
“The initiative is typical of a university that is deeply embedded in its community, with the medical school’s specific remit to address the acute shortage of community doctors in North Wales.
“Many courses elsewhere in the institution feed into the needs of the region with ocean science and marine conservation – key areas of global importance – to the fore among Bangor’s specialities.
A ranking of 15th in the UK for research income earned per capita is testimony to the quality and relevance of the university’s research work.
“A top 50 UK ranking and placing third among Welsh universities, together with the strategic importance of the new medical school, makes Bangor the clear winner of the inaugural award for Daily Mail Welsh University of the Year.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/news/2025-06-18-bangor-university-rises-in-global-sustainability-rankings:
Bangor University is in the top 10 of the most sustainable universities in the UK, and for the fourth year running one of the top 100 universities in the world.
Bangor University now the joint 64 th most sustainable university in the world and ninth in the UK according to the annual Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings.
This marks a strong improvement on Bangor University’s joint 77 th global position in 2024, and is the first time the university has been in the top 10 in the UK.
It is an accomplishment made even more impressive considering a record 2,318 universities entered into the ranking system this year.
The Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings is the only global performance table that assesses universities against the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) using detailed evidence to assess institutions across four areas: research, stewardship, outreach and teaching.
For the first time, Bangor submitted data for 16 out of the 17 SDGs, up from 10 in 2024 – the most comprehensive submission the University has made to date.
Sustainability is a core value at Bangor, and our improved global ranking and broader SDG submission reflect the dedication of our staff, students, and community partners.
These results not only recognise our progress but also highlight the areas where we can - and will - do more."
This isn’t because we’ve simply thrown a load of money at the issue - it’s because we actually all do a lot of good things, every single day at Bangor University; probably without even realising it.
We’re a fantastic University doing some fantastic work, and I think we should all be pretty proud of that.
The 2025 rankings show notable gains in several individual SDGs, with Bangor ranked:
For more on Bangor University’s sustainability initiatives and performance in the THE Impact Rankings, visit: www.bangor.ac.uk/sustainability

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/news/2023-12-05-bangor-university-rises-to-top-10-in-global-sustainability-league-table:
Today's QS World University Rankings: Sustainability 2024 , place the university in the top 10% of most sustainable universities worldwide.
Bangor University’s reputation as a sustainable University has been enhanced further, as the QS World University Rankings: Sustainability 2024 , announced today (5 December), places the university in the top 10% of most sustainable universities worldwide.
The rankings consider the different ways in which universities are taking action to tackle the world’s greatest environmental, social and governance issues.
The League Table places Bangor University 33rd of 93 institutions from the UK included in the rankings, 63rd of 493 European universities considered and equal 139 of the 1403 institutions reviewed worldwide for their sustainability credentials.
This is excellent news for the University, which considers sustainability in all its actions.
Sustainability is at our heart as a university, with a unique opportunity to educate, inspire and influence positive change.
Our focus also reflects the priorities of students and society at large.” We want to be a beacon for sustainability in higher education, and it’s terrific to see this reflected in this important League Table.
The University has risen in both Environmental Impact and Societal Impact categories, with a new Governance category added this year.
Of the sub-categories, the University is 30th globally for health and wellbeing, and 33rd for environmental education.
Improvements were also made in the environmental research standing and positions for equality and knowledge exchange.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/news/2023-08-16-bangor-university-takes-top-spot-in-alternative-university-league-table:
A new ranking table has found Bangor University is the best in the UK when looking at factors related to student life and experiences.
Instead of traditional university league tables that focus on grades, enrolment and prospects, Unifresher’s ' Alternative University League Table ' compares factors illustrating the cost of living and crime rates and universities’ efforts towards sustainability and providing a great student social life.
Bangor University’s stance on sustainability and ambitions to lead the field in terms of sustainability earned the University a high score, contributing to the top spot.
The University also came out tops for being a relatively cheap and safe place to study, according to the alternative guide.
The final element comprises information from sources of student opinions on the social life at their universities.
Welcoming the news that Bangor University topped the table overall, ranking the highest out of 94 universities in the UK for which all the data was available, Carys Roberts, Head of UK Student Recruitment at Bangor University said, “There are a variety of ways of finding out about the university you might want to study at.
This guide looks at social aspects of studying at a University, which are as valid as information about the nature and quality of the teaching and the course you want to study, when deciding on where to apply.
We always encourage applicants to draw information from a wide range of sources, and importantly, to visit your target universities, so that you get a real feel of the place and an opportunity to meet some of the lecturers who might be teaching you.”
Wales shines in the Guide, with 5 out of the 10 top-ranking universities.
Another noteworthy finding is the coastal advantage - 9 out of the 10 best universities are situated by the coast, demonstrating the possible correlation between geographical location and student satisfaction.
Being Welsh and by the sea, Bangor University falls under both of these categories.
The compilers based their guide on UK institutions listed in The Complete University Guide , used data from a publicly available data on the cost of living, calculate crime rates, the cost of a ‘McMeal’, cinema tickets, and the price of beer.
They  based the sustainability ratings on those produced by People and Planet , and user ratings and experiences on University Compare for scoring the universities’ social life.
Finally, the price of an Uber for a 10km journey starting at each university drawn from the company’s information.
Bangor University’s next Open Days can be found here: https://www.bangor.ac.uk/openday Bangor University Clearing Helpline is on 0800 085 1818 https://www.bangor.ac.uk/clearing

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/news/2023-04-28-university-in-top-10-at-whatuni-awards:
Bangor University reached the Top 10 in a several categories at the 2023 WhatUni?Student Choice Awards, including a bronze award for University Halls and Student Accommodation.
The University was shortlisted in five categories this year and the results were announced at an awards ceremony on the 26th April.
Bangor was 8th in the University of the Year category, 3rd for Halls and Student Accommodation, 5th for lecturers and teaching quality, 7th for Students’ Union and 10th for Postgraduate.
You can view the full results here .
The WhatUni awards are awarded based on the reviews of students studying in the UK.
Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Education, Professor Nichola Callow said;
The Bangor University community is delighted that our students have shown their support and appreciation for their University in a range of categories across the WhatUni?
awards.
Congratulations in particular to the Residential Life team for their bronze award for Halls and Student Accommodation.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/news/2023-06-27-bangor-university-leaps-up-in-league-table-rankings:
Bangor University has lept over 100 positions in the QS World University Rankings securing its position amongst leading universities worldwide.
In the UK rankings, Bangor has also been placed amongst the top 50 universities according to the twentieth edition of the world’s most-consulted university rankings.
The 2024 edition of the QS World University Rankings , released today by global higher education analyst QS Quacquarelli Symonds, see Bangor University reach the top 500 (#481) out of 1499 in the world and 48th in the United Kingdom.
Bangor’s improved ranking reflects our commitment to sustainability and in particular, research, as illustrated in the citations per faculty indicator.
The University welcomes the inclusion of sustainability in the QS ranking, which aligns with the main theme of the University’s strategic plan - Strategy 2030: a sustainable world for future generations – and reflects the changing priorities of students and society at large over recent years.
In particular, this reflects our clear commitment to sustainability with Bangor University being placed 20th in the UK and 108th in the world for the sustainability metric.
Professor Paul van Gardingen FRSA, Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Global Engagement): welcomed the results saying, “As a university, we have chosen to priorities the sustainability of our activities in all our policies and it’s heartening to see this table including sustainability as an important element of concern for today’s student applicants, both in the UK and globally.
League tables are a useful source of information for prospective students, and it’s good that this 20-year-old league table is changing to reflect the concerns of the current generation.
With this result, we are now a double top-500 institution, also being ranked as a member of the 401-500 group in the Times Higher Education global rankings.
This highlights that Bangor if truly a world-leading institution for education, research and social impact.” The table’s citations metric, which assesses how often the university’s science research papers are quoted as a source in other research papers, serves as a mark of the quality of university research.
This measure places the university 35th in the UK and 346th in the world.
Professor Paul Spencer Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research): commented: “Our improved performance in the citations metric, which sees us rise by 89 places, is further testament to the reach and impact of Bangor’s world-leading research.
It also reflects the outcome of recent UK research quality assessment ( REF-21 ) which saw the University improve its performance and was 30th in the UK for research impact.” This year’s QS World University Rankings is their largest ever, with 1,500 universities across 104 locations, up from 1418 last year.
The results account for the distribution and performance of 17.5 million academic papers published between 2017 and 2021 and the 141.6 million citations received by those papers; they also account for the expert opinions of over 144,000 academic faculty and over 98,000 employers around the world.
QS Senior Vice President Ben Sowter said, “The 2024 QS World University Rankings represents a major step in the evolution of the exercise, marking the most significant innovation in its methodological paradigm since its inception two decades ago.
More than ever, it aligns with Gen Z and Alpha priorities, providing institutions with a unique lens through which to assess their performance in areas paramount to shaping a brighter future for generations to come.”

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/why-study-at-bangor:
We offer the highest quality teaching in a supportive learning environment and you can be assured that you will be taught by lecturers who want to see you thrive.
Our courses will help to set you on the right path for a successful career.
You can choose to study from courses across the sciences, arts, business, law and humanities.
We have a variety of learning pathways, including degree apprenticeships and foundation degrees and you can combine your love of two different subjects by opting for a joint honours degree.
Every new undergraduate student can gain work experience as part of their degree.
This can range from a two-week placement to a year out between Years 2 and 3 of your degree.
Meet our students and find out what they have to say about their time at Bangor.
Meet our students
Our students develop a breadth of skills, knowledge, and abilities that prepare them for a wide range of careers.
These skills are encapsulated in the Bangor Graduate Attributes.
We're keen to offer as much help as possible to you while you study at Bangor.
From academic support, help with careers to well being services - there's always someone you can turn to here.
Student Support information
We don't just offer teaching spaces, IT rooms, labs and libraries.
Here at Bangor we even have our own Botanical Gardens, Museum and research ship.
Our facilities
Our halls of residence will be your home from home.
Both our student villages are within walking distance of the main University buildings.
All first year students who start their course in September are guaranteed a place in one of our halls - you can even choose your own room - as long as you apply within the deadline and hold Bangor as your Firm Choice.
Live in one of the most scenic locations in the UK as you study.
Nestled between the mountains and the sea, Bangor is more than just beautiful: it’s a playground for nature lovers.
Hike, climb, kayak or canoe in nearby Snowdonia National Park, head to the beaches on Anglesey or take the plunge on Europe's fastest zip wire.
Explore our Location
We have a wide-range to choose from so you're bound to find something you like.
Our location between the mountains and the sea also means that adventure is on our doorstep.
Clubs and Societies

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study:
Find your best match amongst our courses.
Choose your level of study to find out more about our wide range of subject areas and courses.
Deepen your understanding by continuing your higher-education journey with us.
Our postgraduate taught courses offer access to our subject matter experts and state-of-the-art facilities, helping you develop skills and gain the right qualifications.
Practice your research skills surrounded by peers and professors who share your passion for advancing the world’s understanding of your chosen area of study.
You'll be taught by lecturers who are passionate about their subjects, and our community is welcoming and supportive.
Our teaching facilities include modern lecture theatres, state-of-the-art labs, social learning spaces, our own research ship, a farm and botanical gardens.
Watch the video to find out more.
Take advantage of our impressive range of learning resources, including an extensive collection of books and journals, over 1,000 computers for you to use, PC rooms with 24-hour access, social learning spaces, state of the art science labs and an fMRI Scanner.
We even have our own research ship, the Prince Madog.
Our Facilities
Make the most of our employability opportunities to learn new skills and secure a better future.
We take care of you from the moment you arrive.
Our Peer Guide scheme, Personal tutors and our Student Services provide support on all aspects of life as a student.
Learn about your next steps through UCAS, how to apply for accommodation, what happens on results day and more.
Thinking about going to university can sometimes feel overwhelming but there's no need to worry, we're here to help you every step of the way.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/news/2025-08-28-bangor-university-researchers-win-apex-award-for-innovative-cross-disciplinary:
Bangor University has been awarded one of this year’s highly competitive APEX Awards, a scheme jointly run by the British Academy, the Royal Academy of Engineering, and the Royal Society with generous support from the Leverhulme Trust.
Since its launch in 2017, only 59 projects have been funded through APEX, and this success marks a milestone: it is the first time a project led by a Welsh university has received the award.
The awards fund research that encourages curiosity and creativity by bringing together experts from different areas of engineering to solve tough problems in new and innovative ways.
The award will support a two-year collaboration between two highly acclaimed Bangor University researchers.
Professor Zengbo Wang from the School of Computer Science and Engineering and Dr Ellie Jameson from the School of Environmental and Natural Sciences.
Their project, Listen to the Cell Breathe: Investigating Viral Infection in Real-Time with Nano-Vibration Detection and Super-Resolution Imaging , combines expertise in advanced photonics with environmental virology.
Professor Wang is a leading expert in advanced imaging and light technology.
He brings new methods for looking at tiny structures and detecting very small vibrations to the project.
Dr.
Jameson is a leading environmental virologist whose expertise spans microbial ecology and bacteriophage infection dynamics.
Dr Jameson brings valuable knowledge about how these viral infections work with a focus on tackling antibiotic resistant bacteria.
The research will develop a new way of observing viral infection by both watching and listening to cells as they are infected.
With advanced technology, the team can see structures thousands of times smaller than the width of a human hair.
They can also pick up the faint vibrations, like tiny ‘breaths,’ that cells make when viruses attack them.
This dual approach will provide unprecedented real-time insights into how viruses interact with their hosts, while preserving their viability—work that could lay the foundation for future advances in disease diagnosis and treatment.
The APEX Award gives us a unique opportunity to combine cutting-edge imaging technology with virology to open a new frontier in understanding viral infections.
We are excited not only about the scientific insights but also about engaging the public with the wonder of this research.
“This collaboration demonstrates the power of bringing together different disciplines to tackle fundamental questions.
We hope the outcomes will inspire further research and future applications to benefit human and environmental health.”
Alongside the scientific research, the Bangor research team will run public engagement activities to share their discoveries with the wider community.
These will include school outreach, public lectures, and interactive events designed to inspire curiosity about science and highlight the value of interdisciplinary research.
This award underlines Bangor University’s commitment to fostering cross-disciplinary research that delivers both scientific excellence and societal impact.
By bringing together world-leading expertise from across our schools, we are not only addressing complex challenges but also positioning Bangor at the forefront of transformative, curiosity-driven research with real global significance.
Alongside the two-year APEX Award, the project will also be supported by Bangor’s Wynne Humphrey Davies Fund.
This additional backing extends the studentship into a full PhD and opens the door for new research collaborations with world-leading US institutions, including MIT and Northeastern University, enhancing the project’s global reach and long-term impact.
Read the official announcement here: Royal Academy of Engineering – Ten APEX awards given for innovative, curiosity-driven interdisciplinary research projects

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/news/2025-08-22-a-difficult-start-for-the-uk-labour-government-but-time-still-on-their-side:
Dr Hefin Gwilym is Lecturer in Social Policy in Bangor University, this blog written by him is based on an article written for an edited book: Diversity and Welfare.
Original citation:  Dr Hefin Gwilym, Dr Edward Jones Dr David Beck (Salford University).
Neoliberalism, division and austerity: precarity and hunger in the UK .
Read the original article here.
Listen to the podcast here.
The Labour Government’s first ten months in office have been marked by missteps and missed opportunities.
From controversial announcements on Winter Fuel Allowance and National Insurance contributions to a lack of bold vision, the government has struggled to meet the expectations of a public hungry for change.
Yet, as the article argues, Labour still has time to recover—if it embraces radical welfare reform.
The UK’s welfare state is in crisis.
Homelessness, NHS waiting lists, and educational inequality have reached record levels.
Universal Credit, once touted as a simplification of the benefits system, now exemplifies the inadequacies of a neoliberal welfare model.
With 6.4 million recipients—many of whom are working—the system fails to lift people out of poverty.
Child poverty continues to rise, and food banks have become a “ safety-net for the safety-net .”
Labour’s majority in Parliament offers a rare chance to reimagine welfare.
The article calls for a shift from means-testing to universalism, starting with free childcare and a universal state pension.
These policies would not only reduce poverty but also empower women, support families, and improve employment outcomes—mirroring successful Nordic models.
Central to the proposed reform is the gradual introduction of Universal Basic Income (UBI).
The article presents compelling evidence that UBI could alleviate poverty, simplify bureaucracy, and enhance well-being.
It argues that UBI is not only feasible but also affordable, with a net cost of just 2.4% of GDP—less than the current cost of poverty to public services.
Funding these reforms requires bold tax changes.
Our argument in this article advocates taxing wealth generated by automation and AI, raising income tax thresholds, and introducing progressive environmental and property taxes.
These measures would shift the burden from workers to the wealthy, particularly those profiting from technological advances.
Public attitudes are shifting.
Despite record tax burdens, support for increased spending on the NHS and welfare is growing.
Labour must seize this moment to act decisively.
The article warns that caution and incrementalism will not suffice in the face of mounting social challenges and economic inequality.
In conclusion, while Labour’s start has been disappointing, the opportunity for transformative welfare reform remains.
By embracing universalism, introducing UBI, and implementing progressive taxation, Labour can build a welfare state fit for the 21st century—one that not only addresses poverty but also sets a global example.
The time to act is now.
This long-form blog is based on an article written for an edited book: Diversity and Welfare.
The blog is part of Dr Dave Beck (ThatSociologist) series of blogs.
Over this mini-series, the co-authors take a critical look at the first 12 months of the UK Labour Government.
They argue that despite high hopes, the government has stumbled—particularly in the areas of social policy, and in its response to the growing threats posed by automation and AI-driven job displacement.
They also explore how Labour can turn things around.
Their central thesis is that innovative social welfare policies, such as a Universal Basic Income (UBI), could offer a bold and transformative path forward.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/news/2025-08-21-protecting-authentic-basmati-uk-enforces-rice-authenticity-standards:
Basmati is the UK’s favourite speciality rice, it’s delicate flavour enhances dishes like curries, pilafs, and kedgerees.
Around 75% of the world’s basmati comes from India, with the UK importing about 3% of that total, along with significant quantities from Pakistan, the second-largest producer.
However, some of these basmati varieties have proven substandard, missing the signature popcorn-like aroma that makes basmati so highly prized.
In August an investigation by the Food Standards Agency National Food Crime Unit (NFCU) into basmati rice fraud has resulted in four arrests.
Large quantities of 10kg and 20kg bags of mixed rice in counterfeit premium brand basmati packaging were seized as part of the operation.
The UK has strict quality and authenticity requirements for basmati rice, set out in the ‘Basmati Code of Practice’, a set of legally enforced standards developed jointly by the Food Standards Agency and the Rice Association, the trade body representing the UK rice sector.
Rice Association head of technical and regulatory affairs, Joe Brennan, said:
“It is good to see continued active official enforcement of the Basmati Code of Practice, which alongside regular industry surveys ensure that when UK consumers buy basmati rice they are getting an authentic product.”
The code sets out the physical and aroma quality requirements of basmati rice and specifies the varieties that can be considered basmati, which is verified with DNA authenticity testing by accredited laboratories.
Basmati rice must be grown in India and Pakistan.
A condition of Rice Association membership is to uphold industry standards, such as adherence to the Basmati Code of Practice.
This requirement is taken seriously and consumer enquiries are investigated.
“If consumers have concerns that basmati rice is not authentic or meeting quality standards, we recommend they contact the brand owner or the Rice Association” added Joe.
Dr Katherine Steele, Reader in Sustainable Crop Production at Bangor University has been influential in creating the current method of testing DNA for authentication of different variations of rice, including basmati rice, she said:
“Rice is a major commodity and it has such vast diversity that it’s crucial to maintain the quality of products at the premium end of the market.
DNA methods have an important role for enforcement of standards.”

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/events/is-capital-punishment-needed:
Join Ms Lisa Sparkes Teaching Associate in Criminology for this FREE online Taster Session
This talk examines the necessity, effectiveness, and ethical implications of capital punishment in modern criminal justice systems.
It explores the key arguments for and against the death penalty, analysing whether it serves as an effective deterrent, delivers true justice, or violates fundamental human rights.
Our Privacy Notices can be viewed here .
By submitting this registration form, you are agreeing to the University's terms of use and privacy notice.
You can contact us at any time to withdraw your consent or change your consent preferences.
This session will be delivered through the medium of English.
Explore the full Taster Session series:
DISCOVER TASTER SESSIONS

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/events/writing-with-technology-and-ai:
Artificial Intelligence (AI) with its large language models is influencing how we write.
However, AI isn’t the first technology or media to influence how we write, nor to offer us ways to study how people write.
This public lecture will consider what is involved in writing, what factors affect how we write, and how technology provides researchers insights about how we write.
The lecture will approach these areas and illustrate them with the writing processes of a range of first and second language writers, writers of various ages, and with individuals with additional learning needs.
How writers approach the Welsh mutation system will be briefly considered as will how the computer tools used to capture data for writing might also be useful for the study of mathematics anxiety.
The lecture will end by asking how AI can be used in teaching to reduce the use of AI as a part of the writing process.
Bangor University Honorary Professor Kirk Sullivan graduated in 1986 from Bangor with a BA in Applied Linguistics.
Since then, he has studied and worked at universities in Europe and New Zealand.
For the past 30 years Kirk has worked at Umeå University in Sweden where he is currently professor of linguistics and the scientific leader of the postgraduate school of education science.
Professor Sullivan has maintained close links with Bangor and frequently collaborates with Bangor University’s researchers.
This lecture will be given in English.
Refreshments will be available prior to the lecture.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/events/coaching-unplugged-debunking-myths-and-coaching-smarter-with-skill-acquisition-science:
Join us for a thought-provoking webinar that cuts through common coaching misconceptions and delivers evidence-based insights to elevate your practice.
Discover how applying the latest findings in skill acquisition science can transform the way you foster learning, develop athletes, and enhance performance.
Whether you’re looking to be a coach, instructor, educator, or sports professional, this session will equip you with the practical tools to coach smarter, not harder.
Don’t miss the opportunity to challenge outdated beliefs and refine your approach with cutting-edge science.
The webinar will include a whistlestop tour of the following key topics:
Don’t miss out - join us for this action-packed session!
Vicky Gottwald BSc.
PGCE.
PGDip.
PhD.
SFHEA is a skill acquisition researcher and member of the Institute of Psychology for Elite Performance (IPEP) at Bangor University.
Her research interests are well aligned with her passion for sports coaching, and she is particularly interested in coaching instruction.
More specifically, the way in which verbal instruction can direct an athlete's attention and consequently, either enhance or impede motor learning and performance.
Similarly, Vicky has an interest in talent identification and development; specifically, with regards to enhancing the practice environment for optimal performance.
As a UKCC Level 4 basketball coach, Vicky has extensive experience applying skill acquisition related theoretical concepts in practice and has coached across various stages of the Basketball Wales National Team Programmes.
Senior Lecturer Sport and Exercise Sciences

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/quality/uk-quality-assured.php.en:
The University received a number of commendations which highlighted particular areas of strength, including for the way in which Bangor uses a data-driven approach to inform and enhance the student experience.
Other areas which received commendations were the University’s deeply-embedded, extensive, and culturally valued partnership with students, and the fact that Bilingualism is embedded within, and positively impacts upon, all aspects of the student experience.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/governance-and-compliance/legalcompliance.php.en:
Gwenan Hine, Deputy Secretary / Head of Governance Services oversees legal compliance issues within the University, assisted by Sarah Riley , Head of Legal Services, and Lynette Williams , Legal and Compliance Assistant.
Data Protection
Freedom of Information and Environmental Regulations
Legal Services
Records Management

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/governance-and-compliance/accessibility-statement.php.en:
This accessibility statement applies to the Bangor University website.
This website is run by Bangor University.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
Find out how to contact us.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible.
You can see a full list of any issues we currently know about in the non-accessible content section of this statement.
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille, please email webmarketing@bangor.ac.uk
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in 7 days.
If you cannot view the map on our campus map page, call us on +44 (0)1248 250008
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any issues not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact, please email Web and Digital Team webmarketing@bangor.ac.uk .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re unhappy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS).
Bangor University is committed to making its website accessible in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons:
At this time, we have made no claims of disproportionate burden.
Some of our PDFs and Word documents are essential to providing our services.
By September 2020, we plan to either fix these or replace them with accessible HTML pages.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
For example, we do not plan to fix historical council meeting minute documents published before 23rd September 2018.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
We also have some existing pre-recorded video content that was published before the 23rd of September 2020.
This content is also exempt from the regulations.
Bangor University is doing the following to improve accessibility:
This statement was prepared on 12/11/2020.
It was last reviewed on 30/08/2022.
This website was last tested on 12/01/2022.
All Able Ltd carried out the test.
A representative sample of pages of the website were tested along with a sample of the documents from each website area.
Further tests have been carried out on 30/08/2022 by the Web Team on a selection of the most visited pages - representative of different content and pages types on our website using the WAVE Web Accessibility Evaluation Tool , which facilitates human evaluation of web content, and axe DevTools .

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/about/cookies:
The University is a Registered Data Controller as defined by the Data Protection Act 2018.
Any personal details collected through this web site and provided by you will be processed in accordance with the Act, and will only be used for the purpose or purposes stated on the relevant page.
You may also wish to consult our;
On most of the pages on our official websites we collect standard internet log information and details of visitor behaviour patterns.
We do this to find out the number of visitors to the various parts of the University’s websites.
We collect this information in a way that does not identify anyone.
We make no attempt to find out the identities of those visiting our website.
We will not associate any data gathered from this site with any personally identifying information from any source.
If we do want to collect personally identifiable information through our website, we will tell you about this.
We will make it clear when we collect personal information and will explain what we intend to do with it.
An example of this would be where we use a form to allow you to request a prospectus or other such information.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/canolfanbedwyr/polisi_iaith.php.en:
Bangor University has developed a comprehensive Welsh Language Policy.
The policy outlines the 10 Principles of the University’s engagement with the Welsh Language.
It also details how the University ensures that the Welsh language is central to its strategy and operation in relation to:
Welsh Language Policy Quick Guide
Bangor University’s Welsh Language Policy and its Code of Practice for the appointment of staff in accordance with the Welsh Language Standards enables the University to achieve its strategic aim of being a bilingual organisation that contributes proactively to the development of the Welsh language and bilingual agenda in the University, the surrounding area, nationally and internationally.
The policy also allows the University to implement the Welsh Language Standards placed on us by the Welsh Language Commissioner.
The Welsh Language Standards and the University’s Welsh Language Policy displaces our Welsh Language Scheme.
Please contact us if you have any comments or complaints relating to the University’s Welsh Language Policy or out implementation of the Welsh Language Standards.
The Welsh Language Policy refers to the university's work with students, staff, individuals and organizations outside the university who are based in Wales.
The policy applies to all resource / cost centres at Bangor University as well as any subsidiary company wholly owned by the university and any third party company providing a service on behalf of the university in the context of that service.
The Welsh Language Standards are a set of 182 declarations about how the University must operate in relation to the Welsh Language.
They are set out in the Compliance Notice that was sent to the University by Welsh Language Commissioner in accordance with the Welsh Language (Wales) Measure 2011.
These are the Regulations applicable to HE and FE institutions.
The 182 declarations describe the minimum ‘standards’ the University must attain in using Welsh in its day to day work.
Our compliance with the Welsh Language Standards is monitored by the Welsh Language Commissioner.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/alumni:
Mae gan Brifysgol Bangor bron i 120,000 o gyn-fyfyrwyr sy'n byw ym mhedwar ban y byd - mae'r Tîm Datblygu a Chysylltiadau Alumni yma i'ch helpu chi gadw mewn cysylltiad â'ch gilydd a'ch alma mater.
Mae’r Swyddfa Datblygu a Chysylltiadau Alumni yn anelu at gadw mewn cysylltiad gyda chymaint o’n alumni a phosib, er mwyn i ni eich hysbysu am y datblygiadau diweddaraf yn y Brifysgol ac am y gweithgareddau a drefnir yn benodol ar gyfer ein alumni.
Cadw mewn Cysylltiad
Diweddarwch eich Manylion
RHOI RHODD
P'un a ydych yn un o gyn-fyfyriwr Prifysgol Bangor, Coleg Prifysgol Gogledd Cymru, Y Coleg Normal, Coleg y Santes Fair neu Brifysgol Cymru, Bangor, mae'r Tîm Datblygu a Chysylltiadau Alumni yma i'ch helpu chi gadw mewn cysylltiad â'ch gilydd a'ch alma mater.
Nod y Swyddfa Datblygu a Chysylltiadau Alumni yw cadw mewn cysylltiad â'n holl alumni ar ôl iddynt raddio er mwyn eich hysbysu chi am ddatblygiadau diweddaraf y Brifysgol ac am weithgareddau a drefnir yn benodol ar gyfer alumni.
Mae'r Swyddfa Datblygu a Chysylltiadau Alumni yn trefnu aduniadau a digwyddiadau i gyn-fyfyrwyr yma yn y Brifysgol a ledled y byd.
Rhowch eich manylion cyswllt cyfredol inni ac mi wnawn anfon  gwybodaeth atoch am y digwyddiadau sy'n cael eu cynnal yn eich rhanbarth.
Mae cefnogaeth ddyngarol yn rhoi lles i ymchwil arloesol y Brifysgol sy'n torri tir newydd yn ogystal ag helpu i sicrhau bod myfyrwyr yn elwa o addysg o'r radd flaenaf gyda adnoddau a gwasanaethau ardderchog.
Swyddfa Datblygu a Chysylltiadau Alumni, Prifysgol Bangor, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG.
Os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau neu os hoffech fod mewn cysylltiad ag aelod o'r tîm, cysylltwch â ni.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/alumni/update.php.en:
The Development and Alumni Relations Office is here to help you stay in touch with your University and your fellow alumni.
We are in touch with over 120,000 former students.
We send them our quarterly e-newsletter, as well as School specific newsletters, invitations to reunions and events, requests for career talks and work placements, and information on The Bangor Fund.
This fund allows alumni to give back to today’s students and, in future years, you may be asked to support it.
To ensure you receive all these communications, please tick the boxes below.
Required information
Alumni data is held securely and confidentially on the University’s Development and Alumni Relations Office database for the purposes of promoting closer links between Bangor University and its former students.
It is used for a full range of alumni activities, including the sending of University publications, departmental and donor-specific literature; and the sponsoring of geographic and special interest alumni group events and activities worldwide.
It is not disclosed to external organisations other than those acting as agents for the University.
Bangor University processes your personal data in accordance with data protection regulations.
In submitting your details you consent to the University sending you information, in accordance with the preferences you have indicated above.
You may withdraw this consent at any time by contacting the Development and Alumni Relations Team at alumni@bangor.ac.uk .
Visit the Governance and Compliance section of our website to learn more about our Data Protection Policy, your rights, and how you can raise a concern about how your personal data is processed.
Our Data Protection Officer can be contacted directly at info-compliance@bangor.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/alumni/get-involved:
Bangor University encourages reciprocal, lifelong relationships with its former students and is proud to have alumni all over the world who continue to be engaged with their alma mater after they leave the University.
For many, Bangor University has made a significant difference to their professional and personal lives and they have a real desire to bring other Bangorians together and foster goodwill towards the University.
Alumni volunteers are typically former students who have stayed connected with us and who share an interest in, and concern for, the growth of the University’s profile as a world-class institution.
The Development and Alumni Relations Office (DARO) is here to help support alumni who wish to give back to Bangor.
Volunteers are advocates and enthusiastic communicators of Bangor’s mission and vision and alumni volunteers have helped the University through activities such as:
organising and assisting at reunions and events
supporting students by giving career talks, providing CV/Job application advice etc
helping the University to re-connect with other alumni
providing alumni profiles
supporting research at the University through business links
setting up new alumni groups in their area
helping with student recruitment activities (careers fairs, open days etc)
The Development and Alumni Relations team have prepared a handbook for alumni who wish to set up volunteer groups to support DARO’s activities.
We are available to discuss and advise on any aspect of the information contained within the handbook and will work collaboratively with volunteers on proposed activities.
If you would like to volunteer to help the Development and Alumni Relations Office with any of the activities listed above, are interested in setting up a volunteer group or have suggestions of you own, please email: alumni@bangor.ac.uk or telephone + 44 (0)1248 388332.
Like thousands of alumni already do, can stay in touch by joining us on Facebook and LinkedIn.
Click on the icons below to get involved in our online communities and link up with other alumni and the Development and Alumni Relations Office.
International Alumni
We’re proud that International students choose to study in Bangor and, as alumni, help us promote the University all over the world.
Read further details on how you, as an International alumnus, can support Bangor University activities in your country.
Read some of our alumni’s stories.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/alumni/keep-in-touch:
We don’t want to lose touch with you – let us know when you move home, work or change your email address by completing our update form .
We love to hear from our alumni, whether it’s to update us on your career progression since graduation, to receive your photos and memories of your time in Bangor or to help you reconnect with lost friends.
If you’d like to get in touch with the Development and Alumni Relations Office, please do so using the details below:
Development and Alumni Relations Office Bangor University Bangor Gwynedd LL57 2DG Tel: + 44 (0)1248 382020 / 388332 Email: alumni@bangor.ac.uk
Click on the icons to get involved in our online communities and link up with other alumni and the Development and Alumni Relations Office.
If you’ve lost contact with any of your former classmates, the Development and Alumni Relations Office is happy to try to put you back in touch.
Although we cannot share contact details without permission, if we have information for your former classmates we can get in touch with them on your behalf.
We can also help by providing class lists if you would like to plan your own reunion.
If you would like us to search for lost friends, please contact us with your classmate’s full name, subject of study and year of graduation at alumni@bangor.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/alumni/services-and-benefits:
The Development and Alumni Relations Office offer a range of services and benefits for our alumni.
See below for how we can help you!
Bangor University offers a 20% reduction in fees to all Home and International self-funding former students of Bangor University who have graduated with an honours degree and have successfully applied and registered for study on one of our eligible taught Masters degrees.
Click here for further information.
The Development and Alumni Relations Office send out monthly e-newsletters to alumni and friends, which contains the latest news from the University and our alumni, details on reunions and events and information on the exciting research and activities taking place within our Schools and Colleges.
Let us know your email address to receive future editions of Bangor University's Alumni e-news directly in your inbox.
Past editions of our Alumni e-newsletter can be found here .
If you’ve lost contact with any of your former classmates, we are happy to try to put you back in touch.
If you would like to organise a reunion for your cohort, the Development and Alumni Relations Office is here to help.
We can assist with getting information to classmates you have lost touch with, organising tours of your old departments and advising on accommodation and local restaurants.
Please email alumni@bangor.ac.uk or telephone + 44 (0)1248 388332 with details on the type of reunion you would like to arrange and we’ll help you with your planning.
Alumni can continue to access the University’s libraries with an Alumni Library Card.
The alumni library card borrowing entitlement is six items on loan at any one time.
Please note that some categories of stock, such as short loan items, are not available for borrowing by alumni and electronic access is not included.
To request library access, please email: alumni@bangor.ac.uk with your full name, address, telephone number, subject of study and year of graduation.
Requests for replacement certificates and University transcripts are dealt with by our Student Administration team.
See our Student Administration pages for advice and further information.
Bangor University’s has specially designed merchandise ranging from fine silk ties to colourful hoodies available to buy.
The collection also includes ladies’ silk neckerchiefs, t-shirts, laptop covers and bags for life as well as teddies, scarves, cufflinks, pens and notepads.
See the full range of our branded goods .
A limited range of accessories and memorabilia with past University branding is also available through the Ede and Ravenscroft alumni shop.
Access to careers advice and information can be just as important to you after graduation as when you were a student.
As an alumnus of Bangor University you can use the University’s Careers and Employability Service for 3 years after you graduate.
If you are looking for support with your career, see our Careers and Employability Service's pages for further information on how they can help you.
Are you considering returning to Bangor for postgraduate study and research?
Take a look at our postgraduate taught study information or our postgraduate research opportunities .

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/alumni/events:
Bangor University holds a number of lectures and events throughout the year which are open to members of the public.
See all of the University’s forthcoming public events .
The Development and Alumni Relations Office organise reunions and events for alumni here at the University and all over the world.
Keep us up to date with your current contact details and we will send information to you on events being held in your region, for your subject area and for your specific year group.
In June 2025, alumnus and Bangor University Honorary Degree recipient Trefor Owen (Forestry, 1985) arranged a reunion for his class to mark their 40th anniversary since graduation.
Trefor said, “We gathered in the Thoday Building’s F1 room, on a glorious Friday afternoon, for tea, cake and lots of chat!
We were thrilled that some retired staff from our time at Bangor also joined us, with one of our group still seeking an extension for an unfinished essay!
After checking in at the University’s Management Centre, we dined on fish and chips, accompanied by plenty of ‘Purple Moose’ beer at Tafarn y Garth on Friday evening.
Some of the group walked along the Wales Coastal Path from Bangor to Abergwyngregyn on Saturday morning, before meeting up with the others for a very enjoyable tour, tasting and light lunch at the Aber Falls Distillery.
This was followed by an afternoon ‘forestry’ walk in nearby Coedydd Aber.
We concluded the programme with a lovely dinner at the Management Centre on Saturday evening, in the company of Professor John Healey and Dr Christine Cahalan.
John kindly brought us to date with the work of the thriving Forestry Department and suggested different ways alumni can support him and the team.”
On 18 November 2024, Bangor University returned to the Kingdom of Bahrain for the annual alumni reunion.
The event was once again held on the terrace of the Bahrain Institute of Banking and Finance (BIBF) headquarters in beautiful Bahrain Bay.
2024 marks the 20th anniversary of the validated programme between Bangor University and BIBF, where students start their studies at BIBF and complete their degrees here in Bangor.
The reunion was a great opportunity to celebrate the ongoing partnership which continues to go from strength to strength.
Over 70 alumni, guests and BIBF colleagues attended the event with drinks, canapes, and music where they were addressed by Professor Andrew Edwards, Bangor University’s Pro Vice-Chancellor, and senior staff from BIBF.
The reunion also saw the presentation of the 2024 Bangor University / BIBF Alumnus of the Year award to Duaa AlMasqati (Banking and Finance, 2009), Senior Strategic Execution Manager and Team Lead at the London Stock Exchange Group.
Thank you to all of our alumni who attended and our good friends at BIBF for a great evening.
The 13th and 14th of September 2024 saw over 140 alumni return to Bangor to celebrate the 140th anniversary of the University.
The programme for this special reunion started with a pub quiz in the Ffriddoedd site’s student bar, Bar Uno, with alumni teams battling it out over four rounds of General knowledge, History of the University, Name the alumnus / honorary fellow and Places in Bangor.
Congratulations to ‘SABE all your kisses for me’ on their victory!
Saturday began with a welcome from the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Edmund Burke, before alumni heard about the exciting new North Wales Medical School from Prof.
Mike Larvin and the current activities of the Students’ Union from their President, Nida Ambreen.
Alumni were then invited to the University’s magnificent Council Chamber to attend the unveiling ceremony of the double portrait of botanists Prof.
David Thoday and Gladys Thoday, who both had a great impact on Bangor University, by artist Meinir Mathias.
Alumni then had the opportunity to meet staff from Schools and Departments around the University, exploring their facilities and hearing about the research taking place by staff and students.
Many alumni also joined a visit to Treborth Botanic Gardens to learn about the great work there and explore the gardens and greenhouses.
The afternoon saw a fascinating presentation on the formative years of the University by alumnus and local historian Gari Wyn where he spoke about some of the key-players in the establishment and history of the University.
The day’s programme was rounded off by a presentation on alumni engagement in the Bangor University Innovation and Leadership Training (BUILT) award project by Dr Andy Goodman and alumnus Kailesh Karavadra.
They spoke about the success and future of the programme designed to boost students’ employability and how alumni have supported this fantastic opportunity offered to Bangor students.
The evening commenced with a drinks reception, accompanied by a string quartet, after which alumni enjoyed a fabulous meal in either Prichard-Jones Hall or the library’s Shankland Reading Room, depending on which venue they had chosen.
The Shankland Reading Room became a dining venue for the first time in the University’s history and its unique, intimate atmosphere provided a wonderful dining experience for former students who used to study in those very alcoves!
Whether they dined in the library or in Prichard-Jones Hall, alumni spent the evening enjoying each other’s company, whether they had known each other as students or had just met.
Thank you to everyone who joined us for this special occasion.
The Development and Alumni Relations Office loved welcoming everyone back to their alma mater.
Bangor University really do have the best alumni!
A reunion for School of Ocean Sciences alumni was held at the University on 24 – 26th May 2024.
The reunion marked the 30th anniversary of the establishment of the School of Ocean Sciences Alumni Association (SOSA), founded by Sinclair Buchan and George Floodgate.
The weekend started with an exclusive Prosecco evening at Anglesey Sea Zoo.
Guests were treated to a special behind-the-scenes guided tour by Frankie Hobro, alumna and Director and Owner of Anglesey Sea Zoo, and her team.
They then enjoyed a buffet and a glass or two of fizz!
On the Saturday, alumni could join tours of the RV Prince Madog, experience a Ribride down the Menai Strait and meet current staff for afternoon refreshments in the Marine Centre Wales.
The main reunion dinner was held in Neuadd Reichel in Bangor on the Saturday evening.
After welcome drinks, where alumni had the opportunity to share their photos from their time at the University, guests heard from from Mick Cook, Chair of SOSA, Professor Edmund Burke, Bangor University’s Vice Chancellor and Prof.
John Turner, Head of School.
It was great to welcome graduates from across the decades and to hear everyone's stories of their time at the School of Ocean Sciences and what they have gone on to do since graduation.
The weather was kind on the Sunday morning when the reunion was wrapped up with a geological walk to Llanddwyn, led by Dr.
Dei Huws and Prof.
Colin Jago.
Thank you to everyone who joined us for the reunion.
We hope to welcome you back again soon!
As part of the University’s 140th celebrations, the School of Arts, Culture and Language hosted a concert by the Bangor University Symphony Orchestra and Chorus (cond.
Joe Cooper) in April featuring the world premiere of a work by Dr Guto Pryderi Puw (Reader in Composition at Bangor), the Harp Concerto by William Mathias (former Professor of Music at Bangor), and Beethoven’s 9th Symphony.
Bangor University Symphony Orchestra and Chorus are comprised of current and former staff and students of the University, as well as members of the community.
The concert celebrated the essential role that music and the arts have played, and continue to play, in the cultural life of the University and in the wider region.
The Development and Alumni Relations Office were delighted to welcome alumni and guests to a special drinks’ reception in the Council Chamber where they were greeted by the Vice Chancellor, Prof.
Edmund Burke, prior to the concert.
Developed by Bangor University staff and alumni, the BUILT programme brings together students to form cross-disciplinary teams to work on creating a solution to a sustainability and food-based challenge.
Initiated by alumnus Kailesh Karavadra and led by Dr Andy Goodman, the final of this year’s programme saw 34 undergraduate and postgraduate students present their proposals.
Each of these teams were mentored by an alumnus of the University who helped them develop their ideas and were on-hand to advise and guide them.
Alumni were also part of the judging panel and others led subject 'deep-dives' to help the students' projects.
The BUILT programme culminated on 2nd May 2024 with each student team presenting their ideas to an independent judging panel.
The teams then displayed posters explaining their work, with the five judges having the opportunity to ask questions before choosing their winners.
The 2024 winners were Team Tatws with their product ‘Grad Chef’, an app which directs students to local products and businesses with a recipe feature which will prevent food waste.
The team received the top prize of £10,000 to develop their business further.
The £10,000 “Mabel Evans Award for Innovation” was made possible due to a kind donation by alumnus Jonathan Wright (1999, Social Policy/Criminology & Criminal Justice) in memory of his great-grandmother, who also studied at Bangor, and a further £5,000 was awarded to the runners-up from alumni donations to the Bangor Fund.
The evening was sponsored by Succession Wealth and WeSpeak.
Congratulations to everyone involved!
See more photos from the final here.
Bangor University’s Pro Vice-Chancellor Professor Andrew Edwards, Emma Marshall, Head of Development and Alumni Relations and Dr Lindsay Jones, Head of TNE Operations at the International Education Centre returned to the Kingdom of Bahrain on 28 November 2023 to host the annual Bangor University Alumni Reunion at the Bahrain Institute of Banking and Finance (BIBF) headquarters in Bahrain Bay.
Celebrating the ongoing partnership between Bangor University and BIBF and the continuing success of the Bangor validated programme in Bahrain, 70 alumni attended the event where they were addressed by Professor Andrew Edwards.
Drinks and canapes were served as alumni caught-up with their former classmates on the beautiful BIBF terrace and took part in some fun activities!
The event also saw the presentation of the 2023 Bangor University / BIBF Alumnus of the Year award to Hasan Sater (Banking and Finance, 2012), Director of Financing Operations Directorate at the Ministry of Finance and National Economy.
A full-capacity event was held for 180 alumni, honorary fellows, friends of the University and guests in the beautiful Cholmondeley Room and terrace of the House of Lords, London on Tuesday, 12 September 2023.
Guests were welcomed by Lord Dafydd Wigley and addressed by our Vice-Chancellor, Prof.
Edmund Burke, and Bangor University’s Chair of Council, Marian Wyn Jones.
They were also treated to a performance by three students from the Department of Music and heard from Bangor alumnus Harry Riley (Master of Biology, 2019), Head of Planning and Governance in Online Harms in the UK Government’s Department for Science, Innovation and Technology.
Our alumni caught up with one another and chatted to staff from across the University whilst enjoying drinks, canapes and the splendid views of London across the Thames from the Terrace.
In August, the Development and Alumni Relations Office once again held their annual reunion for alumni as part of Bangor University’s activities at the National Eisteddfod of Wales in Boduan.
Around 200 alumni and former staff joined us on the stand, where they were welcomed by Professor Andrew Edwards who shared an update of developments at the University.
They then heard about the successes of the Students’ Union from UMCB President Celt John, who finished by leading the crowd in a sing-song!
Emma Marshall, Head of Development and Alumni Relations, said “It was a great pleasure to be able to hold our annual reunion at the National Eisteddfod of Wales again this year.
This is a highlight in the DARO calendar and it was lovely to see some familiar faces as well as meeting some new alumni.”
Bangor University was pleased to be able to return to the Kingdom of Bahrain on 8 November 2022 and to hold our seventh Bangor University Alumni Reunion at the Bahrain Institute of Banking and Finance (BIBF) headquarters in Bahrain Bay.
Over 90 alumni caught up with each other and developments at Bangor over drinks and canapes.
Hosted by Professor Andrew Edwards, Bangor University's Pro Vice-Chancellor and Head of Dean of College of Arts, Humanities and Business, guests were also addressed by His Excellency Rasheed Al Maraj, Governor of the Central Bank of Bahrain and Professor Bruce Vanstone, Head of Bangor Business School.
Also during the evening, Zahra Al Shamma (Banking and Finance, 2013) was announced as the recipient of the 2022 Bangor University / BIBF Alumnus of the Year award.
We were pleased to have the opportunity to meet alumni in Pontio prior to the performance of the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra.
40 alumni and their guests met Vice-Chancellor Prof.
Edmund Burke, Chair of University Council Marian Wyn Jones and the Development and Alumni Relations team over drinks and canapes before attending the sell-out concert.
The Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra and Bangor University have a relationship that goes back many years with several students receiving instrument lessons from the Orchestra and taking part in KTP projects which gave research students the opportunity to work with the RLPO in Liverpool.
Thank you to all of you who joined us!
A group of over 40 former students from the 1960s and 1970s returned to Bangor 2-3 September for a reunion organised by alumni Roger Thwaites (Zoology, 1971) and Foster Edwards (Agriculture, 1971).
The reunion was kicked off with a celebratory game of table tennis to christen the new permanent table tennis tables recently installed outside Bar Uno on the Ffriddoedd site.
The University was able to purchase these after the group clubbed together to raise £5,000 to mark their time in Bangor.
The group met on Saturday morning to hear talks from Lewis Thompson, Students’ Union VP for Sports, and Dr Andy Cooke, Director of Bangor University’s Institute for the Psychology of Elite Performance and the reunion was rounded off with a buffet dinner and drinks in Bar Uno.
Prior to the reunion, the group clubbed together to raise £5,000 to buy two permanent table tennis tables which have been installed outside Bar Uno on the University's Ffriddoedd site.
The alumni kicked off the reunion weekend with a celebratory game to christen the tables.
Watch the video here !
Here are some other highlights:
Read the report from John Young (Modern Languages, 1970)
Read the report by Brian Charnley (English and Drama, 1970)
If you are interested in organising a reunion for your cohort, please contact Bethan Perkins, Alumni Relations Officer, at b.w.perkins@bangor.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/alumni/profiles:
Bangor University has almost 120,000 alumni living all over the world, working in every industry you can imagine!
We’re proud of all of our alumni’s achievements and love to hear what you have been up to since graduation.
Below are some of our alumni’s stories.
If you would like to share your experiences since leaving Bangor, please email: alumni@bangor.ac.uk .
"Looking back, choosing Bangor University was one of the best decisions I’ve made"
Volunteering experience as a student led C í an Sherwin (Zoology with Herpetology, 2017) on a mission to restore and preserve Arctic sea ice.
" It’s the small lessons learned through observation and conversation that leave the deepest impact"
A passion for talent development has taken Jessica Hughes (Sport- Health & Physical Education, 2019) from rugby to Zipworld.
"This MA gave me everything I wanted and everything I didn't know I craved"
Following her experience as an Erasmus exchange student, Emilie returned to Bangor for her MA degree.
"I was able to have some amazing experiences as a result of my time at Bangor, both from things that I expected and pursued and from opportunities that I would never have predicted before starting at Bangor."
A joint honours degree in Sports Science and French has led Glenn Swain (2022) to his role of Lead Academy Coach within the Futsal department of the Bloomsbury Football Foundation.
"My degree played a huge role in shaping my career, not just in terms of academic knowledge but also through the practical experiences and networking opportunities it provided."
A lecturer in Sport and Exercise Science at Bangor University and a post-doctoral researcher for World Rugby, Seren also works as a Physiotherapist and is the lead medic for Rygbi Gogledd Cymru Women’s and Girls and Welsh Rugby Union Under 18s teams.
"We both keep UCNW and our stay in Bangor very high in our life memories as they were key for our careers, professional development, and undoubtedly also for our personal and family lives."
Having received awards from the British Council, Salvador Sánchez-Colón and his wife María Elena were able to come from Mexico to study their MSc in Ecology at Bangor in the mid-1980s.
Here Salvador tells us about their time in Bangor and a career including work at Mexico’s Ministry of the Environment and a number of UN agencies.
“I started in Bangor in 1960 at the School of Engineering Science, led by Prof.
Gavin, that at the time was one of a select few such departments in UK"
Dr Stan Jones OBE’s PhD in Electronic Engineering at Bangor led the way to a long and successful career in the industry.
"As a disabled person from a council estate, despite growing up in a university city, I didn't even think I would get into university"
Although she never thought she’d get into University, Erin Pritchard (Geography, 2008) has gone on to gain a PhD and is now a lecturer in Disability Studies and is a consultant for Walt Disney studios.
"Growing up in an urban Northern town, seeing the mountains, lakes and forests of north Wales was enough to know I’d found where I wanted to spend the next three years"
Although studying a degree in Mathematics, Iqbal Hussain's time working on the student newspaper led him to follow his passion for words not numbers.
"I had just turned thirty when a nagging doubt started to surface about the path I was following.
Something had to change."
A distance learning course from Bangor helped Joe Gray (Forestry, 2016) move into the environmental sector.
“I am extremely proud to say that my first ever showreels and pilot were recorded at Menai Bridge”
Wildlife presenter, scuba diver and shark expert Tom “The Blowfish” Hird is the world’s only heavy metal marine biologist!
"I look back at it with only fondness, remembering who I was before and who I am today."
Sif Brookes (Psychology, 2014) shares why their years at Bangor were transformative.
"I loved the course, especially enjoying the evolutionary psychology module, and the amazing people I met"
Ashleigh Smith made the most of her time as a student and now works in her dream area.
"Entrepreneurs can be graduates too"
Toby Dixon, a self-made multi-millionaire and now private equity fund founder, came to Bangor University to study Business Studies and Marketing
“My time at Bangor University gave me such enormous confidence, independence and a belief in my abilities”
A degree in History with Journalism (2006) at Bangor led Jamie Smith to fulfil his lifelong dream of writing and publishing a novel.
"Bangor University opened a world of opportunities for me"
Ellinor Shore (Biomedical Science, 2020) pursued her science career after gaining her BSc in Bangor.
"I was so lucky and blessed to be part of a vibrant academic community"
Maria-Sosanna Vasileiou (Applied Linguistics for TEFL MA, 2021) is enjoying her dream job teaching English to young children in Greece.
"The Bangor PhD gowns are also much nicer than my York ones!"
After graduating from Bangor, Richard Williams found his niche through studying at various institutions.
On the 75th anniversary of the National Health Service, our School of Medical and Health Sciences celebrate our alumni and the NHS.
Alumnus Dr Alan Crofts, a Biochemistry undergraduate at Bangor, went onto seek adventure after leaving the University in 1990.
"I am grateful for the experiences and life-long friends I gained while at Bangor University"
Lauren Evans (Philosophy and Religion, 2017) immersed herself in student life at Bangor.
"Probably few alumni can claim still to be working on their PhD research topic 50 years after gaining the degree"
From Bangor to Swaziland, Prof.
Julian Evans (Forestry, 1968, Forestry PhD, 1972 and Forestry DSc, 1988) tells us about his 50 years’ research in Forestry.
"If any mature students are considering returning to university then Bangor University is the place to be, as they say it’s never too late to learn"
Despite being in his 60s, Adrian came to Bangor to study his MA and fully immersed himself in student life.
"I will always cherish my time and experiences at Bangor University"
Evangelina (Lilian) Balatsou won the British Council's StudyUK Alumni Award in Greece for Social Action in March 2023.
"I wanted to give myself the best possible shot at becoming a writer, and Bangor seemed like a good place to start."
Zoe's decision to stay in Bangor to study her MA at the University set her on the path to becoming a published author.
"I wanted to be a better therapist is all; but I think the Masters helped shape a broader person and, for that, I will be eternally grateful."
Following his MSc in Counselling at Bangor University, James Donaldson took part in the BBC's 'Reunion Hotel'.
I think pretty well all my tutors and professors were eccentric in their own way!
Poet Clive Donovan (Arts, 1969) shares his memories of his time as a student in Bangor in the late 1960s.
"Going back to university wasn't an easy choice, but coming to Bangor was definitely the right one."
The Covid pandemic inspired Christian M (PGCE in Physics with Outdoor Education, 2022) to change his career path and he's not looking back!
"Bangor changed my life and put it onto a path that meant I was paid for working on my hobby."
Alumnus and Bangor University Honorary Fellow, Prof.
Dr John Porter (Agricultural Botany 1976 and Plant Biology PhD 1981) has had a successful career in crop ecology and physiology, biological modelling and agricultural ecology.
“Bangor University helped shape my entrepreneurial spirit”
Tasmin Lofthouse (Psychology, 2014) set up her own marketing agency after discovering her passion for Consumer Psychology at Bangor.
"The journey to study at Bangor University was a thrilling one"
James Otai (MSc.
Environmental and Business Management, 2020) chose Bangor to further his education to help him develop his social enterprise work in Uganda.
"As an undergraduate, I must confess I spent more time talking about writing than actually doing it!"
A love of creative writing and career in teaching and publishing has led to a two-book deal for Jacquie Bloese (English Literature and French, 1993).
“Bangor provided lots of opportunities for me”
After spotting a gap in the market for online luxury gifts, Michelle Daniel (French & Business Studies, 2009) went on to co-found of an online gifting company.
“I’m celebrating 10 years of working with animals after being told by medical experts that a life with animals would not be possible”
Alumnus Ryan Eddowes is raising awareness of clubfoot and Save the Rhino through a fundraising challenge on the Jurassic Coast.
"I’d often tinker with the script in my room on Ffriddoedd Site"
From Main Arts to Penguin Random House: How Bangor made Tom Hindle (English, 2014) an author.
“I learned to dive in winter, in a home-made wetsuit..."
From Bangor to Phuket, Pete Atkinson's (Zoology with Marine Zoology, 1978) photographic career has taken him around the world.
"I applied for a Commonwealth Scholarship, passed the interview and was given a scholarship to go to the UK"
Prof.
Akello was given a warm welcome on his arrival at Bangor as an international student in 1974
“My nursing placement in Pokhara helped me become a better Nurse and helped prepare me for working through the COVID-19 pandemic”
As part of her degree in Nursing, Chloe Roberts (Nursing, 2020) did an overseas placement in Pokhara, Nepal.
"I still look fondly at my times studying in the fens of Anglesey and the bogs of Snowdonia"
Bangor provided the perfect environment for Chris Dennis (Applied Terrestrial and Marine Ecology, 2011) to pursue his interest in nature.
“My first date with my wife Chris was in the cafe at the end of Bangor Pier!”
Studying Agricultural Botany at Bangor started David Scarisbrick's (Agricultural Botany, 1965) career in the field.
"Bangor helped me establish a foundation for lifelong learning and learn the need for a keen work ethic"
The University's soccer club played a big part in Ian Gray's (Economics, 1973) student experience at Bangor.
“I had dreams of being the next Jacques Cousteau!”
During one of his breaks from the Royal Navy,  Matt Ruglys (Zoology with Marine Zoology, 1978) worked as an underwater wildlife cameraman on programmes such as Blue Planet.
"The course made me feel younger than I was at the time, and I relished the challenge"
In his fifties, Peter Montgomery (Sociology with Social Policy, 2002) returned to education to study at Bangor University.
"I guided the team to the wooden spoon in the UW Championship!"
Pete Curle (Chemistry, Biochemistry and Soil Science, 1968) shares his sporting memories as a student.
"...
leaving Bangor and moving to London was the most difficult decision I ever had to make and I still think about my time at university and living in Snowdonia every day."
Forty years after leaving Bangor, Tony Vickers-Byrne (English and Drama 1981 and PGCE 1982) still feels the strong pull of North Wales.
"I knew Bangor was the place for me and I was not going anywhere else!"
Amelie Edwards' (Medieval and Early Modern History, 2012) time in the Bangor English Dramatic Society as a student led her on the path to writing and acting.
"Bangor opened up so many opportunities to me"
Pippa Joyner (French, 1996) has become a published author with stories inspired by her time in Bangor.
“I am ever grateful to the University and the City for my experience and the knowledge that I use to this day”
Graeme Patterson (Botany with Marine Botany, 1978) shares his memories of student life in the 1970s.
"I set up my business in my spare time whilst studying at Bangor"
Gaz Thomas (MEng Electronic Engineering, 2004) took advantage of Bangor University's support to set up his business during his postgraduate studies.
“My 4 years at Bangor were the best 4 years of my educational life”
Sara Rawoot (Psychology with Neuropsychology, 2019) is closer to fulfilling her dreams after completing her degree at Bangor University.
"My 3 years there were the making of me, and the experience moulded me into the person I am now"
Graham Newman (Mathematics, 1976) shares his memories of his time at University.
Bangor Alumna's Psychology Degree takes her to Facebook HQ
You’ll find Bangor graduates working at every major company across the globe.
Facebook, the world’s largest social media company, is home to Susie Thompson, a 2004 Psychology graduate who has found her dream job in California.
During the annual alumni reunion held on 18 November 2024 on the terrace of the BIBF Headquarters in the Kingdom of Bahrain, Duaa AlMasqati was announced as the Bangor University / BIBF Alumnus of the Year 2024.
Hasan Sater (Banking and Finance, 2012) was named the Bangor University / BIBF Alumnus of the Year 2023
Congratulations to Zahra Al Shamma (Banking and Finance, 2013) who was announced as the 2022 Bangor University / BIBF Alumnus of the Year at a reunion of Bangor graduates in the Kingdom of Bahrain on 8 November 2022.
Frankie Hobro (Marine Environmental Protection MSc, 2002) was named Alumnus of the Year 2019 during the School of Ocean Sciences’ graduation ceremony.
Congratulations to Yingying Liu who has been named as Bangor University’s China Alumnus of the Year 2019.
In July 2018, Gwilym Rees-Jones (Maths, 1963) was presented with Bangor University's Alumnus of the Year award.
The Alumnus of the Year award highlights the achievements of our alumni, acknowledging those who have excelled in their chosen career and remain engaged with their University
Andrew Edwards, Dean of the College Arts, Humanities and Business, presented Michelle Han (MBA, 2004) with the China Alumnus of the Year 2018 award at during an alumni reunion in Shanghai.
Mohamed Al-Mahroos (Banking and Finance, 2012) was named Bangor University / BIBF Alumnus of the Year in September 2018.
Mohamed came to Bangor University to complete his BA Hons in Business Studies and Finance in the 2010-2011 academic year and earned an upper second class degree.
Do you feel that you wouldn’t be where you are today without your time at Bangor?
Do you have a particular memory of a location or event at the University that has always stayed with you?
Did you make friends for life, establish traditions or meet your future partner here?
Read some of our alumni stories on why Bangor University is so special to them and where they are today ‘Because of Bangor’.
An Honorary Fellowship is a highly prestigious award which the University bestows to distinguished individuals who have a connection with the University or Wales, and who have made an outstanding contribution to their chosen field.
We are especially proud of our alumni Honorary Fellows.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/alumni/advisory-board:
Established in 2006, the Bangor University Alumni Advisory Board is a non-governing advisory group consisting of University alumni who have stayed connected to their alma mater and who share an interest in and concern for the growth of a vigorous and highly engaged alumni base.
The purpose of the Board is to represent the broader alumni community and to provide input and guidance to the University on those matters of interest to alumni.
Board members are advocates and enthusiastic communicators of Bangor’s mission and vision, working to move forward the University's alumni relations programme.
They support the Development and Alumni Relations Office in a number of ways including by helping to cultivate a base of alumni volunteer leadership, initiating and managing alumni events and helping to identify potential new members or alumni who may be prepared to be engaged with the University.
George Buckley is Chief UK Economist at Nomura and was previously Chief UK Economist at Deutsche Bank.
He joined Deutsche Bank in 1998 following the completion of his PhD in the area of the housing and mortgage markets at the University of Bristol.
While at Bristol George lectured and taught undergraduate tutorials in macroeconomics.
He holds an MSc in Economics and Finance from the same university, and a BA in Economics from Bangor University.
He is author of the book “What You Need to Know About Economics” (2011).
George is also one of the founding members of Bangor’s 2020 group, a business group for alumni who remain engaged and committed to the University and help in many different ways including raising the University’s profile in key markets.
He joined the Alumni Advisory Board as Chairman in March 2015.
Emyr Afan OBE, CEO of Afanti Media Ltd is a Bafta award-winning TV executive producer, multi-camera director and ideas creative.
In 1995, he co-founded Afanti Media (formerly Avanti Media), and as Chief Executive Officer, he has built one of the longest-standing and most successful TV production companies in Wales, with the largest fleet of outside broadcast facilities in the principality.
Afanti is widely-respected for delivering highly successful returnable shows and formats, documentaries, large scale outside broadcasts, entertainment and music events for national and international broadcasters.
Emyr has led a number of high-profile network commissions such as ‘‘Showtime’ and “Life Drawing Live!’ and ‘Inside Classical’ for the BBC, and ‘The Perfect Pitch’ for Channel 4.
Recent commissions that he has Exec Produced include ‘The World’s Biggest Cruise Ship’ for C4 and Secrets of the Lost Mines for BBC1.
Emyr was cited Most Influential CEO Wales (Media) in 2024 and was awarded an OBE in the Kings Birthday List 2024 for services to Media and Music.
He was named Entrepreneur of the Year in the Cardiff Business Awards 2024 having won Cardiff Business of the Year and Creative Business of the Year at the 2023 event.
Emyr studied Welsh and History in Bangor University between 1981 and 1984 and met his wife Mair who was also studying in the Music Department in Bangor.
His parents also studied and met at Bangor University!
Tim joined the financial services industry after graduating from Bangor University in 1982.
He was the co-founder of Clay Rogers & Partners Ltd, one of Birmingham's foremost independent financial planning practices, before this business was acquired by Succession Group in September 2016.
Tim retired from his advisory role with Succession in November 2023,
Tim met his wife, Laura, whilst they were both studying at Bangor University and they return annually, regularly accompanied by their 3 grown up children, for the Old Stars weekend.
He has always been a keen sportsman and charity fund raiser and is now the West Midlands Regional Chairman of The Lord's Taverners.
One of his other “talents” is being one of the lead singers in a covers band, which over the years has helped to raise over £500K for charity.
Jane is the founder and director of Positive Story , a strategic public relations consultancy, which specialises in PR for tech start-ups and global industrial companies.
Jane is a former TV and radio news reporter for the BBC and ITV and has more than twenty-five years' experience spanning journalism and PR.
She has worked both agency-side and in-house and was previously the Head of Global Media Relations, Infrastructure at the leading engineering, project management and construction company, Bechtel for seven years and Head of Corporate Communication for Angel Trains Group, part of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group for four years.
She has also held senior media relations roles at BAE Systems, Network Rail, Eurotunnel and ATOC.
Kailesh Karavadra is Managing Partner West Region Growth Markets for Ernst and Young, based in Silicon Valley, and is responsible for a portfolio that includes some of the world’s leading technology companies.
Born in Kampala, Uganda to Indian parents, he came to Britain as a refugee.
He chose Bangor over Oxford University to study a BSc in Electronic Engineering, graduating with first class honours in 1989, and stayed in Bangor to gain a Master of Engineering degree, adding additional accounting and financial modules to his Master's programme.
Kailesh joined Ernst & Young as an accountant in their Luton and London offices in the early 1990s and in 1995, he transferred to Ernst & Young's San Jose office and emigrated to the U.S.
Alongside his busy career and family life, Kailesh has finds time for extensive volunteer work with a number of charities including the Food Rescue Mission in San Jose and the Mayor’s Small Business Ignite Mentoring Program to support small business growth.
He received an Honorary Fellowship from Bangor University for Services to Business in 2017.
Having graduated from Bangor in 1979, Mark then completed his Masters in Food Science from Nottingham University.
Mixing work with his passion for rugby, Mark then spent 20 years in the agricultural merchants and agro-chemical sectors, achieving senior roles for both distributors and manufacturers.
He joined the family owned T H White Group in 1999 to establish a national lorry loader (crane) division, and with the Palfinger brand achieved UK number one position in 2006 where it has remained since.
Mark took a seat on the T H White Group (Holdings) Board in 2006.
He has previously held Board positions for the British Agricultural Association and Sumitomo Agriculture.
He is married with two grown up children, still plays annually in Bangor Old Boys rugby matches and loves good food and wine.
Britta is currently working as a Clinical Trial Manager on Oncology Clinical Trials, which motivates and rewards her every day.
She built upon her Cancer
Biology degree from Bangor University with a M.Sc.
in Molecular and Developmental Stem Cell Biology from the University of Bochum, Germany, a PhD in Paediatric Oncology from the University of Heidelberg, Germany and a PG Diploma in Experimental Medicine (Cancer) from the University of Manchester.
Britta is very thankful for having had the opportunity at Bangor to specialise in Cancer Biology so early on in her career and to work in Oncology ever since.
Britta, who originally is from Germany and moved to the UK for her A-levels, is glad to have stayed in the country for longer to study towards a B.Sc.
at Bangor as that is where she met her now husband.
They regularly return to Bangor to relive old memories and cannot wait to take their daughter there to show her where Mami and Daddy met.
During her time at Bangor University, she was a caller for the Development and Alumni Relations Office Bangor Fund campaigns, was part of the RAG society and the Athletics Club with whom she still meets up regularly and still runs/competes in races with.
Since graduation, Britta has remained a great supporter of Bangor University and has contributed to a number of alumni and student recruitment activities.
After graduating from Bangor University in 1988, Peter worked as an analyst in the Institute of European Finance before moving to the US as a recipient of the Rotary Foundation Scholarship representing the Bangor Rotary Club.
He served as a cultural and goodwill ambassador that represented the whole of Wales and northern England.
Afterwards, he obtained his MBA in International Management & Finance from Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland Ohio.
Peter currently sits on the board of Xpress Wellness Urgent Care in the US.
He is also a past member of the Bangor University’s Investment Board, and Reliance eHealth Collaborative, a health information exchange in the US.
Peter experience also includes serving as a healthcare CFO for three companies in the US, most recently at Parkland Community Health Plan in Texas.
Prior to this, he spent over 20 years working in the corporate/investment banking, private equity, investment management, and capital markets sectors in the US.
This culminated in the founding of Warspite Capital Advisors where he advised clients on investment strategies in emerging markets and FDIC-sponsored projects involving complex structured sale and securitization transactions.
Peter is a passionate soccer and tennis player, and a regular reader of business journals.
Jonathan is President International at Hearst Magazines.
He was formerly Global Managing Director of Dow Jones, Director of News Corp’s VCCircle and Director of Newspicks, where he was responsible for defining and implementing growth strategies for The Wall Street Journal and Dow Jones outside the United States.
Partly inspired by thoughts of a possible career in the army or the police’s royal and diplomatic protection service, Jonathan chose to read Criminology at Bangor University, but after moving to London took a job in advertisement sales where he fell in love with the media business.
He was Publisher and Group Sales Director at Euromoney Institutional Investor based in New York before joining Dow Jones in 2010 as Advertising Sales Director for Dow Jones’ Financial News.
Jonathan is the Alumni Advisory Board’s International Liaison and Advisor.
His links with Bangor go back to 1910 when his great-grandmother graduated from the University with a BA in English.
In his spare time, he likes to watch his two children playing rugby and keeps fit by training for marathons and endurance tests, such as cycling from London to Monte Carlo.
He enjoys local theatre and, during his time in New York, produced three off-Broadway plays.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/alumni/international:
Bangor University welcomes students from all over the world and is proud of the achievements of its international alumni.
The Development and Alumni Relations Office host reunions and events around the globe and are always delighted to see so many alumni attend to catch up with each other and meet members of visiting Bangor University staff.
Annual reunions are held in the Kingdom of Bahrain and China and events have been held in the USA, Greece, Singapore and Hong Kong to name but a few!
Bangor University has links with educational institutions all over the world such as Harvard University in the USA and the Bahrain Institute of Banking and Finance in the Kingdom of Bahrain and groups of alumni have come together in these locations to support the partnerships.
Bangor University is grateful for the support of alumni volunteers in key locations around the world who take pride in their association with University and wish to help raise its profile internationally.
As a volunteer you can support Bangor University by sharing your experiences with prospective students, expanding the alumni network in your region and sharing your knowledge of your country’s life and culture.
You can assist us with events such as briefings for new students, careers events and welcome receptions for students returning to your region.
You will have the opportunity to make contact with fellow alumni in your city and country for social and business networking as well as developing links with University staff visiting your region.
If you are an international alumnus and are interested in helping raise the profile of Bangor in your region, we would love to hear from you!
Please email Bethan Perkins at: alumni@bangor.ac.uk
See Bangor University’s International Education Centre ’s pages for more information of the work they do in your country.
Every year Bangor University considers candidates for Alumni of the Year awards.
An Alumnus of the Year award recognises the achievements, both professional and personal, of our graduates.
Read more about our International Alumni of the Year recipients below.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/about/honorary-fellows:
An Honorary Degree or Honorary Fellowship is one of Bangor University's most significant accolades and provides a lifelong link between the individual and Bangor University.
Our Honorary Fellowships and Degrees are prestigious awards bestowed upon distinguished individuals who have a connection with the University, or with Wales, and who have made an outstanding contribution to their chosen field.
Please see Ordinance 31 for details regarding the Honorary Fellowships and Degrees nomination process.
Please direct any enquiries regarding Honorary Fellowships and Degrees to Ingrid Pedersen .
Here are just some of the many famous names that are Honorary Fellows of Bangor University:
To celebrate the 125th anniversary of its foundation, Bangor University decided to award honorary doctorates to four individuals of world renown whose contributions over a long period were considered to be of major international significance.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/giving/bangor-fund:
You can choose to designate your donation within three broad categories:
These funds support the University's most important priorities as identified by the University’s strategic plan.
This fund provides scholarships, bursaries, field trips, internships, travel grants and other direct student support.
It also supports initiatives that enhance the student experience and contribute significantly to campus life.
This fund reflects the mission to provide support for all Welsh language and cultural activities throughout the institution.
See how your donations are making a difference and find out how to donate to us.
With your support, we can shape the future .
By supporting the Bangor Fund, you empower students with transformative opportunities and initiatives that positively impact them and strengthen the future of the entire university community.
Our friendly team is always on hand to guide you through the donation process.
Feel free to contact Persida Chung , Development Officer, if you have any queries or if you wish to discuss your gifts.
email: p.v.chung@bangor.ac.uk
phone: 01248 388756

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/alumni/about-us:
Bangor University has almost 120,000 alumni living all over the world.
We send out regular e-newsletters to keep you up-to-date with the latest news from the University and organise reunions and events for our former students all over the world.
We can help to reconnect you with lost friends and assist you in planning your own reunions too.
The team also support alumni who want to give back to their University through activities such as giving career advice to current students or talking to prospective students at Open Days.
We don’t want to lose touch with you after graduation!
Please let us know when you move home, work or change your email address by completing our update form .
You can also join our LinkedIn and Facebook groups to stay connected with Bangor University and your fellow alumni.
We love to hear from our alumni, whether it is to update us on your career progression since graduation or to receive your photos and memories of your time in Bangor.
If you’d like to get in touch with the Development and Alumni Relations Office, please do so on the details below:
Development and Alumni Relations Office Bangor University Bangor Gwynedd LL57 2DG Tel: +44 (0)1248 382020 / 388332 Email: alumni@bangor.ac.uk
The Alumni Advisory Board was established in 2006 to advise the University on alumni relations and activities.
The Board, chaired by Dr George Buckley (Economics, 1993), meets three times a year.
Read more about our Board members.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/atgofion-140-mlwyddiant-cyn-fyfyrwyr-140th-anniversary-alumni-memories:
Mae 2024 yn nodi 140 mlwyddiant sefydlu Prifysgol Bangor.
Mae’n cyn-fyfyrwyr yn rhan bwysig o hanes y brifysgol, ni waeth a oeddent yng Ngholeg Prifysgol Gogledd Cymru, Prifysgol Cymru Bangor, Coleg y Normal, Coleg y Santes Fair neu Brifysgol Bangor, felly i nodi’r achlysur fe ofynnom i’n cyn-fyfyrwyr rannu atgofion, lluniau a memrobilia o’u cyfuno nhw yma fel myfyrwyr.
Roeddem wrth ein boddau gyda’r ymateb gan i ni dderbyn cymaint o gyfraniadau ar draws y degawdau ac mae'n bleser gennym eu rhannu gyda chi isod.
Diolch yn fawr i'r rhai ohonoch sydd wedi anfon darnau i'w cynnwys yn y casgliad.
Mae cyfraniadau wedi'u categoreiddio fesul degawd ac wedi'u cynnwys yn yr iaith y cawsant eu rhoi i ni.
Gobeithiwn y byddwch yn mwynhau eu darllen.
Os byddant yn deffro rhywfaint o’ch atgofion chi ac os hoffech eu hychwanegu at y casgliad, anfonwch fanylion at alumni@bangor.ac.uk
**Yn Fyw of Fangor!
ARCHIF RAG RADIO
Yn ogystal â’r isod, mae cyn-fyfyrwyr Peirianneg Electronig Mike Riley (1975) ac Alec McCalden (1976) wedi gweithio i roi gwefan at ei gilydd sydd yn adrodd stori a hanes archif gyhoeddus darlledu ar y radio o dan arweiniad myfyrwyr yn ardal Bangor, ac rydym wrth ein bodd eu bod wedi cytuno i'w rannu fel rhan o ddathliadau pen-blwydd Prifysgol Bangor yn 140 oed.
Mae’r archif ar y we gyda stori lawn System Ddarlledu Rag Bangor, sy'n gynnwys llawer o glipiau sain a delweddau o'r cyfnod, i’w weld yma .
******
2024 sees the 140th anniversary of the establishment of Bangor University.
Whether they studied at UCNW, University of Wales Bangor, Coleg Normal, St.
Mary’s College or Bangor University alumni are an important part of the University’s history so to mark the occasion we asked our alumni to share memories, photos and memorabilia of their time here as students.
We were delighted to receive so many contributions from across the decades and it’s our pleasure to share them with you below.
Many thanks to those of you who have sent pieces to be included in the collection.
Contributions have been categorised by decade and are included in the language in which they were supplied.
We hope that you enjoy reading them.
If these spark any memories which you’d like to add to the collection, please send details to alumni@bangor.ac.uk
** Coming to you Live from Bangor!
RAG RADIO ARCHIVE
As well as the below, Electronic Engineering alumni Mike Riley (1975) and Alec McCalden (1976) have worked to bring together a public archive of student-led radio broadcasting based in Bangor, and we're delighted that they have agreed to share it as part of Bangor University's 140th anniversary celebrations.
The web archive with the full story of the Bangor Rag Broadcasting System, which includes many sound clips and images from the time, can be explored here .

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/giving/how-to-give:
Please use the appropriate giving button below to make a secure gift.
For any further help or enquiries use the 'Get in touch' button'.
Get in touch
More information on The Bangor Fund
Greatest Needs Fund
Student Support Fund
Welsh Language and Culture Fund
140th Anniversary Scholarships
120 th Forestry Anniversary Fund
If you would like to make a donation to a project or area other than one of the above, please click “Other Fund” button below.
We would be most grateful if you could contact Paula Fleck to inform us where you would like your gift directed.
Also, if you are a Bangor Graduate please confirm your year of graduation, subject of study and if applicable, Maiden name.
Many thanks.
Please specify Bangor University as the recipient institution on the donation page.
Other Fund
Click here for further information on U.S.A giving.
U.S.A RESIDENTS GIVE NOW
When you make a Gift Aid donation, we can reclaim from HM Revenue & Customs the basic rate tax which you have already paid on your gift.
This increases the value of your gift to us by 25%, at no extra cost to you.
If you are a higher rate taxpayer, you can also claim the difference between higher rate and basic rate tax on the total value of your gift to the University on your Self Assessment tax return.
Our donations are handled by CAF.
For more information on CAF, please visit the CAF website .
For further information on how to make your gift, and how best to structure your gift to take advantage of tax relief for donors, please contact us .
You can make your gift by cheque, credit card, Direct Debit, CAF voucher or payroll giving.
Additionally, we would be happy to discuss with you how you can make a gift of shares.
To make a single or regular gift, please complete the Gift Form and send it to:
The Development and Alumni Relations Office Bangor University Bangor Gwynedd LL57 2DG
Leave a lasting impact through education by remembering Bangor in your Will.
Legacy giving

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/alumni/news-and-communications:
Read the latest University, Research and Student news from Bangor.
As well as reunions and events organised by the Development and Alumni Relations, Bangor University holds a number of lectures and activities throughout the year which are open to the public.
Check our Reunions and Events page for upcoming alumni activities and the University’s Events calendar for details of forthcoming public events.
Obituaries for alumni and staff which have been sent to the Development and Alumni Relations Office can be read here .
If you have an obituary for an alumnus or former member of staff of the University that you would like to be placed on our website, please email: alumni@bangor.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/alumni/data-protection:
It is used for a full range of alumni activities, including the sending of University publications, departmental and donor-specific literature; and the sponsoring of geographic and special interest alumni group events and activities worldwide.
We may share data on a considered and confidential basis, where appropriate, with third party agents who use national databases to provide us with updated details for our alumni, for example if you move house.
Visit our web page to learn more about our Data Protection Policy, your rights, and how you can raise a concern about how your personal data is processed.
Our Data Protection Officer can be contacted directly at info-compliance@bangor.ac.uk
For further information on the Development and Alumni Relations Office, please contact: alumni@bangor.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/wedi-ymgeisio:
Newyddion gwych eich bod wedi gwneud cais i ymuno â ni ym Mhrifysgol Bangor!
Ond beth sy'n digwydd nesaf?
Bydd yr adran hon yn rhoi popeth sydd angen i chi wybod am eich cais a sut i baratoi ar gyfer prifysgol.
Wedi derbyn cynnig?
Ewch i'r dudalen wybodaeth i Ddeiliaid Cynnig
Ar ôl i chi wneud cais i ymuno â ni fel myfyriwr israddedig, darganfyddwch y camau nesaf.
Beth iw' ddisgwyl ar ôl imi wneud cais trwy UCAS
Dysgwch beth sy'n digwydd nesaf ar ôl gwneud cais am le ar y cwrs meddygaeth.
Os ydych wedi derbyn cynnig i astudio ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, cymerwch olwg ar ein gwybodaeth i ddeiliaid cynnig.
Dyma fwy o wybodaeth am yr hyn sy'n dod nesaf, a sut i wneud penderfyniad ar ôl i chi dderbyn eich cynigion.
Wedi i chi ymgeisio i Fangor, cewch wybodaeth am ein cyrsiau a dysgu mwy am fywyd yma wrth ymweld â ni ar Ddiwrnod Agored neu Diwrnod i Ymgeiswyr.
Rydym yn rhoi sicrwydd o ystafell mewn llety Prifysgol i bob myfyriwr israddedig ac ôl-raddedig llawn-amser newydd.
Cymrwch olwg ar y manylion ar dudalennau we Llety i Fyfyrwyr.
Y cyfan sydd angen i chi ei wybod am ariannu eich astudiaethau.
Dysgwch am y cyfleoedd cyllido sydd ar gael i'n myfyrwyr.
Gall Bangor gynnig cyfleoedd profiad gwaith i chi er mwyn rhoi'r dechrau gorau posibl i chi yn eich gyrfa.
Rydym yma i'ch helpu drwy gydol eich hamser fel myfyriwr yma ym Mangor.
Gall paratoi ar gyfer y brifysgol fod ychydig yn llethol ar brydiau, felly rydyn ni yma i'ch helpu chi ar hyd y ffordd.
Ynghyd â chymuned Gymreig glos, mae astudio ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, sydd rhwng yr afon Fenai a pharc cenedlaethol Eryri, yn brofiad arbennig iawn.
Dysgwch beth sy'n digwydd nesaf ar ôl gwneud cais i astudio fel myfyriwr Ôl-raddedig ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/applied/nextsteps:
Once you have applied, UCAS will forward your application to us.
You’ll be notified when we have received your application and we will make a decision on whether or not we can offer you a place.
You can find out more details on what happens after you apply through UCAS on the UCAS website .
After submitting your UCAS application it's important that you check your UCAS Hub regularly.
This is where you'll be notified of our decision on whether or not to offer you a place to study at Bangor University.
If we do make you an offer to study here, we will send you relevant information and instructions directly to the email address you've provided on your UCAS application form - so please check your inbox regularly and let UCAS know of any changes to your email address.
Conditional means you’ll need to meet the conditions that we set – usually by gaining certain grades in your exams.
Unconditional means you’ve already met the conditions we ask for.
If you've applied to study here, you'll be invited to attend an Applicant Day.
Even if you have previously attended an Open Day here, you'll benefit from coming to an Applicant Day as it will give you a different, more tailored experience.
You'll have the opportunity to attend a subject taster session and gain detailed insight into your chosen subject area.
We guarantee a room in University accommodation to all new, full-time undergraduate students that:
more about our Student Accommodation
For September entry, we will email you in August with information about the student registration process, arrival and welcome week activities.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/applied/medicine:
Once you have submitted your application to study at Bangor University, UCAS will forward your application to us.
You will be notified when we have received your application.
We will then consider all applications received by the medicine UCAS deadline, following which we will shortlist applications for interview.
Those applicants unsuccessful at obtaining an interview will be notified as soon as possible after all applications have been reviewed and decisions about interviews have been made.
If you are unsuccessful in being shortlisted for interview, we may offer you a place on an alternative course of study.
Applicants who are shortlisted will be invited to interview in December (after the UCAS application deadline in October).
Invitations are sent via email with a link to our online booking system.
Please note: Where an applicant has been invited to interview, a ‘dummy date’ will be issued through UCAS.
This is a requirement of UCAS and is NOT the actual interview date.
The offer will clearly state that you must disregard the date provided and that you will be contacted by email shortly.
Applicants should receive an email the following day directly from Bangor University inviting them to select their own interview slot.
It is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that they check their inbox, including their junk mail, regularly and book their interview slot prior to any deadline that may have been specified.
If you have not received an email within 48 hours of the invite issued via UCAS, applicants must email medicineadmissions@bangor.ac.uk .
If you do not follow up and/or book your slot before the booking closing date, we cannot make alternative arrangements.
Once an applicant has booked an interview, the date/time cannot usually be changed, so please check with your other medical school choices to avoid a clash of dates (interview dates are often published in advance).
The interviews will be conducted in person at Bangor University and will take the form of face-to-face Multiple Mini Interviews (MMIs).
MMIs involve a number of discussion stations and questions for discussion will explore personal qualities and attributes deemed important for doctors.
A final score will be determined by combining scores achieved in each discussion station.
Any known extenuating circumstance that may affect an applicant’s performance at interview must be declared when booking the interview slot to allow for reasonable adjustments.
In the event of illness or other extenuating circumstance on the day of interview which prevents an applicant from participating in the interview, the applicant must contact and notify the Admissions Team ( medicineadmissions@bangor.ac.uk ) prior to their interview time.
An alternative interview date will be arranged if possible, but this cannot be guaranteed.
If an applicant has any concerns about the interview, they must bring it to the attention of the Admissions Team on the day of the interview.
Retrospective adjustments will not be made, and retrospective extenuating circumstances cannot be considered.
Failure to attend a booked interview without exceptional reasons will result in the application being rejected and no offer for the medicine programme will be made.
Offers are only made after all interviews have been completed.
The Admissions Group meets with the Dean of the North Wales Medical School and Programme Lead as soon as possible after all interviews have been conducted to determine the threshold for offers based on interview score.
Successful applicants will be notified via UCAS.
If you’re offered a place, you will be given either a Conditional or Unconditional offer.
Once all your chosen universities have made decisions, UCAS will contact you with a deadline date for your replies.
Once you've received all your offers, you must then make one Firm Choice, one Insurance Choice and Decline all other offers.
By making this your Firm Choice, you’re saying that you agree to study here as long as you meet the conditions of your offer.
Your Insurance Choice is your back-up university, so if you miss out on the grades for your Firm Choice, you should hopefully have met the conditions of the Insurance Choice university.
Don’t choose a university that’s asking for similar conditions as your Firm Choice.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/visit:
Whether you're thinking about applying or have already applied, our Open Days are a great way to help you learn more about us.
If you're interested in studying an undergraduate course, come along to an on-campus or virtual Open Day held in the Summer and Autumn.
Our next Virtual Postgraduate Event will be held in the Autumn.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentfinance/info/scholarships:
Bangor University offers a range of bursaries and scholarships to new and returning students.
For new students, these include Merit Scholarships for those who excel in the annual Entrance Scholarships.
For undergraduates from the UK (excluding students funded by Student Finance Wales and students funded by NHS Wales) the Bangor Bursary means you could receive extra financial help over the duration of your undergraduate degree course.
Please see further information below on what is available and your eligibility for the various awards on offer.
The Department of Welsh and Celtic Studies at Bangor University is pleased to be able to offer the following bursaries to support students studying Welsh as part of a single, with, or joint honours degree.
Glynne Family Bursary (North Wales Award): This bursary of up to £1250 maximum during the first year of study, with a maximum eight awards available.
To be eligible applicants must either (1) have attended secondary school/college, or (2) be normally resident in one of the following counties: Isle of Anglesey, Conwy, Denbighshire, Flintshire, Gwynedd, Wrexham
Glynne Family Bursary (All-Wales Award): This bursary of up to £500 maximum during the first year of study, with a maximum five awards available.
To be eligible applicants must either (1) have attended secondary school/college, or (2) be normally resident in Wales.
FAQs:
For more information please contact cahb@bangor.ac.uk.
Conditions and Eligibility
These bursaries are available to UK students who have applied for and go on to enrol on a BA degree in the department of Welsh and Celtic Studies at Bangor University.
Successful students will receive a single bursary award, payable in their first year of study only.
Eligible students:
*List of eligible courses Q565 Cymraeg (i dechreuwyr) BA Q562 Cymraeg (Welsh) BA Q563 Cymraeg Proffesiynol BA Q5WK Cymraeg gydag Ysgrifennu Creadigol BA Q5P5 Cymraeg gyda Newyddiaduraeth BA QWM5 Cymraeg, Theatr a'r Cyfryngau BA QW53 Cymraeg (Welsh) and Music BA LQ35 Cymraeg (Welsh) and Sociology BA 3Q5Q Cymraeg (Welsh) and English Literature BA QV51 Cymraeg (Welsh) and History BA QQ15 Cymraeg (Welsh) and Linguistics BA Q5VV Cymraeg (Welsh) and Philosophy, Ethics and Religion BA QMV2 Cymraeg (Welsh) and Welsh History BA R805 Modern Languages and Cymraeg (Welsh) BA X321 Astudiaethau Plentyndod ac Ieuenctid a Chymraeg BA M1Q5 Law with Cymraeg (Welsh) LLB
The School of Arts Cultures and Languages is pleased to be able to offer a bursary of up to £2000 to support students studying English Literature and Creative Writing at Bangor University as part of an undergraduate degree course starting in September 2025.
Successful recipients will be awarded a bursary of up to £2000 maximum during the first year of study.
A maximum four awards are available.
To be eligible applicants must fulfil at least one of the following criteria:
For more information please contact cahss@bangor.ac.uk .
These bursaries are available to UK students who have applied for and go on to enrol on an eligible BA degree in the area of English Literature and/or Creative Writing offered by the School of Arts, Culture and Languages at Bangor University.
*List of eligible courses 8H25 English Literature BA 2P17 English Literature and Creative Writing BA QW34 English Literature and Drama BA W8R8 Creative Writing and Modern Languages BA QQC3 English Language and English Literature BA 32N6 English Literature and Music BA WW38 Music and Creative Writing BA R801 Modern Languages and Creative Writing BA 3QV1 History and English Literature BA Q3WL English Language with Creative Writing BA 33PQ Film and English Literature BA P302 Media and English Literature BA W801 Creative Writing BA
The Department of Arts is proud to offer the Rosie Skelton Scholarship, honouring the memory of the late Rosie Skelton who was a leading figure in the musical life of North Wales, teaching violin at Bangor University and leading the University Symphony Orchestra for many years.
Open to violinists only , this undergraduate music scholarship comprises an award of £1000.
The successful applicant will also perform at a recital during the academic year.
There is one award available.
Eligible candidates must:
How do I apply for the scholarship?
No application necessary.
All eligible BA Music and BMus Music applicants will be considered automatically when invited to interview.
You will be asked to submit a recording of you playing a piece (or movement(s) thereof) of 10 mins max.
duration.
There are no restrictions on genre or period etc.
Open to: UK (Home) applicants.
(International and EU applicants please contact us to check eligibility.)
The School of Arts, Culture and Language is delighted to offer a limited number of scholarships to support students studying Drama, Theatre and Performance through the medium of Welsh.
The Edwin Williams Scholars will receive £5,000 each year of their degree (on a three-year programme).
The scholarships are funded through the generous bequest of Rene Myddleton Williams, widow of Edwin Williams (1918-2003), to honour his name and to promote the study and performance of drama and theatre studies through the medium of Welsh.
Edwin graduated from Bangor in 1939 and went on to teach Dramatic Art and Technique at Bangor Normal College, where he was also head of Drama.
Submit an application form
You are asked to provide a summary of your experience and your ambitions for the future, as well as why you have chosen to study Drama at Bangor University.
The application must be submitted in Welsh.
Bangor Business School is delighted to offer one undergraduate student a ICAEW Bursary offered by the ICAEW Foundation.
Open to those awarded studying the BSc Accounting and Finance degree programme only , this undergraduate ICAEW bursary comprises an award of £12,000, £4,000  each year for 3 years of study.
Application will be opened once enrolled at Bangor University.
All eligible BSc Accounting and Finance applicants will be notified automatically to complete application form.
Open to: UK (Home) applicants only.
Further information: Please contact cahss@bangor.ac.uk
View the Undergraduate and Postgraduate Scholarships available for International students as well as other sources of funding.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/applied/work-experience:
To boost your employability you can choose to do a placement as part of almost all undergraduate degrees we offer at Bangor.
Placements can be a year in length (taken between years 2 and 3), 3 months or 2 weeks (minimum 70 hours, taken during year 2).
The Placement Year provides you with a fantastic opportunity to broaden your horizons and develop valuable skills and contacts through working with a self-sourced organisation relevant to your degree subject.
The minimum period in placement (at one or more locations) is seven calendar months; more usually you would spend 10-12 months with a placement provider.
You would normally start sometime in the period June to September of your second year and finish between June and September the following year.
Placements can be UK-based or overseas and you will work with staff to plan and finalise the placement arrangements.
You will be expected to find and arrange a suitable placement to complement your degree and will be fully supported throughout by a dedicated member of staff at your academic School and the University’s Careers and Employability Services.
You will have the opportunity to fully consider this option when you have started your course at Bangor and can make an application for a transfer onto this pathway at the appropriate time.
If you have any questions in the meantime please speak to your Personal Tutor, or an Employability Adviser for general advice and guidance
Please note: there is a fee for all placement, sandwich and international years.
You'll be able to get full details when you have started your course at Bangor, but in the meantime, you can take a look here.
For fees for international students, please contact the International Education Centre .

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/applied/support:
Bangor University is known for its friendliness and our staff and students will be on hand from the first week to help you to settle-in.
The Student Services Centre offer support on a wide range of matters.
This is where you'll find advice on money issues , study support , disability issues , mental health , counselling , student housing , faith provision and health & wellbeing .
The IEC offers advice and support to international students before coming to Bangor and once you have arrived.
IEC staff offer advice on issues such as visas, and also provide a programme of events, trips and entertainment to help students feel at home and welcomed to the Bangor community.
There is also a large team of international student ambassadors you can contact at any point for help and advice.
If you have any questions or worries about accommodation our Halls Office is here to help.
Visit the accommodation website for more details on University Halls of Residence.
If you're thinking of getting part-time work while at university, the Careers and Employability Service will be able to advise you.
They also help you find work experience, give career advice and help you improve your CV.
The University also runs an Internship scheme, the Bangor Employability Award and a number of other initiatives to help you gain valuable skills that employers are looking for.
From the moment you arrive, you'll be in safe hands with our Peer Guides.
Peer Guides are second and third year students who will be able to help you during your first week.
They'll be able to answer your questions and help you find your way around.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/applied/location:
Nestled between the mountains and the sea, our Bangor campus is surrounded by breathtaking natural landscapes.
In the centre of Bangor you'll find a range of cafes, bars and high street chains.
More about our Bangor Campus
Our Wrexham campus (our Radiography student will be based at our Wrexham campus) has excellent facilities and is centrally located.
More About our Wrexham Campus
Bangor is located only a few hours from major cities and has excellent transport links.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/applied/postgraduate-applicants:
If you've already applied for postgraduate study at Bangor, you can check the status of your application by logging into our Bangor Direct Applications system.
Learn about tuition fees, living costs, and the wide range of postgraduate bursaries, scholarships and funding options available for you.
Bangor University is set in a beautiful location.
Learn more about Bangor and the surrounding area and how to get here by bus, train or car.
All new, full-time postgraduate students are guaranteed a room in University accommodation.
Take a look at all the details on the Student Accommodation web pages.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/study/parents:
Fel rhiant neu warcheidwad, efallai bod gennych nifer o gwestiynau a phryderon ynglŷn â dewis prifysgol.
Dyma'r wybodaeth bwysicaf i'w hystyried wrth helpu rhywun i ddewis y brifysgol orau ar eu cyfer.
Mae gan Fangor fanteision dros nifer o ddinasoedd eraill sydd â phrifysgol; gellir eu crynhoi yn syml gan yr ymadrodd “ansawdd bywyd”.
Rydym yn cynnig y safon uchaf o addysgu mewn amgylchedd gefnogol, ac mae ein darlithwyr eisiau gweld ein myfyrwyr yn ffynnu.
Mae byw yn ein neuaddau preswyl modern yn gam cyntaf tuag at fyw yn annibynnol - cyfle i wneud ffrindiau newydd tra'n parhau i gael cefnogaeth.
Mae’r lleoliad a’r ardal gyfagos ymhlith y rhesymau pam mae myfyrwyr yn dewis dod i Fangor.
Mae Parc Cenedlaethol Eryri a thraethau Ynys Môn yn cynnig digon o gyfleoedd i gymryd rhan mewn gweithgareddau awyr agored neu i fwynhau eich hunain yn ymlacio.
Dyma wybodaeth am y broses bydd eich plentyn yn ei wynebu wrth wneud cais trwy UCAS a beth i'w ddisgwyl.
Dewch i wybod mwy am y costau bydd ein myfyrwyr yn ei wynebu a'r cymorth sydd ar gael.
Ym Mangor, rydym yn rhoi pwyslais mawr ar ofalu am ein myfyrwyr a’u cefnogi.
Gan ddechrau yn ystod yr Wythnos Groeso, caiff ein myfyrwyr gymaint o help a chefnogaeth â phosib gyda materion iechyd a lles yn ogystal â’u gwaith academaidd.
Y ffordd orau i ddod i adnabod Bangor yn well yw i ymweld â ni.
Mae'r Dyddiau Agored yn le gwych i gychwyn!

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/diwrnodagored:
Os oes gennych ddiddordeb mewn astudio cwrs israddedig, cewch flas go iawn ar fywyd prifysgol trwy ddod i Ddiwrnod Agored.
Rydym yn gobeithio byddwch yn gallu ymweld â ni - edrychwn ymlaen at eich gweld.
Gadewch i ni wybod ymlaen llaw drwy ebostio diwrnodagored@bangor.ac.uk os oes gennych chi, neu rywun fydd gyda chi, anabledd neu broblemau symud, fel y gallwn wneud unrhyw drefniadau angenrheidiol.
Os nad ydych yn gallu dod i un o'r Dyddiau Agored, ebostiwch diwrnodagored@bangor.ac.uk i drefnu ymweliad unigol i'r Brifysgol ar ddyddiad arall.
Bydd y Diwrnod Agored yn ddiwrnod prysur felly dylech ddarllen y rhaglen a nodi popeth rydych yn gobeithio ei weld a’i wneud cyn dod i’r Diwrnod Agored.
Mae’n syniad ystyried yr holl gwestiynau posib cyn i chi ddod - efallai bod gennych gwestiynau i staff am y gofynion mynediad neu fodiwlau’r cwrs neu gwestiynau i fyfyrwyr presennol am fywyd myfyriwr ym Mangor e.e., y clybiau a’r cymdeithasau sydd yma.
Er bod rhan fwyaf o adeiladau’r Brifysgol o fewn pellter cerdded i’r prif adeilad lle byddwch yn cofrestru ar ôl cyrraedd, byddwch yn synnu faint o waith cerdded byddwch yn ei wneud yn ystod diwrnod agored felly gwisgwch esgidiau cyffyrddus y byddwch yn hapus i gerdded ynddynt trwy’r dydd.
Ni allwn addo tywydd braf chwaith - felly dewch â chôt neu siaced gyda chi.
Edrychwch ar Raglen Diwrnod Agored Awst
Yn ogystal â’r addysgu rhagorol a’r adnoddau ardderchog, mae yna lawer o bethau eraill sy’n cyfrannu at wneud y profiad o astudio yma yn un unigryw.
Mae awyrgylch gyfeillgar i'r ddinas a chewch gymdeithasu trwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg.
Yn ogystal â hynny, mae amgylchedd naturiol ein hardal gyfagos yn arbennig!
Byddwch yn teimlo'n gartrefol yn ein neuaddau preswyl.
Mae ein llety yn fodern ac yn gyfforddus ac o fewn pellter cerdded i'r rhan fwyaf o adeiladau'r Brifysgol.
Cewch ddewis byw yn o'r ddau bentref myfyrwyr.
Mae'r Brifysgol yn cynnig amgylchedd hamddenol i fyfyrwyr gymdeithasu, dysgu a gwneud ffrindiau oes.
Mae ein lleoliad, y golygfeydd a'r ardal gyfagos hefyd ymhlith y rhesymau pam mae llawer o'n myfyrwyr yn dewis dod i Fangor.
O'r munud y byddwch yn cyrraedd, byddwch yn cael cymaint o help a chefnogaeth ag sydd eu hangen arnoch chi.
Mae Clybiau a Chymdeithasau Undeb y Myfyrwyr, sydd wedi cael eu gwobrwyo ymysg y gorau yn y DU tros y blynyddoedd, yn gyfle gwych i ddod i adnabod eraill.
Felly, p'un a yw'n rywbeth rydych yn ymddiddori ynddo erioed neu'n chwaraeon neu weithgareddau rydych wedi bod eisiau rhoi cynnig arnynt erioed, mae yna ddigon i'ch cadw'n brysur yn eich amser hamdden.
[0:29] Fedrwn i ddim meddwl am le gwell i roi hwb i'm gyrfa na Bangor.
[0:35] Dwi'n meddwl ei fod o'r penderfyniad gorau i mi ei wneud erioed.
[0:51] Dewch i Fangor - rydych yn mynd i garu'r lle!
Bydd Cod Post LL57 2DG yn dod â chi i Brif Adeilad y Brifysgol, man cychwyn y Diwrnod Agored.
Mae sawl maes parcio yn agos i'r Brif Adeilad y Brifysgol a hefyd yng nghanol y ddinas, ar Ffordd Deiniol.
Os dilynwch arwyddion y Diwrnod Agored o amgylch Bangor a byddwch yn cyrraedd un o'n meysydd parcio (lle mae parcio yn rhad ac am ddim).
Yna bydd tywyswyr y Diwrnod Agored yn rhoi cyfarwyddiadau i chi ar sut i gyrraedd y man cofrestru yn y Brif Adeilad.
Ewch i wefan Trainline a Traveline Cymru am wybodaeth am drafnidiaeth cyhoeddus.
Mae pario ym meysydd parcio y Brifysgol yn rhad ac am ddim.
Mae cyfleusterau Parcio a Theithio wedi cael eu trefnu ar gyfer y Diwrnod Agored – bydd arwyddion i’r safle Parcio a Theithio o ffyrdd yr A55/A5 wrth ddynesu at y Brifysgol, a threfnwyd bysus i gludo ymwelwyr y pellter byr i brif adeiladau’r Brifysgol o 8.30am-10.30am.
Gall ymwelwyr hefyd barcio yn unrhyw un o feysydd parcio swyddogol y Brifysgol sydd o amgylch Prif Adeilad y Brifysgol ar Ffordd y Coleg - ond niferoedd cyfyngedig o lefydd sydd ar gael yma.
Mae Canolfan Rheolaeth y Brifysgol yn cynnig llety 4*.
Mae ystafelloedd sengl hefyd ar gael yn ein llety en-suite ar y campws - archebwch ar ein gwefan .
I’r rheiny ohonoch sy’n dymuno gwneud eich trefniadau eich hunain, ewch i wefan Twristiaeth Gogledd Cymru .
A oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynnau am fywyd myfyriwr ym Mangor?
Mae ein llysgenhadon yn barod i’ch helpu gael yr ateb.
Gall ein myfyrwyr ddweud mwy wrthoch am y profiad o astudio yma, am y Clybiau a Chymdeithasau gwych sydd yma, a sut bu iddynt hwy wneud ffrindiau ac ymgartrefu yn y Brifysgol.
SGWRSIWCH EFO'N MYFYRWYR
Os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau am y cwrs, mae ein darlithwyr wrth law i helpu.
Dyma rai cwestiynau a ofynnir yn aml.
Oes gennych chi unrhyw gwestiwn arall i'n darlithwyr?
Sgwrsiwch gyda darlithydd

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/openday/programme:
On arrival, please make your way to the sign-in marquee outside the Main University building (sign-in open from 8.30am).
During the day you can visit the exhibition area in Prichard-Jones Hall, where you can chat to staff about  academic subjects and services such as Student Support, Admissions and Accommodation.
(Free tea and coffee also available in the Hall from 8.30am onwards.)
Throughout the day, you’ll be able to attend Subject Talks , go on subject-specific Tours and visit the accommodation in our student villages.
Make sure you also attend the Welcome Talk as well as the other presentations listed in the General Talks section below.
To find out more about student life, please visit the Undeb Bangor / Students’ Union space on the fourth floor of Pontio.
Explore the wide range of activities available through the SU and ask questions about opportunities, representation or anything else that comes to mind.
Our staff and student ambassadors are on-hand throughout the day to help and advise you.
We hope that you enjoy our beautiful campus and have a great Open Day at Bangor University.
This talk is for those interested in Accounting, Banking, Business, Business Data Analytics, Economics, Finance, Management, Marketing and Tourism Management.
Please note that the 11.45-12.15 talk is a Welsh-medium session.
This session is for those interested in Dental Hygiene, Health & Social Care, Midwifery, Nursing, Radiography
Historical walking tour of the University buildings will be available after the talk.
Visits to Anatomy Teaching Suite available, please see the Tours section below.
Welsh-medium session:
Visits to Clinical and Simulation Centre and Anatomy Teaching Suite available, please see Tours section below.
There are also Ocean Sciences Tours available, please see Tours section below.
Visits to Psychology also available, please see the Tours section below.
Tour of the teaching facilities will be available after the talk.
Tour of the facilities will be available after the talk.
Welsh-medium Talk:
There are also Accommodation Tours available, please see the Tours schedule below.
Hear about Welsh-medium study and tour of Welsh-medium halls.
Download a PDF of the Programme

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/management_centre:
Situated at the heart of the University campus
State of the art facilities.
From our Coffee Shop to Restaurant meals and drinks in our Lounge Bar...
Tweets by @TMCBangor
The ideal venue for a unique day...
Industry-recognised and professional qualifications with Grŵp Llandrillo Menai...
Contacts
Maps and Travel
My Bangor for Staff and Students
Legal Compliance (Modern Slavery Act 2015 Statement) (Accessibility Statement)
Privacy and Cookies
Privacy Policy
The Management Centre Bangor Business School, College Road, Bangor, Gwynedd LL57 2DG Registered Name: North-West Wales Management Development Centre Limited
Phone: +44 (0)1248 365 900
Email: info@themanagementcentre.co.uk

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/commercial-services/holiday-accommodation.php.en:
Located in the heart of North Wales our 4*campus budget accommodation is centrally located with easy access to Snowdonia national park and to the Anglesey and Gwynedd coast.
The Management Centre offers 56 en-suite guest bedrooms  graded as Visit Wales 4 Star.
Located on the University campus, enjoy stunning  views of the Menai Strait and Anglesey.
Special rates available for Bangor  University Students & Staff.
Book online now
Our rooms are all en-suite single bedrooms arranged within units of 8 with shared kitchen facilities.
If you’re staying for 1 night or 1 month we can accommodate you.
Our rooms are perfect for contractors, educational groups, other group travel or individuals looking for great value accommodation in North Wales.
All our  accommodation comes with bed linen and towels as standard.
We have a range of options available to visitors from room only to dinner, bed and breakfast packages.
Please be aware, although you will have access to kitchens during your stay kitchen crockery, pans and utensils will not be supplied.
Book online
Please be aware that the accommodation is campus accommodation and during term time the campus can get noisy.
If you experience difficulties using the online booking system or need to book more than 8 rooms or stay 8+ nights please email aros@bangor.ac.uk or call a member of the Conference Team on +44 (0) 1248 388088 (Monday to Friday, 9am – 5pm).

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-life/unibuddy:
Our students and staff are happy to answer your questions about studying and student life at Bangor University.
Our staff can help with questions about courses, entry requirements and much more.
Choose who you want to chat with from the list below and get in touch!

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/graddio-2025:
Bydd y dolenni hyn yn fyw TBC
Cofrestru yma; Myfyriwr Presennol
Cofrestru yma; Cyn-fyfyriwr
Mae angen i'r holl fyfyrwyr sydd â hawl i ddod i'r Seremonïau Graddio roi gwybod i ni erbyn TBC a fyddant yn dod i'r seremoni neu beidio.
Dilynnwch y bwtwm 'Cofrestru Yma' (uchod)) o TBC ymlaen er mwyn cofrestru.
Ni chaniateir i fyfyrwyr fynychu'r seremoni os nad ydynt wedi cofrestru eu presenoldeb erbyn TBC
Ar y diwrnod:
Mae'r holl Seremonïau'n cael eu dangos yn fyw ar wefan y Brifysgol felly gellir eu gwylio'n fyw.
Dylai myfyrwyr  gyrraedd y Prif Ddarlithfa'r Celfyddydau o leiaf 90 munud cyn ddechrau'r seremoni i gofrestru eu presenoldeb,
Llyfryn Graddio
Mae mynediad i'r seremoni ar gyfer pob gwestai DRWY DOCYN YN UNIG Nid oes ar fyfyrwyr angen tocyn.
Mae'r rhan fwyaf o bobl yn hoffi dod â ffrindiau a theulu gyda nhw i'w seremoni raddio.
Gan fod nifer y seddi yn Neuadd Prichard-Jones yn gyfyngedig, ni allwn warantu ond DAU DOCYN GWESTAI i bob myfyriwr os ydych yn archebu erbyn TBC
Gallwch archebu tocynnau ar-lein drwy'r ddolen yn yr ebost
Os methwch â phrynu'ch tocynnau gwesteion erbyn TBC ni allwn warantu y bydd eich gwesteion yn gallu bod yn bresennol yn y seremoni.
Os daw unrhyw docynnau ychwanegol ar gael ar gyfer unrhyw rai o'r seremonïau, caiff y rhain Ar-lein  TBC drwy ddilyn y ddolen wreiddiol a ddefnyddiwyd gennych i gofrestru eich presenoldeb .
Bydd y tocynnau'n am ddim yr un a chyfyngir hwy i ddau docyn ychwanegol i westeion i bob myfyriwr.
Os bydd tocynnau ychwanegol ar gael fe'u gwerthir ar sail y cyntaf i’r felin.
Mae gan rai seremonïau docynnau ychwanegol ar gael.
Bydd y rhain ar gael i chi eu harchebu ar TBC trwy ddilyn y ddolen hon here
Os bydd y seremoni yn llawn – efallai y bydd tocynnau ychwanegol ar gael ar ddiwrnod y seremoni .
Gofynnwch wrth y ddesg docynnau wrth gyrraedd.
Dim ond ar-lein y gellir archebu tocynnau
I anfonir y tocynnau atoch trwy’r post, byddant ar gael i’w casglu ar ddiwrnod eich seremoni o Brif Ddarlithfa’r Celfyddydau.
Bydd holl docynnau gwesteion ar gael i’w casglu wrth y ddesg cofrestru myfyrwyr ym Mhrif Adeilad y Celfyddydau.
Mae'n rhaid i docynnau gael eu casglu o leiaf 30 munud cyn dechrau'r seremoni.
Ym Mhrifysgol Bangor mae graddio'n achlysur teuluol ac mae croeso i blant ddod i'r seremoni.
Fodd bynnag, mae'n rhaid i oedolyn fod efo nhw.
Mae'r seremonïau’n para oddeutu 90 munud ac rydym wedi gweld trwy brofiad bod plant yn diflasu a mynd yn aflonydd; felly nid ydynt yn addas i blant ifanc iawn.
O ran parch at westeion eraill rydym yn gofyn am i blant gael eu hebrwng allan o'r neuadd os byddant yn mynd yn aflonydd yn ystod y seremoni rhag iddynt darfu ar y digwyddiadau a mwynhad gwesteion eraill.
Rhaid i blant dan 3 oed (dim mwy na dau i bob myfyriwr) eistedd ar lin oedolyn ac nid ar sedd.
Nid oes angen tocyn arnynt.
Rhaid i blant 3 oed a hŷn gael tocyn  i westeion i gael mynd i'r seremoni.Os ydych yn dod â babi sy'n dal mewn pram neu goets fach i'r seremoni, a fyddech cystal â nodi hynny pan fyddwch yn prynu eich tocynnau.
Gofynnir i chi p'un a ydyw unrhyw rai o'ch gwesteion angen unrhyw drefniadau arbennig.
Ein cyngor yw i blant wylio'r seremoni o Brif Ddarlithfa'r Celfyddydau, lle nad oes angen tocynnau.
Mae croeso i chi ddod â gwesteion ychwanegol a gallant wylio’r seremoni a ddarlledir ar sgrin fawr mewn darlithfa gerllaw - nid oes angen tocynnau ar gyfer hyn.
Mae graddio yn achlysur ffurfiol ac mae gofyn i fyfyrwyr wisgo gwisg academaidd.
Mae'r wisg yn cael ei harchebu drwy Ede and Ravenscroft fan yma o TBC ymlaen Gwisg Academaidd .
Dyddiad cau i archebu ar-lein yw TBC
Mae'r dyddiadau ar gyfer Seremoniau y Gaeaf wedi'u cadarnhau fel 15 - 17 Rhagfyr 2025
Bydd Myfyrwyr rhyngwladol sydd angen llythyr fisa ar gyfer eu gwesteion yn gallu trefnu hyn wrth archebu tocynnau gwestai ar lein ym mis Mawrth.
Defnyddiwch #GraddioBangor a #PrifysgolBangor ar Instagram neu Twitter - gall ymddangos yma.
Dewch o hyd i atebion am yr holl gwestiynau cyffredin ynglŷn â'n seremonïau graddio.
Wedi i chi raddio byddwch yn aelod o'n cymuned alumni am byth.
Bydd ein Swyddfa Datblygu a Chysylltiadau Alumni yn cadw mewn cysylltiad â'n holl alumni wedi i chi raddio fel ein bod yn gallu eich diweddaru ar ddatblygiadau'r Brifysgol a rhoi gwybod i chi am unrhyw ddigwyddiadau penodol ar gyfer ein alumni.
Ar ôl i chi raddio o Brifysgol Bangor, byddwch yn cael gwahoddiad i gymryd rhan yn arolwg cymdeithasol blynyddol mwyaf y Deyrnas Unedig – yr Arolwg Canlyniadau Graddedigion, 15 mis ar ôl i'ch cwrs ddod i ben.
Wedi'i lansio yn 2018, mae'r arolwg cenedlaethol hwn yn casglu mewnwelediadau i gyrchfannau a phrofiadau graddedigion.
Mae eich ymateb yn helpu myfyrwyr presennol a darpar fyfyrwyr i wneud dewisiadau gwybodus ac yn caniatáu inni werthuso a hyrwyddo ein cyrsiau.
Mae'r arolwg yn cymryd 10 munud i'w gwblhau ar-lein ac mae ar gael ar unrhyw ddyfais.
Mae angen i'r brifysgol gadw manylion cyswllt personol cyfredol er mwyn i'r tîm Canlyniadau Graddedigion allu cysylltu â chi gyda’r arolwg.
Gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod wedi rhannu’r canlynol gyda ni:
diweddaru eich manylion cyswllt
Bydd yr arolwg yn cael ei gyflwyno gan y tîm Canlyniadau Graddedigion sy'n rhan o'r Asiantaeth Ystadegau Addysg Uwch (HESA) ar ran y cyrff ariannu a rheoleiddio addysg uwch a darparwyr addysg uwch.
Mae'r cyrff ariannu a rheoleiddio’n comisiynu'r arolwg Canlyniadau Graddedigion ac yn ei gwneud yn ofynnol i HESA a darparwyr addysg uwch gydweithio i gyflawni'r arolwg.
Mae HESA wedi cyhoeddi gwybodaeth preifatrwydd i fyfyrwyr ynghylch sut y bydd eich manylion cyswllt yn cael eu defnyddio.
Os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau, mae croeso i chi anfon e-bost atom neu gallwch ymweld â Thudalen we Canlyniadau Graddedigion .
Cysylltu â ni
Os ydych angen cefnogaeth i wneud y naid o’r Brifysgol i’r byd Gwaith, mae ein Gwasanaeth Gyrfaoedd a Chyflogadwyedd yma i’ch helpu ar ôl graddio!
Fel myfyriwr graddedig newydd o Brifysgol Bangor, bydd angen i chi agor eich cyfrif Graddedig i barhau i gael mynediad at CyswlltGyrfa.
sut gall y Gwasanaeth Gyrfaoedd a Chyflogadwyedd helpu
Mae Lluniau Grŵp - Seremonïau Graddio Haf 2024 nawr ar gael i chi eu gweld a’u prynu drwy ddolen Ede & Ravenscroft isod:
Rwyt ti wedi cael y radd, dim ond prynu'r crys-t sydd ei angen!
Rydym wedi ymuno â Campus Clothing i ddarparu ystod unigryw o nwyddau i'n graddedigion.
Bydd nwyddau ar gael ar y diwrnod yn ein seremonïau graddio, a gellir hefyd eu harchebu ymlaen llaw trwy ein Siop Graddio Ar-lein Swyddogol.
O hwdis a chrysau-t moethus gydag enwau graddedigion wedi'u hargraffu ar y cefn, i fygiau, tedis graddio, a bathodynnau pin.
Dewiswch rywbeth arbennig i'w gadw i gofio am eich amser ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Dewch i ymweld â stondin fflach Campus Clothing yn eich seremoni raddio, lle bydd detholiad o nwyddau graddio ar gael i'w prynu.
Bydd yr holl stoc ar gael ar sail y cyntaf i’r felin.
Gallwch hefyd archebu eitemau yr hoffech eu personoli yn y digwyddiad, a byddant yn cael eu postio i'ch cyfeiriad cartref, ledled y byd!
Porwch drwy’r ystod lawn o nwyddau graddio Prifysgol Bangor yn ein Siop Graddio Ar-lein Swyddogol .
Yma, gallwch archebu a phersonoli nwyddau graddio i'w gwneud yn gwbl unigryw i chi.
Gall archebion a osodir ar-lein gael eu danfon ledled y byd, felly peidiwch â phoeni os na allwch gyrraedd eich seremoni raddio.
Peidiwch â phoeni, mae hwdis a chrysau-t gydag enwau graddedigion wedi'u hargraffu ar y cefn yn dal i fod ar gael i holl raddedigion y gorffennol trwy ein Siop Graddio Ar-lein Swyddogol .
Prifysgol Bangor, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/graduation-2025/graduation-faqs:
Every student who registers before the deadline can purchase two guest tickets.
Entry to the ceremony for all guests will be by ticket only.
Graduating Students do not require a ticket, you will be allocated a seat in the ceremony as long as you have registered to attend the Ceremonies by the deadline .
Your guest tickets will be waiting for you to collect, from the Registration Desk in the Main Arts Lecture Theatre, when you register on campus on the day of your ceremony.
Please bring with you your student ID card, or another form of ID.
It is envisaged that there may be a small number of tickets available for some ceremonies once all students have registered.
If there are any spare tickets available for the ceremony, these will be available online from the  using the links below.
Any further tickets that may become available will be available for purchase from the registration desk on the day of the ceremony, on a first come, first served basis.
Although tickets to PJ Hall are limited, you can bring additional family and friends with you to your graduation as the ceremonies are also streamed live in the Pontio PL5 (and other lecture theatres should the need arise).
Even if your family and friends are unable to secure an additional ticket for the day, they can still enjoy and be part of your special day at your graduation.
In order to be allowed to attend the ceremony you MUST wear the official robe/gown.
If you are not wearing the official robe/gown you will not be allowed to participate in the ceremony.
You must order your robe/gown before Graduation to ensure that one will be there for you on the day.
To order your robe/gown see Ede and Ravenscroft .
You will collect your robe/gown on the day of your ceremony in Powis Hall .
Staff will be on hand to direct you to the robing area.
The time at which your gown must be returned on the day will be confirmed by the gown suppliers.
You will need to provide confirmation of your booking with Ede & Ravenscroft.
The robing staff will be on hand to help you and ensure you are dressed correctly.
For comfort and practicality, we recommend that you wear a top or shirt that buttons to the neck, as this makes it easier to attach your hood.
A supply of hair grips is also advisable to help secure your cap.
You should arrive early enough in order to give yourself enough time to complete registration, collect your tickets & guest tickets, and collect your robe without having to rush.
Remember that it will be busy and you may have to queue for registration, ticket collection and robes.
We would recommend that you arrive at least 90 minutes before the start time of your ceremony.
You need to be present in PJ Hall no later than 30 minutes before the scheduled start time of your Ceremony.
(late arrivals will not be permitted to participate in the ceremony)
Your first task should be to collect your tickets and guest tickets.
The ticket desk will be in the Main Arts Lecture Theatre.
If you are in debt (tuition fee) to the University you will not be issued with a certificate and you will not be allowed to attend the graduation ceremony until the debt is cleared in full.
If you arrive late, but before the scheduled start time for your ceremony, you should go along to the registration/ticket desk immediately (in the Main Arts Lecture Theatre) where staff will be on hand to help.
If you arrive after the schedule start time for your ceremony, please see staff immediately in the reception area of the New Arts Building.
When you register you will be given your identity card bearing your name and seat number, a graduation booklet and your guest tickets.
Please keep your identity card safe as you will need to hand it to the Chief Marshal as you go on stage to receive your award in the ceremony.
Once you have been collected from your seat, and taken into the side corridor, you will be briefed on the process.
Upon arrival at PJ Hall, Marshalls will be available on the student door to help guide you to your seat – please ensure you are sitting in the correct seat number as shown on your identity card which you will have collected when you registered.
Your guests will need their tickets in order to gain entrance to PJ Hall, seating is on a first come, first served basis.
For those who have made arrangements for guests with special needs, your guest will need to make themselves known to a member of staff on the doors, circa 45 minutes before the start of the Ceremony.
No, it is important that you sit in the seat number allocated to you.
Your seat number will be printed on your identity card which you collect at registration.
It is important you keep this card safe as you will be asked to hand it to the Chief Marshal before you go on to the stage.
If you are unsure about which seat you should sit in there will be member of staff on hand to help you.
You need to be dressed correctly in your robe.
Please ensure you have your identity card (given to you when you registered); you will need to hand this in to the Chief Marshall before you go on stage.
Please ensure you have left any guest tickets with your accompanying visitors before you enter the Hall, your guests will need their tickets in order to enter.
Please note that, once you have been on stage, you will return to the same seat that you occupied at the start of the ceremony.
Please avoid carrying handbags, cameras, phones etc with you on the stage.
In the ceremony, you will be “presented” to the Vice-Chancellor by a Presenter who will read out your name and the names of your fellow students being admitted to the same degree.
When your name is called, you will walk across the stage and be greeted by the Vice-Chancellor.
You will then return to your seat .
When all admissions to your particular degree have been completed, your degree will be conferred by the Vice-Chancellor and Chancellor and you will then sit.
Procedure:
Except in an emergency, students are expected to remain seated throughout the ceremony.
The ceremony will last approximately 1 hour 30 minutes.
Students are to be seated in PJ Hall no later than 30 minutes before the ceremony is scheduled to start
Printed programmes will be available at registration and are free of charge for students.
Yes, students, guests and staff attending graduation should be aware that degree and award congregations are regarded as public events.
Names and awards (including those receiving their award in absentia) are published in the programme.
Audio and Visual images of the congregation are publicly available via a live webstream.
Award certificates for students will be handed out during the ceremony.
For some Ceremonies, group photographs will be arranged – if this is applicable in your ceremony, you will be guided by staff to the inner Quad where the photographs will be taken.
The buildings on campus will be open and you are welcome to visit the departments during the day.
Most departments hold their own receptions, either prior to or after the ceremony.
Your department will contact you directly.
If you are intending to book a photography session, please note that these can be held either prior to or after the ceremony.
2025 Graduands
Certificates for students who are due to complete in September 2025, will be given out during the Ceremonies.
Students who completed prior to September 2025 will already have received their certificate by post (to the home address recorded on your student record).
Certificates are posted to the home address recorded on your Student Record.
Please ensure you check your address details before the end of your course to ensure we post it to the correct address.
Graduates with a 'Bangor University' degree from 2010 onwards can obtain a replacement certificate from this website .
Graduation is held in PJ Hall in the Main Arts Building, College Road, Bangor, Gwynedd.
LL57 2DG
The guest tickets are given to the student when they register at the Graduation Registration Desk before the ceremony.
Attendance at the ceremony is by ticket only however guests can still come along to enjoy the day as all the ceremonies are streamed live on large screens in the Main Arts Lecture Theatre.
Yes, guests are permitted to take photographs during the ceremony, however we would ask that they are mindful not to obscure the views of other attendees.
Photographs can only be taken from the guests' seat and guests are not permitted on the stage.
Staff will be on hand to direct visitors to the available car park.
A section of the Main Arts car park will be reserved for disabled permit holders/those with mobility issues.
(That have been requested at the time of booking your attendance/tickets)
Students whose guests have special requirements will have already been asked to complete the section called 'Special Requirements' when registering their attendance.
University staff may also contact you nearer the time of the ceremonies to confirm arrangements.
For further information regarding accommodation please visit this website .
Refreshments will be available on the day to purchase at the marquee.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/skills-and-employability/graduates:
Graduation is an exciting and important milestone for every one of us - the period after graduation is full of change, yet it can be a challenging time working out your next steps and competing for jobs and other opportunities.
The Careers and Employability Service is fully committed to helping you find success in making the transition into a graduate career.
How we can help
All Bangor University graduates can take advantage of a ‘for life’ account of our CareerConnect platform (previously called TARGETconnect) , where you can search for jobs and other opportunities, and access a host of useful tools and resources.
In addition you can access a ‘boost’ of tailored support and resources for a whole three years after graduation.
Our three-year support includes:
If you are a Bangor University graduate – Welcome!
All you need to do to continue / reconnect with our Service is activate your Graduate account by setting up a password.
Click on the link and enter the personal email address you provided to Bangor University prior to your graduation.
Activate your Graduate Account
Email careers@bangor.ac.uk for more information, or follow / connect with us via social media:
Facebook: @PBcyflogadwyedd / @BUemployability Twitter: @PBcyflogadwyedd / @BUemployability Instagram: @pbcyflogadwyedd / @buemployability LinkedIn: Cyflogadwyedd Prifysgol Bangor / Bangor University Employability
We look forward to hearing from you and supporting you in your career aspirations.
Updated March 2025
Student Services

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/clirio:
Ffonio’r Llinell Gymorth: 0800 085 1818
Gwnewch Gais Clirio Nawr
Noder: Mae Meddygaeth yn llawn ar gyfer Medi 2025.
Nid oes lleoedd Clirio ar gael ar gyfer y cwrs yma.
Noder: Mae Meddygaeth (Mynediad i Raddedigion) yn llawn ar gyfer Medi 2025.
Efallai bydd lleoedd cyfyngedig Fferylliaeth ar gael drwy Glirio.
Cofrestrwch eich diddordeb , a byddwn yn cysylltu â'r rhai ar y rhestr yn syth ar ôl Diwrnod Canlyniadau Lefel-A i drafod cyfleoedd Clirio posibl.
Chwilio am Gwrs Drwy Clirio
Efallai eich bod yn ystyried gwneud cais am gwrs ym Mhrifysgol Bangor drwy Clirio am sawl rheswm:
Edrychwch drwy ein cyrsiau israddedig am wybodaeth fanwl ar gyrsiau unigol fel eich bod yn barod os byddwch yn ffeindio eich hun yn y system Glirio ar ddiwrnod canlyniadau.
Yn ogystal â’r addysgu rhagorol a’r adnoddau ardderchog, mae yna lawer o bethau eraill sy’n cyfrannu at wneud y profiad o astudio yma yn un unigryw .
Mae ein llety wedi eu gosod fel y 1af yng Nghymru a'r 12fed yn y DU gan University Compare (2026).
Os ydych yn ymgeisio drwy Clirio am gwrs sydd wedi ei lleoli ar ein campws ym Mangor, rydym yn sicrhau y cewch chi ystafell yn ein neuaddau preswyl cyn belled a'ch bod chi'n dewis Prifysgol Bangor ar UCAS erbyn Dydd Iau, 28 Awst ac yn archebu eich ystafell erbyn Dydd Llun, 1 Medi.
Mae ein Llety i fyfyrwyr yn fodern ac yn gyfforddus ac mae aelodaeth am ddim o'r Gampfa wedi ei gynnwys yn y pris.
Rydym yn 3ydd yng Nghymru am Fywyd Cymdeithasol gan University Compare (2026), ac yn falch o gynnig cymuned fyfyrwyr bywiog a chroesawgar.
Os yn bosibl, peidiwch â bod ar wyliau nac yn y gwaith, cadwch y diwrnod yn rhydd i gysylltu â phrifysgolion.
Mae angen i chi fod ar gael i siarad â thiwtoriaid derbyniadau a gwneud penderfyniadau eich hun – ni all eich rhieni, athrawon a ffrindiau wneud hynny ar eich rhan.
Os oes rhaid i chi weithio'r diwrnod hwnnw neu os ydych i ffwrdd yn teithio neu ar wyliau, mae'n werth rhoi awdurdod i riant/gwarcheidwad weld manylion eich cais UCAS fel y gallant siarad ar eich rhan.
Efallai nad ydych wedi cael y graddau neu’r sgôr pwyntiau sydd eu hangen arnoch, ond efallai y bydd y brifysgol sydd gennych fel dewis cadarn neu fel dewis wrth gefn yn penderfynu eich derbyn ar y cwrs.
Cysylltwch â nhw gyntaf a pheidiwch â chymryd yn ganiataol fod rhaid i chi ddefnyddio’r drefn Glirio.
Os ydynt yn penderfynu peidio â’ch derbyn, neu os nad oes gennych gynigion gan unrhyw sefydliad, rydych yn gymwys i wneud cais am le drwy’r system Glirio.
Mae ymgeiswyr sy'n gwneud ceisiadau ar ôl 30 Mehefin yn cael eu cynnwys yn awtomatig yn y system glirio ac maent hwythau hefyd yn gymwys.
Byddwch yn gwybod eich bod yn y drefn Clirio os ydi eich cais UCAS yn dweud ‘you are in Clearing’ neu ‘Clearing has started’.
Os ydych yn y drefn Clirio, rhaid i chi gysylltu â phrifysgolion yn uniongyrchol i holi am y lleoedd sydd ar gael ar eu cyrsiau ac i weld a ydych yn bodloni eu gofynion.
Yn ystod y cyfnod Clirio, gall y llinellau ffôn fod yn brysur, ac efallai y bydd yn rhaid i chi aros i gael eich trosglwyddo i'r adran berthnasol, efallai y gofynnir i chi ffonio'n ôl yn nes ymlaen, neu efallai y bydd y brifysgol yn eich ffonio chi'n ôl.
Peidiwch â phoeni, mae Clirio yn para am lawer mwy nag un diwrnod felly mae gennych amser i benderfynu a dod o hyd i gwrs.
Sicrhewch fod eich rhif cais UCAS, eich rhif Clirio, y codau cwrs, eich canlyniadau Lefel A a’r canlyniadau TGAU perthnasol wrth law gan y bydd y staff ar y Llinell Gymorth yn gofyn amdanynt.
Bydd angen eich manylion cyswllt a'ch cyfeiriad e-bost arnom hefyd er mwyn anfon eich cynnig Clirio atoch yn ysgrifenedig.
Yn union fel y gwnaethoch gyda'ch dewisiadau gwreiddiol, ystyriwch, er enghraifft, gynnwys a strwythur y cwrs, cyfleusterau academaidd, bywyd cymdeithasol, pellter o gartref, cyfleusterau chwaraeon a chostau byw.
Efallai y byddwch yn falch o gael cynnig cwrs arall, ond mae angen o hyd i chi ddewis y cwrs iawn yn y brifysgol iawn i chi.
Nid oes yn rhaid i chi fynd am yr un pwnc ag y gwnaethoch gais amdano yn wreiddiol, ond os byddwch yn mynd am rywbeth gwahanol, efallai y bydd y brifysgol yn dal i ddisgwyl i chi fod wedi gwneud pynciau Lefel A penodol.
Os yw'r cwrs o’ch dewis yn llawn, edrychwch ar ddewisiadau eraill cysylltiedig, er enghraifft, ar gyfer Meddygaeth, ystyriwch Wyddorau Meddygol neu Wyddorau Biofeddygol.
Nid oes rhaid i chi dderbyn y cynnig Clirio cyntaf a gewch.
Bydd y rhan fwyaf o brifysgolion yn hapus i chi gymryd amser i wneud yn siŵr bod y cwrs a'r brifysgol yn addas i chi.
Ewch i ymweld â’r Brifysgol rydych yn bwriadu ei mynychu Bydd y rhan fwyaf o brifysgolion, fel Prifysgol Bangor, yn trefnu Dyddiau Agored a digwyddiadau ar gyfer ymgeiswyr Clirio y dylech fynd er mwyn i chi allu edrych o gwmpas y brifysgol a'r ardal, casglu mwy o wybodaeth am y cwrs, siarad â staff a myfyrwyr a phenderfynu a fyddech chi'n hapus yn astudio yn y sefydliad hwnnw.
Dewch i wybod mwy am brofiadau ein myfyrwyr o ddod i Bangor drwy'r system Glirio.
Dewch i wybod sut i wneud cais drwy Clirio os nad ydych wedi cofrestru ag UCAS.
Os rydych eisoes wedi gwneud cais i Fangor, dyma sydd angen ei wneud nesaf.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/clirio/ymgeisio:
Os oes gennych eich canlyniadau, gallwch wneud cais nawr am gwrs trwy Clirio drwy lenwi'r ffurflen isod.
Os oes gennym lefydd ar ôl yn y pwnc sydd o ddiddordeb i chi ac rydych yn cwrdd â gofynion mynediad y cwrs, byddem yn eich e-bostio i gadarnhau eich cynnig Clirio.
Byddem yn cysylltu â chi os byddem angen gwybodaeth bellach cyn ein bod yn gallu cynnig lle ar gwrs.
Os ydych yn disgwyl am eich canlyniadau, gallwch gofrestru eich diddordeb mewn Clirio i dderbyn yr wybodaeth ddiweddaraf.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/clirio/cysylltu:
Efo canlyniadau?
Gwnewch gais nawr
Mae ein Llinell Gymorth Clirio ar agor yr amseroedd canlynol.
Os ydych chi'n chwilio am gwrs Clirio, neu eisiau gofyn cwestiwn am eich lle ym Mangor, cysylltwch â ni ar 0800 085 1818 .
Os ydych tu allan i'r DU, cysylltwch ar +44 (0)1248 388320
Yn y cyfnod cyn canlyniadau Lefel A, gallwch gysylltu â ni gydag unrhyw ymholiad ar 0800 085 1818 .
Yr amseroedd agor yw:
O ddiwrnod canlyniadau Lefel-A ymlaen, gallwch gysylltu â'r Llinell Gymorth ar 0800 085 1818 .
Bydd y Llinell Gymorth yn agored 9am-6pm o Ddydd Llun, 18 Awst - Ddydd Gwener, 22 Awst ac yn agored rhwng 9am-5pm, Dyddiau Llun i Wener yn unig (yn eithrio dydd Llun Gŵyl y Banc) tan Ddydd Gwener, 29 Awst.
Efo canlyniadau yn barod?
Gwnewch gais nawr.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/clirio/sgwrs-fyw:
Cysylltwch â ni trwy Sgwrs Fyw i weld a allwn gynnig lle i chi trwy Glirio.
Ar adegau eraill, ffoniwch ein Llinell Gymorth: 0800 085 1818 .

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/gwybodaeth-i-ddeiliaid-cynnig-israddedig:
Croeso i'r dudalen wybodaeth i Ddeiliaid Cynnig Prifysgol Bangor.
Rydym yn edrych ymlaen at eich croesawu chi i'n cymuned.
Yma, cewch ddarganfod eich camau nesaf a chael y wybodaeth sydd ei angen arnoch i baratoi at ddod i'r Brifysgol.
Cwestiwn: Ydych chi wedi derbyn cynnig gan Brifysgol Bangor i astudio cwrs israddedig?
Llongyfarchiadau ar eich cynnig!
Rydym yn falch o'ch croesawu i'n cymuned.
Rydym yn edrych ymlaen at eich cyfarfod yn fuan ac yn dymuno'r gorau wrth i chi wrth baratoi at ddod i'r Brifysgol.
Derbyn Eich Cynnig
Archebwch eich lle ar ein Diwrnod Agored nesaf!
Darllenwch ein canllaw ar sut i ddewis Prifysgol Bangor fel eich Dewis Cadarn.
Derbyn eich cynnig
Cadwch mewn cysylltiad ar gyfryngau cymdeithasol am y newyddion diweddaraf.
Dilynwch ni
Dysgwch fwy am gyllid myfyrwyr, ysgoloriaethau a bwrsariaethau i helpu gyda'ch costau.
Dysgu mwy am gyllid
Os mai ni yw eich Dewis Cadarn, byddwn yn eich e-bostio i archebu eich ystafell.
Dewch o hyd i'ch ystafell
Os cewch gynnig lle ym Mangor, byddwch yn cael cynnig Amodol neu Ddiamod .
Ewch i'ch cais UCAS
Unwaith y bydd pob prifysgol o'ch dewis wedi gwneud eu penderfyniadau, bydd UCAS yn cysylltu â chi gyda dyddiad cau ar gyfer eich penderfyniad.
Rhaid i chi ddewis un cynnig prifysgol fel eich Dewis Cadarn , ac un fel eich Dewis Wrth Gefn a Gwrthod pob cynnig arall.
Dylech wirio adran 'Eich dewisiadau' eich cais UCAS a nodi'ch penderfyniadau yno.
Fel arfer rhoddir tua pedair wythnos i chi ystyried pethau a gwneud eich penderfyniad.
Dylai eich Dewis Cadarn fod y brifysgol rydych chi eisiau mynd iddi fwyaf.
Drwy wneud hwn yn Ddewis Cadarn , rydych chi'n dweud eich bod yn cytuno i astudio yma cyn belled â'ch bod yn cwrdd ag amodau eich cynnig.
Eich Dewis Wrth Gefn yw eich prifysgol wrth gefn, felly os nad ydych yn cyflawni’r graddau ar gyfer eich Dewis Cadarn , gobeithio y byddwch chi wedi cwrdd ag amodau'r brifysgol Dewis Wrth Gefn .
Wrth wneud eich penderfyniad am eich Dewis Wrth Gefn mae'n ddoeth gwneud yn siŵr eich bod yn hyderus y gallwch gwrdd â'r amodau hynny.
Peidiwch â dewis prifysgol sy'n gofyn am amodau tebyg i'ch Dewis Cadarn .
EWCH I'CH CAIS UCAS
Bydd cadarnhad o'ch lle i astudio yma yn cael ei gadarnhau gan UCAS.
Ar gyfer mynediad mis Medi, byddwn yn eich e-bostio ym mis Awst gyda gwybodaeth am y broses cofrestru myfyrwyr, cyrraedd a gweithgareddau'r Wythnos Groeso.
Mae cymorth ar gael i helpu i dalu costau astudio ar gyfer gradd israddedig - bydd y cymorth ariannol union sydd ar gael i chi yn dibynnu ar ba ran o'r DU rydych chi'n byw.
Mwy am Gyllid Myfyrwyr i Israddedigion
Rydym hefyd yn cynnig amrywiaeth o Ysgoloriaethau a Bwrsariaethau i fyfyrwyr newydd.
Mwy am Ysgoloriaethau a Bwrsariaethau
Rydym yn rhoi sicrwydd o ystafell mewn llety Prifysgol i ymgeiswyr o'r DU/Iwerddon am flwyddyn gyntaf o'u gradd israddedig.
Rhaid eich bod yn dal Bangor fel eich dewis Cadarn, â'ch bod yn mynychu cwrs ar y campws ym Mangor, yn cychwyn y cwrs ym mis Medi ac yn gwneud cais cyn y dyddiad cau.
Byddem yn eich e-bostio pan fydd hi'n amser gwneud cais a byddwch yn gallu dewis eich ystafell trwy ein system archebu.
Darganfod EICH ystafell berffaith
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Golygfa o'r awyr o Fangor, gyda'r Fenai'n ymestyn yn urddasol yn y cefndir.
[TROSLAIS] Croeso i neuaddau preswyl myfyrwyr Prifysgol Bangor - lle diogel, fforddiadwy ac wedi ei gynllunio i'ch helpu i deimlo'n gyffyrddus o'r diwrnod cyntaf.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Myfyrwyr yn cerdded trwy Bentref Ffriddoedd, wedi'u hamgylchynu gan goed toreithiog a gwyrddni bywiog gyda Bar Uno yn y cefndir.
Myfyrwyr yn cerdded tuag at fynedfa fflat fodern, a cheir yn gyrru heibio ar y ffordd gyfagos.
Dau fyfyriwr yn eistedd ar wely dwbl clyd ym mhentref y Santes Fair, yn sgwrsio'n gynnes tra bod un yn dal gwerslyfr.
[TROSLAIS] Os ydych chi'n dechrau ar eich taith fel myfyriwr israddedig neu'n fyfyriwr ôl-radd sy'n chwilio am lety, mae gennym ni rywbeth fyddyn addas i chi.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Pâr o fyfyrwyr yn mwynhau sgwrs ar bont fach swynol ym mhentref y Santes Fair.
Grŵp o bedwar myfyriwr yn eistedd ar fainc ar deras Prif Adeilad y Celfyddydau, gyda'r camera'n chwyddo i mewn i gipio eu mynegiant bywiog.
Ffilm o'r awyr o Bentref Ffriddoedd, yn dechrau ar y cae pob tywydd ac Adeilad Riechel, gan ymledu'n raddol i ddatgelu'r neuaddau newydd slic, Canolfan Brailsford, a'r neuaddau clasurol uwchben.
[TROSLAIS] Mae gan Fangor ychydig dros 2,400 o ystafelloedd, sy'n golygu ein bod yn gallu gwarantu llety i fyfyrwyr y flwyddyn gyntaf sy'n gwneud cais mewn pryd.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Golygfa o'r awyr o neuaddau'r Santes Fair, wedi'u fframio gan yr archfarchnad a'r stryd fawr gerllaw.
Myfyrwyr wedi ymgasglu mewn cegin ym mhentref y Santes Fair: mae dau yn ymlacio ar gadeiriau gwyrdd, tra bod un arall yn eistedd wrth y bwrdd bwyta gyda gliniadur, yn sgwrsio â ffrind oddi ar y sgrin.
Llun agos o fyfyriwr yn eistedd wrth fwrdd bwyta, yn gwenu ar sgrin y gliniadur, tra bod eraill yn mwynhau sgyrsiau hamddenol yn y cefndir.
Ffilm o'r awyr o Bentref Ffriddoedd o'r Fenai
[TROSLAIS] Mae ein neuaddau wedi eu lleoli ar ddau safle:
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Ffilm o'r awyr o Bentref Ffriddoedd o'r Fenai, ond yn arddangos ongl wahanol o'r gymuned hardd.
[TROSLAIS] Pentref Ffriddoedd a Phentref y Santes Fair
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Ffilm uchel o neuaddau'r Santes Fair, yn amlygu'r cyfuniad o bensaernïaeth draddodiadol a modern.
[TROSLAIS] Ond, pa bentref fydd orau i chi?
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Tri myfyriwr yn cerdded trwy Fangor Uchaf, gan basio bariau bywiog, siopau, a bwytai tecawê.
[TROSLAIS] Mae Ffriddoedd ym Mangor Uchaf, rhan brysur o Fangor sy'n llawn myfyrwyr.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Myfyrwyr yn mwynhau pizza ac yn chwerthin yn Jones' Pizza, sef pizzeria clyd ym Mangor Uchaf, wedi'u gwasgaru ar draws tri bwrdd.
Barista yn creu celf latte cywrain yn fedrus.
[TROSLAIS] Dim ond 10 munud o waith cerdded sydd o Bentref Ffriddoedd i Brif Adeilad y Brifysgol ar Ffordd y Coleg ac i orsaf drenau Bangor.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Dau fyfyriwr yn eistedd yng nghaffi Reubens: un yn sipian diod werdd, a'r llall yn yfed latte gyda'i gefn at y camera.
Dau fyfyriwr yn cerdded ar hyd Ffordd y Coleg o dan ganopi o goed.
Ffilm o'r awyr o Fangor o bentref y Santes Fair, gyda golygfeydd ysgubol o ganol y ddinas, Bae Hirael, a chipolwg ar Ynys Môn.
[TROSLAIS] Mae pentref y Santes Fair yr ochr arall i Fangor, sy'n edrych dros ganol y ddinas,
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Myfyrwyr yn cerdded heibio murlun lliwgar ar y stryd fawr.
Ffrindiau'n ymlacio yn nhŷ bwyta Blue Sky: dau yn cofleidio tra bod eraill yn chwerthin yn iach.
[TROSLAIS] Tua 20 munud o waith cerdded o Brif Adeilad y Brifysgol a'r orsaf drenau.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Golygfa banoramig o Gwad Allanol Prif Adeilad y Celfyddydau, gyda llu o fyfyrwyr yn eistedd ar feinciau picnic, a thri myfyriwr y gyfraith yn croesi'r cwad yn eu gwisgoedd.
Dau fyfyriwr yn gwisgo siwmperi coch trawiadol yn cerdded ar hyd llwybr ym mhentref Ffriddoedd, wedi'u fframio gan adeiladau cyfoes.
[TROSLAIS] Ffriddoedd yw'r mwyaf a'r prysuraf o'r ddau bentref - mae awyrgylch gwych yma bob amser, a llawer o bethau'n mynd ymlaen.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Tri myfyriwr yn sgwrsio'n fywiog o flaen sied feiciau.
[TROSLAIS] Gall myfyrwyr fynd i Far Uno am bryd o fwyd poeth a diodydd fforddiadwy, neu fynd i un o'r digwyddiadau myfyrwyr niferus a gynhelir yma!
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Dau fyfyriwr yn cerdded heibio Bar Uno, gyda'i arwydd nodedig yn y cefndir.
Myfyrwyr yn eistedd ar draws tri bwrdd y tu mewn i Far Uno, rhai'n brysur yn sgwrsio'n braf tra bod eraill yn canolbwyntio ar waith.
Grŵp siriol o fyfyrwyr yn sgwrsio y tu allan i Far Uno, gyda'r arwydd eiconig wedi'i arddangos yn amlwg.
[TROSLAIS] Mae Canolfan Brailsford ar y safle hefyd, sef campfa a chanolfan chwaraeon y Brifysgol, ac mae amrywiaeth eang o weithgareddau ffitrwydd ar gael yno.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Person yn rhoi llwch sialc ar ei ddwylo yn yr ystafell ffitrwydd, yn paratoi i godi pwysau.
Myfyriwr penderfynol yn codi pwysau ar Platfform 81.
Myfyrwyr yn mwynhau gêm bêl-rwyd fywiog yng nghromen chwaraeon Canolfan Brailsford.
Chwaraewr tenis yn taro'r bêl yn gryf.
[TROSLAIS] Mae pentref y Santes Fair yn llai na phentref Ffriddoedd, ac mae awyrgylch hamddenol yno.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Dau fyfyriwr yn cerdded trwy bentref y Santes Fair, gyda gwahanol onglau camera'n cyfleu eu taith.
Llun agos o arwydd Barlows.
Gall myfyrwyr fynd am goffi yng nghaffi Barlows; mwynhau gweithgareddau hwyliog yng ngofod adloniant Acapela, neu bicio i'r ystafell ffitrwydd ar y safle i wneud ymarfer corff.
Golygfa glyd yn ystafell gyffredin Barlows: dau fyfyriwr yn sgwrsio ar seddi cyfforddus.
Dau aelod o Griw'r Campws yn cael hwyl gyda gêm o denis bwrdd yn Acapela.
Athletwr yn codi dymbel.
Golygfeydd ysgubol o'r awyr o Bentrefi Ffriddoedd a'r Santes Fair, gan gipio eu cynlluniau unigryw.
Rhedwr yn mynd amdani ar felin draed.
[TROSLAIS] Mae gan y ddau bentref bopeth sydd ei angen arnoch, gan gynnwys siop, golchdy, siop goffi, ystafell gyffredin ac ystafell gyfrifiaduron.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Cwsmer yn rhyngweithio ag aelod o staff yn siop Barlows, wrth brynu rhywbeth.
Cipolwg trwy ffenestr o fyfyrwyr yn cymdeithasu mewn ystafell gyffredin ym mhentref y Santes Fair.
Myfyriwr yn agor peiriant sychu dillad yng ngolchdy Ffriddoedd, yn paratoi i ddadlwytho eu golch.
Bysedd yn teipio'n ddiwyd ar fysellfwrdd gliniadur.
[TROSLAIS] Felly, beth am yr ystafelloedd eu hunain?
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Dau fyfyriwr yn sgwrsio wrth gerdded i lawr coridor mewn fflat ym mhentref y Santes Fair.
[TROSLAIS] Mae ystafell safonol yn Ffriddoedd yn cynnwys ystafell ymolchi breifat, ac mae cegin i hyd at 8 o bobl ei rhannu.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Myfyriwr yn astudio ar ei gwely mewn ystafell safonol Ffriddoedd, wedi ei hamgylchynu gan nodiadau a gwerslyfr.
Myfyriwr yn rhoi persawr o flaen drych yn ei en-suite.
Pum ffrind wedi ymgasglu o amgylch bwrdd bwyta mewn cegin safonol yn Ffriddoedd, gydag un yn coginio yn y cefndir.
[TROSLAIS] Mae nifer cyfyngedig o ystafelloedd rhatach ar gael ym mhentref Ffriddoedd ac maen nhw ar gael ar sail y cyntaf i'r felin.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Ffilm o'r awyr o Bentref Ffriddoedd yn canolbwyntio ar y llety rhad, a rhai mannau parcio.
[TROSLAIS] Mae'r rhain yn ystafelloedd hŷn, ond maen nhw'n dal i gynnwys cyfleusterau en-suite preifat a cheginau sy'n cael eu rhannu.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Myfyriwr llawen yn arddangos ystafell rad yn Ffriddoedd, ei breichiau'n ymestyn allan mewn hyfrydwch.
Dau fyfyriwr yn cael cyfarfod clyd mewn fflat rhad yn Ffriddoedd, yn rhannu diodydd poeth a sgwrs fywiog.
[TROSLAIS] Mae gan Bentref y Santes Fair amrywiaeth ehangach o ystafelloedd at ddant pawb.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Arwyddion pentref y Santes Fair, wedi'u fframio gan y fflatiau yn y cefndir.
[TROSLAIS] Mae ystafell safonol ym mhentref y Santes Fair yn cynnwys ystafell ymolchi breifat, a chegin mae 5-8 o bobl yn ei rhannu.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Dau fyfyriwr yn eistedd ar wely dwbl clyd ym mhentref y Santes Fair, yn sgwrsio'n gynnes tra bod un yn dal gwerslyfr.
Mae'r un ddau fyfyriwr nawr yn y gegin yn edrych ar ffôn symudol wrth wenu a sgwrsio.
[TROSLAIS] Mae rhai ystafelloedd rhatach ar gael ym mhentref y Santes Fair hefyd, gydag ystafelloedd ymolchi sy'n rhaid eu rhannu.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Myfyriwr yn eistedd ar y gwely mewn ystafell wely ym Mryn Eithin, opsiynau rhad y Santes Fair, wrth edrych a sgrolio ar eu ffôn.
Ongl wahanol, yn agosach at y myfyriwr yn sgrolio ar eu ffôn.
Myfyrwyr yn eistedd ar soffa mewn fflat stiwdio.
[TROSLAIS] Gall myfyrwyr ddewis cael mwy o breifatrwydd pan fyddent yn dewis un o bedwar math gwahanol o fflatiau stiwdio ym Mhentref y Santes Fair.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Stiwdio fflat arferol.
Cegin a'i holl offer, soffa gyfforddus, dau fyfyriwr yn eistedd ar y soffa a gwely dwbl bach.
[TROSLAIS] Mae gan y fflatiau stiwdio en-suite a chegin fach breifat.
Mae yna hefyd dai tref, sy'n rhoi'r teimlad o fyw mewn tŷ myfyrwyr.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Golwg o'r tu allan i dŷ tref ym mhentref y Santes Fair, gyda'i gynllun modern yn dal sylw.
Myfyriwr yn paratoi pryd cyflym mewn cegin tŷ tref ym mhentref y Santes Fair, gan osod rhywbeth yn y microdon.
[TROSLAIS] Caiff ceginau eu rhannu rhwng hyd at 12 o bobl.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Y camera'n chwyddo i mewn i'r microdon.
[TROSLAIS] Gall darpar fyfyrwyr radiograffeg wneud cais i fyw yn Neuadd Snowdon yn Wrecsam.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Y tu allan i Neuadd Snowdon yn Wrecsam.
[TROSLAIS] Mae'r ystafelloedd en-suite wedi'u trefnu mewn fflatiau o 6 ystafell, gyda chegin sy'n cael ei rhannu.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Myfyriwr wedi ymgolli mewn sgwrs mewn cegin safonol ym mhentref y Santes Fair.
[TROSLAIS] Felly, pam ddylech ddewis byw mewn neuadd?
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Ystafell safonol daclus yn Neuadd Snowdon, gyda gwely, desg, cadair, a golygfa o'r ffenestr.
Myfyrwyr wedi ymgasglu mewn cegin ym mhentref y Santes Fair: Myfyriwr yn eistedd wrth y bwrdd bwyta gyda gliniadur, yn sgwrsio â ffrind oddi ar y sgrin, tra bod dau arall yn ymlacio ar gadeiriau gwyrdd.
[TROSLAIS] Un o'r prif fanteision yw bod popeth wedi ei gynnwys yn y pris Mae hynny'n cynnwys: Wi-fi cyflym; yr holl filiau fel dŵr, gwres a thrydan,
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Llun agos o fyfyriwr yn eistedd wrth fwrdd bwyta, yn gwenu ar sgrin y gliniadur, tra bod eraill yn mwynhau sgyrsiau hamddenol yn y cefndir.
Dŵr yn llifo o dap wrth i ddwylo gael eu golchi'n drylwyr oddi tano.
[TROSLAIS] ynghyd ag aelodaeth am ddim i'r brif ganolfan chwaraeon, Canolfan Brailsford, yn ogystal ag aelodaeth Campws Byw –
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Dau fyfyriwr wedi ymgolli mewn gêm fideo mewn ystafell wely safonol yn Ffriddoedd, yn chwerthin ac yn canolbwyntio.
Myfyriwr o'r clwb trampolîn yn neidio'n osgeiddig ar drampolîn yng Nghanolfan Brailsford.
Criw'r Campws wedi ymgasglu ym mhentref y Santes Fair, yn gwisgo hwdis oren llachar ac yn bloeddio'n egnïol wrth ddal bagiau o nwyddau rhad ac am ddim.
[TROSLAIS]
[TROSLAIS] calendr fawr o ddigwyddiadau cymdeithasol rhad ac am ddim, sy'n dod â myfyrwyr at ei gilydd.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Dau aelod o Griw’r Campws yn mwynhau gêm ysgafn o denis bwrdd yn Acapela.
[TROSLAIS] Byddwch hefyd yn teimlo'n ddiogel gan fod gan holl neuaddau Bangor swyddogion diogelwch ar gael 24 awr, 7 diwrnod yr wythnos.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Dau fyfyriwr yn cael sgwrs gyfeillgar ag aelod o'r tîm diogelwch y tu allan i Swyddfa Ddiogelwch Ffriddoedd.
Saethiad agos o'r gair 'diogelwch/security' wedi'i frodio ar siaced y staff diogelwch.Ongl arall yn dangos dau fyfyriwr yn sgwrsio ag aelod o'r tîm diogelwch y tu allan i Swyddfa Ddiogelwch Ffriddoedd.
[TROSLAIS] Rydym yn deall bod gan bob myfyriwr anghenion a chyllidebau gwahanol,
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Moment glyd gyda myfyriwr yn sgwrsio ar soffa werdd gyfforddus mewn cegin ym mhentref y Santes Fair.
Myfyriwr arall yn eistedd ar yr un soffa, yn mwynhau'r awyrgylch hamddenol.
[TROSLAIS] ac mae gennym ystod o ystafelloedd fforddiadwy sy'n addas i chi.
Mae amryw o opsiynau hygyrch ar gael, gyda ystafelloedd, ceginau ystafelloedd ymolchi wedi eu haddasu.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Dau fyfyriwr yn cael sgwrs fywiog mewn ystafell hygyrch yn Ffriddoedd, wedi'i haddurno â theganau meddal a lluniau personol wedi'u pinio ar yr hysbysfwrdd.
Myfyriwr yn troi bwyd mewn padell wrth eistedd mewn cegin wedi'i haddasu.
Myfyriwr n canolbwyntio ar ei liniadur, yn teipio ac yn gweithio'n astud.
[TROSLAIS] Mae gennym hefyd neuaddau wedi eu neilltuo’n arbennig i siaradwyr Cymraeg, myfyrwyr gofal iechyd, neuaddau tawel, fflatiau i ferched yn unig, a fflatiau di-alcohol.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Dau fyfyriwr yn mwynhau gêm o bŵl yn ystafell gyffredin JMJ, wedi'u hamgylchynu gan naws hamddenol.
Grŵp siriol o fyfyrwyr gofal iechyd yn sefyll gyda'i gilydd yn eu sgrybs, yn chwerthin ac yn rhannu eiliad ysgafn.
Dau fyfyriwr mewn ystafell wely safonol ym mhentref y Santes Fair: un yn gorwedd ar y gwely yn chwerthin, a'r llall yn canolbwyntio’n astud ar liniadur.
Mae'r olygfa’n cael ei gipio’n glyfar trwy ddrych yr ystafell.
[TROSLAIS] Os cewch unrhyw broblem tra byddwch yn byw yn un o neuaddau’r brifysgol,
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Dau fyfyriwr yn cerdded i mewn i swyddfa'r neuaddau, yn gwenu ac yn sgwrsio wrth ddynesu at y drysau ffrynt.
[TROSLAIS] gall ein staff yn y Swyddfa Neuaddau eich helpu.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Person yn canu'r gloch yn swyddfa'r neuaddau, yn dangos bod angen cymorth arnynt.
Myfyriwr yn rhyngweithio'n gynnes ag aelod o staff yn swyddfa'r neuaddau, sydd ag awyrgylch cyfeillgar.
[TROSLAIS] Mae gan bob un o’n lleoliadau preswyl dîm cymorth preswyl sy’n gyfrifol am eich lles, sy’n cynnwys mentoriaid myfyrwyr sy’n byw yn y neuaddau, ynghyd ag uwch wardeniaid.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Myfyriwr yn ymlacio mewn cegin safonol ym mhentref y Santes Fair, gyda chefndir llachar o waliau gwyn.
[TROSLAIS] Wrth ddewis byw yn un o neuaddau Prifysgol Bangor,
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Dau fyfyriwr yn eistedd ger y ffens ger cwrt chwaraeon awyr agored pentref y Santes Fair, yn cael sgwrs hamddenol.
[TROSLAIS] gallwch fod yn sicr o lety cyfforddus, fforddiadwy a diogel yng nghanol Bangor, gyda chefnogaeth bob cam o'r ffordd.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Tri myfyriwr mewn caffi bar lleol, yn codi eu diodydd meddal mewn llwncdestun hwyliog.
Myfyriwr yn eistedd ar wely mewn cegin safonol ym mhentref y Santes Fair.
Mae'r olygfa’n symud i ddatgelu ail berson yn yr ystafell wely, yn gweithio ar liniadur tra bod y llall ar y gwely Dau ffrind yn rhannu cofleidiad, eu hapusrwydd a'u cysylltiad yn amlwg.
[TROSLAIS] Ewch i’n gwefan i gael mwy o wybodaeth.
[DISGRIFIAD GWELEDOL] Chwech o fyfyrwyr yn eistedd ar risiau Pontio, gan wenu'n uniongyrchol ar y camera, sy’n rhoi ymdeimlad o undod a balchder.
Logo Prifysgol Bangor
Os ydych wedi gwneud cais i astudio yma, cewch wahoddiad i'r digwyddiad drwy'r post / e-bost.
Mae'r Diwrnodau i Ymgeiswyr yn gyfle gwych i chi gael gwell dealltwriaeth o'ch cwrs ac i ddod i wybod mwy am eich opsiynau llety.
Ymunwch â'n ap CampusConnect a dewch i'n digwyddiadau byw!
Dyma'r ffordd orau i gysylltu â myfyrwyr eraill sydd ar yr un cwrs â chi ac sy'n aros yr un llety.
Mae'n ffordd wych o wneud ffrindiau a chael cyngor am y Brifysgol cyn dod yma.
Edrychwch ar eich e-byst am fanylion mewngofnodi.
Digwyddiadau sydd i ddod
Cymerwch olwg ar ein tudalennau pwnc pwrpasol gyda gwybodaeth wedi'i theilwra ar gyfer deiliaid cynigion a chael gwir deimlad o fywyd myfyrwyr yma.
Cliciwch ar eich pwnc isod i ddatgelu popeth sydd angen i chi ei wybod a pharatoi i gychwyn ar eich antur ym Mangor.
Rydym yn cynnig amgylchedd astudio cyfeillgar a gofalgar, ac mae eich iechyd a'ch lles yn bwysig i ni.
I'ch helpu i wneud y gorau o'ch amser yn y brifysgol, cewch gymaint o help a chefnogaeth â phosibl gyda materion iechyd a lles yn ogystal â'ch gwaith academaidd.
Mae Arweinwyr Cyfoed yn fyfyrwyr ail a thrydedd flwyddyn sydd wedi'u hyfforddi i helpu myfyrwyr newydd i ymgartrefu mewn bywyd prifysgol.
Mwy o wybodaeth
Mae'r gwasanaethau'n cynnwys cyngor ar arian a thai preifat, dyslecsia, cymorth iechyd a lles, a chwnsela.
Mae ein Tîm Anabledd ymroddedig yn darparu cyngor ac arweiniad ar amrywiaeth o faterion sy'n ymwneud ag anabledd.
Byddwch yn cael Tiwtor Personol o'ch Ysgol academaidd felly bydd gennych chi bob amser rhywun i droi atynt.
Derbyn eich cynnig >
Nid yw'n rhy hwyr i wneud cais ar gyfer y rhan fwyaf o'n cyrsiau sy'n dechrau fis Medi eleni.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/clirio/digwyddiadau:
Rydym yn falch eich bod yn ystyried Bangor fel eich dewis Clirio ac yn edrych ymlaen at eich croesawu i un o'n digwyddiadau fel eich bod yn cael blas o'r profiad prifysgol unigryw sydd i'w gynnig yma.
Rydym yn eich hannog i fynychu'r Diwrnod Agored ar ddydd Sul, 17 Awst .
Fel y byddwch yn ei ddisgwyl mewn Prif Ddiwrnod Agored, byddwch yn:
Fel rhywyn sydd wedi cael cynnig lle drwy Clirio, rydym yn eich gwahodd i Ddiwrnod Ymweld Clirio sy'n digwydd ar ddydd Mercher, 20 Awst .
Mae hwn yn ddigwyddiad byrrach sydd wedi ei deilwro.
Bydd y Diwrnod Ymweld Clirio yn cynnwys cyflwyniad i Fangor a thaith o'r campws fel rhan o'r rhaglen .
Os nad ydych yn gallu dod i'r Diwrnod Agored na'r Diwrnod Ymweld Clirio, yna byddem yn falch o drefnu ymweliad personol i'ch helpu i wneud penderfynaid am eich cynnig Clirio.
E-bostiwch diwrnodagored@bangor.ac.uk i drefnu eich ymweliad os gwelwch yn dda.
Gallwch gysylltu â'r Llinell Gymorth Clirio ar 0800 085 1818.
Gweld oriau agor y Llinell Gymorth

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/llety:
Archebwch eich ystafell heddiw - dim angen blaendal na thaliad ymlaen llaw.
DARGANFOD DY YSTAFELL BERFFAITH
Mae ein Llety yn fodern ac yn gyfforddus ac mewn lleoliad cyfleus.
Nid yw'n syndod felly ein bod wedi ein gosod yn rheolaidd ymysg y neuaddau prifysgol gorau yn y DU.
Mwyaf diweddar, fe gyrhaeddon Neuaddau ni 12fed lle yn y DU ar gyfer Llety ac yn 1af yng Nghymru ar gyfer Llety gan University Compare (2026), ac fe ddyfernir ein bod yn y 10 uchaf yng Ngwobrau What Uni 2024.
Mae ein Llety yn cydymffurfio gyda Chod Ymarfer Universities UK er mwyn Rheoli Llety Myfyrwyr .
Mae hyn yn amddiffyn eich hawl i lety diogel o ansawdd da, lle bynnag yr ydych yn astudio.
Mae ein dau bentref myfyrwyr o fewn pellter cerdded i brif adeiladau’r Brifysgol, siopau, caffis, canolfannau ffitrwydd, golchfeydd, ac ystafelloedd cyffredin, felly mae popeth byddwch ei angen ar stepen eich drws.
Mae cost Neuaddau yn cynnwys y canlynol:
Pob bil (dŵr, gwresogi, trydan)
Wi-Fi cyflym iawn
Atgyweiriadau a chynnal a chadw mewn pryd
Yswiriant cynnwys yr ystafell
Aelodaeth campfa
Glanhau ardaloedd a rennir bob pythefnos
Casgliad wythnosol o ailgylchu a gwastraff cyffredinol (heb gynnwys Stiwdios nac Tai Tref)
Os rydych yn byw mewn Neuaddau, cewch aelodaeth awtomatig o’r Gampfa.
Golyga hyn y byddwch yn gallu defnyddio’r brif Gampfa yng Nghanolfan Brailsford ym Mhentref Ffriddoedd a’r Ystafell Ffitrwydd ym Mhentref y Santes Fair lle bynnag rydych yn byw.
Cewch hefyd cewch aelodaeth awtomatig o Campws Byw lle cewch ddewis bod yn rhan o bob math o weithgareddau a digwyddiadau ar gyfer y gymuned sy’n byw mewn neuaddau.
Mwy o resymau da i fyw mewn Neuaddau
Rydym yn rhoi sicrwydd o ystafell mewn llety Prifysgol i bob myfyriwr israddedig, yn cynnwys rhai sy'n dod trwy Clirio, a myfyrwyr ôl-raddedig llawn-amser newydd.
Cymrwch olwch ar y manylion isod.
Ond nid yw ein hymrwymiad yn gorffen yna.
Rydym hefyd yn poeni am eich iechyd corfforol a meddyliol.
Yma, c ewch aelodaeth am ddim i'n campfa - Canolfan Brailsford - gyda sgôr 4.6 ⭐️ ar Google.
Rydym am ei gwneud hi'n hawdd i chi ymlacio, bod yn egnïol, a dod o hyd i gydbwysedd iach rhwng eich astudiaethau a'ch bywyd cymdeithasol.
Gydag ystod eang o lety i weddu i bob cyllideb a ffordd o fyw, gallwch ddod o hyd i'ch cartref perffaith a chanolbwyntio ar yr hyn sy'n wirioneddol bwysig: eich llwyddiant a'ch lles.
Edrychwch ar y manylion isod i sicrhau eich ystafell.
Os ydych ym ymgeisio drwy Clirio am gwrs sydd wedi ei lleoli ar ein campws ym Mangor, rydym yn sicrhau y cewch chi ystafell yn ein neuaddau preswyl cyn belled a'ch bod chi'n dewis Prifysgol Bangor ar UCAS erbyn Dydd Iau, 28 Awst ac yn archebu eich ystafell erbyn Dydd Llun, 1 Medi.
Pan fyddwch wedi dewis Prifysgol Bangor ar UCAS, a rydym wedi prosesu a chadarnhau eich lle yn swyddogol trwy UCAS, anfonir e-bost* atoch gyda manylion ar sut i wneud cais am lety.
Fel arfer, anfonir yr e-bost atoch 24-48 awr ar ôl i chi ddewis Prifysgol Bangor ar UCAS.
Bydd gofyn i chi fynd ar-lein i gwblhau cais am ystafell mewn neuadd breswyl, felly, po gyntaf y gellwch gadarnhau eich bod yn derbyn eich lle Clirio ym Mangor, cyntaf i gyd y gellwch wneud eich cais am lety.
Os gwnewch gais am ystafell cyn Dydd Llun, 1 Medi, byddwch yn debygol o allu archebu'r union ystafell o'ch dewis.
Ar gyfer ceisiadau o 1 Medi ymlaen, byddwn yn gofyn ichi nodi'ch dewis o ran lleoliad, neuadd, a math o ystafell, a byddwn yn dyrannu ystafell i chi.
*Sylwer: Bydd yr e-bost llety yn cael ei anfon i'r cyfeiriad e-bost a ddarparwyd gennych i UCAS.
Felly mae angen i chi sicrhau bod eich manylion cyswllt (ac yn benodol eich cyfeiriad e-bost) yn gywir gan UCAS.
Rydym yn rhoi sicrwydd o lety i ymgeiswyr israddedig newydd sydd:
Sylwch, mae ein llety i israddedigion yn bennaf yn ystafelloedd i un, yn rhai en-suite a chyda chyfleusterau hunanarlwyo.
Os gwnewch gais am le mewn neuadd cyn y dyddiad cau, sef 31 Gorffennaf, byddwch yn gallu dewis pa ystafell fyddai orau gennych, yn amodol ar argaeledd ar adeg archebu.
Byddwn yn anfon e-bost atoch pan fydd ein system archebu yn agor ar ddiwedd mis Ionawr, gan roi cyfle i chi ddewis eich ystafell o ddewis trwy ein system archebu ar-lein.
Sylwch, mae ein llety i ôl-raddedigion yn bennaf yn ystafelloedd i un, yn rhai en-suite, fflatiau stiwdio a thai tref.
Os gwnewch gais am le mewn neuadd cyn y dyddiad cau, sef 7 Awst, byddwch yn gallu dewis pa ystafell fyddai orau gennych, yn amodol ar argaeledd ar adeg archebu.
Mae ein Cynghorydd Neuaddau cyfeillgar yma i'ch helpu fel y gallwch ddewis eich ystafell berffaith.
sgwrsio Nawr
Neuadd John Morris Jones (neu JMJ i’r rhai sy’n byw yno) yw dewis gartref y mwyafrif o fyfyrwyr Cymraeg a rhai sy’n  dysgu’r iaith.
Mae’n ganolbwynt bywyd cymdeithasol Cymraeg, sy’n cynnig cymuned glòs a chyfeillgar i fyfyrwyr o bob cwr o Gymru.
Mae JMJ wedi ei lleoli mewn adeiladau modern ym mhentref Ffriddoedd.
Rydym yn deall bod pob myfyriwr yn wahanol ac â gwahanol ddewisiadau o ran eu hamgylchedd byw.
Mae gennych y rhyddid i ddewis llety sy'n cyd-fynd â'ch dewisiadau personol ac yn gwneud i chi deimlo'n gyfforddus, beth bynnag sydd yn gwneud i chi deimlo’n fwy cartrefol.
Pwyswch y saeth i'r dde am fwy o wybodaeth am ein mannau penodedig:
Byddwn yn hysbysu pob preswylydd yn y neuaddau hyn y disgwylir amgylchedd tawelach.
Fodd bynnag, mae'n bwysig deall nad yw unrhyw fath o fyw cymunedol yn gwbl dawel, ac efallai na fydd yn bosibl rheoli sŵn o ardaloedd eraill y neuadd neu y tu allan.
Mae nifer cyfynedig o neuaddau tawel ar gael ac ni allwn warantu y byddant ar gael ar adeg eich cais.
Mae'r neuaddau hyn wedi'u lleoli yn adeiladau Borth ac Elidir ym Mhentref Ffriddoedd.
Er nad oes Neuaddau Tawel Mhentref y Santes Fair, mae'r amgylchedd tawel a'r opsiynau fflat llai yn ei gwneud yn opsiwn delfrydol ar gyfer astudio ac ymlacio.
Gallwch ddewis fflat di-alcohol pan rydych yn archebu eich ystafell yn y system archebu.
Os byddwch yn derbyn eich cynnig o lety di-alcohol, rydych yn cytuno i beidio ag yfed na storio alcohol o fewn y fflat, sy'n cynnwys eich ystafell wely.
Ni fyddwch yn cael eich gosod mewn fflat di-alcohol heb hysbysiad ymlaen llaw.
Mae cyfyngiad ar argaeledd y fflatiau hyn - ni allwn warantu eu bod ar gael ar adeg eich cais.
Mewn rhai neuaddau rydym yn cynnig llety ar gyfer merched yn unig.
Dylai preswylwyr ddeall eu bod yn cael derbyn ymwelwyr gwrywaidd, er y byddem yn disgwyl eu bod yn rhoi gwybod i weddill y fflat fel mater o gwrteisi os yw ymwelydd gwrywaidd yn aros dros nos.
Bydd hefyd ymweliadau i'r fflatiau gan aelodau gwrywaidd o'r Tîm Neuaddau, Tîm Mentoriaid, Tîm Campws Byw, staff Cynnal a Chadw a staff Gwaith Tŷ.
Os yw amgylchedd un-rhyw yn arbennig o bwysig i chi am resymau diwylliannol, mae'n annhebygol y gallwn ddarparu hyn mewn amgylchedd Neuaddau.
Mae gennym ddau bentref llety, Ffriddoedd a Santes Fair.
Mae'r ddau o fewn pellter cerdded o brif adeiladau'r Brifysgol a chanol y ddinas.
Wedi'i leoli ym Mangor Uchaf, tua 10 munud o gerdded o Brif Adeilad y Brifysgol, mae gan Bentref Ffriddoedd oddeutu 1,960 o ystafelloedd.
Wedi'i leoli yn agos at ganol y ddinas, mewn safle uchel, mae oddeutu 650 o ystafelloedd ar y safle ac mae yma gymysgedd o fathau o lety.
Rydym wedi ymrwymo i greu amgylchedd cyfforddus a chynhwysol ar gyfer pob myfyriwr.
Mae ein neuaddau'n cynnig y nodweddion hygyrch hyn:
Cysylltwch â ni gydag unrhyw ymholiad.
Mae gennym ystafelloedd tymor byr sengl ar gael ym Mhentref Ffriddoedd i fyfyrwyr llawn-amser sydd wedi cofrestru gyda Phrifysgol Bangor.
Oriau agor: Dydd Llun - Dydd Gwener: 09.00 - 17.00 (yn eithrio gŵyl y banc, gwyliau cyhoeddus a Dyddiau Coleg).

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/llety/ystafell:
Rydym yn cynnig amrywiaeth o lety i siwtio pob myfyriwr.
Boed yn chwilio am ystafell ag ystafell ymolchi en-suite neu lety â chegin breifat, gallwch chwilio drwy ein dewis o'n holl fathau gwahanol o lety isod i ddod o hyd i'r lle perffaith i'w alw'n gartref.
Mae'r eiconau canlynol yn dynodi math o fyfyriwr ar gyfer pob ystafell:
WEDI GWERTHU ALLAN AR GYFER MEDI 2025
argaeledd cyfyngedig ar gyfer medi 2025
ARGAELEDD CYFENGEDIG A GYFER MEDI 2025
ARGAELEDD CYFYNGEDIG AR GYFER 2025
WEDI GWERTHU ALLAN AR GYFER 2025
WEDI GWERTHU ALLAN ar gyfer medi 2025

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/amdanom:
Rydym wedi ein trwytho mewn hanes ac rydym yn ymdrechu i arloesi.
Wedi’i sefydlu yn 1884, mae Prifysgol Bangor heddiw yn sefydliad ffyniannus, blaengar sy'n cynnig cyfleoedd rhagorol.
Mae tua 10,000 o fyfyrwyr yn astudio yn y Brifysgol, gyda staff dysgu wedi eu lleoli o fewn deg o ysgolion academaidd.
Wedi’i sefydlu yn 1884, mae gan Brifysgol Bangor draddodiad hir o ragoriaeth academaidd ac mae’n mynd y tu hwnt i ddisgwyliadau o ran profiad myfyrwyr.
Rydym wedi ein lleoli ar arfordir Gogledd Cymru, rhwng mynyddoedd Eryri a'r Fenai.
Er ein bod wedi ein hamgylchynu gan natur, mae gennym gysylltiad da â threfi a dinasoedd mawr.
Mae gweithgareddau academaidd y Brifysgol wedi eu trefnu o fewn tri choleg a deg o ysgolion academaidd.
Porwch y rhestr o'n Gwasanaethau a Chyfleusterau.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn ymwybodol o'r cysylltiad arbennig rhwng y sefydliad a'r ardal yr ydym wedi'n lleoli ynddi ac rydym yn gweithio gyda'r gymuned leol i godi dyheadau a gwella ansawdd bywyd.
Cydnabyddir Prifysgol Bangor yn rhanbarthol, yn genedlaethol ac yn rhyngwladol fel canolfan ragoriaeth ar gyfer portffolio amrywiol ac mae ein themâu strategol yn adlewyrchu hyn.
Mae gan Brifysgol Bangor draddodiad llwyddiannus o gydweithio gyda busnesau a'r gymuned.
Rydyn ni'n ymroi i'n rôl hanfodol ym mywyd cymdeithasol, diwylliannol ac economaidd yr ardal.
Rydyn ni'n anelu at archwilio'r posibiliadau o gydweithio gyda sefydliadau a phartneriaid yng Nghymru, Prydain ac yn rhyngwladol â'r bwriad i gryfhau a chynyddu llwyddiant ein haddysgu a'n gwaith ymchwil.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/taith-rhithiwr-prifysgol-bangor:
Croeso i'ch taith rithwir unigryw o Brifysgol Bangor.
Byddwch yn barod i ddarganfod beth sy'n gwneud Prifysgol Bangor yn lle gwirioneddol arbennig i fyw ac i ddysgu.
Gadewch i ni ddechrau eich taith.
Chwilio am fersiwn hygyrch o'r daith rithwir?
Mae ar gael o dan y daith o'r enw 'Disgrifiadau Taith Rithwir'.
Gallwch neidio i adran gyda'r dolenni canlynol:
Wedi'i lleoli rhwng mynyddoedd Eryri ac arfordir prydferth Gogledd Cymru, mae Prifysgol Bangor yn cynnig amgylchedd unigryw ac ysbrydoledig ar gyfer dysgu a darganfod.
Paratowch i archwilio ein hadeiladau hanesyddol, cyfleusterau modern, a mannau myfyrwyr bywiog o gysur eich cartref eich hun.
Bydd ein taith rithwir yn eich tywys drwy ein hadrannau academaidd, canolfannau ymchwil safonol, opsiynau llety, ac amrywiaeth eang o wasanaethau cymorth a gynlluniwyd i'ch helpu i ffynnu.
Cymerwch gam i mewn i'r daith rithiwr hon a darganfyddwch bob ongl mewn manylder llawn 360°.
Defnyddiwch y bar offer ar ochr dde'r sgrin i ddewis ble i fynd ac i ryngweithio gyda'r daith rithwir.
Mae'r olygfa'n dangos Prif Adeilad y Celfyddydau ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, wedi'i ddal mewn golygfa ongl lydan.
Mae'r adeilad yn cynnwys pensaernïaeth draddodiadol, wedi'i nodweddu gan ffenestri mawr, drysau bwaog, a manylion carreg.
Yn ganol y golygfa mae cwrt gyda llwyfan uchel sy'n dal cerfluniau neu gerfluniau.
Mae'r awyr uwchben yn gymylog yn rhannol, gan ganiatáu i ychydig o'r awyr las ddod i'r golwg.
Mae testun wedi'i orosod ar y ddelwedd yn darllen: "PRIF DDAITH RITHWIR PRIFYSGOL BANGOR – PRIF ADEILAD Y CELFYDDYDAU."
Mae'r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn dangos y Cwad Mewnol o fewn Prif Adeilad y Celfyddydau ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, sef cwrt tawel wedi'i amgylchynu gan bensaernïaeth hanesyddol.
Pensaernïaeth: Mae'r adeilad o gwmpas wedi'i adeiladu o garreg ac yn cynnwys ffenestri bwaog a manylion pensaernïol traddodiadol.
Nodwedd Ganolog: Mae oriawr haul wedi'i gosod ar golofn garreg yng nghanol y blaendir.
Mae wedi'i lleoli ar hyd llwybr graean sy'n arwain tuag at y prif adeilad.
Tirlunio: Mae'r llwybr wedi'i ffinio gan lawntiau wedi'u cynnal yn dda a meinciau, gan gyfrannu at awyrgylch heddychlon.
Labeli a Mannau o Ddiddordeb (ochr chwith y golygfa):
Mae'r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn dangos y Teras ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, sef ardal awyr agored wedi'i phalmentu â cherrig, wedi'i chynllunio ar gyfer ymlacio a mwynhau golygfeydd.
Mae'r teras wedi'i leinio â meinciau a phlanwyr, gan greu amgylchedd croesawgar a thawel.
Ar yr ochr dde, mae postyn lamp addurnol yn sefyll ger wal garreg isel, sy'n cynnig golygfa o fryniau a choed pell.
Ar yr ochr chwith, mae tu allan adeilad hanesyddol i'w weld, gyda ffenestri mawr a drysau bwaog.
Mae'r awyr yn bennaf yn glir, gyda ychydig o gymylau wedi'u gwasgaru uwchben.
Mae'r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn dangos tu mewn Neuadd Prichard-Jones ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, sef lleoliad eang ac urddasol.
Mae'r neuadd yn cynnwys nenfydau bwaog uchel, manylion pensaernïol addurnedig, ac y llawr pren sgleiniog wedi'i osod mewn patrwm eog.
Mae rhesi o gadeiriau â chlustogau coch gyda desgiau ysgrifennu pren bach wedi'u trefnu'n wynebu llwyfan ar y blaen.
Ar y llwyfan mae sgrin fawr yn dangos delwedd, ac uwch ei phen, mae'r testun "NEUADD PRICHARD-JONES" i'w weld.
Mae'r waliau wedi'u leinio â ffenestri tal gyda llenni coch, ac mae canhwyllbrennau'n hongian o'r nenfwd, gan ddarparu goleuni cynnes.
Mae'r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn dangos tu mewn Neuadd Powis ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, sef ystafell eang a ffurfiol wedi’i chynllunio ar gyfer digwyddiadau neu gyflwyniadau.
Mae'r neuadd yn cynnwys waliau wedi'u panelu â phren, nenfydau bwaog gyda ffenestri nenfwd, a ffenestri mawr gyda llenni coch ar hyd un ochr.
Ar y blaen mae llwyfan uchel gyda grisiau ar y ddwy ochr, sy’n cynnwys podiwm, piano, a dodrefn ychwanegol.
Y tu ôl i’r llwyfan mae mur-murlun mawr yn darlunio golygfeydd amrywiol, gyda sgrin daflunio wedi’i gosod uwch ei ben.
Mae rhesi o gadeiriau wedi’u trefnu’n wynebu’r llwyfan.
Mae testun ar frig y ddelwedd yn darllen: "PRIF DDAITH RITHWIR PRIFYSGOL BANGOR – NEUADD POWIS."
Mae'r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn dangos prif fynedfa Adeilad Rathbone, sy’n rhan o Wasanaethau Myfyrwyr ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae’r adeilad wedi’i adeiladu o frics coch ac yn cynnwys nifer o ffenestri gyda fframiau gwyn.
Yn y canol mae strwythur modern o wydr gyda drysau dwbl sy’n arwain i mewn i’r adeilad.
Uwchben y fynedfa, mae arwydd yn darllen: "Prif Fynedfa i Ganolfan Cymorth Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr Prifysgol Bangor."
Mae'r daith hon yn dangos llwybr yn arwain at adeilad, wedi’i ffinio gan ardaloedd glaswelltog ac wedi’i leinio â bollardiau du a gwyn.
Mae coeden fawr yn sefyll ar yr ochr dde, wrth ymyl bwrdd hysbysiadau gwag.
Ar ochr dde’r ddelwedd, mae dwy ddelwedd fewnosodedig llai.
Un ohonynt, wedi’i labelu “Gardd Llesiant,” yn dangos ardal gardd heddychlon gyda glaswellt gwyrdd, coed, a meinciau i eistedd—wedi’i chynllunio fel lle tawel ar gyfer ymlacio a lles myfyrwyr.
Mae'r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn arddangos mynedfa Adeilad Brigantia, cartref yr Adran Seicoleg ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae'r fynedfa'n cynnwys llwybr troed dan do gyda arwydd uwch ei ben sy'n darllen "Brigantia." Ar yr ochr chwith, mae wal bloc gwydr i'w gweld, ac mae'r fynedfa ei hun yn cynnwys drysau gwydr dwbl.
Mae'r ardal o amgylch yn cynnwys llwybr palmantog a ffenestri ar y ddwy ochr i'r fynedfa, gan gyfrannu at ddyluniad modern a hygyrch.
Mae'r ddelwedd yn dangos efelychydd MRI sydd wedi’i leoli yn yr Adran Seicoleg ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae'r efelychydd wedi'i addurno â sticeri thema gofod, gan gynnwys rocedi, planedau, sêr, a'r haul.
Y tu mewn i'r peiriant MRI mae mancen, wedi’i orchuddio â blanced sy’n cynnwys dyluniadau thema gofod hefyd.
Mae’r ystafell yn oleuol iawn, diolch i oleuadau fflwroleuol uwchben, gan greu amgylchedd glân a phroffesiynol.
Mae'r ddelwedd yn dangos yr Ystafell Anatomeg sydd wedi’i lleoli yn Adeilad Seicoleg Brigantia ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae’r ystafell yn cynnwys llawr pren, waliau gwyn, a drws glas.
Yn y canol mae model anatomegol maint llawn o gorff dynol, yn dangos cyhyrau a chordiau'n glir.
Ar yr ochr chwith, mae silffoedd yn dal modelau anatomegol amrywiol o ben a’r ymennydd dynol.
Mae sgrin deledu wedi’i gosod ar y wal, ac mae sawl cadair wedi’u trefnu o amgylch byrddau, gan awgrymu lle wedi’i gynllunio ar gyfer addysgu a dangos.
Mae’r ystafell yn oleuol iawn gyda goleuadau fflwroleuol uwchben.
Mae Adeilad Cerddoriaeth Prifysgol Bangor wedi ei adeiladu o frics coch gyda nifer o ffenestri a tho llechi serth.
Mae llwybr yn arwain at y brif fynedfa, sy’n hygyrch trwy risiau a ramp.
Mae mainc goch wedi’i lleoli ger y fynedfa, ac mae’r llwybr wedi’i leinio â phlanhigion.
Y tu mewn i’r adeilad, gall ymwelwyr ddod o hyd i ardal dderbyn lle gellir cael gwybodaeth a chymorth.
Cyfleusterau yn cynnwys neuadd gerddoriaeth ar gyfer perfformiadau, stiwdios recordio a gwaith creadigol, a ystafelloedd ymarfer ar gyfer ymarfer unigol neu grŵp.
Mae adeilad Hen Goleg yn Ysgol Fusnes Bangor yn cynnwys arddull bensaernïol clasurol gyda thoau pigfain a ffenestri mawr.
Yng nghanol blaen yr adeilad, mae dau gar wedi'u parcio – un gwyn ac un du.
Mae'r fynedfa'n hygyrch trwy ardal wedi’i phalmentu sy’n arwain at y prif ddrysau.
Y tu mewn i’r adeilad, mae derbynfa, ac mae’n cynnwys nifer o gyfleusterau allweddol gan gynnwys Llys Efelychu, sy’n cael ei ddefnyddio ar gyfer achosion cyfreithiol efelychiadol ac ymarferion academaidd.
Mae adeilad Cyfrifiadureg a Pheirianneg Prifysgol Bangor, sydd wedi’i leoli ar Stryd y Deon, yn adeilad aml-lawr gyda ffenestri mawr a mynedfa ganolog wedi’i nodi gan ganopi coch.
Mae’r fynedfa’n hygyrch trwy risiau a ramp, gan sicrhau mynediad cynhwysol.
Mae’r adeilad yn wynebu stryd gyda cheir wedi’u parcio o’i flaen, ac mae’r awyr uwchben yn bennaf yn glir, gyda ychydig o gymylau i’w gweld.
Y tu mewn i’r adeilad, mae nifer o gyfleusterau arbenigol, gan gynnwys:
Mae'r daith rithwir hon yn cyflwyno adeilad y Gwyddorau Meddygol ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae'r adeilad yn strwythur modern aml-lawr gyda thu allan llwyd a nifer o ffenestri mawr.
Mae arwydd dwyieithog ar y wal yn darllen "Ysgol Meddygaeth / School of Medical Sciences", gan nodi ffocws academaidd y cyfleuster.
Yn y blaendir, mae sawl car wedi'u parcio, waliau cerrig, a gwyrddni toreithiog yn awgrymu amgylchedd campws golygfaol ac wedi'i gynnal yn dda.
Ar ochr dde'r sgrin, mae opsiynau llywio rhyngweithiol ar gael, gan ganiatáu i ddefnyddwyr archwilio gwahanol ardaloedd o'r cyfleuster.
Mae'r rhain yn cynnwys:
Mae'r daith rithwir hon wedi'i chynllunio i roi golwg ymgolli ac addysgiadol i ddarpar fyfyrwyr ac ymwelwyr ar amgylchedd addysg feddygol y brifysgol.
Mae'r daith rithwir hon yn tynnu sylw at adeilad y Gwyddorau Eigion ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, sydd wedi’i leoli ar gampws Porthaethwy.
Mae’r olygfa’n dangos adeilad gwyn aml-lawr gyda nifer o ffenestri ar y chwith, ac adeilad gwyn llai ar y dde.
Mae llwybr yn rhedeg rhwng y ddau adeilad, gan arwain tuag at strwythur arall yn y cefndir, gan awgrymu cynllun campws cysylltiedig a hawdd ei gerdded.
Ar frig y sgrin, mae’r teitl yn darllen: "Prif Daith Rithwir Prifysgol Bangor – Gwyddorau Eigion (Campws Porthaethwy)"
Ar ochr dde’r sgrin, mae dewislen llywio fertigol yn rhestru lleoliadau amrywiol ar y campws, gyda "Gwyddorau Eigion" wedi’i amlygu mewn coch, gan nodi’r olygfa bresennol.
Mae’r daith rithwir hon yn cynnig ffordd ddifyr o archwilio cyfleusterau’r brifysgol sy’n ymroddedig i wyddorau eigion.
Mae Adeilad Gwyddorau Chwaraeon ar Safle Normal, Prifysgol Bangor yn cynnwys dyluniad pensaernïol clasurol, gyda cholofnau carreg a manylion bwaog yn fframio’r prif fynedfa, sydd â drws glas.
Mae arwydd wrth ymyl y fynedfa yn nodi bod yr adeilad yn rhan o gyfleusterau’r brifysgol.
O flaen yr adeilad, mae maes parcio gyda llefydd wedi’u marcio, ac mae un ohonynt wedi’i feddiannu gan gar gwyn.
Mae cyfleusterau arbenigol ar gael, gan gynnwys Labordy Ffisioleg, yn ogystal ag ardaloedd addysgu ac ymchwil wedi’u neilltuo i ffisioleg a gwyddor chwaraeon.
Mae'r ddelwedd yn dangos golygfa fewnol o Stiwdios Ffilm Aria ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae'r safbwynt o ystafell fach neu goridor, yn edrych trwy ddrws i mewn i ofod stiwdio mwy.
Yn y blaendir, mae bachyn dillad yn dal sawl siaced a chôt, tra bod blychau storio wedi'u trefnu ar silffoedd uwchben.
Mae basged golchi dillad yn llawn dillad wedi'i gosod ar y llawr.
Mae planhigyn mawr gwyrdd wedi'i leoli i'r dde o'r drws.
Trwy'r drws, mae prif ardal y stiwdio i'w gweld, gyda charped patrwm mawr, soffas a chadeiriau wedi'u trefnu fel set, a phaentiad lliwgar wedi'i osod ar y wal bellaf.
Mae'r gofod wedi'i oleuo'n dda, gyda gosodiadau goleuo uwchben, ac mae'n cynnwys setiau teledu amrywiol a ddefnyddir ar gyfer ffilmio a chynhyrchu.
Mae'r daith rithiwr hon yn dangos tu mewn i Amgueddfa Hanes Natur Brambell ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae'r gofod yn cynnwys nenfydau uchel gyda thrawstiau noeth a ffenestri tal sy'n caniatáu i olau naturiol ddod i mewn.
Mae'r llawr pren yn ychwanegu cynhesrwydd i'r ystafell, sydd wedi'i llenwi â chasys arddangos yn dangos amrywiaeth o sbesimenau morol a glaswelltog, gan gynnwys anifeiliaid wedi'u cadw, cragen a gwrthrychau naturiol eraill.
Ymhlith y nodweddion ychwanegol mae pennaeth anifeiliaid wedi'u mowntio ar y waliau ac un model pysgodyn mawr wedi'i osod ar ben un o'r casys arddangos.
Mae'r ystafell hefyd yn cynnwys byrddau a chypyrddau a ddefnyddir ar gyfer arddangosfeydd pellach a deunyddiau addysgol.
Mae'r testun yn y ddelwedd yn cynnwys: “PRIF DDAITH RITHWIR PRIFYSGOL BANGOR” / “AMGUEDDFA HANES NATUR BRAMBELL”
Mae'r daith rithiol hon yn dangos gofod dan do Gardd Fotaneg Treborth, sy’n rhan o gyfleusterau botaneg ac ymchwil Prifysgol Bangor.
Mae’r ystafell yn llawn golau, gyda golau naturiol yn llifo trwy’r ffenestri, ac mae byrddau, cadeiriau a chypyrddau wedi’u trefnu at ddibenion addysgol neu ymchwil.
Mae amrywiaeth o sbesimenau planhigion wedi’u harddangos ar y byrddau a’r cownteri, gan gynnwys tanc gyda goleuadau porffor a ddefnyddir i dyfu neu arddangos planhigion penodol.
Mae dewislen fertigol ar ochr dde’r ddelwedd yn rhestru sawl ardal allweddol o fewn yr ardd, gan gynnwys:
Mae’r ardaloedd hyn yn cynrychioli’r amgylcheddau a’r casgliadau amrywiol o fewn Gardd Fotaneg Treborth, sy’n cynnwys gerddi awyr agored a thai planhigion arbenigol fel y Tŷ Trofannol a Thŷ’r Tegeirianau.
Mae’r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn dangos derbynfa Undeb y Myfyrwyr sydd wedi’i lleoli yn Adeilad Pontio ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Yn y canol mae derbynfa gyda arwyddion dwyieithog yn darllen “CANOLFAN MYFYRWYR / STUDENT CENTRE.” Uwchben y dderbynfa, mae llythrennau lliwgar yn sillafu “CROESO” (Welcome), ochr yn ochr â logo’r UNDEB (Undeb).
Yn y cefndir, mae cadeiriau swyddfa ac offer i’w gweld, gan nodi ardal weinyddol neu gefnogol.
Ar ochr chwith y daith, mae hysbysebion ar gyfer bargeinion pitsa Domino’s, ac mae cerflun o gi yn gwisgo sgarff felen yn sefyll ar flwch glas wedi’i labelu “Cŵn Tywys.” Ar y dde, mae silffoedd yn arddangos eitemau amrywiol, ac mae hysbyseb arall ar gyfer Domino’s i’w gweld.
Mae’r gofod hwn yn gweithredu fel canolfan groesawgar ar gyfer cefnogaeth, ymgysylltiad a gwasanaethau i fyfyrwyr o fewn Canolfan Celfyddydau ac Arloesi Pontio.
Mae’r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn dangos ardal eistedd fodern a llawn goleuni o fewn Undeb y Myfyrwyr ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae’r gofod yn cynnwys cymysgedd o gadair freichiau liwgar mewn coch, melyn, gwyrdd, ac porffor, wedi’u trefnu o amgylch byrddau crwn bach.
Mae soffa lwyd tywyll wedi’i lleoli ar ochr dde’r ystafell, gan gynnig lle eistedd ychwanegol.
Mae’r waliau wedi’u haddurno â phosteri a thestun sy’n hyrwyddo amrywiaeth o weithgareddau a gwasanaethau myfyrwyr, gan ychwanegu bywiogrwydd a gwybodaeth i’r gofod.
Mae mur gwydr mawr yn gwahanu’r ardal hon oddi wrth ystafell arall yn y cefndir, gan gynnal teimlad agored a chysylltiedig.
Mae’r nenfwd wedi’i ffitio â goleuadau wedi’u gosod yn y nenfwd, gan ddarparu goleuo llachar ac unffurf ar draws yr ardal.
Mae’r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn dangos gofod cymdeithasol bywiog a modern o’r enw “Y Lolfa” ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae’r ystafell yn cynnwys waliau wedi’u paentio’n llachar gyda siapiau geometrig mewn lliwiau fel glas, gwyrdd, oren, a pinc.
Ar wal ddu, mae enw “Y Lolfa” wedi’i arddangos mewn llythrennau gwyn mawr.
Mae’r gofod wedi’i ddodrefnu gyda bwrdd bach wedi’i amgylchynu gan bedair cadair liwgar (gwyrdd, melyn, glas, a choch), soffa lwyd gyda cushionau melyn, a lamp llawr.
Mae teledu wedi’i osod ar y wal, ar hyn o bryd yn dangos delwedd gyda lliw symud.
Ymhlith y nodweddion ychwanegol mae bagiau ffa ger y soffa a biniau sbwriel mewn un gornel, gan greu amgylchedd hamddenol ac anffurfiol i fyfyrwyr.
Mae hwn yn ofod clyd a chynhwysol wedi’i gynllunio ar gyfer myfyrwyr i ymlacio, cymdeithasu, neu gymryd egwyl.
Mae’r ystafell yn rhan o daith rithwir Prifysgol Bangor ac wedi’i lleoli yn adeilad Pontio.
Mae Caffi Teras yn ofod bwyta cynnes a chroesawgar wedi’i leoli yn Prif Adeilad, Brifysgol Bangor.
Mae’r caffi’n cynnwys waliau wedi’u paentio’n goch a lloriau pren, gan greu awyrgylch glyd a gwahoddgar.
Mae goleuadau fflworoleuol yn y nenfwd yn darparu goleuo llachar ac unffurf ar draws y gofod.
Mae sawl bwrdd a chadair wedi’u trefnu ar draws yr ystafell ar gyfer bwyta neu gymdeithasu.
Ar yr ochr bell dde, mae cadeiriau neu hambyrddau wedi’u pentyrru wedi’u gosod yn daclus yn erbyn y wal, gan awgrymu hyblygrwydd yn y trefniadau eistedd.
Ar yr ochr chwith, mae arwydd allanfa argyfwng gwyrdd uwchben drws, gan sicrhau gwelededd clir ar gyfer diogelwch.
Ger y drws mae silff lyfrau fach neu stondin arddangos yn dal eitemau amrywiol, o bosib ar gyfer darllen neu ddeunydd hyrwyddo.
Mae drws agored yng nghanol y cefndir yn arwain at ystafell arall, sy’n debygol o fod yn rhan o’r caffi neu’n ardal wasanaeth gysylltiedig.
Mae’r gofod hwn yn cynnwys silffoedd ac o bosib cownter ar gyfer gwasanaeth bwyd neu ddiod.
Ar yr ochr dde, mae ffotograff wedi’i osod ar y wal yn dangos golygfa bensaernïol o Brifysgol Bangor, gan ychwanegu elfen ddiwylliannol leol.
O dan y ffotograff mae tri bin ailgylchu wedi’u codio â lliwiau:
Mae Lolfa Teras yn ofod cymunedol steilus a chyfforddus wedi’i lleoli yn Adeilad Prif y Brifysgol.
Mae’n cyfuno pensaernïaeth draddodiadol â dyluniad modern, gan gynnig amgylchedd ymlaciol i fyfyrwyr, staff ac ymwelwyr.
Mae amrywiaeth o opsiynau eistedd ar gael:
Mae Bar Uno yn fan cymdeithasol modern wedi’i leoli o fewn llety myfyrwyr Pentref Ffriddoedd.
Mae’n fan poblogaidd ymhlith myfyrwyr ar gyfer bwyta, ymlacio a chymdeithasu.
Mae’r gofod yn cynnwys lloriau pren a dull addurno cyfoes.
Mae goleuadau llachar yn y nenfwd yn darparu goleuo unffurf ar draws yr ardal, gan greu awyrgylch groesawgar.
Mae byrddau a chadeiriau wedi’u trefnu ar gyfer bwyta neu gyfarfodydd grŵp.
Ar yr ochr dde, mae ychydig o gadair lolfa yn cynnig opsiwn eistedd mwy hamddenol.
Yn y cefndir, mae’r cownter bar i’w weld, lle mae bwyd a diodydd yn cael eu gweini.
Mae ardal y bar wedi’i integreiddio i’r cynllun agored, gan ei gwneud yn hawdd ei chyrraedd o bob ardal eistedd.
Ar frig y ddelwedd, mae label yn darllen: "TAITH RITHWIR PRIFYSGOL BANGOR – BAR UNO (LLETY PENTREF FFRIDDOEDD)"
Mae Caffi Cegin yn ofod llachar a modern wedi’i leoli yn adeilad Pontio ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae’n cynnig amgylchedd ymlaciol ar gyfer bwyta, astudio neu gymdeithasu, gyda phwyslais cryf ar olau naturiol a gwyrddni.
Ar frig y ddelwedd, mae label yn darllen: "PRIF DDAITH RITHWIR PRIFYSGOL BANGOR – CEGIN CAFÉ (PONTIO)"
Mae Caffi, Bar a Siop Barlows yn ofod cyfleus a chroesawgar wedi’i leoli o fewn Pentref Myfyrwyr Santes Fair.
Mae’n gweithredu fel caffi, bar ac ardal fanwerthu ar gyfer myfyrwyr i gael lluniaeth, byrbrydau, neu eitemau hanfodol.
Mae Theatr Ddarlithio PL5 yn ofod academaidd ffurfiol wedi’i lleoli yn adeilad Pontio ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Fe’i cynlluniwyd ar gyfer darlithoedd, cyflwyniadau, a digwyddiadau grŵp mawr.
Ar frig y ddelwedd, mae label yn darllen: "PRIF DDAITH RITHWIR PRIFYSGOL BANGOR – THEATR DDARLITHIO PL5 (PONTIO)"
Mae Theatr Ddarlithio PL2 yn ofod academaidd modern wedi’i lleoli yn adeilad Pontio ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Fe’i cynlluniwyd ar gyfer darlithoedd, seminarau a chyflwyniadau, gan gynnig amgylchedd glân a swyddogaethol.
Ar frig y ddelwedd, mae label yn darllen: "PRIF DDAITH RITHWIR PRIFYSGOL BANGOR – THEATR DDARLITHIO PL2 (PONTIO)"
Mae Parc y Coleg yn ofod awyr agored heddychlon a golygfaol ar gampws Prifysgol Bangor.
Mae’n cynnig lleoliad naturiol ar gyfer ymlacio, cerdded, ac mwynhau’r awyr agored.
Ar frig y ddelwedd, mae label yn darllen: "PRIF DDAITH RITHWIR PRIFYSGOL BANGOR – PARC Y COLEG"
Mae Pier Bangor yn strwythur hanesyddol a golygfaol sy’n ymestyn i mewn i’r Fenai.
Mae’n cynnig golygfeydd panoramig ac awyrgylch heddychlon, gan ei wneud yn fan poblogaidd ar gyfer cerdded, gweld golygfeydd ac ymlacio.
Ar frig y ddelwedd, mae label yn darllen: "PRIF DDAITH RITHWIR PRIFYSGOL BANGOR – PIER BANGOR"
Mae’r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn dangos adran cardio’r gampfa ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, sydd wedi’i lleoli yng Nghanolfan Brailsford.
Mae’r gofod yn cynnwys nenfwd uchel gyda thrawstiau noeth ac mae’n cael ei oleuo’n llachar gan oleuadau uwchben a ffenestri mawr sy’n gadael i olau naturiol ddod i mewn.
Mae gan y gampfa loriau pren ac mae wedi’i chyfarparu â rhesi o beiriannau cardio, gan gynnwys melinau traed, beiciau sefydlog, a pheiriannau rhwyfo.
Mae’r waliau wedi’u paentio mewn arlliwiau o goch a llwyd, gan greu awyrgylch fywiog ac egniol.
Ar ben pellaf yr ystafell, mae sgrin fawr wedi’i gosod uwchben ffenestr fwaog, gan ychwanegu elfen fodern i’r gofod.
Mae’r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn dangos adran pwysau’r gampfa ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, sydd wedi’i lleoli yng Nghanolfan Brailsford.
Mae’r gofod wedi’i gyfarparu ag amrywiaeth o offer codi pwysau, gan gynnwys meinciau, peiriannau, a nifer o raciau gyda phwysau wedi’u codio â lliwiau.
Gellir gweld person yn defnyddio un o’r peiriannau yn y blaendir.
Mae gan y gampfa ddyluniad modern gyda goleuadau llachar uwchben a ffenestri mawr ar hyd yr ochr dde, sy’n caniatáu i olau naturiol ddod i mewn.
Mae’r amgylchedd yn eang ac wedi’i drefnu’n dda, gan gefnogi sesiynau ymarfer unigol a hyfforddiant cryfder.
Mae’r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn dangos y stiwdio sbinio ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, sydd wedi’i chynllunio ar gyfer ymarferion beicio dan do.
Mae’r ystafell yn cynnwys sawl beic sefydlog wedi’u trefnu’n daclus mewn rhesi ar lawr pren.
Mae murlun mawr ar y wal gefn yn darlunio ffordd agored gyda mynyddoedd ar y naill ochr a’r llall, gan greu amgylchedd ymgolli ac ysgogol.
Ar ochr dde’r ystafell, mae baner yn dangos lefelau dwyster ymarfer corff wedi’u labelu: "CYNHESU," "HAWDD," "MODERAD," ac "ANHAWDD."
Mae’r gofod wedi’i oleuo’n dda gyda goleuadau sgwâr yn y nenfwd, gan gyfrannu at awyrgylch llachar ac egniol.
Mae’r ddelwedd yn dangos tu mewn i Platform 81, cyfleuster campfa ym Mhrifysgol Bangor sydd wedi’i leoli yng Nghanolfan Brailsford.
Mae’r gofod wedi’i gyfarparu ag amrywiaeth o offer ymarfer corff, gan gynnwys dumbbels, platfformau codi pwysau, a pheiriannau ymarfer corff amrywiol.
Mae arwydd mawr ar y wal gefn yn darllen "PLATFORM 81" gyda saeth yn pwyntio i’r dde, gan helpu defnyddwyr i gyfeirio eu hunain o fewn y cyfleuster.
Mae gan y gampfa ddyluniad glân a modern ac mae’n rhan o daith rithwir y brifysgol, fel y nodir gan y testun ar frig y ddelwedd.
Mae’r ddelwedd yn dangos cyfleuster dringo creigiau dan do sy’n cael ei ddangos yn nheithiau rhithwir Prifysgol Bangor.
Ar yr ochr chwith, mae wal ddringo fertigol gyda dalwyr lliwgar wedi’u trefnu mewn llwybrau amrywiol ar gyfer gwahanol lefelau sgil.
Ar yr ochr dde, mae ffurf graig sy’n edrych yn fwy naturiol wedi’i chynllunio ar gyfer bouldro.
Mae’r llawr cyfan wedi’i orchuddio â matiau trwchus wedi’u padio i sicrhau diogelwch.
Mae’r gofod wedi’i oleuo’n dda ac wedi’i gynllunio i gefnogi gweithgareddau hamddenol a hyfforddiant.
Mae’r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn dangos cwrt sboncen ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, wedi’i leoli yng Nghanolfan Brailsford.
Mae’r cwrt yn cynnwys llawr pren caboledig a waliau gwyn gyda liniellau ffin goch nodweddiadol o gyrtiau sboncen.
Ar y wal gefn, mae’r logo "KARAKAL" wedi’i arddangos yn amlwg, ynghyd â’r slogan "Evolution by Design." Mae’r gofod yn lân, wedi’i oleuo’n dda, ac wedi’i gynllunio ar gyfer chwaraeon raced dan do.
Mae’r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn dangos tu mewn i’r Dôm Chwaraeon ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, wedi’i leoli yng Nghanolfan Brailsford.
Mae’r cyfleuster yn cynnwys cwrt tenis maint llawn gyda wyneb chwarae glas a waliau amgylchynol gwyrdd.
Mae rhwyd yn ymestyn ar draws canol y cwrt, ac mae amryw o offer chwaraeon wedi’u gosod o amgylch yr ymylon.
Mae’r dôm yn cael ei gynnal gan nenfwd chwyddadwy gwyn, crwm, gan greu amgylchedd eang ac wedi’i ddiogelu rhag y tywydd ar gyfer chwaraeon dan do.
Mae’r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn dangos y cae Astro ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, wedi’i leoli yng Nghanolfan Brailsford.
Mae’r cae yn cynnwys wyneb chwarae synthetig gyda llinellau lliw gwyn, glas a melyn wedi’u marcio arno, sy’n dynodi ffiniau ar gyfer chwaraeon gwahanol.
Mae postiau gôl i’w gweld yn y cefndir, gan awgrymu bod y gofod yn cael ei ddefnyddio ar gyfer pêl-droed neu chwaraeon maes tebyg.
O amgylch y cae mae coed ac adeilad ar yr ochr dde, gan ddarparu amgylchedd chwaraeon awyr agored sy’n olygfaol ac ymarferol.
Mae’r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn dangos ystafell gampfa ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, wedi’i lleoli o fewn Llety Pentref Santes Fair.
Mae’r gofod yn cynnwys sawl peiriant ymarfer corff fel melinau traed a beiciau sefydlog, wedi’u trefnu’n daclus ar gyfer ymarferion unigol.
Mae ffenestr fawr yn y cefndir yn caniatáu i olau naturiol oleuo’r ystafell.
Ar un wal, mae uned aerdymheru a bwrdd o’r enw "PRISIAU A AELODAETHAU", sy’n rhestru opsiynau aelodaeth a phrisiau amrywiol.
Mae’r amgylchedd yn lân, wedi’i oleuo’n dda, ac wedi’i gynllunio i gefnogi ffitrwydd a lles myfyrwyr.
Mae’r daith rithiwr hon yn dangos y gampfa awyr agored ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, wedi’i lleoli ym Mhentref Santes Fair.
Mae’r ardal gampfa yn cynnwys dau ddarn o offer ymarfer corff wedi’u gosod ar fat rwber coch, sy’n darparu arwyneb diogel a chlustogol ar gyfer ymarferion.
Yn y cefndir, mae adeilad gwyn gyda sawl ffenestr ac ail adeilad o frics.
Mae llwybr palmantog yn rhedeg rhwng yr adeiladau, gan gysylltu’r ardal gampfa â gweddill y pentref.
Mae’r gofod yn yr awyr agored ac wedi’i gynllunio i annog gweithgarwch corfforol mewn lleoliad hygyrch a chyfleus.
Mae cyfleusterau athletau awyr agored Caeau Chwarae Treborth, sy’n rhan o Brifysgol Bangor, yn cynnwys trac rhedeg maint llawn wedi’i amgylchynu gan laswellt a choed gwyrddlas, gyda’r cyfan wedi’i osod yn erbyn awyr las glir.
Mae sawl llwybr yn arwain at y trac, ac mae adeilad i’w weld ar yr ochr dde.
Ar ochr dde’r olygfa, mae tair delwedd lai wedi’u labelu’n tynnu sylw at wahanol ardaloedd o’r cyfleuster: “Cae Treborth,” “Cae 3G,” a “Trac Athletau.”
Mae’r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn cyflwyno tu mewn Prif Lyfrgell y Brifysgol ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, gan ddangos gofod darllen mawreddog a hanesyddol.
Cynllun a Pensaernïaeth: Mae’r olygfa’n edrych i lawr llwybr canolog wedi’i amgylchynu gan silffoedd llyfrau pren uchel yn llawn llyfrau.
Mae’r nenfwd yn arnofio ac yn cynnwys grid addurniadol o farrau pren, gan gyfrannu at gymeriad academaidd clasurol yr ystafell.
Goleuo: Mae ffenestri mawr ar y ddwy ochr yn gadael i olau naturiol lenwi’r gofod.
Mae canhwyllbrennau’n hongian o’r nenfwd, gan ddarparu goleuni cynnes ac amgylchynol.
Llawr a Llwybr: Mae carped coch yn rhedeg ar hyd y llwybr canolog, gan arwain y golwg tuag at archwaith addurnedig ar ben pellaf yr ystafell.
Elfennau Gweledol Ychwanegol: Ar ochr chwith yr olygfa, mae tair delwedd lai wedi’u labelu’n weladwy:
Mae’r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn cyflwyno tu allan i Ganolfan Celfyddydau ac Arloesi Pontio ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae gan yr adeilad ddyluniad modern gyda ffenestri mawr.
Mae ardal o laswellt o flaen yr adeilad, ac mae’r awyr yn gymylog i raddau.
Mae’r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn cyflwyno ardal llety myfyrwyr Pentref Ffriddoedd ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae’r olygfa’n dal amgylchedd preswyl croesawgar wedi’i amgylchynu gan wyrddni.
Llwybr a’r Amgylchoedd: Mae llwybr palmantog yn rhedeg trwy ganol yr olygfa, wedi’i ffinio gan ffensys pren gwyrdd a choed llawn dail gwyrdd.
Adeiladau: Yn y cefndir, mae nifer o neuaddau gyda ffenestri â fframiau glas i’w gweld.
Arwyddion: Mae postyn arwydd ar ochr dde’r llwybr, yn cynnig cyfeiriadedd.
Dewislen Llywio (ochr chwith y teithiau):
Neuaddau ym Mhentref Ffriddoedd (Gwynant, Idwal, Tryfan a’r Siop)
Bar Uno, Siop a’r Neuaddau
Glaslyn, Ffraw, Braint a Llanddwyn
Ffraw a Crafnant
En-Suite Sengl – Clasurol
En-Suite Clasurol i Siaradwyr Cymraeg
En-Suite Modern
Glyder
Llanddwyn, Braint a’r Golchdy
Tu mewn i Bar Uno
Rydych chi'n gweld golygfa awyr agored ger Bar Uno , man cymdeithasol a bwyta ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Y Blaendir: Mae llwybr palmantog yn rhedeg trwy'r canol, gan arwain eich golwg tuag at adeilad modern.
Adeilad: Ymlaen mae strwythur gyda ffenestri gwydr mawr a llwybr cerdded uwch, gan awgrymu dyluniad cyfoes.
Yr Ochr Dde: Mae ardal laswelltog gyda choed a meinciau yn darparu man gwyrdd, ymlaciol.
Mae person yn eistedd ar y grisiau gerllaw, gan ychwanegu ymdeimlad o raddfa a gweithgarwch.
Y Canol: Mae postyn lamp yn sefyll yn amlwg yng nghanol y golygfa, gan gynnig angor gweledol.
Cyfeiriadedd: Mae'r olygfa'n llachar ac yn agored, gyda llinellau clir yn arwain y llygad o'r llwybr i'r adeilad.
Testun Dros Ben: Ar y brig, mae'r label yn darllen:  "TAITH RITHWIR PRIFYSGOL BANGOR – BAR UNO, SIÔP A BAR"
Rhagolwg: Dau adeilad brics aml-lawr gyda ffenestri a man glaswellt rhyngddynt.
Cefndir: Coed a byrddau picnic ar y glaswellt.
Awyr: Glir a heulog.
Disgrifiad Gweledol: Mae'r ddelwedd yn dangos ystafell en-suite sengl glasurol, wedi'i threfnu'n daclus.
Mae'r ystafell yn cynnwys gwely sengl gyda matres glas ar yr ochr chwith, desg bren gyda droriau a chadair o flaen y ffenestr, a silffoedd wedi'u gosod ar y wal dde.
Mae dau fachyn ar y wal dde hefyd a gwresogydd trydan oddi tano.
Mae'r ffenestr yn cynnwys llenni porffor, ac mae gwyrddni y tu allan yn weladwy.
Mae'r testun ar y brig yn darllen "TAITH RHITHWIR PRIFYSGOL BANGOR EN-SUITE SENGL - CLASUROL."
Rydych chi'n gweld ystafellen-suite clasurol ar gyfer siaradwyr a dysgwyr Cymraeg, daclus gyda gwely sengl, desg gyda chadair, a ffenestr gyda llenni coch.
Mae hefyd silff wal wedi'i gosod uwchben y gwely.
Mae'r testun ar frig y ddelwedd yn darllen: "TAITH RITHWIR PRIFYSGOL BANGOR YSTAFELL GYSYLLTIAD CLASUROL CYMRAEG - JMJ." Ar ochr dde'r ddelwedd, mae dwy ddelwedd lai wedi'u labelu "Ystafell Gys..." a "Cegin (JMJ)."
Rydych chi'n gweld ystafell wely en-suite fodern, wedi'i goleuo'n dda gyda gwely sengl, desg, a chadair.
Mae gan yr ystafell ddwy ffenestr gyda llenni glas, gan ganiatáu i olau naturiol ddod i mewn.
Mae gwaith celf coeden liwgar ar y wal uwchben y gwely.
Mae'r testun ar frig y ddelwedd yn darllen "TAITH RITHWIR PRIFYSGOL BANGOR EN-SUITE MODERN." Ar ochr dde'r ddelwedd, mae delweddau llai wedi'u labelu "En-Suite Modern," "En-Suite Large," a "Kitchen."
Mae’r daith rithwir 360 gradd hon yn cyflwyno llety myfyrwyr Santes Fair ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae gan yr adeiladau ddyluniad modern, ac mae yna lwybr i gerdded i'r neuaddau.
Mae botwm coch wedi’i labelu “fideo” i’w weld ar ochr dde’r rheilen.
Dewislen Llywio (ochr chwith y golygfa)

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/bywyd-myfyrwyr/clybiau-cymdeithasau:
Cannoedd o gyfleoedd ar gael - cymerwch ran!
Mae ymuno â chlybiau, cymdeithasau a gwirfoddoli yn ffordd wych i chi roi cynnig ar bethau newydd a chwrdd â phobl.
Mae gan Undeb ein Myfyrwyr ystod eang o rai gwahanol.
Yn ystod yr Wythnos Groeso, cewch weld beth sydd ar gael yn  y Ffair Wythnos Groeso, Serendipity (Mae 'Serendipity' yn golygu darganfyddiad anfwriadol neu ffodus).
Bydd ein holl glybiau, cymdeithasau a phrojectau gwirfoddoli o dan yr un to felly mae'n gyfle gwych i chi ddod i wybod mwy ac ymuno â'r rhai sy'n eich diddori.
Pa bynnag chwaraeon rydych yn ei fwynhau, mae clwb ar ei gyfer ym Mangor.
O chwaraeon traddodiadol fel rygbi, pêl-rwyd, pêl-droed a thenis i weithgareddau awyr agored fel syrffio, padlfyrddio, canŵio a hwylfyrddio.
Gallwch hefyd roi cynnig ar rywbeth gwahanol fel hoci tanddwr(octopush), ffitrwydd polyn a  ffrisbi eithafol.
Mae llawer o'n clybiau chwaraeon yn cystadlu mewn digwyddiadau Chwaraeon Prifysgolion a Cholegau Prydain (BUCS), gyda gemau rheolaidd yn erbyn prifysgolion eraill.
Un o uchafbwyntiau'r flwyddyn yw Varsity, penwythnos o gystadlu rhwng Prifysgol Bangor a Phrifysgol Aberystwyth.
Mae cymdeithasau Undeb y Myfyrwyr yn dod â phobl o’r un anian ynghyd.
Mae yna gymdeithasau sy'n cysylltiedig â chyrsiau, fel Langsoc, Zoosoc a Psych Soc; cymdeithasau sy'n dathlu diwylliannau a chymdeithasau i fyfyrwyr sydd â'r un diddordebau, megis drama, cerddoriaeth, ffilm, ffotograffiaeth.
Mae ein rhestr o gymdeithasau yn hynod o amrywiol, ond gallwch hefyd ddechrau cymdeithas newydd os dymunwch.
Yn ystod eich amser rhydd, gallwch ymuno â phrosiectau gwirfoddoli dan arweiniad myfyrwyr.
Mae gwirfoddoli yn ffordd wych o roi yn ôl i'r gymuned, wrth ennill sgiliau gwerthfawr.
Ewch i wefan yr UA i weld y rhestr llawn o glybiau chwaraeon ac i weld y rhestr digwyddiadau a newyddion diweddaraf.
Edrychwch ar y rhestr llawn o gymdeithasau y gallwch ymuno â hwy.
Dyma eich cyfle i chi roi rhywbeth yn ôl wrth i chi astudio ar gyfer eich gradd.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/aros-yng-ngogledd-cymru-ar-gyfer-eich-astudiaethau:
Pam fod aros yng Ngogledd Cymru ar gyfer eich astudiaethau yn syniad gwych?
Rydym yn deall yr atynfa o gael profiad gwahanol mewn dinasoedd mwy ond mae gan Bangor a Gogledd Cymru fanteision unigryw.
Os ydych chi'n dod o Ogledd Cymru, mae astudio ym Mangor yn rhoi'r cyfle i chi adeiladu ar eich cysylltiadau presennol a chyfrannu at eich ardal leol.
Gallwch fyw bywyd annibynol yn y brifysgol a dysgu byw oddi cartref (hyd yn oed os mai dim ond taith fer mewn car ydyw).
Ond os ydych chi’n teimlo'n hiraethus am adref neu angen cinio dydd Sul go iawn, tydi adref ddim yn rhy bell chwaith.
Mae'n gam tuag at annibyniaeth ond gyda rhwyd ddiogelwch os oes ei hangen arnoch.
Rydym yn deall bod cyllidebau myfyrwyr yn dynn.
Mae byw yng Ngogledd Cymru yn rhatach na'r rhan fwyaf o ddinasoedd mawr, sy’n golgygu mwy o arian ar gyfer profiadau, llai ar gyfer rhent.
Felly, mwy o gigs, mwy o deithiau, a mwy o hwyl heb orfod poeni yn ormodol am eich balans banc.
Ym Mangor, gallwch fwynhau thawelwch ardal hardd, tra hefyd yn cymyd mantais o’r dinasoedd mawr sydd o fewn ychydig oriau.
Mae dinasoedd fel Manceinion, Lerpwl, a Chaer yn hawdd eu cyrraedd ar gyfer trip undydd neu noson allan os ydych chi eisiau newid cyflymder.
Dyma'r gorau o'r ddau fyd.
Ym Mangor, rydych chi funudau i ffwrdd o fynyddoedd epig, arfordiroedd godidog, a gweithgareddau awyr agored anhygoel.
Mae Parc Cenedlaethol Eryri yn ddelfrydol ar gyfer cerdded, beicio mynydd, caiacio, syrffio...
a llawer mwy.
Yn aml mae cyfleoedd a chysylltiadau lleol trwy Brifysgol Bangor a all arwain at swyddi rhan-amser yn ystod eich astudiaethau neu hyd yn oed swyddi graddedig.
Mae busnesau yng Ngogledd Cymru yn gwerthfawrogi talent lleol, a gall astudio yma roi mantais i chi.
Rydym yn cynnig cyrsiau arbenigol sy'n manteisio ar yr amgylchedd lleol - meddyliwch am fioleg forol, gwyddor amgylcheddol neu addysg awyr agored.
Mae hyn yn golygu profiad ymarferol sy'n wirioneddol berthnasol i'r ardal a'i diwydiannau.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn cynnig mwy o fodiwlau a chyrsiau cyfrwng Cymraeg nag unrhyw brifysgol arall.
Gallwch wneud eich gradd gyfan neu ran ohoni drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg mewn sawl Ysgol academaidd.
Mae galw mawr am weithwyr proffesiynol ifanc sy'n gallu gweithio'n ddwyieithog yng Nghymru felly mae hyn yn gallu gwneud gwahaniaeth mawr i'ch gyrfa.
Mewn sefydliad academaidd llai, mae'n haws cymryd rhan mewn prosiectau, ymchwil, neu gymdeithasau myfyrwyr.
Gall hyn roi profiad amhrisiadwy i chi a'ch helpu i adeiladu CV sy'n sefyll allan, gan eich gwneud yn fwy deniadol i gyflogwyr yn y dyfodol.
Mae prifysgolion llai yn aml yn golygu sylw mwy personol.
Ym Mangor fe fydd y darlithwyr adnabod ac mae ffocws cryf ar les myfyrwyr.
Os oes angen cymorth arnoch, fe gewch chi ef yn gyflym, a gall hyn wneud gwahaniaeth enfawr i'ch profiad.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/bywyd-myfyrwyr/bangor-ardal:
Wedi ei lleoli rhwng y mynyddoedd a'r môr, mae ein campws wedi'i amgylchynu gan dirwedd naturiol syfrdanol.
Ond peidiwch â chymryd ein gair ni yn unig - cafodd Gogledd Cymru ei enwi'n un o'r llefydd gorau yn y byd i ymweld â nhw gan Lonely Planet.
Mae'r lleoliad, y golygfeydd a'r ardal gyfagos ymhlith y rhesymau pam mae llawer o'n myfyrwyr yn dewis dod i Fangor.
Un peth yn sicr, mae cael hyn ar eich carreg drws yn bendant yn ychwanegu dimensiwn gwahanol i fywyd myfyriwr.
Er ei bod yng nghanol tirwedd naturiol godidog Gogledd Cymru, mae cysylltiadau da â Bangor ar y ffyrdd a'r rheilffyrdd.
Bydd ein myfyrwyr Radiograffeg wedi eu lleoli yn ein campws yn Wrecsam.
Mwy am ein campws yn Wrecsam
Darganfyddwch brifysgol mewn amgylchedd anhygoel.
Yng nghanol Bangor fe welwch ystod eang o archfarchnadoedd, siopau bwyd, siopau cadwyn, caffis, thafarndai a bwytai.
Mae ein neuaddau preswyl a'r rhan fwyaf o adeiladau'r Brifysgol o fewn pellter cerdded i ganol y ddinas.
Canolfan Brailsford yw prif ganolfan chwaraeon y Brifysgol.
Wedi ei lleoli ym Mhentref Ffriddoedd,  mae'n cynnwys campfa ddeulawr, campfa berfformio, offer ffitrwydd o'r radd flaenaf, neuaddau chwaraeon, wal ddringo, cyrtiau sboncen a dôm chwaraeon sy'n gartref i gyrtiau pêl-rwyd a thenis dan do.
Mae canolfan Pontio yn ganolbwynt cymdeithasol yn ogystal â chanolfan ddysgu, arloesi a'r celfyddydau.
Yma mae Undeb Myfyrwyr ac mae hefyd yn cynnwys sinema, theatr, darlithfeydd, mannau arddangos, bar a chaffi.
Mae ein llety wedi'i leoli mewn dau bentref myfyrwyr, Ffriddoedd a'r Santes Fair, sydd o fewn pellter cerdded i brif adeiladau'r Brifysgol, canol y ddinas a'r orsaf dren.
Mae yna hefyd lety i fyfyrwyr Radiograffeg sy'n astudio yn ein campws yn Wrecsam.
Mae lleoliad Bangor yn wych ar gyfer rhai sy'n hoffi bod allan yn yr awyr agored, ac mae llu o gyfleoedd i chi gymryd rhan mewn chwaraeon a gweithgareddau antur awyr agored.
Ond, mae digon i'w wneud yma hefyd i'r rhai ohonoch sy'n mwynhau cwrdd â ffrindiau, crwydro, mynd am dro ag archwilio'r ardal leol.
Gallwch ymweld â threfi cyfagos cyfagos fel Biwmares, Caernarfon a Conwy, sydd â chestyll trawiadol, neu mae Betws y Coed a Llanberis yn drefi hynod o ddeiniadol.
Ynys Môn yw un o'r llefydd mwyaf poblogaidd yng Ngogledd Cymru.
Pan fydd yr haul yn tywynnu, dewch â'ch ffrindiau ynghyd ac ewch i'r traeth neu i gerdded ar hyd y llwybr arfordirol.
Mae tref Porthaethwy, lle mae ein hysgol Gwyddorau Eigion wedi'i lleoli, tua 20 munud o daith cerdded o Fangor Uchaf.
Mae gan Porthaethwy nifer o gaffis, bwyty a bariau ac mae llawer o siopau anibynnol yma.
Gallwch deithio'n hawdd o borthladd Caergybi'n Ynys Môn drosodd i Ddulun yn Iwerddon ac mae llongau fferi rheolaidd yn rhedeg, gyda'r daith yn cymryd tua dwy awr.
Gallwch deithio i Gaergybi ar drên uniongyrchol o Fangor.
Mae'r milltiroedd o fynyddoedd, llynnoedd ac afonydd Parc Cenedlaethol Eryri yn cynnig digon o gyfleoedd i chi fwynhau'r awyr agored.
Mae cerdded, dringo, caiacio a chanŵio yn ddim ond rhai o'r chwaraeon y gellir eu mwynhau yn yr ardal, sydd hefyd yn gartref i forlyn syrffio Snowdonia Adventure, gwifrau sip hiraf a chyflymaf Ewrop yn Zip World Velocity a Zip World Titan, a Bounce Below, ogof o drampolinau tanddaearol!
Mae llawer o glybiau chwaraeon y Brifysgol yn trefnu teithiau rheolaidd i Eryri.
Beth am wnued y mwyaf o'r cyfoeth o gyfleoedd ar garreg eich drws wrth astudio ym Mangor?
Mae rhai o'r gweithgareddau yn yr ardal yn cynnwys syrffio, profi'r llinell sip hiraf yn Ewrop yn Zip World a bownsio ar drampolinau tanddaearol anferth yn Bounce Below!
P'un a ydych chi mewn i chwaraeon awyr agored neu yn hoffi bod mewn amgylchedd hardd, mae rhywbeth at ddant pawb.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/clirio/ymweld:
Os oes gennych chi ddiddordeb mewn dod i astudio yma, rydym yn eich hannog i ymweld â ni.
Wrth ymweld â'r campws, cewch flas go iawn o fywyd myfyriwr yma a chael cyfle i ymgyfarwyddo ag adeiladau’r Brifysgol a dinas Bangor.
Rydym yn edrych ymlaen at eich gweld.
Unwaith rydych yn cael cynnig lle drwy Clirio, cewch eich gwahodd dros ebost i'r Diwrnod Ymweld Clirio fydd hefyd yn cynnwys gwybodaeth ynglŷn â sut i gofrestru.
Mae hwn yn ddigwyddiad sydd wedi'u teilwro, fydd yn cynnwys cyflwyniad i Fangor a thaith o'r campws fel rhan o'r rhaglen.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/astudio/israddedig:
Lluniwch eich llwybr.
Yma mi wnawn roi'r sgiliau a'r gefnogaeth i chi greu dyfodol sy'n unigryw i chi.
Porwch drwy ein pynciau israddedig.
Yr oll sydd angen i chi wybod am wneud cais am le ar un o'n cyrsiau israddedig.
Dysgu mwy
Dewch i wybod mwy am ein ffioedd dysgu a chostau byw er mwyn i chi allu llunio cyllideb a gwneud cais am arian.
Gweld costau
Dewch i weld ein neuaddau preswyl sydd wedi ennill gwobrau am eu safon.
Dod o hyd i rhywle i fyw
Mae yna ddipyn o wybodaeth i'w ystyried, felly archebwch brospectws er mwyn dysgu mwy amdanom yn eich amser eich hun.
Archebwch eich copi
Os ydych yn chwilio am 'chydig o hyblygrwydd, efallai bod astudio rhan amser yn opsiwn i chi.
Cyfleoedd rhan amser
Dysgwch fwy am ein cyfleoedd o gyfuno eich hastudiaethau gyda chyfnod dramor yn gweithio neu astudio.
Astudio Dramor
Manteisiwch ar sgiliau trosglwyddadwy er mwyn sefyll allan ymysg ymgeiswyr eraill gyda ein rhaglen lleoliadau gwaith.
Paratowch ar gyfer eich dyfodol
Dewch i wybod mwy am sut fath o gefnogaeth sydd ar gael i fyfywryr hŷn ym Mangor.
Darganfod mwy
Dewch i barhau eich siwrne addysg uwch gyda ni.
Mae ein cyrsiau ôl-raddedig drwy ddysgu yn cynnig mynediad i'n harbennigwyr meysydd pwnc a chyfleusterau heb eu hail, gan eich helpu i ddatblygu sgiliau ac ennill y cymhwysterau cywir.
Cewch gyfle yma i ymarfer eich sgiliau ymchwil yng nghwmni cyfoedion ac athrawon sydd yn rhannu eich angerdd i gynyddu dealltwriaeth y byd am eich dewis o faes astudio.
Dewch i weld ein rhaglenni ymchwil.
Tydi'r radd draddodiadol llawn amser ddim yn gweddu i bawb felly edrychwch ar yr opsiynau eraill sydd ar gael.
Os hoffech gyfuno eich gwaith llawn amser efo astudio'n rhan amser yn y brifysgol, efallai mai'r llwybr prentisiaeth yw'r un i chi.
Os ydych yn edrych am 'chydig o hyblygrwydd gyda'ch astudiaethau, edrychwch ar ein opsiynau rhan-amser.
Mae'r Ganolfan Rheolaeth yn cynnig cymwysterau proffesiynol, rhaglenni pwrpasol yn ogystal â phecynnau hyfforddi wedi eu dylunio ar gyfer datblygiad proffesiynol parhaol.
Gallwch astudio o bellter neu hyd yn oed gyfuno dysgu o bell gydag astudio traddodiadol wyneb yn wyneb yn rhai o'n ysgolion academaidd.
Rydym yn cynnig y cyfle i chi dreulio cyfnod yn gweithio neu astudio dramor fel rhan o'ch gradd gan roi profiad rhyngwladol i chi.
Gallwch astudio eich cwrs yn rannol neu'n gyfan gwbl trwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg yn nifer o'n ysgolion academaidd.
Ymunwch â'n cymuned glos a chefnogol sydd yn gwneud astudio'n academaidd yn gyffrous a boddhaus.
Ymunwch â ni ar Ddiwrnod Agored - dyma'r ffordd orau i weld beth sydd gan Brifysgol Bangor i'w gynnig.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/astudio/israddedig/cais:
Côd Prifysgol Bangor: B06
GWNEUD CAIS DRWY UCAS
I wneud cais am le mewn prifysgol mae'n rhaid i chi wneud cais trwy UCAS a fydd wedyn yn cael ei drosglwyddo i'r prifysgolion a restrwyd.
Gallwch wneud cais am hyd at bum cwrs ond cofiwch y bydd yr un ffurflen gais a'r un datganiad personol yn mynd i'r 5 dewis.
UCAS yw’r Gwasanaeth Derbyniadau i Brifysgolion a Cholegau.
Mae pob cais i’r brifysgol yn cael ei brosesu drwy UCAS ac yna’n cael ei drosglwyddo i’r prifysgolion a restrwyd.
Côd UCAS Prifysgol Bangor yw B06.
Gwneud cais drwy UCAS
Rydym yn eich cynghori i wneud cais cyn gynted ag y gallwch gan y byddwn yn dechrau ystyried ceisiadau a gwneud cynigion ar unwaith.
Ar gyfer mynediad 2026, dyddiad cau cychwynnol UCAS yw 14 Ionawr 2026 , fodd bynnag rydym yn croesawu ceisiadau ar ôl y dyddiad hwn.
Bydd ceisiadau a dderbynnir rhwng 26 Chwefror a 30 Mehefin yn parhau i gael eu hanfon ymlaen at brifysgolion gan UCAS a byddant yn cael eu hystyried pan fydd lleoedd ar gael o hyd.
Y dyddiad cau ar gyfer ceisiadau meddygaeth, yw 15 Hydref 2025.
Os nad oes gennych unrhyw gynigion o'r 5 Gorffennaf ymlaen, byddwch yn gallu gwneud cais trwy Clirio.
Clirio
GWNEUD CAIS
Edrychwch ar y cyrsiau sydd ar gael ar wefan y Brifysgol.
Darganfod cwrs
Dylid ystyried yr isod wrth ddewis eich cwrs a’ch prifysgol:
Yn eich cyfrif UCAS, gallwch safio'r cyrsiau rydych â diddordeb ynddynt trwy glicio ar yr icon siâp calon ar wefan UCAS.
Bydd y rhestr yma yn cael ei gadw mewn un lle fel eich bod yn gallu mynd yn ôl i edrych arnynt fel y mynnwch.
Cewch wneud hyd at 5 cais.
Gall hynny fod yn hyd at 5 cwrs gwahanol i’r un brifysgol neu'r un cwrs mewn hyd at 5 prifysgol wahanol.
Gwnewch hyn cyn gynted â phosib ym Mehefin / Gorffennaf fel eich bod yn gallu troi at ymchwilio eich opsiynau cwrs.
Pan fyddwch wedi creu eich rhestr fer, byddwch wedyn yn barod i wneud eich cais.
Fel rhan o’ch proffil ar UCAS, bydd angen i chi ysgrifennu eich datganiad personol.
Mae hyn yn rhan bwysig o’r broses ymgeisio.
Dyma eich cyfle i berswadio’r brifysgol y dylent eich derbyn chi ar y cwrs.
Cewch ond 4,000 llythyren i egluro pam rydych wedi dewis y cwrs a’r sgiliau neu brofiad sydd gennych sy’n hanfodol ar gyfer astudio ar lefel prifysgol.
I ysgrifennu datganiad personol gwerth chweil, dylech fod efo dealltwriaeth o’r cwrs a’r pwnc byddwch yn ei astudio.
Cofiwch eich bod yn ysgrifennu un datganiad personol ar gyfer eich 5 dewis felly mae angen gwneud yn saff bod eich cyrsiau yn rhai tebyg a sicrhau nad ydych yn cyfeirio at unrhyw un o’r cyrsiau na unrhyw brifysgol yn benodol yn y datganiad personol.
Cyngor ar sut i ddrafftio Datganiad Personol a gwylio fideo
Ewch dros eich cais a gofynnwch i rywun arall edrych drosto hefyd - gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod wedi gwneud cais am y cwrs cywir yn y brifysgol gywir.
Byddwch angen geirda gan eich athro/athrawes, cynghorydd neu rywun sy’n eich adnabod yn academaidd neu’n broffesiynol.
Pan rydych yn hapus gyda’ch cais, talwch ffi UCAS ar-lein gyda cherdyn debyd neu gredyd a phwyswch y botwm i gyflwyno eich cais!
Bydd yr holl brifysgolion rydych wedi cyflwyno cais iddynt yn ystyried eich cais ac yn ymateb – fel arfer gyda cynnig amodol (y graddau mae’r brifysgol isio chi eu cyflawni) neu cynnig diamod.
Gwneud cais nawr
Os ydych wedi defnyddio pob un o’r pum dewis ar eich cais, ac nad oes gennych unrhyw gynigion ar gyfer Medi 2026, gallwch ddod o hyd i le gan ddefnyddio UCAS Extra rhwng 26 Chwefror a 4 Gorffennaf 2026.
Mae ein cyrsiau israddedig yn cynnig cymysgedd o ddarlithoedd, aseiniadau darllen a modiwlau ymarferol sydd yn eich galluogi chi i ymchwilio'r elfennau ymarferol a damcaniaethol o'ch maes astudio.
Darganfod Cwrs
Weithiau nid yw eich llwybr i'r Brifysgol yn un draddodiadol.
Dyma fwy o ddulliau ymgeisio...

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/cyllidmyfyrwyr:
Gwybodaeth i fyfyrwyr israddedig ar gyfer mynediad yn 2025.
Dysgwch am yr hyn sydd i'w disgwyl yn ystod y flwyddyn academaidd nesaf, a'r math o gyfleoedd cyllid sydd ar gael.
Gellir gweld manylion ar gyfer myfyrwyr presennol ar FyMangor.
Myfyrwyr Presennol
Darganfod mwy am y cyfleoedd cyllido sydd ar gael i fyfyrwyr Ôl-raddedig.
Gwybodaeth am gyllido i fyfyrwyr rhan-amser.
Gwybodaeth i fyfyrwyr am ffioedd dysgu a llety.
Gall staff yma ym Mangor ddarparu cyngor, gwybodaeth ac arweiniad ar bob agwedd o gyllid myfyrwyr.
Rydym yn anelu i roi cefnogaeth a fydd yn eich galluogi i fanteisio ar eich profiad yn y Brifysgol.
Mae ein Cynllun Ffioedd a Mynediad yn amlinellu sut rydym yn dangos ein hymrwymiad i'n myfyrwyr trwy ddatblygu ein hamcanion.
Gweld ein gwybodaeth ffioedd
Darganfyddwch fwy am yr Ysgoloriaethau a'r Bwrsariaethau sydd ar gael i fyfyrwyr israddedig ac ôl-raddedig.
Darganfod mwy am y cyfleoedd cyllid sydd ar gael i'n myfyrwyr Israddedig.
Gweld sut allwn eich helpu gyda'ch astudiaethau fel myfyriwr Ôl-raddedig.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/cyllidmyfyrwyr/israddedigion-newydd:
Fel myfyriwr israddedig llawn-amser, bydd gennych ddau brif gost:
Y newydd da ydi y gellwch chi gael cymorth ar gyfer y ddwy gost yma gan fod amrywiaeth eang o gymorth ariannol ar gael.
Mae gwybodaeth am ffioedd mynediad 2025 i'w gweld ar ein Tudalennau Ffioedd Dysgu.
Bydd y Brifysgol yn hysbysu pob ymgeisydd a myfyriwr am y lefelau ffioedd a reoleiddir ar gyfer 2025/26 ac unrhyw gynnydd ar gyfer blynyddoedd astudio olynol cyn gynted ag y derbynnir cadarnhad o uchafswm y ffi a reoleiddir y gan Lywodraeth Cymru, a bydd ddiweddariadau yn cael eu cyhoeddi ar y wefan .
Y peth pwysig i'w gofio am y ffioedd dysgu yw nad oes raid i fyfyrwyr y DU dalu’r ffi ddysgu ymlaen llaw – rydych chi'n astudio yn gyntaf ac yn talu’n ôl pan fyddwch chi'n ennill cyflog.
Nid oes rhaid i chi dalu unrhyw ffioedd dysgu ymlaen llaw neu tra’ch bod chi’n astudio (er y gallwch chi wneud hynny os ydych chi eisiau).
Gohirir y taliad tan ar ôl i chi raddio a byddwch yn dechrau ad-dalu’r benthyciad o’r Ebrill ar ôl i chi raddio.
Dim ond pan fyddwch yn ennill cyflog dros y trothwy ad-dalu y byddwch yn dechrau ad-dalu.
Dewiswch o'r opsiynau isod i gael gwybodaeth fanylach am y cyllid sydd ar gael i chi .
Bydd pob myfyriwr cymwys o Gymru yn derbyn Grant Cynhaliaeth o £1,000 y flwyddyn .
Gall myfyrwyr hefyd fod yn gymwys am Grant Cynhaliaeth ychwanegol ar sail prawf modd.
Bydd y swm yn dibynnu ar incwm yr aelwyd, gyda mwy o gymorth i’r bobl sydd ei angen fwyaf.
Ym Mangor gallwch hefyd wneud cais am ysgoloriaethau amrywiol a allai helpu gyda'ch costau byw.
Os byddwch chi'n chwilio am waith rhan-amser yn ystod y gwyliau ac/neu yn ystod y tymor i helpu gyda'ch costau, gall CyswlltGyrfa Bangor eich helpu i gael hyd i waith rhan-amser.
Mae yna hefyd cyfleoedd profiad gwaith sydd ar gael drwy’r Ganolfan Gyrfaoedd a Chyflogadwyedd fydd yn cyfoethogi eich CV a’ch helpu i gael swydd ar ôl i chi raddio.
Gallai cymryd rhan yng nghynllun Gwobr Cyflogadwyedd Bangor hefyd wneud gwahaniaeth i'ch rhagolygon am swydd ar ôl graddio.
Gwybodaeth am ysgoloriaethau a bwrsariaethau.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/cynigion-cyd-destynol:
Mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi ymrwymo i ehangu mynediad i addysg uwch ac mae’n derbyn myfyrwyr o amrywiaeth eang o gefndiroedd.
Er mwyn cefnogi myfyrwyr i fynd i addysg uwch, rydym yn defnyddio nifer o ddangosyddion i nodi myfyrwyr a allai fod dan anfantais o ran cael mynediad i addysg uwch, er mwyn darparu cefnogaeth ychwanegol iddynt.
Yn ystod y broses dderbyn i’r brifysgol yng nghylch derbyniadau 2024/25 o fis Medi 2025, bydd y brifysgol yn defnyddio data cyd-destunol sydd ar gael i asesu a yw pob ymgeisydd yn gymwys am gynnig cyd-destunol, o ganlyniad i’n polisi ehangu mynediad.
Mae hyn yn golygu y byddai eich cynnig yn debygol o fod yn is nag y byddech wedi ei gael fel arall.
Bydd y cynnig yn adlewyrchu'r ffaith ein bod yn awyddus i sicrhau eich bod yn dewis astudio yma.
Mae ein cynigion cyd-destunol hefyd yn ymgorffori Cenhadaeth partneriaeth Prifysgol Bangor ac AaGIC (Addysg a Gwella Iechyd Cymru) i gefnogi myfyrwyr ar ein rhaglenni hyfforddi gweithwyr iechyd proffesiynol.
Os yw eich cod post yn dangos eich bod yn byw mewn cymdogaeth cyfranogiad isel mewn addysg uwch (yn cynnwys ardaloedd Cymunedau yn Gyntaf yng Nghymru) efallai y cewch gynnig cyd-destunol o ganlyniad i'n polisi ehangu mynediad.
Mae codau post yn cael eu categoreiddio yn ôl system godio POLAR4, sy'n nodi 5 haen o gyfranogiad mewn addysg uwch.
Mae’r gyfran isaf o breswylwyr sydd wedi mynd i addysg uwch yn haen 1, ac mae'r gyfran uchaf yn haen 5.
Gwneir pob cynnig cyd-destunol ar sail y potensial i lwyddo yn y brifysgol hon ac ni fydd unrhyw gynigion yn seiliedig ar ddata cyd-destunol yn unig.
Yn ystod cylch ymgeisio 2024/25 ar gyfer mis Medi 2025, bydd UCAS yn rhoi gwybodaeth gyd-destunol i brifysgolion am ddangosyddion economaidd-gymdeithasol eraill, fel y darperir gan ymgeiswyr wrth lenwi eu ceisiadau UCAS.
Bydd Prifysgol Bangor yn adolygu'r wybodaeth ychwanegol hon fel sail i ystyriaeth o gymhwysedd ar gyfer cynnig cyd-destunol.
Mae’r data hwn yn cynnwys:
Mae UCAS hefyd yn darparu data cyd-destunol i brifysgolion ynglŷn â pherfformiad yn yr ysgol (e.e.
canlyniadau arholiadau).
Gellir defnyddio'r wybodaeth hon adeg cadarnhad (canlyniadau arholiadau'r haf) i helpu i wneud penderfyniadau os nad yw ymgeiswyr wedi llwyr fodloni telerau eu cynnig.
Bydd y brifysgol yn adolygu’r polisi uchod ar ddiwedd pob cylch derbyniadau.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/study/cymraeg:
Os mai astudio trwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg yw eich bwriad a byw mewn cymuned wirioneddol ddwyieithog, Prifysgol Bangor yw’r lle i chi.
Mae gan y Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol declyn canfod cyrsiau sy’n nodi faint o’ch cwrs sydd ar gael yn Gymraeg.
Yn y gyfres o bodlediadau difyr yma mae cyn-fyfyrwyr yn trafod eu profiad o astudio drwy’r Gymraeg, eu llwybr gyrfa ac ym mha ffyrdd y mae’r Gymraeg wedi agor drysau iddyn nhw yn eu gyrfaoedd proffesiynol.
Enw fi di Gwern a dwi’n astudio Cymraeg a Chymdeithaseg.
Ddewisais i astudio drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg oherwydd dyna fy mamiaith,
dyna ydw’i wedi arfer hefo adref ac oedd o jest yn naturiol i fod eisiau defnyddio hwna tra’n astudio yma yn y Brifysgol.
Un o manteision fwyaf o astudio drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg ydi’r dosbarthiadau bach.
Oherwydd hyna dani yn cael profiad fwy personol yma yn y Brifysgol,
yn dod i nabod darlithwyr, a nhw’n dod i nabod ni hefyd.
Felly, mae nhw’n medru teilwra unrhyw beth i ni yn bersonol ac yn gallu helpu ni ddatblygu fwy.
Hefyd, mae o'n helpu ein cyflogadwyedd yng Nghymru yn y dyfodol mewn swyddi.
Oherwydd bod fi yn astudio drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg ges i help ariannol fel grant Coleg Cymraeg ac gwobr Coffa Gwyn Thomas ges i fyd.
Swni yn hybu eraill i astudio drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg oherwydd mae’r dosbarthiadau yn llai ac mae’r profiad lot fwy personol.
Hefyd mae on haws os dachi’n dod o ysgol Gymraeg i ddod gyda’r geirfa ac mae’r newid o chweched neu’r coleg yn lot haws i ddod i’r Brifysgol wedyn.
[Auto-generated transcript.
Edits may have been applied for clarity.] Fy enw i yw Beca Llwyd Thomas ac dwi’n astudio Cymdeithaseg a Pholisi Cymdeithasol.
Neshi ddod i Bangor i astudio yn y Gymraeg oherwydd fod y cwrs yn caniatau i fi neud fy aseiniadau a'r holl darlithoedd yn y Gymraeg.
A hefyd dwi di cael tiwtor personol Cymraeg sydd yn cael ei galw i bob un myfyriwr, o be oni’n ddallt o’r diwrnod agored hefyd.
I fi yn bersonol, mae astudio yn y gyfrwng Gymraeg wastad wedi bod yn bwysig.
Ers ysgol oni wastad yn dewis pynciau yn y Gymraeg
a wedyn pan oni yn dewis Prifysgol oni wastad hefo’r meddylfryd o isho neud cwrs yn y Gymraeg gan fod o wastad wedi bod yn syniad i mi yn y dyfodol i aros yma yng Nghymru,
a dwi dan y feddwl fod y Gymraeg yn adio lot i swydd ac profiadau hefyd.
Swni yn hybu myfyrwyr i astudio yn y Gymraeg oherwydd, pan dachi meddwl am dan y fo, ne pan dwi meddwl am dan y fo,
mae 'na lot fawr o fyfyrwyr yn astudio pynciau yn y Saesneg neu ieithoedd gwahanol efallai,
ond dim llawer sydd gallu deud fod nhw wedi astudio’i cwrs cant y cant yn y Gymraeg chwaith.
Felly, i mi yn bersonol mae 'na werth mawr idda fo, ac yn y swyddi yma yng Nghymru hefyd.
Gyda ysgoloriaethau mae Coleg Cenedlaethol Cymraeg wedi bod yn help fawr i llawer iawn o fyfyrwyr Cymraeg, gan gynnwys fi.
Dwi’n bersonol wedi derbyn yr Ysgoloriaeth Cymhelliant, lle ma' hwna wedi bod yn werthfawr i fy mhrofiad i ac yn ariannol yn y Brifysgol.
Haia, enw fi di Siriol ac dwi’n yr ail flwyddyn yn astudio Cymraeg efo theatr a’r cyfryngau.
Gan fy mod i’n astudio Cymraeg efo theatr a’r cyfryngau, yn amlwg mae’r pynciau Cymraeg drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg
ond wedyn mae 'na opsiwn i ddewis y modiwlau theatr neu’r cyfryngau yn Gymraeg neu Saesneg.
Nes i ddewis astudio nhw’n y Gymraeg gan mai Cymraeg yw’n mam iaith i, dwi’n gyfforddus yn ysgrifennu ac astudio yn y Gymraeg.
Swni’n deud mai’r mantais mwya o astudio drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg ydi fod dosbarthiadau fel arfer yn fach iawn.
Yn fy nosbarth i mae 'na mond 10 ohoym ni sydd meddwl fod 'na gyfle i gael sylw 1-yn-1 gan y darlithwyr.
Mae 'na gyfle i gael perthynas agosach efo’ch darlithwyr, ac efo’ch dosbarth chi.
Mae’n hawdd iawn gwneud ffrindiau.
Fyswn i wir yn hybu i fyfyrwyr eraill astudio modiwlau drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg.
Yn amlwg mae’r dosbarthiadau yn llai, ond hefyd mae 'na lot o gyfleoedd profiad gwaith ac mynd ar ‘placements’ gwaith hefyd,
oherwydd fod yna lai o fyfyrwyr sydd yn astudio drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg, mae yna fwy o gyfleoedd felly.
Ac hefyd os dachi wedi dod o coleg neu ysgol lle dachi wedi bod yn astudio drwy’r Gymraeg,
mae’n lot haws symud i mewn i wneud gwaith y Brifysgol gan fod gennych chi yr un terminoleg ac yr un iaith.
Pan oeddwn yn y chweched ddosbarth ddoth Coleg Cymraeg i’n ysgol uwchradd i son am y cyfleoedd i gael efo Coleg Cymraeg.
Nes i ennill grant Ysgoloriaeth Cymhelliant oedd yn help mawr efo costau brifysgol yn cymdeithasu, ac hefyd adnoddau dysgu, ac pres gwario just i fi fy hyn.
Oeddech chi’n gwybod bod cefnogaeth ariannol ar gael i astudio trwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg?
Wrth gofrestru i ddilyn modiwlau cyfrwng Cymraeg, efallai y byddwch yn gymwys i dderbyn y canlynol:
Prif Ysgoloriaeth y Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol - £1,000 y flwyddyn am hyd at dair blynedd pan fyddwch yn astudio 80 credyd y flwyddyn drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg.
Ysgoloriaeth Cymhelliant y Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol - £500 y flwyddyn am hyd at dair blynedd os ydych yn astudio 40 credyd y flwyddyn drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg.
Bwrsariaeth Cymraeg- £250 y flwyddyn os ydych yn astudio 40 credyd y flwyddyn trwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg.
Mae modd derbyn y fwrsariaeth hon yn ychwanegol at ysgoloriaethau’r CCC .
Mae llawer mwy i fywyd prifysgol na darlithoedd a chymdeithasu, wrth gwrs.
I’ch cefnogi yn ystod eich amser yma, mae holl ystod gwasanaethau myfyrwyr y Brifysgol – o gyngor ar gyllid i gymorth cwnsela – ar gael drwy’r Gymraeg.
DARGANFOD MWY
Os hoffech gymdeithasu neu hamddena gyda siaradwyr Cymraeg eraill, rydych chi yn y lle iawn.
Undeb Bangor yw Undeb Myfyrwyr Prifysgol Bangor.
Mae Undeb Myfyrwyr Cymru Bangor (UMCB) yn rhan o Undeb Bangor.
Mae gan UMCB lywydd sy’n gweithio i gefnogi myfyrwyr Cymraeg eu hiaith a hybu’r iaith a’r diwylliant Cymraeg ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae’r Cymric yn trefnu digwyddiadau cymdeithasol drwy gydol y flwyddyn.
Hefyd, mae gennym gorau Cymraeg, cymdeithas lenyddol, clybiau chwaraeon a gorsaf radio myfyrwyr, ac os hoffech sefydlu clwb cyfrwng Cymraeg newydd, mae cefnogaeth ar gael i wneud hynny.
Beth am wneud Neuadd John Morris-Jones (JMJ) yn gartref oddi cartref?
Mae JMJ ar gyfer siaradwyr Cymraeg a dysgwyr, ac ynddi mae ystafelloedd en-suite a gofodau cymunedol – rhowch y tegell ymlaen i gael paned a sgwrs mewn awyrgylch Gymraeg naturiol.
Os mai dysgwr Cymraeg ydych chi neu os hoffech chi wella’ch Cymraeg llafar neu ysgrifenedig, does unman gwell i ymarfer.
Manteisiwch ar y gefnogaeth arbenigol sydd ar gael i fyfyrwyr Cymraeg gan staff Canolfan Bedwyr , sef Canolfan Gwasanaethau, Technoleg ac Ymchwil Cymraeg y Brifysgol.
Gallwch ddatblygu eich sgiliau ysgrifennu academaidd a sgiliau cyflwyno a chewch gefnogaeth i sefyll arholiad Tystysgrif Sgiliau Iaith y Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol.
Bydd gwella eich sgiliau iaith yn eich helpu gyda’ch astudiaethau academaidd ac wrth i chi ddilyn eich gyrfa.
Nod y Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol yw adeiladu system addysg a hyfforddiant Cymraeg a dwyieithog sy’n agored i bawb ac i ddatblygu gweithlu dwyieithog i Gymru.
Mae ‘cangen’ o’r Coleg ym mhob prifysgol yng Nghymru, ac mae Cangen Bangor wedi ei lleoli yng Nghanolfan Bedwyr.
Fel siaradwyr Cymraeg, mae cefnogaeth a chyfleoedd i dderbyn cymorth drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg ar gael ar eich cyfer drwy'r Uned Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr ac Undeb y Myfyrwyr yn ogystal ag o fewn eich Ysgol Academaidd.
Pe byddech yn dymuno astudio drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg, mae llu o gefnogaeth ar gael ar eich cyfer i wneud hynny fel sydd wedi ei amlinellu yn y fideo.
[0:00] Croeso i Brifysgol Bangor!
[0:02] Mae yna lwyth o gyfleoedd a chefnogaeth ar gael i chi ddefnyddio'r Gymraeg tra 'da chi yn y brifysgol,
[0:07] felly dyma flas i chi ohonyn nhw.
[0:10] Yn gyntaf,
[0:11] mae yna gyfle i chi astudio rhan fawr neu fach o'ch cwrs drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg.
[0:16] Gewch chi ddewis faint o'ch cwrs 'da chi isio ei astudio drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg,
[0:20] ac yma mha iaith 'da chi'n cyflwyno eich gwaith.
[0:23] Mae 9 o bob 10 o'r siaradwyr Cymraeg sy'n fyfyrwyr yma,
[0:26] yn astudio rhwyfaint o'u cwrs drwy gyfrwng yr iaith.
[0:29] Felly mae'n rhywbeth hollol naturiol i wneud.
[0:32] Fel siaradwyr Cymraeg,
[0:34] gewch chi sgwrs a chyngor yn y Gymraeg ar unrhyw beth gan eich tiwtor personol,
[0:37] neu o wasanaethau myfyrwyr y brifysgol.
[0:41] Mae yna gymorth ar gael hefyd i'ch helpu chi astudio drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg, drwy Ganolfan Bedwyr,
[0:46] sy'n creu modiwlau ac adnoddau sgiliau iaith fel Cysill ar ap Geiriaduron.
[0:52] Os byddwch chi'n astudio rhywfaint drwy'r Gymraeg,
[0:54] gallwch chi dderbyn cefnogaeth ariannol drwy Ysgoloriaeth Cymhelliant y Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol,
[1:00] a'r bwrsariaeth astudio drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg y brifysgol.
[1:04] Yn olaf,
[1:05] mae yna lwyth o gyfleoedd i gymdeithasu yn y Gymraeg
[1:07] drwy gymdeithasau a thimau chwaraeon Undeb Myfyrwyr Cymraeg Bangor.
[1:12] Gwnewch yn fawr o'r cyfnod ym Mangor felly,
[1:15] a mwynhewch y profiad
Wyddech chi fod gan fyfyrwyr sy’n siarad Cymraeg hawliau i ddefnyddio'r iaith yn y brifysgol?
Gwyliwch y fideo i gael dysgu mwy.
Am fwy o wybodaeth am astudio yn y Gymraeg, ewch i'r tudalennau Astudio .

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/astudio/rhan-amser:
Os ydych yn chwilio am hyblygrwydd, efallai mai astudio ar sail rhan-amser, cymysg neu o bell yw’r dewis iawn i chi.
Ydych chi’n awyddus i ennill cymhwyster tra’n cydbwyso gwaith, bywyd teulu neu ymrwymiadau eraill?
Mae ein darpariaeth rhan-amser, dysgu cyfunol a dysgu ar-lein yn cynnig yr hyblygrwydd sydd ei angen arnoch chi.
Ym Mhrifysgol Bangor , rydym yn cynnig:
Os oes gennych ddiddordeb, cysylltwch ag derbyniadau@bangor.ac.uk i drafod y posibiliadau sydd ar gael.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/astudio/prentisiaeth-gradd:
Enillwch radd.
Tyfwch eich gyrfa.
Arhoswch mewn gwaith.
P’un a ydych chi eisoes yn gweithio mewn peirianneg meddalwedd, seiberddiogelwch, gwyddor data, peirianneg drydanol/electronig, neu beirianneg fecanyddol, mae gradd-brentisiaeth gyda Phrifysgol Bangor yn rhoi’r cyfle i chi ennill cymhwyster prifysgol uchel ei barch – heb gymryd amser i ffwrdd o’ch gyrfa.
Mae Prentisiaethau Gradd yn cynnig llwybr amgen at addysg uwch draddodiadol.
Maent yn cyfuno gwaith llawn amser ac astudio’n rhan amser yn y brifysgol.
Mae ein rhaglenni wedi'u cynllunio ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol uchelgeisiol sydd am symud ymlaen, ac maent yn cyfuno dysgu academaidd â phrofiad byd go iawn.
Byddwch yn astudio'n rhan amser gan barhau i weithio'n llawn amser, a chymhwyso'r hyn a ddysgwch yn syth yn y gweithle.
Mae gradd-brentisiaethau yn cyfuno astudio prifysgol â phrofiad ymarferol yn eich swydd bresennol.
Mae eich cyflogwr yn cytuno i'ch rhyddhau am un diwrnod ac un noson yr wythnos i fynd i sesiynau addysgu strwythuredig.
Cyflwynir y cwrs trwy ddarlithoedd rhyngweithiol, tiwtorialau a gweithdai.
Cewch eich asesu trwy amrywiaeth o ddulliau fel aseiniadau ymarferol a damcaniaethol, adroddiadau, cyflwyniadau llafar, gwaith project, portffolios ac aseiniadau tîm.
Dim byd!
Ariennir y rhaglenni hyn yn llawn gan Gyngor Cyllido Addysg Uwch Cymru, felly nid oes unrhyw ffioedd dysgu i’r dysgwr na'r cyflogwr.
Rhaid eich bod chi eisoes yn gweithio mewn sector perthnasol a bod â chytundeb eich cyflogwr i gefnogi eich astudiaethau.
Bydd gofyn i chi gyflwyno llythyr o gefnogaeth gan eich cyflogwr fel rhan o'r broses ymgeisio.
Ar gael i Fyfyrwyr Rhyngwladol?
Na
Eisoes yn gweithio yn y sector meddalwedd neu TGCh ac yn barod i symud ymlaen yn eich gyrfa?
Mae’r radd-brentisiaeth peirianneg meddalwedd gymhwysol hon yn cynnig dewis hyblyg yn lle addysg uwch draddodiadol, sy’n eich galluogi i ennill gradd BSc lawn gan barhau mewn cyflogaeth llawn amser.
Mae'r rhaglen wedi'i chynllunio ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol sydd am uwchsgilio, ac mae’n cwmpasu ystod eang o sgiliau peirianneg meddalwedd craidd.
Byddwch yn datblygu sylfeini cryf mewn rhaglennu, creu gwefannau (HTML5/CSS), dylunio profiad defnyddwyr, datblygu apiau symudol, dulliau peirianneg meddalwedd ffurfiol a diogelwch.
Yn y flwyddyn olaf, byddwch yn cwblhau project mawr sy'n uniongyrchol gysylltiedig â'ch gweithle, gan gymhwyso'ch dysgu mewn cyd-destun byd go iawn.
Byddwch hefyd yn archwilio technolegau sy'n dod i'r amlwg ac yn ystyried eu goblygiadau moesegol, gan roi i chi’r sgiliau ar gyfer y dyfodol mewn diwydiant sy'n symud yn gyflym.
Mae'r radd-brentisiaeth seiberddiogelwch gymhwysol hon yn ffordd arloesol a hyblyg o gael gradd gan weithio ar yr un pryd.
Mae ar gael i weithwyr yn unig ac nid yw'n agored i fyfyrwyr rhyngwladol.
Mae'r cwrs wedi'i ddatblygu mewn cydweithrediad agos â diwydiant ac mae wedi'i gynllunio i ddiwallu anghenion cynyddol y sector TG.
Mae'n rhoi'r wybodaeth a'r sgiliau craidd sydd eu hangen ar ddysgwyr i reoli a sicrhau systemau cyfrifiadurol modern.
Mae'r pynciau'n cynnwys rhaglennu, hanfodion rhwydwaith gan ddefnyddio Cisco CCNA, deddfwriaeth yn ymwneud â rheoli systemau, a diogelwch gwe.
Yn y flwyddyn olaf, byddwch yn astudio modiwlau uwch gan gynnwys cryptograffeg ffurfiol, profi treiddiad, a datblygu menter Java, ochr yn ochr â phroject sy'n canolbwyntio ar y diwydiant mewn datrysiadau diogelwch uwch.
Mae'r rhaglen hon yn rhoi gwerth uniongyrchol i chi a'ch cyflogwr trwy wella eich galluoedd a chefnogi datblygiad y gweithlu.
Os ydych yn gweithio ym maes TG, gweithrediadau neu ddadansoddi ac eisiau meithrin sgiliau data arbenigol.
Mae'r cwrs yn cyfuno astudiaeth academaidd gyda chymhwysiad ymarferol, gan gwmpasu ehangder llawn gwyddor data.
Byddwch yn datblygu sgiliau rhaglennu a dadansoddi gan ddefnyddio Python a SQL, yn archwilio dylunio cronfeydd data, ac yn cael cipolwg ar sut mae busnesau'n rheoli ac yn dadansoddi data.
Mae pynciau ategol yn cynnwys mathemateg ar gyfer cyfrifiadura, moeseg data, a fframweithiau cyfreithiol ar gyfer casglu data.
Yn y flwyddyn olaf, byddwch yn astudio dysgu peirianyddol, delweddu data a rheoli data uwch, ac yn cwblhau project mawr mewn deallusrwydd artiffisial ac un mewn delweddu.
Mae cwblhau'r ddwy flynedd gyntaf yn cynnig cymhwyster ymadael FdSc dewisol, sydd wedi'i achredu o dan y Fframwaith Prentisiaeth Uwch trwy Tech Partnership.
Mae hon yn radd flaengar sydd wedi'i chynllunio i roi mantais gystadleuol i chi a'ch sefydliad mewn byd sy'n cael ei yrru fwyfwy gan ddata.
Mae’r radd-brentisiaeth systemau peirianneg fecanyddol gymhwysol hon yn ddelfrydol ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol sy’n gweithio mewn amgylcheddau gweithgynhyrchu, cynhyrchu neu beirianneg sy’n dymuno datblygu eu gyrfaoedd.
Gan gyfuno theori academaidd â’i gymhwyso yn y byd go iawn, mae'r cwrs yn datblygu dealltwriaeth gadarn o egwyddorion peirianneg fecanyddol a thrydanol/electronig, yn ogystal â gwybodaeth fusnes graidd.
Byddwch yn ennill sgiliau ymarferol mewn meysydd fel dylunio, profi, iechyd a diogelwch, a modelu mathemategol.
Yn y flwyddyn olaf, byddwch yn archwilio pynciau uwch mewn pŵer a pheirianneg ddiwydiannol, gan ddod â'ch gwybodaeth a'ch sgiliau ynghyd mewn cyd-destun proffesiynol.
Mae'r radd-brentisiaeth peirianneg drydanol/electronig gymhwysol hon wedi'i chynllunio ar gyfer y rhai sydd eisoes yn gweithio yn y diwydiant peirianneg drydanol ac electronig, ac mae’n eich galluogi i ennill gradd wrth barhau mewn cyflogaeth lawn amser.
Mae'r cwrs yn darparu dealltwriaeth eang o egwyddorion trydanol/electronig a mecanyddol ochr yn ochr â sgiliau busnes a rheoli project.
Byddwch yn ennill profiad ymarferol mewn meysydd fel dylunio cylchedau, profi systemau, diogelwch a systemau rheoli.
Yn y flwyddyn olaf, byddwch yn canolbwyntio ar beirianneg pŵer a systemau rheoli, gan gymhwyso'ch dysgu i heriau cymhleth yn y byd go iawn.
Mae hon yn rhaglen ymarferol a blaengar sydd wedi'i dylunio i'ch helpu i feithrin hyder a gallu fel peiriannydd proffesiynol.
Ariennir y cwrs yn llawn ac mae’n cyfuno holl fanteision gradd gonfensiynol heb yr anfanteision ariannol.
Mae cyflogaeth Prentisiaid Gradd yn rhan o’r cwrs, sy’n golygu y byddwch yn ennill cyflog wrth astudio.
Mae’r cymhwyster hwn yn perthyn yn uniongyrchol i’r diwydiant, a bydd yn rhoi’r sgiliau angenrheidiol i weithwyr a chyflogwyr fedru llwyddo.
Mae Prentisiaeth Gradd yn fodd i fyfyrwyr wneud profiad gwaith ymarferol a datblygu gyrfa a chael cymhwyster academaidd.
Rhaid gwneud pob cais am Radd-Brentisiaeth yn uniongyrchol i Brifysgol Bangor trwy ein Porth Ymgeisydd .
Unwaith y byddwch wedi creu cyfrif byddwch yn gallu dychwelyd at eich cais unrhyw bryd a gweld statws eich cais ar ôl iddo gael ei gyflwyno.
Pwysig: Bydd angen mynediad i'r cyfeiriad e-bost a nodir gennych wrth greu eich cyfrif i'w gadarnhau.
Bydd y system yn anfon e-bost gwirio i'r cyfeiriad e-bost o roddwyd gennych.
Y cyfeiriad e-bost a ddefnyddiwch yn eich cais yw'r un y byddwn yn ei ddefnyddio ar gyfer pob gohebiaeth.
Fe welwch ‘Gradd-Brentisiaethau’ wedi'u rhestru o dan y tab Rhaglen yn y porth ar-lein.
Dyma’r opsiynau presennol:
Gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod chi'n dewis y cwrs cywir a’r lleoliad sydd orau gennych
Bydd angen i'r rhai sy'n gwneud cais am Radd-Brentisiaeth gwblhau'r manylion personol a manylion cyswllt pan ofynnir iddynt.
Bydd angen i chi hefyd ddarparu:
O dan y tab Cyllid, cwblhewch y meysydd a restrir isod fel a ganlyn:
Unwaith i'r adrannau i gyd gael eu llenwi, byddwch yn derbyn cadarnhad o hynny ar y sgrin.
Gallwch adolygu manylion y cais trwy ddewis Gweld Crynodeb (View Summary).
Cofiwch glicio ar 'CYFLWYNO EICH CAIS'.
Unwaith y bydd eich cais wedi'i gyflwyno, bydd neges gadarnhau yn cael ei hanfon i'r cyfeiriad e-bost a ddarparwyd.
Bydd angen i gyflogwyr gysylltu â ni’n uniongyrchol i drafod y cyfleoedd sydd ar gael.
Bydd angen bod y gweithwyr mewn cyflogaeth lawn amser neu ran amser (o leiaf 16 awr yr wythnos) yn y diwydiant TG a dylent gysylltu â ni’n uniongyrchol i gael rhagor o wybodaeth.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/bywyd-myfyrwyr/astudio-dramor:
Os ydych wedi bod yn ystyried cymryd blwyddyn i ffwrdd neu fynd i deithio dros yr haf ac wedi difaru peidio â gwneud hynny, mae ein rhaglenni astudio neu weithio dramor yn rhoi cyfle i chi fanteisio i'r eithaf ar eich profiad astudio.
Darllenwch ymlaen i wybod sut y gallwch chi elwa o weithio neu astudio dramor.
Gallwch gymryd Blwyddyn Profiad Rhyngwladol, lle byddwch yn astudio neu'n gweithio am flwyddyn yn ychwanegol, tra'n astudio ar y rhan fwyaf o'n cyrsiau israddedig.
Pan fyddwch yn graddio, bydd ‘gyda Phrofiad Rhyngwladol’ yn cael ei ychwanegu at deitl eich gradd.
Bydd gennych y cyfle i ystyried yr opsiwn hwn yn llawn ar unrhyw adeg yn ystod eich gradd ym Mangor a gallwch wneud cais.
Os oes gennych unrhyw ymholiad yn y cyfamser, mae croeso i chi gysylltu â ni.
Mae astudio dramor yn gyfle gwych i weld ffordd wahanol o fyw, i ddysgu am ddiwylliannau newydd ac ehangu eich gorwelion.
Os ydych yn bwriadu astudio mewn gwlad lle nad yw’r Saesneg yn cael ei siarad fel iaith frodorol, efallai y bydd cefnogaeth iaith ychwanegol ar gael i chi ym Mangor neu yn y brifysgol yn y wlad arall i wella'ch sgililau iaith.
Rydych yn siwr o ddychwelyd i Fangor yn fwy brwdfrydig, annibynnol a hyderus.
I ble all Bangor fynd â chi?
I wybod mwy am ble allwch chi astudio neu weithio ac i wneud cais i gymryd rhan yn y cynllun, ewch i'r wefan Cyfnewidiau Rhyngwladol.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/bywyd-myfyrwyr/cyflogadwyedd:
Mae'r Brifysgol yn cynnig ystod eang o adnoddau i’ch helpu i gyflawni eich amcanion ar ôl graddio.
Mae’n dod yn gynyddol bwysig yn y farchnad swyddi heddiw i ddatblygu eich sgiliau personol a gwella eich cyflogadwyedd tra byddwch yn y brifysgol.
Rydym yn dîm o weithwyr proffesiynol ac ymroddedig sydd wedi ymrwymo i'ch helpu i gyflawni eich potensial o ran gyrfa yn ystod eich cwrs ac ar ôl graddio.
Boed yn archwilio eich opsiynau gyrfa, yn chwilio am brofiad gwaith, dod o hyd i swydd i raddedigion, neu sefydlu eich busnes eich hun, rydym yma i'ch helpu i ddatblygu eich cyflogadwyedd a gwireddu eich uchelgeisiau gyrfa.
Darganfyddwch sut y gallwn eich cefnogi tra byddwch yn astudio yma a hefyd beth i'w ddisgwyl os ydych yn ystyried astudio yma .
Mewn partneriaeth â rhaglen Menter trwy Ddylunio y Brifysgol, mae BUILT yn gystadleuaeth flynyddol sy’n agored i holl fyfyrwyr Prifysgol Bangor lle mae cyfranogwyr ar draws yr holl ddisgyblaethau astudio a phob blwyddyn academaidd yn ffurfio timau o 5-10 i efelychu cwmni newydd ac i gynhyrchu syniadau a datblygu atebion ar gyfer her gymunedol benodol.
Daw’r rhaglen i ben gyda’r timau’n cyflwyno eu syniadau i banel annibynnol, sy’n barnu pa dîm sydd wedi datblygu’r ateb mwyaf arloesol.
Mae’r tîm buddugol yn derbyn cyllid a chefnogaeth i lansio a gweithredu eu cynnyrch neu wasanaeth, yn ogystal â mentoriaeth barhaus ac arweiniad gan arbenigwyr.
Mae mentoriaid sy’n gyn-fyfyrwyr yn cefnogi pob tîm ar hyd y ffordd i fireinio eu syniadau a’u hatebion, ac o bosib datblygu prototeip o’r cynnyrch neu wasanaeth.
Mae sesiynau dysgu ar gyfer pob tîm yn cael eu hwyluso gan y Brifysgol drwy’r rhaglen Menter trwy Ddylunio – cyfres ddeg wythnos o weithdai sy’n canolbwyntio ar ysbrydoliaeth, creadigrwydd, cynaliadwyedd ac ymwybyddiaeth fasnachol – mewn meysydd fel sut i ddatblygu cynllun busnes a hanfodion cynllunio ariannol.
Mae BUILT yn ffordd wych o wella profiadau CV cyfranogwyr a chymwysterau cyflogadwyedd, gan fodloni gofynion y farchnad swyddi am feddwl arloesol a meddylfryd entrepreneuraidd.
Trwy BUILT a Menter trwy Ddylunio, mae myfyrwyr yn datblygu ystod o sgiliau cyflogadwyedd, gan gynnwys gweithio mewn tîm, datrys problemau creadigol, cyfathrebu a sgiliau masnachol.
Mae gweithio mewn tîm amlddisgyblaethol yn helpu cyfranogwyr i ddatblygu eu gallu i weithio gyda phobl o gefndiroedd a safbwyntiau gwahanol ac mae elfen arddangos a chyflwyno olaf yr her yn helpu i ddatblygu sgiliau siarad cyhoeddus a chyflwyno, sy’n werthfawr mewn llawer o yrfaoedd.
Darllenwch am wobrau 2024 .
Mae'r flwyddyn leoliad yn rhoi cyfle gwych i chi ehangu eich gorwelion a datblygu sgiliau a chysylltiadau gwerthfawr trwy weithio gyda sefydliad hunan-gyrchol sy'n berthnasol i'ch pwnc gradd.
Bydd disgwyl i chi ddod o hyd i leoliad addas a'i drefnu i gyd-fynd â'ch gradd, a byddwch yn cael eich cefnogi drwy gydol y cyfnod gan aelod o staff o'ch Ysgol academaidd a Gwasanaeth Gyrfaoedd a Chyflogadwyedd y Brifysgol.
Mae myfyrwyr blaenorol a phresennol wedi gweithio gydag amrywiaeth eang o ddarparwyr lleoliadau, yn amrywio o gwmnïau preifat i sefydliadau addysgol, elusennau, awdurdodau'r llywodraeth a sefydliadau anllywodraethol.
Mae myfyrwyr wedi cael profiad gwaith gyda chwmniau fel Santander, Siemens Healthineers, Coutts , Venue Cymru, WRU, BBC Cymru, Zip World a Gen2.
Mae ein myfyrwyr sydd wedi ymgymryd â blwyddyn leoliad wedi tynnu sylw at sut mae'r profiad wedi eu helpu i ddatblygu rhwydweithiau amhrisiadwy, hyder a phrofiad bywyd ynghyd â gwybodaeth a sgiliau pwnc sydd wedi rhoi hwb i'w cyflogadwyedd.
Sylwch: Y ffi ar gyfer yr holl leoliadau a blynyddoedd rhyngwladol yw £1,350 (mynediad yn 2024).
CyswlltGyrfa ydy biwro cyflogaeth myfyrwyr y Brifysgol.
Mae'n cynnig y cyfleoedd canlynol:
Gall myfyrwyr (a Graddedigion hyd at dair blynedd) hefyd ddefnyddio’r platfform i drefnu apwyntiadau gyrfaoedd a busnesau newydd, archebu lleoedd ar ein gweminarau a’n gweithdai, cwblhau gweithgareddau gwybodaeth, a llawer mwy.
I weld y cyfleoedd yma ar CyswlltGyrfa mae angen i chi fewngofnodi gyda’ch cyfrif myfyriwr.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/astudio/archebu-prosbectws:
Rydym yn falch o fod yn un o'r prifysgolion mwyaf blaenllaw yn y byd o ran cynaliadwyedd.
Mae'r Prosbectws Poced yn gyhoeddiad llawer llai na'r prosbectws arferol.
Golyga hyn ein bod yn lleihau ein defnydd o adnoddau yn sylweddol wrth barhau i ddarparu'r rhestrau cyrsiau a'r wybodaeth ddefnyddiol sydd eu hangen arnoch wrth wneud eich dewisiadau prifysgol.
Mae gennym amrywiaeth o gyrsiau israddedig ar gael ac, os byddwch yn dewis astudio yma, cewch eich dysgu gan ddarlithwyr angerddol sy'n awyddus eich gweld yn llwyddo.
Dysgwch mwy am astudio ym Mangor.
Dinas hardd yng ngogledd Cymru gyda golygfeydd syfrdanol a hanes cyfoethog.
Nid yw Bangor yn bell o gyrraedd y dinasoedd mawr ac mae ganddi gymuned fywiog.
Yma cewch y gorau o ddau fyd - y lleoliad prifysgol perffaith.
Mae ein Dyddiau Agored yn cael eu cynnal yn yr Haf a'r Hydref ac yn gyfle gwych i ddod i wybod mwy am y cwrs a gweld y campws.
Rydym yn gobeithio byddwch yn gallu ymweld â ni ar un o'r dyddiadau yma - edrychwn ymlaen at eich gweld.
Oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau am fywyd fel myfyriwr ym Mangor?
Mae ein myfyrwyr wrth law i son am eu profiad yma.
Os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiwn am y cwrs, bydd ein darlithwyr yn hapus i helpu.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/astudio/ol-raddedig:
Ehangwch eich dealltwriaeth drwy barhau eich siwrne addysg-uwch gyda ni.
Porwch drwy ein pynciau ôl-raddedig.
Yr oll sydd angen i chi wybod am wneud cais am le ar un o'n cyrsiau ôl-raddedig.
Rydym yn cynnig llety wedi ei benodi ar gyfer myfyrwyr ôl-raddedig mewn neuaddau preswyl sydd wedi ennill gwobrau am eu safon.
Cofrestrwch am wybodaeth ôl-raddedig, a darganfyddwch fwy am astudio yma.
Cofrestru am wybodaeth
Rydym yn cynnal Dyddiau Agored a Digwyddiadau Ôl-radd ac mae croeso i chi ymuno â ni i gael dysgu mwy am Brifysgol Bangor a gofyn unrhyw gwestiynau sydd gennych.
Archebu eich lle
Mwy
Mae sawl ysgoloriaeth, efrydiaeth a bwrsariaeth ar gael i helpu ariannu eich astudiaethau
Edrychwch ar yr opsiynau astudio eraill sydd ar gael.
Os ydych yn dymuno astudio yn rhan-amser neu’n hyblyg, mae gennym nifer o opsiynau ar eich cyfer.
Ymunwch â ni ar Ddigwyddiad Ôl-Raddedig - dyma'r ffordd orau i weld beth sydd gan Brifysgol Bangor i'w gynnig.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/astudio/gwneudcais:
Defnyddiwch côd Prifysgol Bangor B06 i wneud cais am Brifysgol Bangor ar-lein ar wefan UCAS.
Os nad ydych chi'n siwr iawn beth i'w wneud nesaf, rydym yma i'ch helpu.
Dewch i weld os ydych yn gymwys i gael cynnig cyd-destunol.
GWNEUD CAIS AM GWRS ÔL-RADDEDIG TRWY DDYSGU
GWNEUD CAIS AM GWRS ÔL-RADDEDIG DRWY YMCHWIL

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/cyllidmyfyrwyr/ol-radd:
Wrth benderfynu astudio gradd ôl-raddedig ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, mae'n bwysig gwybod am y costau byw ac astudio.
Dyma wybodaeth i'ch helpu chi i ddysgu am ffioedd dysgu, costau byw, a'r ystod eang o fwrsariaethau ac ysgoloriaethau ôl-raddedig sydd ar gael.
Mae ystod eang o Ysgoloriaethau, Efrydiaethau a Bwrsariaethau ar gael i'ch helpu gyda chostau astudio'n y Brifysgol.
Gwnewch yn siŵr eich bod yn edrych ar y dyddiadau cau a chymhwyster y ceisiadau cyn i chi wneud cais.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/cyllidmyfyrwyr/ol-radd/ysgoloriaethau:
Mae'r ysgoloriaethau, efrydiaethau a bwrsariaethau yn cael eu hariannu gan y Brifysgol a gan yr ysgolion academaidd unigol.
Darperir Ysgoloriaethau Price Davies (sydd hefyd yn ymgorffori Ysgoloriaethau Mynediad Price Davies) o incwm cymynrodd a wnaed i Brifysgol Cymru yn 1900 gan y diweddar Mr Price Davies o Leeds.
O ran ysgoloriaethau a ddyfernir yn 2025/26 rhaid i ymgeiswyr fod yn dilyn cynllun astudio gradd ymchwil ôl-radd yn y Celfyddydau neu mewn Gwyddoniaeth ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Darperir Ysgoloriaethau Price Davies o incwm cymynrodd a wnaed i Brifysgol Cymru yn 1900 gan y diweddar Mr Price Davies o Leeds.
Meini prawf cymhwysedd ar gyfer ysgoloriaethau Price Davies a ddyfarnwyd yn 2025/26
Gwybodaeth Ychwanegol
Lawrlwytho'r ffurflen gais
(Cronfa Dreftadaeth Y Werin)
Mae'r ysgoloriaeth yn cynnig hyd at £1,500 i gefnogi graddedigion dawnus o Brifysgolion Cymru sydd â diddordeb mewn iaith, llenyddiaeth, hanes a hynafiaethau Cymru.
Mwy o wybodaeth a gwneud cais
Mae Ysgoloriaeth Ôl-raddedig Llewelyn Williams yn galluogi ymchwil i Hanes Cymru, gan gynnwys deddfau Cymreig ac agweddau economaidd bywyd Cymreig.
Mae'r ysgoloriaeth yn cynnig hyd at £7,000 i gefnogi graddedigion Hanes, Cyfraith ac Economeg dalentog sydd â diddordeb mewn ymchwil ôl-raddedig ym Mhrifysgolion Cymru.
Mae'r ysgoloriaeth yn cynnig hyd at £2,000 i gefnogi graddedigion dawnus o Brifysgolion Cymru sydd â diddordeb mewn Newyddiaduraeth neu Faterion Rhyngwladol.
Gall myfyrwyr cofrestredig o’r DU (ac eithrio myfyrwyr o Gymru a myfyrwyr sydd wedi eu hariannu gan y GIG) fod yn gymwys i dderbyn Bwrsari Mynediad Ôl-raddedig a Addysgir.
Mae’r fwrsariaeth ar gyfer myfyrwyr israddedig (yn y flwyddyn academaidd 2023-24) sy’n symud ymlaen i raglen astudio ôl-raddedig a addysgir ym Mhrifysgol Bangor yn 2024-25.
Mae hefyd i myfyrwyr nad oes ganddynt gymhwyster ôl-raddedig eisoes ac sy'n ddi-waith cyn dechrau ar raglen astudio ôl-raddedig a addysgir ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Bydd bwrsariaeth yn cael ei ddyfarnu i:
Meini Prawf Cymhwysedd
Oeddech chi:
Proses Ymgeisio
Dylai myfyriwr gysylltu â'r Uned Cymorth Ariannol i gael ffurflen gais, gan ddychwelyd y ffurflen wedi'i chwblhau gyda thystiolaeth o'u dyfarniad cyllid myfyriwr 2023-24, bwrsariaeth neu lythyr dyfarnu budd-daliadau lles.
Am ragor o wybodaeth ac i wneud cais a ffurflen gais, cysylltwch â'r Uned Cymorth Ariannol .
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn aelod o siarter Cydraddoldeb Rhwng y Rhywiau Athena SWAN ac felly wedi ymrwymo i gydraddoldeb ac amrywiaeth rhwng y rhywiau, ac i greu a hyrwyddo diwylliant cynhwysol i staff a myfyrwyr ar bob lefel.
Diben ysgoloriaethau Bangor Gynhwysol cefnogi myfyrwyr sy'n graddio i barhau â'u hastudiaethau ym Mangor - yn enwedig mewn meysydd lle mae nifer o ein myfyrwyr yn dangos tangynrychiolaeth o rai grwpiau.
Ysgoloriaethau yw'r rhain ar gyfer gradd meistr (hyfforddedig neu drwy ymchwil) mewn unrhyw ddisgyblaeth.
Dyfernir un ysgoloriaeth i bob Coleg.
Beth mae'n ei gynnwys?
Taliad tuag at ffioedd dysgu cwrs Meistr ôl-radd hyfforddedig neu ymchwil am un flwyddyn (neu am ddwy flynedd os yr astudir y cwrs yn rhan amser).
Bydd terfyn uchaf o £9,500.
Am fwy o wybodaeth cysylltwch â athenaswan@bangor.ac.uk
Mae cynllun Ysgoloriaeth Chwaraeon Bangor yn bwriadu cydnabod a chefnogi rhagoriaeth a chyrhaeddiad mewn chwaraeon.
Nid yw'r Ysgoloriaethau, sy'n werth £3,000 y flwyddyn, wedi'u cyfyngu i unrhyw gamp neilltuol nac i fyfyrwyr ar unrhyw gyrsiau penodol.
Mwy o wybodaeth ar gael yma
Mae FindaMasters.com yn cynnig ysgoloriaeth ar gael ym mhob pwnc mewn unrhyw brifysgol sydd wedi rhestru ar FindaMasters.com.
Cofrestrwch yma .
Mae FindaPhD.com yn cynnig ysgoloriaeth ar gael ym mhob pwnc mewn unrhyw brifysgol sydd wedi rhestru ar FindaPhD.com.
Mae nifer o gyfleoedd ariannu ar gael.
Cysylltwch â'r ysgol academaidd i wybod mwy am y cyllid sydd ar gael.
Cofiwch bod rhai ysgolion academaidd hefyd yn cynnig ysgloriaethau a bwrsariaethau i gefnogi eu pynciau.
Ewch i'r dudalen ar ysgoloriaethau a bwrsariaethau neu dudalennau'r ysgolion academaidd i gael mwy o wybodaeth.
Mae'r Arweiniad Amgen Ar-lein at Gyllid Ôl-radd yn ymwneud â ffynonellau amgen o gyllid - yn enwedig elusennau - a all ddyfarnu cyllid (ffioedd, cynhaliaeth, costau ymchwil) i unrhyw fyfyriwr, beth bynnag a fo ei (d)dinasyddiaeth.
Mae'r Arweiniad Amgen Ar-lein â chronfa ddata enfawr o gyfleoedd i gael cyllid, arweiniad cynhwysfawr ac offer niferus i'ch helpu i baratoi cais sy'n mynd i ennill grant ichi.
I gynorthwyo ein myfyrwyr, mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi prynu trwydded ar gyfer yr Arweiniad, fel ei fod am ddim i holl fyfyrwyr a staff Bangor ei ddefnyddio!
Mewngofnodwch Yn Awr !
Os ydych yn ddarpar-fyfyriwr ac wedi gwneud cais i ddod i Brifysgol Bangor, anfonwch e-bost er mwyn cael PIN mynediad.
Mae Postgrad Solutions Cyf yn cynnig tri-ar-ddeg Bwrsariaeth ôl-radd, werth £500 yr un.
Mwy o wybodaeth...
Mae’n bleser gan Brifysgol Bangor gynnig ysgoloriaethau ymchwil Ysgol Graddedigion Gwyddorau Cymdeithasol Cymru (WGSSS) (Partneriaeth Hyfforddiant Doethurol yr ESRC) sydd wedi’u hariannu’n ym mis Hydref 2025 ym meysydd pwnc y llwybrau canlynol.
Meini Prawf Mynediad:
I dderbyn cyllid un o ysgoloriaethau ymchwil yr WGSSS, mae’n rhaid bod gennych chi gymwysterau neu brofiad sy'n cyfateb i radd anrhydedd yn y DU ar lefel dosbarth cyntaf neu ail ddosbarth uwch, neu radd meistr.
Mae croeso i fyfyrwyr sydd â chefndir academaidd anhraddodiadol hefyd wneud cais.
Hyd yr astudiaeth:
Mae hyd yr astudiaeth yn amrywio o 3.5 i 4.5 blynedd amser llawn (neu’r hyn sy’n gyfwerth iddi yn rhan-amser).
Mae hyd yr astudiaeth yn dibynnu ar brofiad ymchwilio blaenorol ac anghenion hyfforddi'r myfyriwr a asesir drwy gwblhau Dadansoddiad o’r Anghenion Datblygu.
Rydyn ni’n croesawu ceisiadau am astudio’n amser llawn ac yn rhan-amser.
Lleoliad ymarfer wrth ymchwilio: Bydd gofyn i bob myfyriwr a ariennir gan yr WGSSS gwblhau lleoliad Ymarfer wrth Ymchwilio a ariennir am gyfanswm o 3 mis (neu’r hyn sy’n gyfwerth iddo yn rhan-amser).
Bydd pob myfyriwr yn cael y cyfle i gwblhau lleoliad mewn sefydliad academaidd, polisi, busnes neu gymdeithas sifil.
Gofynion rhyngwladol ynghylch bod yn gymwys:
Mae ysgoloriaethau ymchwil yr WGSSS ar gael i fyfyrwyr y DU a myfyrwyr rhyngwladol.
Caiff hyd at 30% o'n carfan gynnwys myfyrwyr rhyngwladol.
Ni chodir y gwahaniaeth rhwng ffi y DU a'r ffi ryngwladol ar fyfyrwyr rhyngwladol.
Dylai ymgeiswyr fodloni gofynion UKRI o ran bod yn gymwys.
Cydraddoldeb, Amrywiaeth a Chynhwysiant:
Mae’r WGSSS wedi ymrwymo i gefnogi a hyrwyddo cydraddoldeb ac amrywiaeth a chreu diwylliant sy’n cynnwys pawb.
Rydyn ni’n croesawu ceisiadau gan bob aelod o'r gymuned fyd-eang waeth beth fo'u hoedran, anabledd, rhyw, hunaniaeth rhywedd, ailbennu rhywedd, statws priodasol neu bartneriaeth sifil, beichiogrwydd neu famolaeth, hil, crefydd neu gred a chyfeiriadedd rhywiol.
Asesu:
Bydd yr ymgeiswyr sy’n cyrraedd y rhestr fer yn cael eu gwahodd am gyfweliad.
Yn rhan o'r broses gyfweld, bydd gofyn i ymgeiswy roi cyflwyniad byr ac ateb cyfres o gwestiynau gan y panel
Sut i wneud cais:
Dylai ceisiadau ddod i law erbyn 11/12/24 fan bellaf gan gynnwys yr holl ddogfennau sydd eu hangen.
Oherwydd nifer y ceisiadau a ddaw i law, ni fydd ceisiadau anghyflawn yn cael eu hystyried.
Dylid cyflwyno pob cais gan ddefnyddio’r dolenni canlynol (defnyddiwch y cyfeiriad e-bost cywir ar gyfer y llwybr a gyflwynir i:
Cofiwch gynnwys y dogfennau canlynol yn eich cais:
Cyllid:
Mae ysgoloriaethau ymchwil a ariennir gan yr ESRC yn talu ffioedd dysgu, cyflog byw di-dreth blynyddol yn unol ag isafswm cyfraddau UKRI (£19,237 ar hyn o bryd) ac mae'n cynnwys mynediad at Grant Cymorth Hyfforddiant Ymchwil.
Os oes gennych chi anabledd, efallai y bydd gennych chi hawl i Lwfans Myfyrwyr Anabl (DSA) ar ben eich ysgoloriaeth ymchwil.
Mae'r Ysgolion Academaidd yn cynnig nifer o ysgoloriaethau, ysgoloriaethau a bwrsariaethau Ôl-raddedig.
Mae modd gweld y cyfleoedd fesul maes pwnc.
Mae'r Cynllun Cymhelliant Addysg Gychwynnol Athrawon ar gyfer Pynciau â Blaenoriaeth yn gynllun cyfreithiol a wnaed gan Weinidogion Cymru.
Mae'r cynllun yn gwneud darpariaeth ar gyfer myfyrwyr cymwys sy'n ymgymryd â rhaglen AGA ôl-raddedig mewn pynciau penodedig (pynciau â blaenoriaeth) fel eu bod yn cael manteisio ar y cymhelliant hwn.
O dan y cynllun hwn, mae grant cymhelliant o £15,000 ar gael i bob myfyriwr sy’n bodloni’r meini prawf cymhwysedd.
I fod yn gymwys i gael grant AGA ar gyfer pynciau â blaenoriaeth, rhaid i unigolyn fod â gradd 2.2 neu’n uwch, ac mai un o’r pynciau canlynol yw’r unig bwnc y mae’n ei astudio neu mai un o’r rhain y mae’n ei astudio’n bennaf:
Mae Cynllun Cymhelliant Iaith Athrawon Yfory yn gymhelliant a delir i bobl gymwys sy'n cwblhau rhaglen AGA ôl-raddedig achrededig yng Nghymru sy'n eu galluogi i ddysgu trwy gyfrwng Cymraeg neu ddysgu Cymraeg fel pwnc.
Cyfanswm o £5000 ar gyfer athrawon dan hyfforddiant cymwys mewn dau randaliad:
£2,500 i bobl gymwys ar ôl cwblhau rhaglen AGA ôl-raddedig gymwys yng Nghymru sy'n arwain at SAC;
£2,500 i bobl gymwys ar ôl cwblhau'r cyfnod sefydlu yn llwyddiannus mewn ysgol uwchradd Gymraeg neu ddwyieithog neu ddysgu Cymraeg mewn unrhyw leoliad uwchradd yng Nghymru.
Manylion llawn
Mae’n bleser gan Ysgol Addysg Prifysgol Bangor gynnig efrydiaethau ymchwil Ysgol Graddedigion Gwyddorau Cymdeithas Cymru (WGSSS) (Partneriaeth Hyfforddiant Doethurol y Cyngor Ymchwil Economaidd a Chymdeithasol) a ariennir yn llawn, gan ddechrau ym mis Hydref 2024.
Dyddiad dechrau: Hydref 2024
Lleoliad: Bangor (Mae'n ofynnol i bob myfyriwr a ariennir gan Ysgol Graddedigion Gwyddorau Cymdeithas Cymru gwblhau lleoliad ymchwil mewn ymarfer a ariennir dros gyfanswm o dri mis)
Yn agored i: Myfyrwyr y DU, Myfyrwyr yr UE, Myfyrwyr Rhyngwladol
Swm cyllid: Efrydiaeth wedi’i hariannu’n llawn, gall hyd yr astudiaeth amrywio o - 3.5 i 4.5 blwyddyn llawn amser
Oriau: Llawn amser; Rhan amser
Dyddiad cau derbyn ceisiadau: Dydd Sadwrn, 11 Mai 2024 (12pm GMT)
Rhagor o wybodaeth
Dim Ysgoloriaethau ar hyn o bryd
Gall myfyrwyr ôl-raddedig MPhil a PhD yng Ngholeg y Celfyddydau a’r Dyniaethau fod â hawl i wneud cais am fwrsariaeth deithio tra byddant yn gofrestredig, er mwyn mynd i gynhadledd academaidd neu ymweld ag archif/ llyfrgell academaidd berthnasol.
Asesir pob cais ar ei deilyngdod ei hun, ac ni fydd cyfanswm y fwrsariaeth/ bwrsariaethau a ddyfernir i unrhyw fyfyriwr ôl-raddedig unigol yn uwch na £150 o fewn unrhyw flwyddyn academaidd.
Dylech gyfeirio unrhyw ymholiadau at weinyddwr y Coleg dros faterion ôl-radd.
Fel adran ymchwil sydd ymysg y 5 uchaf yn y Deyrnas Unedig, sy’n cael ei chydnabod yn rhyngwladol gyda'r gorau yn y byd (REF 2021), rydym yn awyddus iawn i wobrwyo rhagoriaeth ymchwil.
Rydym yn hynod falch o gynnig gwobr ariannol i un myfyriwr Ymchwil Ôl-radd llwyddiannus tuag at gyflwyno eu project ymchwil mewn cynhadledd academaidd o'u dewis.
Mae'r wobr yn cynnig hyd at £500 i un myfyriwr ôl-radd yn yr Adran Gwyddorau Chwaraeon ac Ymarfer Corff i gyflwyno ymchwil mewn cynhadledd academaidd o'i ddewis.
I gael eu hystyried ar gyfer y wobr, rhaid i ymgeiswyr gyflwyno eu gwaith yng Nghynhadledd Flynyddol yr Ysgol Seicoleg a Gwyddorau Chwaraeon.
Caiff y wobr ei chyflwyno i'r ymchwilydd llwyddiannus ar ôl i'r Gynhadledd ddod i ben.
Mae'r wobr yn cynnwys cefnogaeth ariannol (hyd at £500) i gofrestru gyda'r gynhadledd, hedfan, llety a chynhaliaeth.
Yr Athro Howell yw’r rhoddwr, athro ym Mhrifysgol San Francisco (USF) ers 1997.
Ef oedd yr athro llawn amser cyntaf i’w gyflogi gan raglen Meistr Rheoli Chwaraeon a bu’n dysgu ar nifer o gyrsiau sy'n canolbwyntio ar y cyswllt rhwng chwaraeon, diwylliant a masnach.
Ar ôl graddio ym Mangor ym 1981 mewn Addysg Gorfforol/Astudiaethau Addysgol, enillodd MSc ym Mhrifysgol Washington, Seattle a PhD ym Mhrifysgol Illinois yn Urbana-Champaign, 1985-1989.
Yn 2015, dyfarnwyd Cymrodoriaeth Anrhydeddus i'r Athro Howell ym Mhrifysgol Bangor am ei wasanaethau i Wyddorau Chwaraeon.
* efallai na fydd y gwobrau a nodir â seren ar gael bob blwyddyn Os oes gennych gwestiynau am y wobr, cysylltwch â Chyfarwyddwr Ymchwil Ôl-radd yr Ysgol Seicoleg a Gwyddor Chwaraeon
Mae’n bleser gan Brifysgol Bangor gynnig efrydiaethau ymchwil Ysgol Graddedigion Gwyddorau Cymdeithas Cymru (WGSSS) (ESRC DTP) a ariennir yn llawn, gan ddechrau ym mis Hydref 2024 ym meysydd pwnc y llwybrau canlynol.
Mae hyd yr astudiaeth yn dibynnu ar brofiad ymchwil blaenorol ac anghenion hyfforddi a fydd yn cael eu hasesu trwy gwblhau Dadansoddiad Anghenion Datblygu Cychwynnol ar y cam ymgeisio a Dadansoddiad Anghenion Datblygu Llawn cyn dyfarnu os yn llwyddiannus.
Gall hyd yr astudiaeth amrywio o - 3.5 i 4.5 blwyddyn llawn amser  (neu’r hyn sy’n cyfateb yn rhan amser).
Gall hyn gynnwys:
- rhaglen 1+3.5 – cefnogaeth ar gyfer meistr hyfforddiant ymchwil a PhD, yn enwedig lle nodir hynny gan nodau cydraddoldeb, amrywiaeth a chynhwysiant ac Ehangu Cyfranogiad Ysgol Graddedigion Gwyddorau Cymdeithas Cymru
- yn achos Economeg, rhaglen 2+2.5 – cyllid i dalu am radd meistr estynedig, ac yna rhaglen PhD fyrrach
Lleoliad ymchwil mewn ymarfer:
Mae'n ofynnol i bob myfyriwr a ariennir gan Ysgol Graddedigion Gwyddorau Cymdeithas Cymru gwblhau lleoliad ymchwil mewn ymarfer a ariennir dros gyfanswm o dri mis.
Bydd pob myfyriwr yn cael y cyfle i gwblhau lleoliad mewn sefydliadau academaidd, polisi, busnes neu gymdeithas sifil.
I dderbyn cyllid efrydiaeth Ysgol Graddedigion Gwyddorau Cymdeithas Cymru, rhaid bod gennych gymwysterau neu brofiad sy'n cyfateb i radd anrhydedd ar lefel dosbarth cyntaf neu ail ddosbarth uwch, neu radd meistr o sefydliad ymchwil academaidd yn y Deyrnas Unedig.
Mae croeso hefyd i fyfyrwyr â chefndir academaidd anhraddodiadol wneud cais.
Dylai ysgolion gynnwys gofynion iaith Saesneg sy'n benodol i'r sefydliad
Cymhwysedd:
Mae ysgoloriaethau ymchwil Ysgol Graddedigion Gwyddorau Cymdeithas Cymru ar gael i fyfyrwyr cartref a myfyrwyr rhyngwladol.
Gall hyd at 30% o'n carfan gynnwys myfyrwyr rhyngwladol.
Ni chodir y gwahaniaeth mewn ffioedd rhwng y gyfradd Deyrnas Unedig a’r gyfradd ryngwladol ar fyfyrwyr rhyngwladol.
Dylai ymgeiswyr fodloni gofynion mynediad UKRI.
Mae Ysgol Graddedigion Gwyddorau Cymdeithas Cymru wedi ymrwymo i gefnogi a hyrwyddo cydraddoldeb ac amrywiaeth ac i greu amgylchedd gwaith cynhwysol i bawb.
Rydym yn croesawu ceisiadau gan holl aelodau o’r gymuned fyd-eang, waeth beth fo’u hoedran, anabledd, rhyw, hunaniaeth rhywedd, ailbennu rhywedd, statws priodasol neu bartneriaeth sifil, beichiogrwydd neu famolaeth, hil, crefydd neu gred a chyfeiriadedd rhywiol.
Rydym yn croesawu ceisiadau ar gyfer astudiaethau amser llawn a rhan-amser.
Atgoffir ymgeiswyr i gyflwyno'r holl ddogfennau perthnasol (trawsgrifiadau, datganiad ategol, ac ati) erbyn y dyddiad cau.
Oherwydd nifer y ceisiadau a dderbynnir, ni fydd ceisiadau anghyflawn yn cael eu hystyried.
Gwahoddir ymgeiswyr a roddir ar y rhestr fer am gyfweliad.
Fel rhan o'r broses gyfweld, gofynnir i ymgeiswyr roi cyflwyniad byr ac ateb cyfres o gwestiynau gan y panel yn gyson ag ymarfer blaenorol ar y llwybr yn ystod Partneriaeth Hyfforddiant Doethurol Cymru, ac a arweinir gan ymrwymiadau cydraddoldeb, amrywiaeth a chynhwysiant Ysgol Graddedigion Gwyddorau Cymdeithas Cymru.
Gellir cynnal cyfweliadau yn y cnawd, ond dylent hefyd fod ar gael trwy Zoom/Teams i bob myfyriwr sy'n dymuno cymryd rhan yn y ffordd honno.
Gall ymgeiswyr ddisgwyl clywed canlyniad eu cyfweliad fel rheol o fewn 3-4 wythnos.
Dylid derbyn ceisiadau ddim hwyrach na 12/1/24 gan gynnwys yr holl ddogfennau gofynnol.
Dwyieithrwydd/Ieithyddiaeth – bilingwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Seicoleg – psychwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Gwyddorau Chwaraeon ac Ymarfer – spexwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Troseddeg a'r Gyfraith – crimwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Astudiaethau Cymdeithaseg/Gwyddoniaeth a Thechnoleg - socwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Gwyddor Data, Iechyd a Lles – dshwbwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Addysg eduwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Gwaith Cymdeithasol, Gofal Cymdeithasol a Pholisi Cymdeithasol – socialworkwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Economeg - econwgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Rheolaeth a Busnes businesswgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Cynllunio Amgylcheddol envirowgsss@bangor.ac.uk
Dylech gynnwys y dogfennau canlynol gyda'ch cais:
1) Llythyr eglurhaol (hyd at ddwy dudalen)
Rhaid i'r llythyr eglurhaol gynnwys y pwyntiau bwled canlynol fel is-benawdau:
2) CV academaidd (hyd at ddwy dudalen)
3) Cynnig ymchwil
Dylai'r cynnig fod hyd at 1000 o eiriau , heb gynnwys cyfeiriadau llyfryddiaethol.
Rydym yn awgrymu eich bod yn defnyddio'r pum pennawd canlynol yn eich cynnig ymchwil:
Mae Ysgol Gwyddorau Amgylchedd a Naturiol ym Mhrifysgol Bangor yn falch iawn o gynnig ysgoloriaeth llawn yn Llwybr Cynllunio Amgylcheddol yr Ysgol Graddedigion Gwyddorau Cymdeithasol Cymru (Partneriaeth Hyfforddiant Doethurol ESRC) a fydd yn dechrau ym mis Hydref 2025, a sy'n agored i ymgeiswyr o’r DU a rhyngwladol.
Dyddiad cau: 12 hanner dydd 5ed Mai 2025 (Amser y DU).
Disgrifiad o'r prosiect: Mae coedwig law dymherus yn gynefin prin yn fyd-eang, a gynrychiolir yng Nghymru gan weddillion ynysig o'r "goedwig law Geltaidd".
Mae'n gyfoethog o rywogaethau ac yn storio carbon sylweddol.
Mae prosiect arloesol a ariennir gan garbon dan arweiniad yr Ymddiriedolaethau Natur, mewn partneriaeth ag Aviva , yn anelu at adfer y cynefin hwn er budd bioamrywiaeth ac atafaelu carbon, tra'n gweithio'n agos gyda chymunedau lleol.
Mae'r Ymddiriedolaethau Natur yn bwriadu bod eu prosiect yn gweithredu fel esiampl o "atebion sy'n seiliedig ar natur i newid yn yr hinsawdd", ac i ddylanwadu ar reolwyr tir eraill i gynyddu gorchudd coed.
Fodd bynnag, mae llawer o ffermwyr yn amheus o ehangu gorchudd coed ac mae pryderon am yr effeithiau posibl ar gymunedau lleol a threftadaeth ddiwylliannol o'r newid yn y defnydd tir a lleihau cynhyrchu amaethyddol.
O ganlyniad, mae dadleuon wedi ymwneud â phrosiectau adfer tirwedd a gwerthiadau tir amaethyddol ar gyfer coedwigaeth i wrthbwyso carbon.
Felly, bydd trawsnewidiad cyfiawn i sero net yn wynebu heriau, ar gyfer cyfiawnder gweithdrefnol a dosbarthol.
Yn ychwanegol, mae gwahanol rhanddeiliaid yn deall yr uchelgais ar gyfer sero net mewn gwahanol ffyrdd.
Mae yna tensiynau rhwng buddiannau a dewisiadau tirfeddianwyr preifat, cymunedau lleol a chymdeithas genedlaethol neu fyd-eang.
Byddwn yn defnyddio'r prosiect hwn fel enghraifft i ddeall y tensiynau hyn yn well, a sut y gellir eu lliniaru neu eu cyfryngu trwy ddylunio, llywodraethu a chyfathrebu prosiect.
Bydd y PhD yn cyfrannu at ddadleuon am lywodraethu amgylcheddol a chyfiawnder yng nghyd-destun heriau byd-eang C21st.
Nod y PhD hwn yw gwerthuso adferiad goedwig law Geltaidd gan y yr Ymddiriedolaeth Natur, fel model ar gyfer coedwigo ac adfer cynefinoedd ehangach ar draws ucheldiroedd y DU, mewn modd sy'n cael ei gofleidio gan gymunedau gwledig.
Gallai cwestiynau ymchwil gynnwys: "Beth yw costau a manteision adfer cynefinoedd o safbwyntiau cyhoeddus a phreifat, a yw'n hyfyw yn ariannol ac yn economaidd, o ystyried gwahanol senarios polisi?", "Gan ddefnyddio mewnwelediadau o'r llenyddiaeth newid ymddygiad, sut y gellir cyfathrebu'r wybodaeth hon i randdeiliaid?", "Pa fodelau llywodraethu yn caniatáu ymgorffori dewisiadau rhanddeiliaid lleol a chenedlaethol mewn prosiectau adfer cynefinoedd ar dir preifat, er mwyn galluogi trafodaeth ar wahanol werthoedd a dewisiadau a chefnogi rheolaeth deg?"
Mae'r ysgoloriaeth hon a ariennir yn llawn yn rhan o Ysgol Graddedigion Cymru ESRC ar gyfer y Gwyddorau Cymdeithasol ac mae'n gydweithrediad rhwng Prifysgol Bangor a'r Ymddiriedolaethau Natur .
Bydd y myfyriwr wedi'i leoli yng Ngrŵp Ymchwil Gwyddor Cadwraeth ffyniannus Bangor, sy'n rhan o'r Thema Ymchwil Cadwraeth ac Adfer Ecosystemau Gwydn .
Bydd y prosiect yn cael ei gynnal mewn cydweithrediad agos â'r Ymddiriedolaethau Natur ar draws eu safleoedd coedwigoedd glaw Celtaidd.
Goruchwylwyr:
1) Dr Sophie Wynne-Jones s.wynne-jones@bangor.ac.uk
2) Yr Athro Julia Jones julia.jones@bangor.ac.uk
3) Dr Neal Hockley n.hockley@bangor.ac.uk
4) Dr Ruth Swetnam rswetnam@wildlifetrusts.org
Dyddiad dechrau’r PhD: 1af Hydref 2025
Meini Prawf Hanfodol:
Meini prawf dymunol:
Lleoliad: Lleolir y swydd ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, y DU, gyda pheth amser yn gweithio gyda phartneriaid yn yr Ymddiriedolaethau Natur, a bydd yn cynnwys gwaith maes yng Nghymru (ac o bosibl ar safleoedd yn Lloegr a'r Alban).
Ni ellir ei wneud o bell.
Hyd yr astudiaeth: Mae hyd yr astudiaeth yn amrywio o 3.5 i 4.5 blynedd amser llawn (neu’r hyn sy’n gyfwerth iddi yn rhan-amser).
Gofynion rhyngwladol ynghylch bod yn gymwys: Mae ysgoloriaethau ymchwil yr WGSSS ar gael i fyfyrwyr y DU a myfyrwyr rhyngwladol.
Cydraddoldeb, Amrywiaeth a Chynhwysiant: Mae’r WGSSS wedi ymrwymo i gefnogi a hyrwyddo cydraddoldeb ac amrywiaeth a chreu diwylliant sy’n cynnwys pawb.
Asesiad: Bydd ymgeiswyr ar y rhestr fer yn cael eu gwahodd i gyfweld.
Fel rhan o'r broses gyfweld, gofynnir i ymgeiswyr baratoi cyflwyniad byr ar dasg (a fydd yn cael ei gyfathrebu gyda'r hysbysiad o gyfweliad, heb fod yn hwyrach na 9 Mai) ac ateb cyfres o gwestiynau panel.
Cynhelir y rhan fwyaf o'r cyfweliad yn Saesneg ond bydd o leiaf un o'r panel yn siarad Cymraeg.
Bydd cyfweliadau'n cael eu cynnal yn ystod yr wythnos sy'n dechrau ar 12 Mai.
Dylid derbyn ceisiadau (yn Saesneg) erbyn 12 hanner dydd 5 Mai 2025 gan gynnwys yr holl ddogfennau gofynnol.
Dylid cyflwyno pob cais drwy e-bost i s.wynne-jones@bangor.ac.uk gan copïo envirowgsss@bangor.ac.uk .
Rhowch eich e-bost y llinell bwnc “WGSS collaborative PhD application (Celtic Rainforest)”
Cynhwyswch y dogfennau canlynol gyda'ch cais:
Cyllid: Mae ysgoloriaethau ymchwil a ariennir gan yr ESRC yn talu ffioedd dysgu, cyflog byw di  dreth blynyddol yn unol ag isafswm cyfraddau UKRI (£20,780 ar hyn o bryd) ac mae'n cynnwys mynediad at Grant Cymorth Hyfforddiant Ymchwil.
Disgrifiad o'r prosiect: Environmentally driven migration will pose an increasing challenge throughout the 21 st Century and will contribute to further environmental change, as migrants move in search of resources, often drawn to forest frontier areas with high value for biodiversity and ecosystem services.
Goruchwylwyr
Yr Athro Julia Jones julia.jones@bangor.ac.uk
Mae'r ysgoloriaeth hon a ariennir yn llawn yn rhan o Ysgol Graddedigion Cymru ESRC ar gyfer y Gwyddorau Cymdeithasol ac mae'n gydweithrediad rhwng Prifysgol Bangor , Sw Caer , Madagasikara Voakajy a labordy ymchwil Mitsilo .
Bydd y myfyriwr wedi'i leoli yng Ngrŵp Ymchwil Gwyddor Cadwraeth ffyniannus Bangor, sy'n rhan o'r Thema Ymchwil Cadwraeth ac Adfer Ecosystemau Gwydn.
Meini Prawf Hanfodol
Meini prawf dymunol
Lleoliad: Lleolir y swydd ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, y DU, gyda pheth amser yn gweithio gyda phartneriaid yn Sw Caer, a bydd yn cynnwys gwaith maes ym Madagascar.
Myfyrwyr rhyngwladol:
Asesiad:
Bydd ymgeiswyr ar y rhestr fer yn cael eu gwahodd i gyfweld.
Dylid cyflwyno pob cais drwy e-bost i n.hockley@bangor.ac.uk gan copïo envirowgsss@bangor.ac.uk .
Rhowch eich e-bost y llinell bwnc “WGSS Madagascar collaborative PhD application”
Cynhwyswch y dogfennau canlynol (yn Saesneg) gyda'ch cais:
Mae ysgoloriaethau ymchwil a ariennir gan yr ESRC yn talu ffioedd dysgu, cyflog byw di-dreth blynyddol yn unol ag isafswm cyfraddau UKRI (£20,780 ar hyn o bryd) ac mae'n cynnwys mynediad at Grant Cymorth Hyfforddiant Ymchwil.
Dim ysgoloriaethau ar hyn o bryd

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/addysg-weithredol:
Darparu dysgu blaengar ac arloesol i’r sector gwasanaethau ariannol byd-eang
Mae Ysgol Busnes Bangor ym Mhrifysgol Bangor yn ysgol fusnes flaenllaw sy’n canolbwyntio ar addysgu ac ymchwil ac mae’n cynnig MBA Addysg Weithredol flaengar ac arloesol i’r sector gwasanaethau ariannol byd-eang.
Yma ceir amrywiaeth o raglenni dysgu o bell arloesol sydd wedi eu cynllunio i gynorthwyo datblygiad proffesiynol arweinwyr a rheolwyr cwmnïau.
Mae’r ysgol yn eich galluogi i gymryd rhan mewn profiad addysg weithredol o'r radd flaenaf gyda hyblygrwydd astudio o bell i gyd-fynd â’ch ymrwymiadau gwaith.
Cewch gyfle i ymwneud ag arbenigwyr o fri byd-eang o’r byd academaidd a diwydiant a rhwydweithio ar-lein gyda'ch cyd-fyfyrwyr.
Cymhwyster deuol, sy’n cyfuno MBA a statws banciwr siartredig - y dyfarniad proffesiynol uchaf sydd ar gael i fancwyr ledled y byd.
Dyfernir statws 'Banciwr Siartredig' gan Sefydliad y Bancwyr Siartredig, corff addysg proffesiynol byd-eang i fancwyr a'r unig sefydliad bancio yn y byd a all ddyfarnu’r statws hwn.
Dysgu mwy am CBMBA
Cymhwyster newydd ar gyfer arbenigwyr mewn diogelwch ac amddiffyn cenedlaethol sy’n eich galluogi i ennill MBA ynghyd â statws proffesiynol Arbenigwr Gwybodaeth Ariannol (FIS).
Dyfernir dynodiad Arbenigwr Gwybodaeth Ariannol (FIS) gan ManchesterCF, darparwyr hyfforddiant gwybodaeth ariannol fyd-eang.
Dysgu mwy am IFMBA
Cymhwyster arloesol sy’n eich galluogi i ennill MBA ynghyd â statws proffesiynol Arbenigwr Gwybodaeth Ariannol (FIS).
Dysgu mwy am FCCMBA
Cymhwyster proffesiynol ac academaidd annibynnol ar gyfer bancwyr a gweithwyr proffesiynol gwasanaethau ariannol sy'n dymuno gwella eu dealltwriaeth ymarferol o reoli bancio a thechnoleg.
Mae'r rhaglen hon yn darparu llwybr dysgu cyflym i gymhwyster Bancwr Siartredig.
Dysgu mwy am certbmt
Cliciwch ar y cyswllt isod i lawrlwytho fersiwn PDF o lyfryn y cwrs MBA Bancwr Siartredig (CBMBA):
Llyfryn CBMBA (PDF)
Cliciwch ar y cyswllt isod i lawrlwytho fersiwn PDF o lyfryn y cwrs MBA Cyllid Anghyfreithlon (IFMBA):
Llyfryn IFMBA (PDF)
Cliciwch ar y cyswllt isod i lawrlwytho fersiwn PDF o lyfryn y cwrs MBA Troseddau a Chydymffurfiaeth Ariannol (FCCMBA):
Llyfryn FCCMBA (PDF)
Mae'r wybodaeth yn y llyfrynnau rhaglen yn gywir adeg eu cyhoeddi a gellir eu defnyddio fel arweiniad yn unig.
Gall gwybodaeth am fodiwlau, strwythur cyrsiau a ffioedd newid fesul blwyddyn academaidd.
Gweler cynnwys a chost y cwrs ar dudalen we'r rhaglen am y wybodaeth ddiweddaraf ar gyfer y flwyddyn academaidd hon.
Mae'r llyfrynnau yn iaith Saesneg yn unig.
Gellir cymryd modiwlau sengl yn anffurfiol ar gyfer Datblygiad Proffesiynol Parhaus neu gyda'r opsiwn i gwblhau'r asesiad ffurfiol ac ennill credydau ôl-raddedig a gydnabyddir yn rhyngwladol.
Gellir symud y credydau yn ddiweddarach i ddyfarniad ôl-raddedig Addysg Weithredol, a chael MBA pan fydd 180 o gredydau wedi'u cwblhau.
Wedi'i anelu at weithwyr proffesiynol canol gyrfa sy'n gweithio yn y diwydiant ariannol neu reoleiddio.
Rhoddir ystyriaeth i fynediad i unigolion sydd ag ychydig iawn o brofiad.
Rhagor o wybodaeth yma
Gwahoddir ceisiadau i’r rhaglenni MBA Bancwr Siartredig , MBA Troseddau a Chydymffurfiaeth Ariannol , MBA Cyllid Anghyfreithlon a'r Dystysgrif Ôl-radd mewn Rheolaeth a Thechnoleg Banciau (CertBMT) i ddechrau yn Hydref 2025.
Gwneud cais am raglen Addysg Weithredol
"The Programme has been a great experience and the choice is not regretted, as it exceeded the expectations and surpassed the value of the capital invested.
The programme is cutting edge and most relevant for today's fast-changing world, taking participants into the future."
Managing Director of CIBC First Caribbean International Bank Jamaica
"I thoroughly enjoyed Bangor University’s Programme.
"The Programme has added significantly to my growth, knowledge and experience in the financial services industry.
“The CBMBA programme provided me with the tools to succeed and provided me with the knowledge to adapt to the ever-changing global banking space.”
Chief Executive Officer, Sagicor, Jamaica
Global Business Partner, Chartered Banker Institute
Cysylltwch â’r tîm Addysg Weithredol os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau cyn dechrau:
E-bost: executiveeducation@bangor.ac.uk
Ffôn: +44 (0) 1248 38 38 00
Cyfeiriad: Addysg Weithredol, Ysgol Busnes Bangor, Bangor University, Bangor, Gwynedd, UK, LL57 2DG

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/study/postgraduate/january:
Mae gan ein cyrsiau sy'n cychwyn ym mis Ionawr yr un cynnwys cwrs, ansawdd academaidd, addysgu, dysgu ac asesiadau â'n cyrsiau sy'n cychwyn ym mis Medi.
Maent yn cynnig cyfle arall i chi ddechrau eich astudiaethau gyda ni yma ym Mangor.
Mae'r meysydd pwnc canlynol yn cynnwys cyrsiau â dyddiad cychwyn ym mis Ionawr.
Mae mwy o wybodaeth am gyrsiau sy'n cychwyn ym mis Ionawr ar gyfer myfyrwyr rhyngwladol ar gael ar dudalennau'r Ganolfan Addysg Rhyngwladol
Canolfan Addysg Rhyngwladol
Gwybodaeth i fyfyrwyr Cartref/UE sy'n ystyried gwneud cwrs sydd yn cychwyn ym mis Ionawr.
I wneud cais am unrhyw un o'r cyrsiau sy'n cychwyn ym mis Ionawr, cliciwch yma
Mae'n bosibl y gallwn gynnig lle yn ein neuaddau preswyl i fyfyrwyr sydd yn cychwyn eu cwrs ym mis Ionawr.
Edrychwch ar ein neuaddau ar gyfer myfyrwyr ôl-raddedig neu cysylltwch â'r Swyddfa Tai Myfyrwyr am gyngor i ddod o hyd i rhywle yn y sector preifat.
Bydd y strwythur ffioedd ar gyfer cychwyn ym mis Ionawr yn dilyn strwythur y flwyddyn academaidd gyfredol.
Dewch i'n tudalennau ar gyfer myfyrwyr sydd wedi gwneud cais i ddarganfod mwy am beth fydd y camau nesaf.
Dewch i'n gweld ni i'r Ffair Cyrsiau Ol-raddedig neu un o'n Dyddiadau Agored Ar-lein i ddarganfod mwy am Fangor a gofyn unrhyw gwestiynau sydd gennych.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/cyrsiau-byr-a-dpp:
Ehangwch eich sgiliau, archwiliwch bynciau newydd, neu cymrwch y cam nesaf yn eich gyrfa gyda chyrsiau byr a DPP Prifysgol Bangor.
P’un a ydych yn edrych am gyrsiau byrion, cymhwyster proffesiynol, neu’r cam gyntaf tuag at radd, rydym yn cynnig ystod o gyfleoedd sydd wedi’u cynllunio i ffitio o amgylch eich ymrwymiadau chi.
Os ydych chi’n ddysgwr unigol neu’n fusnes sy’n awyddus i fuddsoddi mewn datblygiad staff, rydym yma i’ch helpu.
Porwch ein cyrsiau heddiw neu gwnewch gais i gyfarfod aelod o’r tîm er mwyn trafod cyfleoedd hyfforddi pwrpasol.
• Hyblyg a Hygyrch – Astudiwch ar-lein neu ar y campws, gyda rhai cyrsiau wedi’u teilwra i’ch amserlen chi.
• Dysgwch gan Arbenigwyr – Dysgwch gan academyddion a gweithwyr proffesiynol y diwydiant.
• Cydnabyddedig ac Achrededig – Mae micro-gymwysterau a thystysgrifau DPP yn ffordd effeithiol o dystiolaethu eich dysgu.
• Ffocws ar Ddysgu Gydol Oes – Mae dysgu gydol oes, hygyrch yn ganolog i’n darpariaeth - o uwchsgilio yn y gweithle i ddatblygiad personol.
• Cyrsiau Byr a Micro-gymwysterau – Cymwysterau cydnabyddedig ar gyfer datblygiad proffesiynol a phersonol sy’n deillio o’n rhaglenni gradd.
• Hyfforddiant DPP – Ar gyfer gweithwyr proffesiynol sy’n dymuno uwchsgilio, ailsgilio, neu ennill oriau a thystysgrifau DPP.
• Dosbarthiadau Nos, Cyrsiau Ar-lein ac Ysgolion Haf – Opsiynau hyblyg ac amrywiol.
• MOOCs – Cyrsiau ar-lein, am ddim i ehangu eich gwybodaeth.
• Hyfforddiant pwrpasol i Fusnesau – Rhaglenni wedi’u teilwra i helpu sefydliadau i ddatblygu arweinyddiaeth, mynd i’r afael â heriau sector, ac uwchsgilio’r gweithlu.
📧 Cysylltwch gyda'n tîm Cyrsiau Byr 📅 Trefnu Cyfarfod
Croeso i Brifysgol Bangor, lle rydym yn rhagori mewn cyfleoedd dysgu gydol oes hyblyg.
0:00
Ydych chi'n barod i ddatblygu eich sgiliau,
0:08
i roi hwb i’ch gyrfa,
0:09
neu’n syml iawn, ydych chi’n awyddus i ddysgu rhywbeth newydd?
0:10
Mae ein Cyrsiau Byr a’n rhaglenni Datblygiad Proffesiynol
0:13
wedi eu dylunio i ffitio o’ch amgylch chi.
0:17
Gallwch ddysgu wrth eich pwysau ac ar eich telerau eich hun.
0:22
Mae dewis eang o bynciau ar gael ar-lein
0:23
neu yma ar ein campws ym Mangor.
0:27
Ymunwch â chymuned o ddysgwyr brwd
0:29
a manteisiwch ar ein tiwtoriaid rhagorol.
0:30
Ewch draw i’r wefan heddiw,
0:33
a daliwch ati i ddysgu efo Prifysgol Bangor.
0:35
Archwilio addysgeg
Addysgeg ac Arfer
Arwain Newid Sefydliadol
Deall Plentyndod a Ieuenctid
Iechyd Emosiynol, Iechyd Meddwl a Llesiant
Microgymhwyster: Arweiniaeth Gynaliadwy mewn Addysg 1: Gwneud y newid
Microgymhwyster: Arweiniaeth Gyanliadwy Mewn Addysg 2: Gweithredur Cynllun
Teuluoedd Modern
Sgiliau Ymchwil ac Ymholi Uwch
Ymarfer ystafell ddosbarth cynhwysol
Ymarfer Lywio gan Dystiolaeth
Ymarfer Cydweithredol a Phroffesiynol
Egwyddorion a Methodoleg Addysgu Dysgwyr â Gwahaniaeth Dysgu Penodol (Dyslecsia)
Mae Addysg Weithredol Ysgol Busnes Bangor yn cynnig ystod o raglenni dysgu o bell arloesol.
Mae'r holl fodiwlau ar y MBA Bancwr Siartredig a'r MBA Troseddau a Chydymffurfiaeth Ariannol ar gael i'w hastudio fel modiwl annibynnol.
Wedi'i anelu at weithwyr proffesiynol canol gyrfa sy'n gweithio yn y diwydiant gwasanaethau ariannol neu reoleiddio.
Rhoddir ystyriaeth i unigolion sydd ag ychydig iawn o brofiad neu gymwysterau.
Modiwlau ôl-raddedig sy'n cynnwys credydau
Seicoleg Perfformiad Unigol
Y Ddeuad Hyfforddi
PERFFORMIO DAN BWYSAU
HYFFORDDIANT SGILIAU SEICOLEGOL
Deall Personoliaeth
Seicoleg Perfformiad Tîm
Cyflymu Arbenigedd (MICRO-GYMHWYSTER)
DATBLYGU TALENT (MICRO-GYMHWYSTER)
Seicoleg Perfformiad Unigol (micro-gymhwyster)
Y Ddeuad Hyfforddi (micro-gymhwyster)
PERFFORMIO DAN BWYSAU (micro-gymhwyster)
HYFFORDDIANT SGILIAU SEICOLEGOL (MICRO-GYMHWYSTER)
Deall Personoliaeth (MICRO-GYMHWYSTER)
Seicoleg Perfformiad Tîm (MICRO-GYMHWYSTER)
HYFFORDDIANT HYRWYDDWR GWEITHLE EGNÏOL
Y Goncwest Normanaidd a Phrydain Normanaidd, 1066–1087
cyrsiau DPP ar gyfer gweithwyr Iechyd a Gofal Cymdeithasol
Atal Heintiau 1 (cwrs micro-gymhwyster)
Atal Heintiau 2 (cwrs micro-gymhwyster)
Awdurdodiad Annibynnol ar gyfer Trallwyso Cydrannau Gwaed
ECWITI IECHYD A HAWLIAU DYNOL (Academi Tegwch Iechyd, Iechyd Ataliol a Llesiant (ILA-4007))
NEWID YMDDYGIADOL IACH (Academi Tegwch Iechyd, Iechyd Ataliol a Llesiant (ILA-4008))
IECHYD MEDDWL A LLES (ILA-4009)
CYFLWYNIAD I ‘ISUPPORT FOR YOUNG PEOPLE’ - CEFNOGI POBL IFANC SY'N BYW MEWN TEULU SYDD WEDI EI EFFEITHIO GAN DDEMENTIA
MOOC AR YR YMARFER A’R YMDDYGIADAU GORAU I ATATL HEINTIA
CWRS DPP ADDYSG GLINIGOL FFISIOTHERAPI
YSGRIFENNU ER MWYN CYHOEDDI' I YMARFERWYR IECHYD A GOFAL
Rhaglenni ol-radd
Mae Ieithoedd i Bawb yn cynnig amrywiaeth o ddosbarthiadau gyda’r nos mewn tair iaith:
Ffrangeg
Sbaeneg
Tsieinëeg (Mandarin)
Mae’r cyrsiau iaith 10 wythnos hyn wedi’u cynllunio i weddu i amrywiaeth o lefelau – o ddechreuwyr llwyr i ddysgwyr sydd am adnewyddu sgiliau iaith sydd wedi darfod neu barhau o astudiaethau TGAU/UG.
Mae dysgu iaith yn weithgaredd pleserus a heriol, ac yn eich annog i ehangu eich gorwelion, agor drysau i ddiwylliannau eraill ac ehangu eich cylch cymdeithasol.
Mae’r dosbarthiadau wedi’u cynllunio i weddu i amrywiaeth o lefelau – o ddechreuwyr llwyr (A1) i ddysgwyr uwch (B1) sy’n dymuno datblygu eu sgiliau iaith.
Gallwch ddarganfod mwy am y lefelau gwahanol yma.
Bydd y modiwlau ar gael ar sail archwilio yn unig – hynny yw, ni fydd unrhyw asesiad ffurfiol o’r modiwl ac ni fydd unrhyw gredydau’n cael eu dyfarnu ar ôl cwblhau’r modiwl.
Cynhelir cyrsiau yn amodol ar niferoedd lleiaf.
Mae rhai cyrsiau’n boblogaidd iawn – os bydd cyrsiau’n orlawn, bydd cofrestru’n cael ei weithredu ar sail y cyntaf i’r felin.
Yr oedran lleiaf yw 18.
P’un a ydych chi’n ddechreuwr neu’n awyddus i ddatblygu eich sgiliau Cymraeg ymhellach , mae Prifysgol Bangor yn cynnig rhaglen strwythuredig ac effeithiol i gefnogi oedolion sy’n dysgu Cymraeg.
I gofrestru ewch i dysgucymraeg.cymru a dilyn dolen 'dod o hyd i gwrs'.
Cysylltwch am wybodaeth bellach: 01248 383928 / dysgucymraeg@bangor.ac.uk
Sylfeini Plismona’r Deyrnas Unedig: Hanes, Arbenigeddau, a Lladdiad
MA addysgu cyrsiau sy'n seiliedig ar ymwybyddiaeth ofalgar
MA dulliau seiliedig ar ymwybyddiaeth ofalgar
PGDip Cwnsela Plant a Phobl Ifanc (4-18 oed)
Cyflwyniad i Niwroddelweddu
Cyflwyniad i Ddadansoddi Niwroddelweddu
Asesiad Cymhwysedd: Hwyluso Ymwybyddiaeth Ofalgar
CWRS NIWROANATOMI SWYDDOGAETHOL: VISCERAL MIND (YSGOL HAF)
Darganfod y meddwl dynol: Cyfres Gweminarau
Hunanofal Ystyriol yn y Gwaith: rhaglen chwe wythnos
Mae Newid Mewnol yn Gweithio: Grymuso Gwydnwch a Chyfrifoldeb ar gyfer Arweinwyr a Gwneuthurwyr Newid
Rowndiau Dysgu - Cynhadledd Achos Adsefydlu Niwroseiciatrig
PGCERT MEWN ADDYSG I’R PROFFESIYNAU MEDDYGOL AC IECHYD
Addysg i’r Proffesiynau Meddygol ac Iechyd PGDip
ASESU MEWN ADDYSG I’R PROFFESIYNAU MEDDYGOL AC IECHYD
CWRICWLWM MEWN ADDYSG I’R PROFFESIYNAU MEDDYGOL AC IECHYD
DULLIAU CYFOES AT ADDYSG I’R PROFFESIYNAU MEDDYGOL AC IECHYD
Ffarmacogenomeg a Gofal Iechyd Haenedig
Ar hyn o bryd, nid oes unrhyw gyrsiau yn rhedeg yn y pwnc.
⏰ 5 Wythnos
💻 100% Ar-lein
⏰ 12 Wythnos

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/astudio/ol-raddedig-ymchwil:
Rhowch eich sgiliau ymchwil ar waith yng nghwmni cyfoedion ac athrawon sydd yn rhannu eich angerdd am y pwnc.
Porwch drwy ein pynciau ymchwil ôl-raddedig.
Gwneud Cais
Dod o hyd i gartref newydd
Cofrestru am Wybodaeth
Rydym yn cynnal Dyddiau Agored a Digwyddiadau Ôl-radd ar y campws ac ar lein ac mae croeso i chi ymuno â ni i gael dysgu mwy am Brifysgol Bangor a gofyn unrhyw gwestiynau sydd gennych.
Rydym yn cynnig cymorth i weithgareddau ymchwil ac mae gennym nifer o adnoddau arbennigol berthnasol i'n hymchwil.
Prwpas yr Ysgol Ddoethurol yw cyfoethogi eich profiad chi fel myfyriwr ymchwil ôl-radd ym Mangor, ac i sicrhau eich bod yn gwireddu eich potensial yn llawn.
Gwybodaeth i ymgeiswyr ymchwil ôl-raddedig
Ein hymchwil
Ymunwch â ni ar Ddigwyddiad Ôl-Raddedig - dyma'r ffordd orau i weld beth sydd gan Brifysgol Bangor i'w gynnig.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/study/postgraduate-research/apply:
Mae yna sawl ffordd wahanol o wneud cais am ein cyrsiau ôl-raddedig.
Gallwch wneud cais ar-lein am y rhan fwyaf o'n rhaglenni gradd ôl-raddedig.
Dewiswch yr opsiwn isod sy'n berthnasol i'r cwrs rydych chi am ei astudio.
Gallwch wneud cais ar-lein am yr holl raglenni ôl-raddedig trwy ddysgu a rhaglenni ymchwil ôl-raddedig yn y Brifysgol (ac eithrio'r TAR, MBA Bancio Siartedig a DClinPsy).
Gallwch wneud cais eich hunain gyda chymorth ein Nodiadau Canllaw ar ymgeisio ar-lein .
Rydym yn argymell yn gryf eich bod yn darllen rhain cyn i chi wneud cais ar-lein.
Angen cymorth?
Cysylltwch â:
Swyddfa Derbyniadau Ôl-raddedig
Swyddfa Derbyniadau Ôl-raddedig Prifysgol Bangor Gwynedd LL57 2TF
Canolfan Addysg Rhyngwladol:
Canolfan Addysg Rhyngwladol Prifysgol Bangor Gwynedd LL57 2DG
Mae gofyn dilyn proses wahanol i wneud cais am y cyrsiau hyn.
Mae ceisiadau ar gyfer graddau ymchwil yn wahanol i geisiadau am gyrsiau ôl-radd trwy ddysgu fel gradd Feistr.
Er bod y ffurflen gais yr un ffurflen, mae’r ffordd y dylech fynd ati i wneud cais yn gwneud gwahaniaeth.
Fel gydag ein holl gyrsiau, gallwch ariannu cwrs PhD/Mphil ym Mangor eich hun, neu efallai fod gennych gymorth ariannol allanol (er enghraifft gan eich cyflogwr neu gan y cynulliad), ac rydym yn croesawu pob cais am wneud hynny.
Er hynny, yn hytrach na chwblhau ffurflen gais yn unig, gallwch gymryd camau syml er mwyn gwneud yn siŵr fod eich cais yn sefyll allan ac yn fwy tebygol o fod yn llwyddiannus.
Mae pob myfyriwr PhD/Mphil angen goruchwyliaeth gan o leiaf un aelod o staff y Brifysgol, ac os ydych yn ystyried PhD/Mphil mae gennych eisoes syniad o’r pwnc neu’r maes yr ydym am astudio ynddo.
I wneud yn siŵr fod gan y Brifysgol arbenigedd yn y maes er mwyn darparu goruchwyliaeth, edrychwch yn gyntaf ar ein tudalennau staff.
Unwaith yr ydych wedi dod o hyd i aelod o staff sydd yn gwneud gwaith ymchwil yn y maes, gallwch gysylltu â hwy yn uniongyrchol gyda chrynodeb o’ch ymchwil sy’n amlinellu eich cais a gofynnwch a ydynt yn fodlon i oruchwylio eich project.
Os yw’r aelod o staff academaidd yn dangos diddordeb, gallwch drafod ymhellach i ddatblygu cynnig ymchwil PhD/Mphil llawn.
Ar yr adeg yma, dylech wneud cais am y rhaglen PhD/Mphil gan ddefnyddio'r ffurflen sydd ar gael yma.
Dylech gwblhau’r ffurflen yn llawn gan gynnwys cyfeirnodau academaidd, eich cais ymchwil ac enw’r aelod o staff academaidd sydd am eich goruchwylio.
Ymgeisio am ysgoloriaethau PhD a hysbysebir gan Brifysgol Bangor
Mae cynnig ymchwil da yn hanfodol os ydych yn ymgeisio am PhD neu MPhil.
Dylai’r cynnig gynnwys:
Mwy o gyngor am baratoi eich cynnig ymchwil
Mae cyfleoedd i ennill ysgoloriaethau PhD wedi eu hariannu yn codi yn aml drwy gydol y flwyddyn, ac yn cael ei hysbysebu fel cyfleoedd penodol sydd yn gofyn i chi wneud cais ffurfiol.
Mae’r broses gwneud cais ar gyfer ysgoloriaethau PhD wedi eu hariannu yn amrywio o ysgol i ysgol felly mae gofyn i chi edrych ar wefan yr ysgol academaidd briodol a dilyn y cyfarwyddiadau sydd ar gael yno.
Os ydych yn ansicr o unrhyw ran o’r broses gneud cais, gallwch gysylltu â’r ysgol academaidd briodol yn uniongyrchol am gyngor neu gallwch e-bostio postgraduatestudy@bangor.ac.uk
Gallwch gadw golwg ar statws eich cais drwy fewngofnodi i'n System Ymgeisio Uniongyrchol .
Os ydych yn cael unrhyw anhawsterau gyda'n system ar-lein neu os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau am eich cais, cysylltwch â ni:
Swyddfa Derbyniadau:
Swyddfa Derbyniadau Rhyngwladol
Cysylltwch â'ch rheolwr gwlad .
Ydych chi eisiau gwybod beth fydd yn digwydd nesaf?
Dewch i ddarganfod mwy am ffioedd a chyllid, llety, ein lleoliad a'r holl wybodaeth bwysig yr ydych angen ei wybod.
HWB YMGEISWYR

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/yydd:
Rydym yn gymuned ymchwil ryngddisgyblaethol ac integredig gydag ymchwilwyr ôl-raddedig a’u datblygiad yn ganolog iddo.
Rydym yn hyrwyddo cyfleoedd cyfartal a chydbwysedd iach rhwng bywyd a gwaith.
Dyma'r cam cyntaf tuag at ragoriaeth academaidd.
Prif bwrpas yr Ysgol Ddoethurol yw cyfoethogi eich profiad fel ymgeisydd ymchwil ôl-raddedig (PGR) ym Mangor, a sicrhau eich bod yn cyflawni eich potensial llawn.
Rydym hefyd yn darparu cefnogaeth a hyfforddiant i staff goruchwylio.
Mwy gan y Deon Ymchwil Ôl-raddedig
Dysgwch fwy am y llwybrau y gallwch eu defnyddio i gael mynediad at raglenni ymchwil ôl-raddedig, beth bynnag ddisgyblaeth a ddewiswch.
Datblygu a chefnogi cymuned ymchwil ôl-raddedig ryngddisgyblaethol ac integredig, wrth hyrwyddo cyfleoedd cyfartal a chydbwysedd iach rhwng bywyd a gwaith.
Gwybodaeth ac arweiniad hanfodol i oruchwylwyr ar bolisïau, prosesau a rheoliadau i gefnogi eich ymgeiswyr ymchwil ôl-raddedig.
Mae rhan sylweddol o gyllid Cynghorau Ymchwil y DU ar gyfer ysgoloriaethau ymchwil ôl-raddedig yn cael ei ddyfarnu i sefydliadau trwy Ganolfannau Hyfforddiant Doethurol (a elwir hefyd yn DTC neu CDT) a Phartneriaethau Hyfforddiant Doethurol (DTP).
Bydd ein Newyddlen yn ymddangos bob semester, ac yn rhoi’r wybodaeth ddiweddaraf i chi am yr hyfforddiant sydd ar gael, unrhyw gyfleoedd i wneud cais am gyllid neu welliannau eraill i’ch profiad, ac i ddathlu eich llwyddiannau drwy arddangos eich ymchwil.
Newyddlen yr Ysgol Ddoethurol: Chwefror 2025
Gweld y diweddaraf ar Twitter gan yr Ysgol Ddoethurol.
Prifysgol Bangor, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/bywyd-myfyrwyr:
Addysg o'r radd flaenaf, llety o safon a lleoliad arbennig.
Darganfyddwch fwy am fywyd ym Mangor.
Mae gwefan Student Crowd wedi pori drwy filoedd o adolygiadau ac wedi gosod Prifysgol Bangor yn #2 o ran Prifysgolion Cymru 2023.
Rydym yn cael ein gosod yn gyson mewn safle uchel am foddhad myfyrwyr ac ar hyn o bryd rydym yn yr 20 uchaf yn y DU ac yn ail yng Nghymru (Arolwg Myfyrwyr Cenedlaethol 2022).
Cewch barhau â hobi neu chwaraeon neu cael blas ar rywbeth newydd - mae ystod eang o Glybiau a Chymdeithasau i ddewis o'u plith ym Mangor!
Mae bywyd cymdeithasol heb ei ail ym Mangor.
Mae ystod eang o glybiau a chymdeithasau yma i chi ymuno a hwy.
Mae ein neuaddau preswyl o'r safon uchaf ac rydym yn cynnig cymorth bob cam o'r ffordd.
Dewch o hyd i ffrindiau am oes ar y campws.
Mae cymuned Bangor yn glos a chyfeillgar.
Rydych yn sicr o gael ystafell yn ein neuaddau preswyl, os ydych yn fyfyriwr y flwyddyn gyntaf sy'n gwneud cais cyn y dyddiad cau.
Y wybodaeth ddiweddaraf am ffioedd er mwyn hwyluso'ch cyfnod yn y Brifysgol.
Gyda ystod eang o glybiau a chymdeithasau ar gael, rydych yn siwr o ddod o hyd i glwb sy'n eich siwtio chi, beth bynnag yw eich diddordebau.
Mae ein lleoliad yn ddelfrydol ar gyfer gweithgareddau awyr agored.
Mae gennym hefyd adnoddau chwaraeon modern ar y campws.
Mae Bangor wedi ei lleoli ar arfordir gogledd Cymru.
Er ein bod wedi amgylchynu â natur, mae'n hawdd ein cyrraedd ar y trên neu yn y car.
Mae Diwrnodau Agored yn gyfle gwych i chi ddysgu mwy am ein cyrsiau a bywyd myfyriwr.
Gallwch siarad â'n staff a'n myfyrwyr, gwylio cyflwyniadau a mynd ar deithiau o amgylch y campws a'r llety.
Rydym yma i'ch helpu trwy gydol eich cyfnod fel myfyriwr.
Gall ein tîm o Gynghorwyr Anabledd gynnig cyngor i chi cyn i chi gyrraedd ac yn ystod eich astudiaethau.
Mae Arweinwyr Cyfoed yn eich helpu chi i ymgartrefu.
Myfyrwyr ail a thrydedd flwyddyn yw Arweinwyr Cyfoed, a fydd yn eich helpu yn ystod yr Wythnos Groeso a thu hwnt.
Gallwch drefnu sesiynau cwnsela un i un trwy ein canolfan Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr.
Os oes angen cyngor arnoch am gyllid myfyrwyr neu os ydych chi'n profi unrhyw broblemau ariannol, gall ein cynghorwyr helpu.
Mae eich iechyd a'ch lles yn bwysig i ni.
Edrychwch ar yr adnoddau sydd ar gael i'n myfyrwyr.
Ein nod yw creu amgylchedd i chi fyw ac astudio ynddo sy'n sicrhau y gallwch chi fod yn chi'ch hun, manteisio ar bob cyfle a chyrraedd eich potensial llawn.
Os ydych eisoes wedi gwneud cais i astudio gyda ni, gallwch ddod o hyd i wybodaeth ddefnyddiol am yr hyn sy'n digwydd nesaf yn ein Hwb i Ymgeiswyr.
Rydym yn cynnig cannoedd o gyrsiau ar draws y gwyddorau, y celfyddydau, y dyniaethau, busnes a'r gyfraith.
Cymerwch gip ar yr hyn y gallech chi ei astudio.
Gallwch fanteisio ar ystod o gefnogaeth i gryfhau'ch sgiliau academaidd.
Bydd ein gwasanaethau Cyflogadwyedd yn sicrhau eich bod yn barod i gychwyn ar eich gyrfa ar ôl graddio.
Gall yr opsiynau i astudio dramor a chael profiad gwaith eich helpu i ehangu eich gorwelion.
Daw profiad gwaith yn bwysig iawn i raddedigion pan yn chwilio am gyflogaeth.
Rydym yn cynnig amrywiaeth o opsiynau i ennill sgiliau cyflogadwyedd gwerthfawr, sy’n cynnwys eich cefnogi mewn lleoliadau gwaith ac interniaethau.
Beth am gael blas ar ddiwylliant gwahanol fel rhan o'ch gradd?
Gall ein rhaglenni astudio dramor fod yn gyfle arbennig i chi gael profiadau gwerthfawr.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/bywyd-myfyrwyr/cymdeithasu:
Cymuned glos, cyfeillgar o fyfyrwyr - fe wnewch chi ffrindiau oes!
Mae bywyd cymdeithasol Cymraeg heb ei ail ym Mangor, ac Undeb Myfyrwyr Cymraeg Bangor (UMCB) sy’n ganolbwynt i’r rhan helaeth o’r digwyddiadau a’r gweithgareddau hamdden a chymdeithasol – yn amrywio o nosweithiau cymdeithasol, Eisteddfod a Dawns Ryng-golegol i gemau pêl-droed a rygbi, a theithiau blynyddol i’r Iwerddon neu’r Alban.
Sut beth ydi bywyd ym Mangor?
Gadewch inni ddangos i chi!
Beth bynnag ydych chi yn astudio, mae'r amser a'r ymroddiad a ‘da chi’n cael gan eich darlithwyr yn anhygoel - dwi'n teimlo fel enw yn hytrach na rhif!
Mae’r rhan fwyaf o ‘nghwrs i yn cael ei ddysgu trwy ddarlithoedd a seminarau, mewn darlithfeydd modern fel hwn.
Dwi’n treulio lot o amser yn gweithio mewn labordai.
Mae’r cyfleusterau’n anhygoel.
Mae’n helpu fi i gael profiad ymarferol o bynciau bywyd go-iawn.
Dwi'n gwneud llawer o astudio annibynnol - dyma Shankland, y Llyfrgell Gymraeg, mae’n hyfryd yma.
Dwi wedi dewis i astudio rhan o fy ngradd trwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg, a fydd yn wych i ragolygon fy ngyrfa os byddaf yn dewis i aros yng Nghymru.
Mae digon o amser hefyd i fwynhau hefyd.
Mae UMCB yn rhan o Undeb y Myfyrwyr sy'n cynrychioli myfyrwyr Cymraeg a dysgwyr.
Boed hynny’n chwaraeon - dwi'n chwarae pêl droed fel rhan o Chwaraeon y Cymric!
Ymuno ag un o’r cymdeithasau niferus - fel Aelwyd JMJ, lle cawn gyfle i gymryd rhan mewn cystadlaethau fel yr Eisteddfod Ryng-gol a’r Genedlaethol.
Neu i wneud gwahaniaeth i’r gymuned trwy brojectau gwirfoddol fel yr un yma!
Dwi'n byw yn JMJ, sef y neuadd i fyfyrwyr Cymraeg y Brifysgol a mae’r cymuned yn anhygoel yma.
Dwi’n byw adra, ond dwi’n dal yn rhan o Brofiad Bangor!
Boed yn mwynhau panad cyflym rhwng darlithoedd,
..neu yn astudio yn un o’r mannau dysgu cymdeithasol.
Mae’r Cymric yn trefnu digwyddiadau cymdeithasol i fyfyrwyr Cymraeg, ac mae digwyddiadau Campws Byw bob wsos.
Dwi’n cael profiad ymarferol ar leoliad gwaith gwych gyda’r Coleg Cymraeg yn trefnu digwyddiadau sy’n hyrwyddo’r iaith Cymraeg.
Ac fe gymerais i flwyddyn yn astudio dramor yn wlad Belg ag yn yr Eidal a chael golwg newydd ar fywyd.
Mae’r coedwigoedd yma yn anhygoel.
Dwi wrth fy modd yn beicio mynydd yn fy amser sbâr.
Os ydych chi’n gweld hi’n anodd - mae’r gwasanaeth Llesiant a Chefnogi Myfyrwyr ar gael felly fydd rhywun yma yn barod i siarad efo chi.
A mae o ar gael yn ddwyieithog.
Os ydych chi’n dymuno gweithio ochr yn ochr â’ch astudiaethau yma ym Mangor, mae yna lawer o gyfleoedd ar gael.
Dwi’n llysgennad myfyrwyr, sy’n golygu fy mod i’n cael fy nhalu i weithio mewn digwyddiadau fel y diwrnodau agored a hyd yn oed creu cynnwys digidol i’r Brifysgol.
Mae’r bywyd gyda’r nos yn wych - mae’r ddinas yn fach, ac mi fyddwch bob amser yn taro i mewn i ffrindiau mewn tafarndai a chlybiau ac mae’n teimlo’n ddiogel bob tro.
Dwi wrth fy modd yn mwynhau ffilm, cerddoriaeth, y celfyddydau a diwylliant mewn gymuned bywiog Cymraeg.
Beth fydd eich Profiad chi fel yma ym Mangor?
Myfyriwr yn cerdded ar draws y sgrin gyda murlun Pontio yn y cefndir.
Amrywiaeth o glipiau o fywyd ym Mangor, yn cynnwys lluniau o'r awyr o Brif Adeilad y Celfyddydau gyda'r Fenai y tu ôl iddo.
Mae beicwyr mynydd yn cyflymu lawr trac ym Mraichmelyn.
Mae tri myfyriwr yn cerdded i fyny grisiau Pontio, yn sgwrsio.
Mae dau fyfyriwr yn eistedd, yn chwerthin.
Mae'r camera yn canolbwyntio ar un o'u hwynebau.
Mae pum myfyriwr yn sefyll ar draeth yn Ynys Môn.
Mae un yn cymryd hunlun tra bod y lleill yn gwenu yn yr heulwen.
Tri myfyriwr yn sgwrsio ac yn pwyso yn erbyn y rheiliau ar y pier.
Mae dau fyfyriwr yn cofleidio wrth edrych yn syth i mewn i'r camera.
Myfyriwr yn cerdded trwy Lyfrgell Shankland wrth i olau'r haul daflu cysgodion aur.
Mae myfyriwr yn sefyll yn PL5, darlithfa fodern 450-sedd.
Maen nhw'n siarad â'r camera, yna'n troi i ddatgelu'r gofod llawn.
Yn y labordy Gwyddorau Eigion, mae myfyriwr mewn cot labordy wen yn siarad â'r camera.
Llun agos o anifail morol.
Mae myfyriwr yn eistedd yn Llyfrgell Shankland, yn darllen.
Maen nhw'n troi i siarad â'r camera.
Mae'r camera yn ffilmio'r myfyriwr o'r ochr wrth iddo barhau i ddarllen.
Myfyriwr yn sefyll ar ben y grisiau mewn adeilad Gwyddorau Eigion ym Mhorthaethwy.
Yn Y Lolfa, mae myfyriwr yn eistedd ar soffa, yn siarad â'r camera.
Ar y cae 3G, mae tîm pêl-droed merched yn chwarae.
Mae chwaraewr yn derbyn y bêl, yn osgoi chwaraewr arall, ac yn saethu tuag at y gôl.
Llun agos o fyfyriwr yn chwarae'r piano.
Myfyrwyr yn canu wrth ddarllen o daflen gerddoriaeth.
Mae myfyriwr gwirfoddol yn sefyll yn ystafell synhwyraidd Undeb y Myfyrwyr.
Mae plentyn a gwirfoddolwr arall yn gwylio'r goleuadau synhwyraidd.
Mewn cegin myfyrwyr, mae grŵp yn chwarae cardiau ac yn chwerthin.
Mae un myfyriwr yn sefyll o'i flaen, gan edrych yn uniongyrchol ar y camera.
Mae myfyriwr yn cau drws car glas, yna'n cerdded tuag at y camera.
Myfyriwr yn eistedd yng nghaffi Pontio, yn dal cwpan.
Mewn bwth melyn mewn Gofod Dysgu Cymdeithasol, mae myfyriwr yn teipio ar liniadur.
Mae myfyriwr yn sefyll yn ystafell gyffredin JMJ, gyda myfyrwyr eraill y tu ôl iddynt yn chwarae dartiau a phŵl.
Y tu ôl i ddesg, mae myfyriwr yn gweithio ar ei leoliad.
Ffilm o'r awyr o ddinas yng Ngwlad Belg, gydag eglwys gadeiriol yn ganolbwynt.
Gondolas yn Fenis, gyda Sgwâr Sant Marc yn y cefndir.
Dau lun o fyfyriwr yn astudio dramor - un llun yng Ngwlad Belg a'r llall yn Fenis.
Beicwyr mynydd yn rasio i lawr llwybr.
Myfyriwr yn eistedd ar soffa lwyd, yn siarad â'r camera.
Mae'r camera yn symud allan wrth iddynt wenu a dechrau sgwrsio â rhywun arall.
Mae myfyriwr yn sefyll yn Ystafell Ddarllen Richards, gyda golygfa o Gwad Prif Adeilad y Celfyddydau y tu ôl iddynt drwy'r ffenestr.
Dau Lysgennad Myfyrwyr mewn crysau-t coch yn codi bawd.
Mae myfyriwr yn recordio ei hun ar ei ffôn ac yn gwneud arwydd heddwch.
Mae myfyrwyr yn eistedd ar soffas yn Bar Uno, yn sgwrsio dros goffi.
Myfyriwr yn sefyll o flaen arwydd y sinema yn Pontio.
Myfyriwr yn eistedd ar wal teras, yn edrych yn syth i mewn i'r camera.
Logo Prifysgol Bangor.
Mae yna ddigonedd o dafarndai, caffis a bwytai ym Mangor a'r cyffiniau, gyda llawer o leoedd ar gampws y Brifysgol.
Mae Bar Uno ym Mhentref Ffriddoedd ar agor tan yn hwyr ac yn gweini bwyd, diod a choffi Starbucks.
Ym Mhentref y Santes Fair, mae Barlows yn lle gwych i gwrdd â ffrindiau.
Mae'n cynnig dewis o opsiynau bwyd a diod, gan gynnwys coffi Starbucks, ag ystod o eitemau bwyd hanfodol.
Clwb myfyrwyr Bangor yw Academi.
Yn ogystal â'r clwb, mae gan Academi ddau far, caffi a siop.
Mae canolfan Pontio yn ganolbwynt i fyfyrwyr gymdeithasu.
Y tu mewn fe welwch sinema a theatr yn ogystal â bar a chaffi.
Mae Undeb y Myfyrwyr ar y trydydd llawr ac mae darlithfeydd a gofodau dysgu cymdeithasol drwyddi draw.
Mae Undeb y Myfyrwyr yn cynnal digwyddiadau trwy gydol y flwyddyn, gan roi cyfleoedd i chi gwrdd â myfyrwyr eraill a chymryd rhan mewn clybiau, cymdeithasau a chyfleoedd gwirfoddoli.
Undeb Myfyrwyr Cymraeg Bangor (UMCB) sy’n ganolbwynt i’r rhan helaeth o ddigwyddiadau a’r gweithgareddau hamdden a chymdeithasol  y Cymry – yn amrywio o nosweithiau cymdeithasol, Eisteddfod a Dawns Ryng-golegol i gemau pêl-droed a rygbi, a theithiau blynyddol i’r Iwerddon neu’r Alban.
Mae Aelwyd JMJ yn cwrdd yn wythnosol yn neuadd John Morris-Jones.
Prif ffocws yr Aelwyd yw'r côr, ond maent hefyd yn cymdeithasu'n rheolaidd.
Mae Campws Byw yn rhaglen arbennig o weithgareddau ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy'n byw yn neuaddau preswyl y Brifysgol.
Cymerwch seibiant o'ch astudiaethau, cwrdd â phobl newydd a chymryd rhan mewn gweithgareddau rydych chi eisoes yn eu mwynhau, neu beth am roi cynnig ar rywbeth gwahanol?
Mae'r Swyddfa Gymorth Myfyrwyr Rhyngwladol yn cynnal rhaglen gymdeithasol sy'n cynnwys digwyddiadau am ddim yn ogystal â theithiau o amgylch yr ardal leol a thu hwnt.
Er bod y rhaglen wedi'i chynllunio gyda myfyrwyr rhyngwladol mewn golwg, mae'n agored i bob myfyriwr.
Hefyd cynhelir cyngerdd Gala Un Byd bob blwyddyn sy'n dathlu cenedligrwydd niferus ein myfyrwyr.
Mae cymaint i'w weld ym Mangor a'r cyffiniau.
Mae gennym draethau, mynyddoedd, afonydd a llynnoedd ar garreg ein drws.
Mae Pontio yn ganolbwynt myfyrwyr.
Yma fe welwch ddarlithfeydd, gofodau cymdeithasol, theatr, sinema, bar a chaffis.
Mae Campws Byw yn rhaglen o ddigwyddiadau am ddim i fyfyrwyr sy'n byw yn neuaddau'r Brifysgol.
Mae clybiau a chymdeithasau yn chwarae rhan enfawr ym mywyd cymdeithasol ein myfyrwyr.
Mae gan Undeb y Myfyrwyr ystod eang o wahanol rai y gallwch chi ymuno â nhw.
Mae yna amrywiaeth eang ar gael, o chwaraeon fel pêl-droed, pêl-rwyd, rygbi a thenis i weithgareddau mwy anarferol fel hoci tanddwr a quidditch.
Mae ein lleoliad, yn agos at draethau, mynyddoedd, llynnoedd ac afonydd yn golygu y gall myfyrwyr gymryd rhan mewn clybiau antur awyr agored fel syrffio, caiacio, cerdded mynyddoedd a hwylfyrddio.
Ond dydy Bangor ddim ond ar gyfer myfyrwyr sy'n hoffi chwaraeon, gallwch hefyd ymuno â chymdeithasau sy'n ymwneud â drama, ffotograffiaeth, cerddoriaeth a chrefftau.
Mae gan ganolfan chwaraeon y Brifysgol, Canolfan Brailsford, gampfa fawr, stiwdios ffitrwydd, neuaddau chwaraeon, cyrtiau, wal ddringo a llawer mwy.
Mae ystafell ffitrwydd ac ardal gemau aml-ddefnydd ym Mhentref y Santes Fair a chaeau chwarae awyr agored yn Nhreborth.
O fewn Bangor, mae pwll nofio yng nghanol y ddinas.
Gallwch hefyd gymryd rhan mewn ystod eang o chwaraeon awyr agored.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/bywyd-myfyrwyr/chwaraeon:
Amrywiaeth o chwaraeon a chyfle i bawb gymryd rhan.
Gallwch gymryd rhan mewn amrywiaeth enfawr o chwaraeon.
Mae gan Undeb Myfyrwyr Bangor ystod eang o dimau a chlybiau chwaraeon y gallwch ymuno â nhw, gan gynnwys chwaraeon traddodiadol fel pêl-droed, rygbi a thenis yn ogystal â gweithgareddau mwy anarferol fel quidditch, hoci tanddwr a ffrisbi eithafol.
Mae gennym hefyd gyfleusterau ffitrwydd rhagorol ar y campws, ac wrth gwrs mae ein lleoliad yn golygu y gallwch dreulio amser yn yr awyr agored yn dringo mynyddoedd, padl-fyrddio, caiacio, syrffio a llawer mwy.
Mae Canolfan Brailsford, canolfan chwaraeon a hamdden y Brifysgol, wedi ei lleoli yng nghanol Ffriddoedd, y prif safle neuaddau.
Mae'r ganolfan yn cynnwys tair campfa llawn offer ar gyfer ymarfer cardiofasgwlaidd a hyfforddi pwysau, neuadd gymnasteg a wal ddringo gyda sawl lefel anhawster.
Y tu allan ceir caeau pêl-droed a rygbi, cae synthetig gyda llifoleuadau i chwarae hoci, trac athletau a chyfleusterau amlbwrpas i chwarae tenis, pêl-droed pump-bob-ochr a phêl-rhwyd.
Ymhlith y cyfleusterau yn Treborth, mae caeau pêl-droed, rygbi a Phêl-droed Americanaidd a thrac athletau.
Mae ysgafell ffitrwydd ym Mhentref Santes Fair.
Mae'r offer modern a gyflenwir gan LifeFitness yn cynnwys melinau troed, traws hyfforddwyr, beiciau, rhwyfwr dŵr ac amrywiaeth o beiriannau gwrthiant i alluogi ymarfer effeithiol.
Mae aelodaeth o'r gampfa yn gynwysedig i fyfyrwyr sy'n byw yn ein neuaddau preswyl.
Os oes gennych eisoes ddiddordeb mewn gweithgareddau awyr agored byddwch ar ben eich digon gyda'r amrywiaeth eang o chwaraeon sydd ar gael ar garreg eich drws.
Yn Eryri ceir cyfleoedd gwych i ddringo a cherdded mynyddoedd a digonedd o chwaraeon dŵr, yn cynnwys canŵio, syrffio, a hwylio.
Ym Mangor ceir pwll nofio 25 metr gyda byrddau plymio 1m, 3m a 5m.
Mae atyniadau poblogaidd eraill yn yr ardal yn cynnwys Zip World Eryri ym Methesda a Blaenau Ffestiniog, canolfan sgïo ac eirafyrddio Llandudno, Canolfan chwaraeon dŵr Surflines yn Llanberis, y Ganolfan Fynydda Genedlaethol yng Nghapel Curig a'r Ganolfan Chwaraeon Dŵr Genedlaethol ym Mhlas Menai ac Adventure Parc Snowdonia, sef parc chwaraeon dŵr a lagŵn syrffio artiffisial, yn nyffryn Conwy .
Rydym yn cefnogi myfyrwyr a dawn arbennig mewn chwaraeon trwy gynnig nifer o Ysgoloriaethau Chwaraeon gwerth hyd at £3,000 y flwyddyn.
Bwriad yr Ysgoloriaethau yw cydnabod a chefnogi rhagoriaeth a chyrhaeddiad mewn chwaraeon ac nid yw'r ysgoloriaethau wedi eu cyfyngu i unrhyw gamp neilltuol nac i fyfyrwyr ar unrhyw gyrsiau penodol.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/bangortv:
Gwyliwch ein fideos a flogs i gael blas o'r Brifysgol.
Gwyliwch ein fideos i ddysgu mwy am yr hyn sy'n gwneud Prifysgol Bangor yn eithriadol.
Ydych chi'n barod am Fangor?
Mae ein fideos yn rhoi cyfle i chi ddod i adnabod y Brifysgol a'n myfyrwyr a rhoi blas i chi o pam all Bangor fod y lle gorau i chi.
Gwyliwch ein casgliad o fideos ar bynciau llosg fel technoleg Rhith Realiti a chyfresi teledu poblogaidd er mwyn arddangos y cyfleoedd astudio cyffrous sydd ar gael i chi ym Mangor.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/croeso-i-fangor:
Bydd y wefan groeso hon yn eich helpu ar eich ffordd i gychwyn eich taith yn fyfyriwr ym Mangor.
Bydd yn eich cyfeirio at yr holl wybodaeth hanfodol y bydd ei hangen arnoch wrth i chi ymgartrefu yn eich bywyd fel myfyriwr.
Ein Hwythnos Groeso yw'r cyflwyniad delfrydol i fywyd prifysgol.
Mae'n rhoi cyfle i chi wneud ffrindiau newydd a chwrdd â staff academaidd yn ogystal â dewis eich modiwlau yn derfynol, a chanfod eich ffordd o gwmpas cyn i chi ddechrau eich astudiaethau.
Mae ein Harweinwyr Cyfoed yn fyfyrwyr ail a thrydedd flwyddyn sydd wedi’u hyfforddi’n arbennig ac sydd wrth law i’ch helpu i ymgartrefu.
Cadwch lygad amdanynt yn eu crysau lliwgar - bydd llawer iawn ohonynt i’w gweld yn cyfarch newydd-ddyfodiaid ac yn annog pawb i ymuno yn yr holl weithgareddau.
Os ydych yn fyfyriwr newydd sy’n cyrraedd Bangor ar ôl 27 Ionawr, dyma restr wirio fer o'r hyn y dylech fod yn ei wneud nesaf i wneud yn siŵr eich bod yn Barod am Fangor!
Byddwch yn barod am Brifysgol Bangor mewn 10 cam.
Paratowch i ddarganfod yr eithriadol.
Yma fe welwch yr holl wybodaeth am yr Wythnos Groeso y bydd ei hangen arnoch fel myfyriwr israddedig.
Popeth sydd angen i fyfyriwr ôl-radd ei wybod am yr Wythnos Groeso.
Astudio ar ein Campws yn Wrecsam?
Dyma bopeth sydd angen i chi ei wybod.
Bydd ein map campws rhyngweithiol yn dangos i chi sut i fynd o Academi i Ganolfan Brailsford, o Brif Adeilad y Brifysgol i Pontio, ac i bobman arall hefyd o ran hynny.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/bywyd-myfyrwyr/cefnogaeth:
Rydym eisiau sicrhau y byddwch yn ffynnu ym mhob ffordd yn ystod eich cyfnod yma.
Gan ddechrau yn ystod yr Wythnos Groeso, cewch gymaint o help a chefnogaeth â phosib gyda materion iechyd a lles yn ogystal â’ch gwaith academaidd.
Mae’r cynllun Arweinwyr Cyfoed a’r cynllun Tiwtoriaid Personol yn golygu y bydd gennych bob amser fyfyriwr arall neu aelod o’r staff academaidd i droi atynt.
Myfyrwyr yr ail a'r drydedd flwyddyn sydd wedi eu hyfforddi i helpu myfyrwyr newydd ymgartrefu'n y Brifysgol ydy'r Arweinwyr Cyfoed.
Mae gan pob myfyriwr hefyd Diwtor Personol, sy'n aelod o staff o fewn yr ysgol academaidd.
Mae’r Ganolfan Gweinyddu a Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr yn darparu gwasanaeth cefnogi proffesiynol i fyfyrwyr.
Mae’r gwasanaethau sydd ar gael yn cynnwys cyngor ariannol, cefnogaeth lles, sgiliau astudio, uned dyslecsia a chwnsela.
Mae hefyd Tîm Anabledd yma i gynnig cyngor ac arweiniad am nifer o faterion cysylltiedig ag anabledd.
Mae Tîm Cefnogi Dysgu ac Addysgu yn cynnig apwyntiadau unigol, gweithdai ac adnoddau dysgu i helpu datblygu'r sgiliau sydd eu hangen i lwyddo yn y brifysgol.
Mae'r Ganolfan yn cynnig help gydag ysgrifennu academaidd, mathemateg ac ystadegau, cyflwyniadau, darllen ac ymchwil.
Mae ein Canolfan Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr yn darparu ystod eang o gefnogaeth, cyn i chi gyrraedd a thrwy gydol eich astudiaethau.
Ewch i'w gwefan i gael mwy o wybodaeth.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/international/exchanges/outgoing:
Mae astudio neu weithio dramor yn ystod eich gradd yn gyfle rhy dda i'w golli.
Mae ein rhaglenni astudio neu weithio dramor yn rhoi cyfle i chi fanteisio i'r eithaf ar eich profiad astudio.
Mae treulio amser mewn gwlad arall yn gyfle i:
Mae eich opsiynau'n dibynnu ar eich rhaglen gradd.
Fel arfer gall myfyrwyr is-radd fynd dramor am flwyddyn gyfan, cyfnod byr dros yr haf neu, mewn achosion prin, semester yn unig.
Cliciwch ar Dewisiadau Astudio/Gweithio Dramor i gael mwy o wybodaeth am eich cyfleoedd i astudio neu weithio dramor.
Dylech hefyd ddod at un o'r sesiynau wybodaeth am ein cyfleoedd astudio neu weithio dramor, lle byddwn yn rhestru eich opsiynau a'n sôn am gyrchfannau, cyllid a'r broses ymgeisio.
Cewch hefyd y cyfle i ofyn cwestiynau i'r Cydlynydd Cyfnewidiadau Rhyngwladol.
Mae croeso i bob myfyriwr ddod, ond nodwch fod y rhan fwyaf o'n rhaglenni ar gael i fyfyrwyr is-radd yn unig am y tro.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/llysgenhadon-myfyrwyr:
Oes gennych chi angerdd am eich prifysgol ac Addysg Uwch?
Ydych chi yn hoffi cwrdd ag eraill a rhannu eich profiadau?
Os felly, dylech ystyried bod yn Llysgennad Myfyrwyr!
cOFRESTRU EICH DIDDORDEB
Mae bod yn Llysgennad Myfyrwyr yn rôl amrywiol iawn sydd yn cynnig amryw o gyfleoedd cyffrous i chi ddatblygu eich sgiliau arwain, adeiladu tîm a chyfathrebu, a fydd yn cryfhau eich CV a’ch cyflogadwyedd wedi i chi raddio.
Mae Llysgenhadon Myfyrwyr yn cael eu cyflogi ar gytundeb achlysurol.
Bydd amryw o gyfleoedd cyflogedig yn cael eu cynnig i Lysgenhadon yn ystod y flwyddyn academaidd.
Byddwch yn gweithio gyda Llysgenhadon Myfyrwyr sy'n astudio cyrsiau gwahanol ac sydd mewn blwyddyn academaidd wahanol i chi.
Cyfle gwych i wneud ffrindiau newydd!
Fel Llysgennad, byddwch yn creu cysylltiadau ac yn cydweithio gydag amrywiaeth eang o staff dysgu.
Byddwch yn sgwrsio gyda darpar fyfyrwyr a'u teuluoedd am Brifysgol Bangor.
Mi fydd gennych chi rôl arwyddocaol yn y broses recriwtio wrth i chi helpu darpar fyfyrwyr ddod o hyd i gwrs.
Bydd Llysgenhadon yn cynrychioli Prifysgol Bangor a chynorthwyo gyda digwyddiadau recriwtio, ar y campws ac yn allanol.
Darllenwch y disgrifiad llawn o'r swydd isod.
Gwahoddir ceisiadau ar gyfer rôl Llysgennad Myfyrwyr ar sail contract achlysurol.
Cymwysterau/Hyfforddiant
Hanfodol
Profiad/Gwybodaeth
Dymunol
Sgiliau/Galluoedd
Mae'r Brifysgol yn ymrwymo i gefnogi a hyrwyddo cydraddoldeb ac amrywiaeth a chreu amgylchedd gwaith cynhwysol.
Credwn y gellir cyflawni hynny trwy ddenu, datblygu a chadw amrywiaeth eang o staff o nifer o wahanol gefndiroedd.
Rydym yn ymdrechu i ddatblygu gweithlu o bob rhan o'r gymuned beth bynnag fo eu rhyw, hunaniaeth rhywedd, ethnigrwydd, anabledd, cyfeiriadedd rhywiol, hunaniaeth drawsryweddol, statws perthynas, crefydd neu gred, dyletswyddau gofalu, neu oedran.
Rydym yn hyrwyddo ac yn hwyluso'r defnydd o'r Gymraeg trwy ein Polisi Iaith blaengar.
Rydym yn cydymffurfio â Safonau'r Gymraeg ac yn ymrwymo i gyfle cyfartal.
Mae croeso i chi wneud cais am unrhyw swydd yn Gymraeg neu yn Saesneg.
Caiff pob cais ei drin yn gyfartal.
Rydym yn aelod o siarter Cydraddoldeb Rhyw Athena SWAN Advance HE ac rydym wedi derbyn gwobr Efydd i gydnabod ein hymrwymiad i gydraddoldeb rhyw a'r cynnydd a wneir ym mholisïau, arferion a diwylliant y Brifysgol.
Rydym yn falch o fod yn Gyflogwr Hyderus o ran Anabledd.
Mae’n ddyletswydd ar yr holl staff i sicrhau bod eu gweithredoedd yn cydymffurfio ag amcanion amgylcheddol cyffredinol y Brifysgol a lleihau eu heffaith ar yr amgylchedd.
Mae pob cynnig yn amodol ar dystiolaeth eich bod yn gymwys i weithio yn y Deyrnas Unedig ac ar dderbyn geirdaon boddhaol.
Mae cyfrifoldeb cyfreithiol arnom i sicrhau bod gennych yr hawl i weithio yn y Deyrnas Unedig cyn y gallwch ddechrau gweithio inni.
O wneud cais am y swydd bydd gofyn i chi egluro ar ba sail y credwch y byddwch yn gallu byw a gweithio yn y Deyrnas Unedig yn gyfreithiol ar ddyddiad dechrau’r swydd os bydd eich cais yn llwyddiannus.
Os nad oes gennych yr hawl i weithio’n rhydd mewn unrhyw swydd yn y Deyrnas Unedig eisoes, bydd unrhyw gynnig cyflogaeth y byddwn yn ei wneud i chi yn amodol arnoch chi’n cael fisa hawl i weithio.
Mae'r ddolen yma yn darparu gwybodaeth am y gwahanol lwybrau fisa i gyflogaeth a'r gofynion cymhwystra (gan gynnwys newid statws fisa lle caniateir hynny).
Os bydd eich cais yn llwyddiannus byddwn yn trafod yr opsiynau o ran fisa gyda chi ar adeg cynnig y gwaith cyflogedig.
Cofiwch, os derbyniwn geisiadau gan ymgeiswyr sydd ar Gofrestr Adleoli’r Brifysgol ac sydd â sgiliau sy’n cyfateb yn weddol i ofynion y swydd, caiff yr ymgeiswyr hynny eu hystyried yn gyntaf.
Os ydych yn unigolyn cyfrifol ac yn frwd dros rannu eich profiadau gyda darpar fyfyrwyr ac yn awyddus i gynrychioli Prifysgol Bangor drwy fod yn Llysgennad Myfyrwyr, byddem wrth ein bodd clywed gennych.
Cofrestru eich diddordeb
Unwaith y byddwch wedi cofrestru eich diddordeb, bydd un o’r tîm yn cysylltu pan fydd cyfnod ceisio’r cynllun yn weithredol.
Os oes gennych unrhyw ymholiadau pellach, cysylltwch â’r tîm.
Trwy lenwi'r ffurflen hon, rydych yn cytuno i Brifysgol Bangor gysylltu â chi gyda rhagor o wybodaeth am y Cynllun Llysgennad Myfyrwyr.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/student-life/news-videos:
Gwyliwch ein fideos ar BangorTV i ddod i wybod mwy am y Brifysgol a chlywed rhai o'n myfyrwyr yn trafod eu profiadau ym Mangor.
Ewch i sianel YouTube Prifysgol Bangor i wybod mwy amdanom ni.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/paratoi-ar-gyfer-y-brifysgol:
Cyngor a chefnogaeth wrth baratoi ar gyfer y brifysgol.
Gall paratoi ar gyfer y brifysgol fod ychydig yn llethol ar brydiau, felly rydyn ni wedi ymuno â'n myfyrwyr ac arbenigwyr i'ch helpu chi ar hyd y ffordd.
Mi wnawn ni eich helpu chi i gychwyn ymchwilio i ba brifysgol sydd yn berffaith i chi.
Sut i wneud cais, y ffurflen UCAS ac eich datganiad personol.
Hwyl fawr i athrawon a gwersi – helo darlithwyr a darlithoedd.
Beth fydd yn digwydd ar ôl i chi gael eich canlyniadau?
Ydych chi wedi cael eich lle?
Beth os nad ydych chi wedi cael y graddau?
Beth sy’n digwydd nesaf?
Cewch gymaint o help a chefnogaeth â phosib tra'n astudio yma.
Gadewch i ni eich helpu chi i wneud synwyr o’r holl beth.
Yn ogystal â mynychu dyddiau agored ar y campws, efallai byddwch hefyd yn cysylltu â phrifysgolion yn ar-lein.
Dyma rai o'n hawgrymiadau ar sut i ddefnyddio'r we, apiau a chyfryngau cymdeithasol i ymchwilio i'ch opsiynau prifysgol.
Efallai y byddwch yn gadael adref am y tro cyntaf pan yn cychwyn yn y Brifysgol neu efallai eich bod yn byw yn ddigon agos i fedru teithio nol a mlaen.
Mae lle yr ydych chi’n byw yn gwneud gwahaniaeth mawr i'ch profiad yn y brifysgol.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil:
Mae'r ymchwil ym Mangor yn helpu i ddatrus rhai o heriau mwya'r byd, yn gymdeithasol, ym myd iechyd, yn economaidd ac o ran yr amgylchedd.
Mae ymchwil arloesol Prifysgol Bangor, sy'n cael ei sbarduno gan effaith, yn mynd i'r afael â rhai o'r cwestiynau mwyaf sy'n wynebu'r byd heddiw.
Mae Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil 2021, a gyhoeddir yn 2022, yn cydnabod bod mwy na 85% o ymchwil Prifysgol Bangor naill ai gyda’r gorau yn y byd neu'n cael ei gydnabod yn rhyngwladol.
Rydym hefyd yn y 30 Uchaf yn y DU am ddangos effaith ein hymchwil ar y byd go iawn.
Ein gweledigaeth o ran ymchwil ac effaith yw bod yn ganolfan ragoriaeth fyd-eang mewn cynaliadwyedd, ac mae’r brifysgol yn ymdrin â chynaliadwyedd mewn modd unigryw a chyfannol sy'n cyd-daro â Nodau Datblygu Cynaliadwy'r Cenhedloedd Unedig a Deddf Llesiant Cenedlaethau'r Dyfodol (Cymru).
Fel sefydliad sy’n rhoi pwyslais ar ymchwil rydym yn blaenoriaethu buddsoddi mewn ymchwil rhyngddisgyblaethol a wneir eisoes ar raddfa fawr neu a fydd felly yn y dyfodol, sy’n cyd-fynd â chynaliadwyedd, ac sy’n ymdrin â chwestiynau byd-eang heriol.
Mae hyn yn ei dro yn arwain at addysgu ysbrydoledig dan arweiniad ymchwil sy’n adlewyrchu cyfraniad prifysgolion at greu gwybodaeth newydd.
Mae ein hymchwil yn canolbwyntio ar dair thema allweddol: Ynni a'r amgylchedd; Iechyd, lles ac ymddygiad; ac Iaith, diwylliant a chymdeithas.
Dysgwch fwy
am effaith ar ymchwil yn y Deyrnas Unedig
Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil (2021)
yng Nhymru am ansawddd ymchwil
o ymchwil Bangor yn orau yn y byd neu’n rhagorol yn rhyngwladol
Mae ein hymchwil yn seiliedig ar glystyrau o feysydd pwnc eang wedi eu rhannu rhwng tri choleg y Brifysgol.
Mae’r Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil (REF) 2021 yn mesur ansawdd ymchwil ar draws prifysgolion y Deyrnas Unedig.
Caiff ymchwil Prifysgol Bangor ei ategu gan ffocws ar gynaliadwyedd, ac mae’n darparu buddion cymdeithasol, diwylliannol, amgylcheddol, iechyd a lles, gan weithio gydag ystod o bartneriaid i sicrhau effaith ac arloesedd.
Mae Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil 2021, a gyhoeddir yn 2022, yn cydnabod bod mwy na 85% o ymchwil Prifysgol Bangor naill ai gyda’r gorau yn y byd neu yn rhagorol yn rhyngwladol.
Caiff y Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil ei gynnal ar y cyd gan bedwar corff cyllido addysg uwch y Deyrnas Unedig: Cyngor Cyllido Addysg Uwch Cymru (HEFCW), Research England, Cyngor Cyllido’r Alban, ac Adran yr Economi, Gogledd Iwerddon.
Maent yn defnyddio’r Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil i lywio sut mae dyrannu £2 biliwn o gyllid ymchwil bob blwyddyn.
Gellir gweld astudiaethau achos effaith Prifysgol Bangor yma:
Mae ein hymchwil ar 'Ddeallusrwydd Artiffisial Emosiynol' (eAI) wedi datgelu angen dybryd a byd-eang i ystyried agweddau moesegol datblygiad technolegau sy'n mesur ac yn rhyngweithio â chyflyrau affeithiol ac emosiynol.
Mae ymchwil dan arweiniad Bangor wedi dangos effeithiau cymdeithasol negyddol cadwraeth ar rai o'r bobl dlotaf yn y byd.
Mae dementia yn flaenoriaeth fyd-eang o ran iechyd y cyhoedd.
Rydym yn arwain ymchwil ryngddisgyblaethol i ofal dementia sy’n canolbwyntio ar ymyriadau celfyddydau gweledol.
Cewch weld ein holl Astudiaethau Achos Effaith REF 2021 ar ein tudalennau Themâu Ymchwil:
Mae ein hymchwilwyr yn cyhoeddi ar draws amrywiaeth eang o bynciau ac ar draws amrywiaeth o lwyfannau newyddion gan gynnwys The Conversation.
Darllen Erthyglau
Mae ymchwil yn ganolog i Brifysgol Bangor; mae’n rhan annatod o’n haddysgu ac yn ennyn brwdfrydedd mawr yn ein staff academaidd.
Cafodd y llwyddiant hwn ei adlewyrchu yn y Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil 2014.
Cydnabu bod dros dri chwarter o ymchwil Bangor naill ai gyda’r orau yn y byd neu yn rhagori’n rhyngwladol.
Daw ein hymchwilwyr o dros 30 o wledydd ar draws y byd, ac maent yn gweithio â chydweithwyr o dros 120 o wledydd.
Darganfyddwch am yr amrywiaeth eang o raglenni ymchwil ôl-raddedig a gynigiwn.
Darganfyddwch am y gefnogaeth hyfforddi a datblygu ar gyfer myfyrwyr ymchwil ôl-raddedig.
Darganfod mwy am y gweithgareddau a'r prosiectau ysbrydoledig y mae ein hymchwilwyr ac ymchwilwyr/myfyrwyr ôl-raddedig yn gweithio arnynt.
Darganfyddwch mwy am sut mae'r Swyddfa Ymchwil, Arloesi ac Effaith yn  darparu ystod eang o wasanaethau cefnogi i staff, ôl-raddedigion a busnesau.
Y Ganolfan Gyfweithio yw porth y Brifysgol i fusnesau a chyrff allanol eraill sydd eisiau manteisio ar yr arbenigedd, y cyfleusterau a’r sgiliau sydd ar gael yn y Brifysgol.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/ynglyn:
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn darparu amgylchedd lle mae syniadau ymchwil gwych yn cael eu creu ac yn cael cyfle i ffynnu.
Mae mwy na 85% o'n hymchwil gyda’r gorau yn y byd neu o safon ragorol yn rhyngwladol (Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil 2021).
Mae ein harbenigedd yn helpu i ddatrys heriau cymdeithasol, heriau iechyd, heriau economaidd a heriau amgylcheddol mwyaf y byd.
A chyda dull gweithredu unigryw a chyfannol o ymdrin â chynaliadwyedd yn sail i’n holl waith ymchwil, mae ansawdd ein heffaith ar Ddatblygu Cynaliadwy yn 1af yng Nghymru, yn 11eg yn y Deyrnas Unedig ac yn y 53ain safle yn rhyngwladol allan o 1,500 o sefydliadau yng nghynghrair effaith prifysgolion 2022 Times Higher Education.
Trwy ein hymchwil, ein cydweithrediadau a'n partneriaethau rydym ar flaen y gad o ran blaenoriaethau a heriau cymdeithasol newydd ac rydym yn cyfrannu at bolisïau’r Llywodraeth o ran sut i fynd i’r afael â’r pethau hyn.
Ymhlith ein mentrau blaenllaw, bydd y cynlluniau a gefnogir gan Lywodraeth Cymru i sefydlu Ysgol Feddygol Gogledd Cymru ym Mhrifysgol Bangor o 2024 yn darparu Ysgol ryngbroffesiynol arloesol sy’n adeiladu ar ein cryfderau ymchwil yn y Gwyddorau Dynol ac yn helpu i ddatblygu iechyd a gofal cymdeithasol cynaliadwy at y dyfodol a fydd yn gynaliadwy, yn seiliedig ar le ac yn cefnogi twf y sector gwyddorau bywyd yn rhanbarthol.
O ddod o hyd i atebion ynni'r dyfodol i fynd i'r afael ag elfennau o'r pandemig COVID-19 mae ein hymchwilwyr, ein canolfannau academaidd, a’r partneriaethau yr ydym yn rhan ohonynt yn ein helpu i wneud gwahaniaeth i fywydau pobl ledled y byd.
Mae gan Brifysgol Bangor un o'r grwpiau mwyaf o wyddonwyr amgylcheddol yn y Deyrnas Unedig.
Mae ein gwaith ym maes Gwyddorau’r Eigion a’r Gwyddorau Naturiol, y mae iddo enw da yn rhyngwladol, yn amrywio o newid amgylcheddol byd-eang i gynhyrchu bwyd mewn modd cynaliadwy.
Mae ymchwil Prifysgol Bangor yn defnyddio dull 'systemau' cyfannol, gyda ffocws arbennig ar ystod o weithgareddau ynni carbon isel gan gynnwys systemau ynni niwclear a morol a thechnolegau synwyryddion.
Mae ein gwaith yn canolbwyntio'n helaeth ar wella parodrwydd technolegau newydd, wedi'u cryfhau trwy bartneriaethau diwydiannol arwyddocaol.
Mae Sefydliad Dyfodol Niwclear Bangor, sy’n fawr ei fri, yn cynnwys cyfleusterau eithriadol sy’n cael eu defnyddio gan ymchwilwyr a rhanddeiliaid y diwydiant i gynorthwyo’r gwaith o ddatblygu technoleg niwclear, tra bod ein Canolfan Ynni Effeithlon Craff yn datblygu peirianneg, cyfrifiadureg a modelu i gynyddu cynaliadwyedd cyflenwad a defnydd ynni tra’n lleihau effeithiau amgylcheddol negyddol.
Ym maes busnes a chyllid, mae Ysgol Busnes Bangor ar flaen y gad o ran ymchwil a hyfforddiant ym meysydd cyfrifeg, bancio a chyllid yn y Deyrnas Unedig ac mae wedi ei rhestru ymhlith y 50 sefydliad gorau yn y byd am ymchwil Bancio.
Mae gwyddonwyr chwaraeon yn gwneud ymchwil i wytnwch meddwl, perfformiad elît, perfformiad dynol ac iechyd mewn amgylcheddau eithafol, ymddygiad deietegol a metabolaeth, ac ymarfer corff ac iechyd fasgwlar.
A gyda ffocws ymchwil ar y Gymraeg ac Astudiaethau Celtaidd, Ysgrifennu Creadigol a Pherfformio, ac Ieithyddiaeth rydym yn manteisio ar ddiwylliant Cymreig yr ardal y mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi ei lleoli ynddi ac yn gosod hynny mewn cyd-destun rhyngwladol.
Lle gwelir arbenigedd ymchwil y brifysgol yn cydblethu ag arbenigeddau sectorau diwydiant lleol, mae hyn yn creu 'canolbwynt' pwerus ar gyfer gweithgarwch arloesi.
Yn bwysig ddigon, rhan o ethos Prifysgol Bangor yw cysylltu ein hymchwil ag amgylchedd rhanbarthol Gogledd Cymru fel y gall effaith yr ymchwil hwnnw helpu i sbarduno adfywiad economaidd a chymdeithasol.
Yn ogystal â bod â’r gyfran uchaf o staff dwyieithog Cymraeg/Saesneg yng Nghymru, ac arbenigedd nodedig yn hanes a diwylliant Cymru a’r Gymraeg, mae ein hymchwilwyr yn dod o 30 o wledydd ledled y byd ac yn cydweithio â chydweithwyr mewn dros 120 o wledydd.
Mae ymwneud â'n cymunedau a dangos gwerth ein hymchwil i gymdeithas yn rhan greiddiol o'r hyn ydym.
Rydym wedi ymrwymo i gynnal perthynas gadarnhaol a llwyddiannus â rhanddeiliaid a hynny drwy drefn bedwarplyg sef ymchwil prifysgol, arbenigedd diwydiant, llywodraeth a chymdeithas ddinesig.
Mae'r brifysgol yn gwerthfawrogi ac yn buddsoddi yn natblygiad ymchwilwyr y dyfodol.
Rydym yn integreiddio darpariaeth myfyrwyr ymchwil ôl-radd yn rhan o’n meysydd rhagoriaeth ymchwil unigryw ac ar yr un pryd yn darparu profiad o ansawdd uchel wedi ei hwyluso gan Ysgol Ddoethurol y brifysgol.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn cymryd rhan mewn nifer o Ganolfannau a Rhaglenni Hyfforddiant Doethurol cenedlaethol, a ni sy’n rheoli rhaglen PhD/MRes KESS II sy'n canolbwyntio ar fusnes ledled Cymru ar ran holl brifysgolion Cymru.
Caiff gwaith Prifysgol Bangor yn y maes hwn ei ategu gan ymchwil sylfaenol i wyddorau biolegol, cemegol a ffisegol systemau naturiol, ac mae wedi'i gysylltu'n strategol â pheirianneg systemau, modelu a dyfeisiau cymhleth, yn enwedig ym maes ynni, a gyda gwyddorau cymdeithas, yn arbennig ym maes cadwraeth.
Rydym yn mynd i'r afael â chwestiynau fel: sut allwn ni ymateb yn gyflym i asesu lledaeniad COVID-19 yn ninasoedd y Deyrnas Unedig?
Sut allwn ni gynaeafu ynni llanw’r môr yn effeithiol?
Beth yw’r ffordd fwyaf effeithlon o adnabod mathau gwydn a chynhyrchiol o gnydau bwyd?
Gyda ffocws ar ddatblygu ymyriadau cadarn, ar sail empirig, sy’n addas i’w cyd-destun ac sydd wedi’u seilio ar ddealltwriaeth sylfaenol o ymddygiad dynol, mae’r ymchwil hwn yn cefnogi iechyd a llesiant trwy’r effaith a gaiff ar unigolion, llunwyr polisi ac ymarferwyr neu drwy newid diwylliannol ehangach.
Rydym yn mynd i'r afael â chwestiynau fel: sut allwn ni wella amodau yn yr ystafell ddosbarth i gyfoethogi’r dysgu?
Sut allwn ni ddefnyddio mewnwelediadau o’r celfyddydau i gynorthwyo pobl â dementia?
Sut allwn ni nodi a chefnogi'r pobl sydd â potensial i gael llwyddiant Olympaidd?
Mae'r ymchwil hwn yn rhoi sylw i ymwneud hunaniaeth a chymuned o safbwyntiau disgyblaethol amrywiol, mae’r ymchwil hwn yn edrych ar y rhyngwyneb rhwng unigolyn a chymdeithas, a sut caiff ymdeimlad o berthyn ei gronni trwy ddiwylliant, y cyfryngau, iaith a hanes, a’i effeithio gan natur newidiol cymunedau a chenhedloedd, gan gynnwys strwythurau llywodraethu, cyllid a chyfiawnder gweinyddol.
Rydym yn rhoi sylw i gwestiynau megis beth yw'r profiad o ddefnyddio'r Gymraeg mewn bywyd pob dydd a sut allwn gefnogi’r defnydd hwnnw gyda thechnolegau ar gyfer cydraddoldeb iaith ddigidol?
Beth yw'r ffordd orau i'r cyhoedd wneud endidau gwyliadwriaeth cyfrinachol a gwladwriaethol yn atebol yn gyhoeddus?
Sut mae allbwn llenyddol a chreadigol yn gwella ein synnwyr o le yn ogystal â'i hyrwyddo i'r byd?
Mae'r effaith ein hymchwil yn amrywio o'r bwyd y byddwn yn ei fwyta a'r amgylchedd rydym yn byw ynddo, at iechyd a lles a gwella'r economi a chyfraith gwlad.
Mae'n trawsnewid bywydau miliynau o bobl o gwmpas y byd.
Cymerwch gip ar ein Strategaeth Ymchwil i ddarganfod sut rydyn ni'n cyfnerthu ein safle ymhlith y 40 prifysgol orau yn y DU am Ansawdd Ymchwil.
Y Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil (REF) yw'r system gyfredol ar gyfer asesu ansawdd ymchwil yn sefydliadau addysg uwch y DU.
Darganfyddwch fwy am ein hymchwil gyfredol a gorffennol.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi cyflawni Gwobr Efydd Athena SWAN sy'n nodi ein hymrwymiad i gydraddoldeb ac amrywiaeth rhywedd.
Darparu yr amgylchedd, y digwyddiadau a'r gweithgareddau i gefnogi arloesedd.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/ysgolion:
Gwefan Ymchwil y Coleg
Gwefan Ymcwhil y Coleg

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/ymchwil/sefydliadau-a-chanolfannau-ymchwil:
Mae Sefydliadau a Chanolfannau Ymchwil yn rhan greiddiol o waith Prifysgol Bangor.
Mae'r Brifysgol yn annog sefydlu canolfannau ymchwil fel fframwaith ar gyfer hyrwyddo a hwyluso ymchwil a chyfleoedd dysgu ôl-radd rhyngddisgyblaethol.
Maent yn cynnig llwybr i'r Brifysgol gyrraedd ei amcanion strategol yng nghyd-destun ymchwil rhagorol, effaith a chynyddu incwm ymchwil.
Ceir mwy o wybodaeth ar y broses o sefydlu Sefydliadau a Chanolfannau Ymchwil ar http://www.bangor.ac.uk/reo/policies
Mae'r Sefydliadau a Chanolfannau Ymchwil canlynol wedi'u lleoli ar draws nifer o Brifysgolion gyda phresenoldeb sylweddol ym Mhrifysgol Bangor:
Mae'r Sefydliadau a Chanolfannau Ymchwil canlynol wedi'u lleoli'n bennaf neu'n llwyr ym Mhrifysgol Bangor ac yn gweithredu ar draws nifer o Ysgolion neu Golegau:
Mae'r Sefydliadau a Chanolfannau Ymchwil canlynol wedi'u lleoli'n bennaf neu'n llwyr o fewn un Ysgol neu Goleg:
Canolfan Astudiaethau Arthuraidd
Mwy am ganolfannau ymchwil y Coleg
Nid yw'r Sefydliadau a Chanolfannau Ymchwil canlynol bellach yn weithredol.
Serch hynny, gellir canfod gwybodaeth am waith blaenorol ar y dolenni isod:

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/iris:
Swyddogaeth y Swyddfa Ymchwil a Menter yw:
I gael gwybod mwy am ein hystod eang o wasanaethau cefnogi i staff, ôl-raddedigion a busnesau ewch i adran berthnasol ein gwefan trwy ddilyn y ddewislen ar y llaw chwith.
Y newyddion diweddaraf o'r Gwasanaeth Cymorth Integredig Ymchwil ac Effaith (IRIS).
Newyddion
IRIS, Prifysgol Bangor, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/energy/index.php.cy:
Mae Bangor wrth wraidd ymchwil ar y cyd i garbon isel, ynni a'r amgylchedd yng Nghymru.
Mae'r brifysgol yn gartref i Rwydwaith Ymchwil Cenedlaethol Sêr Cymru i Ynni Carbon Isel a’r Amgylchedd, Cymru gyfan.
Mae'r rhwydwaith yn cefnogi ymchwil ar y cyd i'r rhyngweithiadau rhwng tir, dŵr, bwyd a chynhyrchu ynni.
Mae'n rhwydwaith o dros 36 o sefydliadau partner yn cynnwys sefydliadau ymchwil, cyrff y llywodraeth, busnesau bach a chanolig, partneriaid yn y diwydiant a dros 80 o ymchwilwyr, yn canolbwyntio ar ddwysáu mewn modd cynaliadwy, llwybrau ynni carbon isel, datblygu’r bio-economi ynghyd ag effeithiau a lliniaru newid yn yr hinsawdd.
Mae enghreifftiau o'i gynnyrch ymchwil yn cynnwys meintioliad, optimeiddiad, ac effaith amgylcheddol ynni adnewyddadwy'r môr a Geo-Carb-Cymru, project sy'n asesu, nodweddu, a gwella ynni geothermol yng Nghymru.
Mae ymchwil Bangor mewn cynaliadwyedd ynni'r dyfodol gyda'r gorau yn y byd.
Er enghraifft, yn ôl Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil 2014 roedd 89% o'r ymchwil a gyflwynwyd gan Fangor ar systemau daear a gwyddorau'r amgylchedd yn rhagorol ar raddfa ryngwladol neu gyda'r gorau yn y byd.
Roedd gan 40% effaith rhyngwladol rhagorol.
Roedd y cyflwyniadau'n cynnwys ymchwil i gynnwrf i wella rhagolygon y môr ac isadeiledd ynni'r môr.
Mae gan Brifysgol Bangor nifer o grwpiau ymchwil penodol sy'n hyrwyddo'r agenda ynni adnewyddadwy yn eu ffyrdd eu hunain.
Dyma enghreifftiau:
Hafan
© 2020 Prifysgol Bangor

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/iris/ref-2021:
Ymchwil Bangor yn y 30 Uchaf trwy’r Deyrnas Unedig am effaith gymdeithasol
Mae ymchwil Prifysgol Bangor wedi ei gosod mewn safle uchel yn Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil diweddaraf y Llywodraeth (REF2021), gyda 85% gyda’r gorau yn y byd (4*) neu’n rhagorol yn rhyngwladol (3*).
Yn gyffredinol, mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi'i rhestru yn 2il yng Nghymru ac yn y 50 uchaf yn y Deyrnas Unedig yn y Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil sy’n mesur ansawdd ymchwil ar draws holl brifysgolion y Deyrnas Unedig.
Mae ymchwil Prifysgol Bangor yn darparu buddion cymdeithasol, diwylliannol ac amgylcheddol, o ddatblygiadau mewn gofal iechyd i brwydro newid ar yr amgylcheddol byd-eang, a dod o hyd i atebion ynni'r dyfodol.
Mae Gwyddorau Chwaraeon ac Ymarfer ym Mangor yn cael ei restru ymhlith y 5 Uchaf yn y Deyrnas Unedig.
Gyda sgôr rhagorol o ran effaith gymdeithasol yr ymchwil, sydd gyda’r gorau yn y byd a rhagorol yn rhyngwladol, mae ein gwyddonwyr chwaraeon blaenllaw yn gwneud ymchwil i wytnwch meddwl, perfformiad elît, ymddygiad deietegol a metabolaeth, ac ymarfer corff ac iechyd fasgwlar.
Mae ymchwil Prifysgol Bangor yn newid y byd ym meysydd Systemau Daear a Gwyddorau’r Amgylchedd ac mae wedi ei restru yn 1af yn y Deyrnas Unedig am effaith yr ymchwil.
Gydag un o'r grwpiau mwyaf o wyddonwyr amgylcheddol yn y Deyrnas Unedig, mae ein hymchwil wedi'i restru yn chweched yn y Deyrnas Unedig ac yn 1af yng Nghymru am bŵer ymchwil.
Mae ein gwyddonwyr yn mynd i’r afael â newid yn yr hinsawdd ac yn rhoi sylw i rai o faterion amgylcheddol pennaf y blaned, ar y tir ac ar y môr, megis gorddefnyddio plastigion untro, a diogelu amrywiaeth rhywogaethau ac ecosystemau trwy ymchwil i gadwraeth bioamrywiaeth.
Mae ein hymchwil sy’n ymwneud â’r Proffesiynau Perthynol i Iechyd, Deintyddiaeth, Nyrsio a Fferylliaeth yn y 15ed safle yn gyffredinol yn y Deyrnas Unedig.
Mae'r gwaith yma'n cefnogi cynlluniau blaenllaw'r brifysgol, gyda chefnogaeth Llywodraeth Cymru, ar gyfer sefydlu Ysgol Feddygol Gogledd Cymru ym Mhrifysgol Bangor o 2024 a fydd yn adeiladu ar ein cryfderau ymchwil yn y Gwyddorau Dynol ac yn helpu i ddatblygu iechyd a gofal cymdeithasol i’r dyfodol a fydd yn gynaliadwy, yn seiliedig ar le ac yn atgyfnerthu twf y sector gwyddorau bywyd y rhanbarth.
Cafodd mwy na 150 o brifysgolion a sefydliadau ymchwil eraill yn y Deyrnas Unedig eu hasesu fel rhan o’r ymarfer.
Mae’r canlyniadau hyn yn rhoi Prifysgol Bangor ar flaen y gad o ran datblygu ymatebion arwyddocaol i heriau’r byd yr ydym yn byw ynddo, sef cynaliadwyedd, carbon isel, iechyd ataliol, hybu technoleg ac arloesedd, a diwylliant a’r celfyddydau.
Ar gyrion disgyblaethau y mae ymchwilwyr yn arloesi go iawn ac mae ymchwil rhyngddisgyblaethol Bangor o bwys byd-eang yn dangos effaith yn y byd go iawn.
Mae ein safle yn ail yn gyffredinol yng Nghymru yn dangos ein hymrwymiad i gefnogi ymchwil, arbenigedd diwydiant ac ymgysylltu dinesig er budd yr economi a chymdeithas yng Ngogledd Cymru a thu hwnt.
Mae ymchwil integredig sy’n gysylltiedig a meddygaeth ac iechyd yn rhan o’r hyn a wna Sefydliad Ymchwil Iechyd a Meddygol blaenllaw Prifysgol Bangor.
Mae'r sefydliad yn blaenoriaethu ymchwil i wella canlyniadau cleifion.
Mae ein portffolio yn cyfrannu at y rhaglen fyd-eang o ymchwil i bandemig COVID-19.
Ac mae ein hymchwilwyr yn ymwneud â phartneriaid o’r llywodraeth, o gyrff rheoleiddio, o’r GIG ac o’r trydydd sector i wella ymchwil polisi.
Mae ein hymchwil yn defnyddio pum prif fethodoleg: Ffarmacoeconomeg ac economeg iechyd cyhoeddus; cynllunio treialon clinigol a gwerthuso ymyriadau meddygol cymhleth; ymchwil eilaidd newydd; gwyddor gweithredu gydag ymchwil gyfranogol; a bioleg gellog.
Mae'r rhain i gyd yn galluogi ymchwil cydgysylltiedig i ymdrin ag ymyriadau seicogymdeithasol ar gyfer dementia, iechyd y geg, ymchwil gofal cychwynnol a lliniarol a mecanweithiau cellog canser.
Ar hyn o bryd does dim iachâd iddo ac mae'r driniaeth feddygol sydd ar gael yn gyfyngedig.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn arwain ymchwil ryngddisgyblaethol i ofal dementia sy’n canolbwyntio ar ymyriadau celfyddydau gweledol.
Trwy gyfuniad o hyfforddiant proffesiynol, digwyddiadau cyhoeddus a llwyddiant y canllaw ymarferwyr ar-lein a gynhyrchwyd ar y cyd, ‘Dementia & Imagination’, ar gyfer darparu gwasanaethau celfyddydau ac iechyd, mae llawer o bobl â dementia wedi gwella eu llesiant a’u hansawdd bywyd.
Dangosodd gweithwyr gofal proffesiynol well sgiliau a hyder.
Arweiniodd hefyd at well darpariaeth gwasanaeth gofal dementia, gwell canfyddiadau cyhoeddus a dylanwad polisi cyhoeddus gan gynnwys newidiadau i ddarpariaeth gwasanaeth dementia cenedlaethol lle sicrhaodd Age Cymru arian ychwanegol i ymestyn ymyriadau celfyddydol mewn gwasanaeth gofal dementia am ddwy flynedd.
Cyflwynodd y gwasanaeth 864 o sesiynau celfyddydol ychwanegol ar draws cartrefi gofal yng Nghymru ac mae cyfanswm o 1840 o sesiynau celf wedi’u darparu i 25% o gartrefi gofal ledled Cymru.
Dangosodd ein hymchwil sut y gwnaeth ymyriadau celfyddydol wella ansawdd bywyd pobl yr effeithir arnynt gan ddementia, gyda £5 o werth cymdeithasol yn cael ei gynhyrchu am bob £1 a fuddsoddwyd.
Mae gennym dystiolaeth o welliannau i ofal a darpariaeth gwasanaethau, canfyddiadau’r cyhoedd a dylanwad ar bolisi cyhoeddus.
Yn bwysicaf oll, fe wnaeth ein hymchwil alluogi hybu iechyd ac ansawdd bywyd pobl â dementia.
Gill Windle, Athro mewn Ymchwil i Heneiddio a Dementia
Mae ymchwil a gafodd ei arwain gan Brifysgol Bangor wedi llywio cynllun gwasanaethau deintyddol y GIG yng Ngogledd Iwerddon a Chymru.
Roedd hyn yn cynnwys rhaglenni cenedlaethol i ddiwygio contractau a defnyddio cyllid seilwaith i hyrwyddo 'cymysgedd sgiliau' yng Nghymru.
Gyda 50.2% o oedolion Gogledd Iwerddon a 54.8% o oedolion Cymru yn defnyddio gwasanaeth deintyddol y GIG, amcanion polisi’r ddwy wlad yw cynyddu mynediad at wasanaethau, deintyddiaeth ataliol ac ansawdd y gofal a ddarperir.
Mae cymysgedd sgiliau hefyd yn faes polisi allweddol yng Nghymru.
Arweiniodd Prifysgol Bangor asesiad o ddylanwad cymhellion ariannol ar ddarpariaeth ddeintyddol y GIG.
Llywiodd y canlyniadau’n uniongyrchol benderfyniadau a wnaed yn y ddwy wlad ynghylch diwygio contractau, a’u helpu i lywio pandemig COVID-19 a chanlyniadau dramatig hynny o ran y gostyngiad mewn gweithgarwch clinigol.
Roedd yr ymchwil yn awgrymu fod Therapyddion Deintyddol yn debyg i ymarferwyr deintyddol cyffredinol o ran eu gallu i gynnal archwiliadau mewn cleifion risg isel; cafodd canlyniadau gwerthusiad y broses eu bwydo'n ôl yn gynnar i Lywodraeth Cymru a helpodd hynny i lywio'r gwaith o ddiwygio contractau'r GIG.
O ganlyniad i’r gwaith hwn, cafodd Prifysgol Bangor ei chomisiynu gan Lywodraeth Cymru i sefydlu Cyfadran Cymru Gyfan ar gyfer Gweithwyr Proffesiynol Gofal Deintyddol, er mwyn gwella ansawdd yr hyfforddiant ar gyfer Gweithwyr Proffesiynol Gofal Deintyddol ledled y wlad.
Mae’r Gyfadran, drwy fanteisio ar ymchwil Prifysgol Bangor, yn datblygu cymwysterau ar gyfer Hylenwyr Deintyddol a Nyrsys Deintyddol ac mae cysylltiadau â’r broses barhaus o ddiwygio contractau'r GIG ledled Cymru.
Dechreuwyd y cyfleuster ôl-radd hwn i’r GIG ym mis Ionawr 2020 i “godi gwastad iechyd ataliol a defnyddio sgiliau ataliol y tîm deintyddol cyfan i ddiwallu anghenion cleifion” ledled Cymru.
Bellach mae gan y Gyfadran ddau gymhwyster a ddilyswyd gan y Cyngor Deintyddol Cyffredinol a chan Sgiliau Addysg Uwch a Dysgu Gydol Oes yn Llywodraeth Cymru.
Mae ein hymchwil wedi arwain at newidiadau polisi ac at fuddsoddiad strategol yng Nghymru ac wedi llywio polisi diwygio contractau deintyddol yng Ngogledd Iwerddon a Chymru ac wedi helpu i ddarparu newid sylweddol mewn hyfforddiant deintyddol yng Nghymru.”
Mae ymchwil yn Ysgol Seicoleg Prifysgol Bangor yn adlewyrchu dau ddull gweithredu y mae iddynt hanes hirsefydlog: datblygu a chymhwyso ymyriadau i hybu iechyd a lles o blentyndod cynnar hyd at oedran hŷn; a niwrowyddoniaeth wybyddol, lle mae'r Ysgol wedi buddsoddi mewn arbenigedd ymchwilwyr a chyfleusterau arbenigol.
Mae ymchwil yr Ysgol yn canolbwyntio ar: :
Mae cyrhaeddiad llythrennedd isel yn effeithio ar un o bob pump o bobl ifanc 15 oed yn Ewrop, gyda chanlyniadau i ystod o ragolygon tymor hir, ond gellir ei osgoi gyda diagnosis cynnar o risg ac ymyriadau amserol.
Mae grŵp rhyngwladol o ymchwilwyr dan arweiniad Bangor wedi datblygu Cyfres o Asesiadau Amlieithog o Lythrennedd Cynnar (MABEL) - yr adnodd cyntaf i fod ar gael ar y we, sy'n cynnig cyfres o brofion mewn pum iaith i asesu iaith uniaith, dwyieithog ac ail iaith.
Mae 750 o ymarferwyr mewn 22 o wledydd a oedd yn flaenorol heb asesiadau gwrthrychol o ansawdd uchel yn seiliedig ar dystiolaeth i ganfod risg cynnar o fethiant llythrennedd plant wedi cael budd o MABEL ers mis Medi 2019.
MABEL yw'r unig gyfres amlieithog i asesu dysgwyr uniaith, dwyieithog ac ail iaith o unrhyw gyfuniad o'r ieithoedd MABEL.
Yn ogystal, MABEL yw'r unig gyfres ddiagnostig gyda sgorau sy’n seiliedig ar normau sydd ar gael sy'n canolbwyntio'n benodol ar lythrennedd cynnar a sgiliau cysylltiedig mewn Tsiec, Slofac a Chymraeg ac mae bellach yn cael ei ddefnyddio gan amrywiaeth eang o ymarferwyr.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn enwog yn rhyngwladol am ei dylanwad prif ffrwd ar ansawdd cyflwyno rhaglenni sy’n seiliedig ar ymwybyddiaeth ofalgar ac mae wedi bod ar flaen y gad yn y gwaith o drosi ymchwil i ymarfer.
Gall rhaglenni sy’n seiliedig ar ymwybyddiaeth ofalgar gynorthwyo pobl i reoli cyflyrau iechyd meddwl tymor hir fel iselder a phryder.
Rebecca Crane o Brifysgol Bangor oedd yn arwain datblygiad yr ymyriadau seiliedig ar ymwybyddiaeth ofalgar: Meini Prawf Asesu Addysgu (MBI: TAC) - yr unig adnodd sy'n diffinio ac yn asesu elfennau cymhwysedd a chywirdeb addysgu rhaglenni seiliedig ar ymwybyddiaeth ofalgar ar sail tystiolaeth - Therapi Gwybyddol Seiliedig ar Ymwybyddiaeth Ofalgar (MBCT) a Lleihau Straen yn Seiliedig ar Ymwybyddiaeth Ofalgar (MBSR).
Mae miliynau o blant mewn gwledydd incwm isel a chanolig yn cael addysg annigonol a chosbau llym gan y rhai sy’n gofalu amdanynt.
Mae'r rhain yn ffactorau sy’n risg arwyddocaol o ran datblygiad gwael plant.
Mae lleoliadau gofal plentyndod cynnar o ansawdd uchel yn hanfodol er mwyn hybu buddion tymor hir megis cyflawniad addysgol, iechyd meddwl a chorfforol, a ffyniant economaidd cenedlaethau'r dyfodol mewn gwledydd incwm isel a chanolig.
Mae ymchwil ym Mangor wedi arwain at ddwy raglen ymyrraeth hynod effeithiol i wella datblygiad yn ystod plentyndod cynnar mewn gwledydd incwm isel a chanolig.
Y rhaglen gyntaf yw The Irie Classroom Toolbox, rhaglen atal trais plentyndod cynnar sy'n hyfforddi athrawon.
Mae Pecyn Irie wedi bod yn fanteisiol i blant, athrawon ac amgylchedd y dosbarth.
Mae hyn yn cynnwys gostyngiadau mawr (>65%) mewn trais yn erbyn plant gan athrawon plentyndod cynnar a gostyngiadau mewn problemau ymddygiad plant, a chynnydd yn ansawdd amgylchedd yr ystafell ddosbarth, llesiant athrawon a sgiliau cymdeithasol plant a rheolaeth ataliol.
Mae’r Pecyn Irie ar gyfer yr Ystafell Ddosbarth a ddatblygwyd ym Mangor bellach wedi’i fabwysiadu gan Gomisiwn Plentyndod Cynnar llywodraeth Jamaica fel y rhaglen hyfforddi genedlaethol i hyfforddi holl ymarferwyr plentyndod cynnar.
Mae hefyd wedi’i gynnwys fel enghraifft o raglen hyfforddi athrawon effeithiol mewn disgyblaeth gadarnhaol gan Sefydliad Iechyd y Byd.
Mae’r ail rhaglen - Grŵp Ymestyn a Dysgu rhaglen magu plant - yn hyrwyddo rhianta ymatebol ac ysgogiad yn y catref.
Mae’r rhaglen yma wedi’i haddasu i’w defnyddio mewn saith gwlad ar draws De Asia, y Dwyrain Canol a De America.
Er enghraifft mabwysiadwyd y cwricwlwm rhianta grŵp i'w ddefnyddio ym Mangladesh i'w integreiddio i'r rhwydwaith clinigau cymunedol mae o hefyd wedi'i fabwysiadu gan Faer Bogota i'w ddefnyddio gyda theuluoedd bregus gyda phlant o dan ddwy flwydd oed ledled y ddinas.
Mae hefyd wedi'i addasu i'w ddefnyddio gyda'r boblogaeth ffoaduriaid yn yr Iorddonen, Libanus a Syria gan y Pwyllgor Achub Rhyngwladol.
Mae ymchwil Bangor i raglenni i ofalwyr plant sy’n seiliedig ar dystiolaeth bellach wedi cyrraedd dros 5,500 o athrawon, dros 7,000 o famau ac wedi bod o fudd i dros 500,000 o blant yn fyd-eang.
Mae’r rhaglen waith hon yn ymwneud â datblygu, gweithredu, gwerthuso a chynyddu ymyriadau plentyndod cynnar i hybu datblygiad plant ifanc mewn gwledydd incwm isel a chanolig.
Mae'r gwaith yn rhoi boddhad mawr ac rwy'n teimlo'n freintiedig iawn gweithio mewn partneriaeth â chymaint o gydweithwyr ymroddedig ar draws gwahanol wledydd.
Caiff yr Ysgol Gwyddorau Eigion, a gydnabyddir yn rhyngwladol, ynghyd â'r Ysgol Gwyddorau Naturiol, eu cefnogi gan ganolfannau rhagoriaeth rhyngddisgyblaethol gan gynnwys y Ganolfan Biotechnoleg Amgylcheddol, y Ganolfan Gwyddorau Môr Cymhwysol, a'r Ganolfan Biogyfansoddion sydd ar flaen y gad o ran ymchwil, datblygu, a chymwysiadau masnachol o ddewisiadau amgen bio-seiliedig yn lle deunyddiau synthetig gan arwain at effaith sylweddol ar y diwydiant gweithgynhyrchu.
Mae ein gwyddonwyr yn elwa ar bartneriaeth gyda Chanolfan yr Amgylchedd Cymru, a ariennir gan NERC (Cyngor Ymchwil yr Amgylchedd Naturiol), a Chanolfan Ecoleg a Hydroleg y Deyrnas UnedigMae ein hymchwil yn amrywio o newid amgylcheddol byd-eang i gynhyrchu bwyd mewn modd cynaliadwy.
Mae gan Brifysgol Bangor bortffolio integredig o ymchwil sy'n cysylltu ecoleg sylfaenol systemau naturiol â'u cadwraeth a'r defnydd cynaliadwy a wneir ohonynt, yr holl ffordd trwy'r gadwyn gwerth nes cyrraedd bwyd - o’r môr a’r tir - a chynhyrchion coedwigoedd.
Mae’r ymchwil yn canolbwyntio ar bedair thema:
Mae pysgota symudol gwaelod y môr yn darparu 35% o ddalfeydd byd-eang sy'n werth dros £27 biliwn, ond gall achosi difrod ecolegol mawr.
Mae effaith pysgota gwaelod y môr yn aml yn cael ei ystyried yn risg amgylcheddol.
Mae ymchwil Bangor wedi darparu offer meintiol ar sail tystiolaeth i asesu effeithiau pysgota gwaelod ar ecosystemau ar lefel ranbarthol a byd-eang.
TMae ymchwil Bangor yn darparu’r offer i amcangyfrif effeithiau pysgota gwaelod ledled y byd, sy’n hanfodol i’r diwydiant pysgota, cyrff cadwraeth, cyrff rheoli a chyrff ardystio i arwain y dewis o fesurau rheoli sydd eu hangen i gyflawni amcanion cynaliadwyedd.
Oherwydd yr amcangyfrif hwn o’r gwerthoedd paramedr sy'n berthnasol yn fyd-eang, gellir defnyddio model Bangor ar gyfer pysgodfeydd sy'n brin o ddata, e.e.
mwyafrif hemisffer y de.
Mae’r Cyngor Stiwardiaeth Forol yn argymell defnyddio hwn fel y prif ddull o sicrhau gwelyau môr bioamrywiol a gwydn yn eu pysgodfeydd ardystiedig.
Mae’r dull wedi ei gymeradwyo gan Gyngor Rhyngwladol Archwilio'r Môr i'w ddefnyddio yng Nghyfarwyddeb Fframwaith Strategaeth Forol yr UE i gyflawni gofynion polisi allweddol, a chafodd ei ddefnyddio gan Lywodraeth Cymru i danategu ymgynghoriad a phenderfyniad ar dreillio am gregyn bylchog mewn ardal forol warchodedig.
Fe wnaethom goladu’r holl waith ymchwil presennol a astudiodd effaith treillio ar gynefinoedd gwely’r môr, a chyfosod y corff mawr hwn o ymchwil mewn meta-ddadansoddiad i ddarparu’r amcangyfrifon gorau sydd ar gael o ddisbyddu ffawna gwely’r môr gan dreillio ar y gwaelod a’u cyfraddau adfer.
Trwy ddefnyddio’r amcangyfrifon hyn mewn model ecolegol, gallwn ddarparu rhagfynegiadau o effaith rhanbarthol gweithgaredd treillio gwaelod y mae rhanddeiliaid fel MSC eu hangen.
Gwella rhestr allyriadau nwyon tŷ gwydr amaethyddol y Deyrnas Unedig
Mae ymchwil nwyon tŷ gwydr wedi effeithio ar bolisi a diwydiant trwy gynhyrchu ffactorau allyriadau ocsid nitraidd gwlad-benodol newydd.
Mae amaethyddiaeth yn cyfrannu at gynhyrchu nwyon tŷ gwydr trwy allyriadau ocsid nitraidd yn dilyn mewnbynnau nitrogen i bridd, trwy allyriadau methan o anifeiliad a rheoli eu tail, a thrwy garbon deuocsid yn dilyn newid defnydd tir a defnyddio peiriannau sy'n rhedeg ar danwydd ffosil.
Fodd bynnag, mae tir amaethyddol hefyd yn cynnig y cyfle i dynnu nwyon tŷ gwydr o’r atmosffer trwy atafaeliad carbon – yn enwedig mawn a gwlyptiroedd.
Arweiniodd Dave Chadwick brosiect consortiwm a ariannwyd >£6.5M gan Defra a’r Gweinyddiaethau Datganoledig i wella’r gydran ocsid nitraidd o restr allyriadau nwyon tŷ gwydr amaethyddol y DU.
Nod y prosiect oedd cynhyrchu data allyriadau ocsid nitraidd newydd o’r ystod o fewnbynnau nitrogen i’r pridd (gwrtaith, tail a thail ac wrin a ddyddodwyd gan dda byw sy’n pori) i gyfrannu at ddeilliant data ocsid nitraidd sy’n benodol i wlad i’w ddefnyddio yn y DU.
rhestr nwyon tŷ gwydr.
Cyflawnwyd hyn trwy fesur fflwcsau ocsid nitraidd o 37 o arbrofion ar raddfa lleiniau maes ledled Cymru, Lloegr, yr Alban a Gogledd Iwerddon.
Fe wnaeth tystiolaeth Bangor ostwng cyfraniadau ocsid nitraidd cyfrifedig yn sylweddol ar restr nwyon tŷ gwydr amaethyddiaeth y Deyrnas Unedig ac mae wedi cyfrannu at newidiadau i ganllawiau ar lefel ryngwladol.
Dangosodd yr ymchwil hefyd bod methan enterig rŵan yn cynrychioli y cyfran fwyaf o gyfanswm rhestr nwyon tŷ gwydr amaethyddiaeth y Deyrnas Unedig.
Mae Bangor hefyd wedi gweithio gyda sectorau cig coch/ a llaeth yng Nghymru i geisio nodi dulliau ymarferol o liniaru allyriadau nwyon tŷ gwydr.
Mae’r rhestr newudd o allyriadau nwyon tŷ gwydr Amaethyddiaeth bellach yn adlewyrchu’n amrywiaeth y DU o reoli hinsoddau, priddoedd a nitrogen, yn ogystal â bridiau anifeiliad y DU a’u diet.
Er nad yw’r gostyngiad yng nghyfanswm yr allyriadau nwyon tŷ gwydr sydd wedi deillio o’r dull cyfrifyddu newydd yn cynrychioli lliniaru fel y cyfryw, mae’n golygu bod angen llai o atafaelu carbon i wrthbwyso allyriadau nwyon tŷ gwydr y sector.
Mae hyn yn golygu bod mwy o botensial i ddwysáu’n gynaliadwy ar rai tir, gan arbed tir arall sy’n fwy addas ar gyfer darparu gwasanaethau ecosystem eraill, gan gynnwys rheoleiddio hinsawdd drwy atafaelu carbon
Mae ymchwil a ariannwyd gan yr Adran Datblygu Rhyngwladol wedi dangos bod defnyddio strategaeth groesi well, lle mae bridwyr reis yn cymryd mwy o ofal wrth ddewis llinachau cyn eu croesi, yn gwella effeithlonrwydd wrth fridio reis.
Roedd rhaglenni bridio reis yr Adran Datblygu Rhyngwladol yn argymell strategaeth groesi ddwys, yn seiliedig ar y dybiaeth bod gan bob croesiad yr un siawns o lwyddiant, felly mae'r tebygolrwydd o ddod o hyd i groesiad buddiol yn cynyddu gyda phob croesiad.
Gwrthodwyd y dybiaeth hon gan ymchwilwyr Bangor oherwydd ei bod yn seiliedig ar y rhagdybiaeth ryfeddol nad oes gan y bridiwr reis y gallu i ddewis croesiadau sy'n fwy tebygol o lwyddo.
Dangosodd yr ymchwil fod y strategaeth groesi well yn fwy tebygol o lwyddo wrth fridio math amrywogaethol, persawrus ei rawn ac anodd ei fridio, lle na chafwyd rhyw lawer o lwyddiant gyda bridio confensiynol blaenorol yn fyd-eang, a dim llwyddiant o gwbl yn Nepal.
Mae wedi arwain at well math o reis (Sunaulo-Sugandha), sy'n darparu diogelwch bwyd ac incwm i ffermwyr bach Nepal gwerth dros £1 miliwn y flwyddyn.
Mae llwyddiant ymchwil Bangor hefyd wedi arwain at newid paradeim yn y Sefydliad Ymchwil Reis Rhyngwladol, a roddodd strategaeth croesi Bangor ar waith yn 2014 mewn project allweddol o’r enw 'Transforming Rice Breeding'.
Mae’r cynnydd yn effeithlonrwydd y Sefydliad Ymchwil Reis Rhyngwladol wedi gwella sefyllfa ffermwyr reis ar draws y byd, gydag amcangyfrif o enillion o £36,770,000 y flwyddyn yn 2020.
Yn fyd-eang, mae'r ymchwil a arweiniwyd gan Fangor wedi cael effaith sylweddol ar weithgarwch rhaglen fridio reis llesiant cyhoeddus y Sefydliad Ymchwil Reis Rhyngwladol.
Dangoswyd bod newid i'r strategaeth groesi well o fridio reis yn cynyddu effeithlonrwydd drwy leihau'r adnoddau sylweddol a ddefnyddir ar gyfer croesi, drwy haneru'r tir sydd ei angen ar gyfer tyfu epil croesiadau trwy leihau'r gwastraff a geir o groesiadau aflwyddiannus, a gwella ansawdd y croesiadau.'
Mae partneriaeth ymchwil rhwng Prifysgol Bangor a’r World Agroforestry (ICRAF) wedi newid patrwm mewn agronomeg, gan gefnogi trawsnewidiadau amaeth-ecolegol ar dri chyfandir, sydd wedi ei wneud yn fwy brys fyth gan yr argyfwng ym mhrisiau bwyd a gwrtaith o ganlyniad i’r rhyfel yn Wcrain.
Nid oes gan lawer o ffermwyr bach, sydd gyda’i gilydd yn gyfrifol am gyfran fawr o ddiogelwch bwyd y byd, arferion amaethyddol sy’n addas i’w hardal leol ac sy'n adfywio yn hytrach na’n diraddio'r amgylchedd.
Mae defnyddio dull gweithredu Bangor a elwir yn opsiynau yn ôl cyd-destun wedi arwain at newid mawr ym mholisïau ac arferion y sector rhyngwladol, cenedlaethol a phreifat mewn 15 gwlad yn Affrica, Asia ac America Ladin.
Mae OxC yn cefnogi dulliau arloesol lleol gan ffermwyr trwy feithrin y trosglwyddiad i ddulliau ffermio mwy amaeth-ecolegol, gan gynnwys amaeth-goedwigaeth – sef y broses o integreiddio coed mewn caeau a thirluniau ffermio.
Mae'r rhain yn gwneud y defnydd gorau o brosesau naturiol, megis sefydlogi nitrogen biolegol, yn hytrach na gorfodi systemau amaethyddol gyda mewnbynnau allanol.
Mae’r opsiynau amaeth-ecolegol amrywiol a chynhwysol ar gyfer cnydau pwysig o ŷd i goffi a coco, sy’n deillio o ganlyniad i’r dull yma eisoes yn diogelu’r cyflenwad bwyd, yn cynyddu incwm ffermydd a gwytnwch amgylcheddol i dros ddwy filiwn o bobl, yn adfer dros 2.5 miliwn ha o dir, trwy fuddsoddiad o dros £101 miliwn mewn projectau sy'n defnyddio’r dull opsiynau yn ôl cyd-destun.
Bydd angen cyflymu arloesi mewn agronomeg ymhlith nifer fawr o rai sy’n ffermio ar raddfa fach er mwyn cyflawni ymrwymiadau byd-eang i roi terfyn ar newyn yn wyneb newid mawr yn yr hinsawdd a newid byd-eang arall a achosir gan amaethyddiaeth ac sy’n effeithio ar hynny.
Mae ymdrechion i roi dulliau opsiynau yn ôl cyd-destun ar waith wedi sefydlu bod newid patrwm mewn arloesi agronomeg wedi hen ddechrau.
Bydd p'un a fydd yn cael ei gynnal yn dibynnu i raddau helaeth ar y graddau amlwg y mae'n llwyddo i gyflymu effaith y datblygiad.
Fel y gwelwyd yn ystod y pandemig SARS-CoV-2, mae firysau pathogenig yn fygythiad mawr byd-eang i iechyd a lles pobl.
Dros y degawd diwethaf, mae ymchwil ym Mangor wedi datblygu amrywiaeth o offer, technolegau a modelau dadansoddol i gadw golwg effeithiol ar firysau niweidiol yn yr amgylchedd ehangach, gan arwain at safonau diwydiant sy'n seiliedig ar risg.
Gan gydweithio â llywodraeth y DU a llywodraethau datganoledig, mae ein hoffer monitro dŵr gwastraff wedi cael eu mabwysiadu, eu treialu a'u cyflwyno ar raddfa genedlaethol i fonitro achosion o COVID-19 mewn cymunedau cyfan ac i ddarparu system rhybuddio cynnar i amddiffyn isadeiledd cenedlaethol hollbwysig rhag achosion o SARS-CoV-2.
Defnyddir yr offer hefyd i gefnogi penderfyniadau i ddangos pa ddinasoedd y dylid eu targedu ar gyfer profion torfol ac maent yn caniatáu gwerthuso llwyddiant mesurau lliniaru COVID-19.
Gyda chyllid gan Lywodraeth Cymru, bu ein hymchwilwyr yn cadw golwg ar sut mae’r pandemig yn esblygu yng Nghymru, yn cefnogi ac yn llywio penderfyniadau polisi iechyd cyhoeddus, ac yn meithrin gallu cenedlaethol i fod yn barod ar gyfer unrhyw bandemig yn y dyfodol.
Sylweddolwyd swyddogaeth bwysig y diwydiant dŵr gwastraff ym maes iechyd cyhoeddus cenedlaethol.
Rhagoriaeth wyddonol: Mae Cymru wedi arloesi yn y defnydd o ddŵr gwastraff ar gyfer gwyliadwriaeth COVID-19 ar lefel genedlaethol.
Mabwysiadwyd hyn gan Loegr a'i gyflwyno wedyn gan y Cyd-ganolfan Bioddiogelwch mewn 44 o safleoedd, gan godi i 250 erbyn 2021.
Mynychder afiechyd: Y Brifysgol oedd yn gyfrifol am sefydlu rhaglen monitro dŵr gwastraff cenedlaethol ar gyfer COVID-19 a oedd yn cynnwys 20 o safleoedd allweddol ac yn agos at 70% o boblogaeth Cymru.
Mae’r rhaglen bellach yn rhan o ddangosfwrdd Armakuni sy'n adrodd ar amlder yr achosion o glefydau cenedlaethol i helpu asiantaethau iechyd cyhoeddus yng Nghymru.
Yn ogystal, mae'r gwaith wedi cefnogi profion torfol wedi'u targedu yng Nghymru a Lloegr.
Rhagoriaeth ac effaith ymchwil: Mae ymchwil dŵr gwastraff yn faes newydd iawn a chynhyrchwyd wyth papur ar gyfer cyfnodolion y seilir y rhaglen wyddoniaeth genedlaethol arnynt.
Mae'r Brifysgol wedi cyfrannu arbenigedd at ymdrechion cydweithredol rhyngwladol i ddatblygu arfer gorau mewn epidemioleg dŵr gwastraff ledled Ewrop a thu hwnt.
Mae'r cyllid hefyd wedi rhoi cyfle i adeiladu ar gryfderau ymchwil yng Nghymru mewn gwyddorau amgylcheddol, gwyliadwriaeth afiechyd a genomeg pathogenau.
Mae wedi newid yn sylweddol sut mae llywodraethau, diwydiant a chyllidwyr yn rhoi cadwraeth ar waith: mae un o mwyngloddiau nicel mwyaf y byd (Ambatovy, Madagascar) wedi newid sut mae'n ceisio gwrthbwyso bioamrywiaeth, mae llywodraeth Uganda wedi ymgorffori argymhellion yn ei strategaeth wrthbwyso genedlaethol, ac mae llywodraeth yr Unol Daleithiau wedi defnyddio canfyddiadau ymchwil mewn penderfyniadau am gyllido pwll glo ym Myanmar.
Ym Madagascar, mae ymchwil dan arweiniad Bangor wedi dylanwadu ar sut mae'r llywodraeth a chyllidwyr yn gweithredu mesurau diogelwch i leihau effeithiau negyddol ardaloedd gwarchodedig ar y tlawd.
Fel rhan o brosiect Forest4Climate&People, mae ymchwilwyr yn gweithio gyda chydweithwyr Malagasi ym Mhrifysgol Antananarivo, i bontio’r bwlch rhwng llunwyr polisi a chymunedau lleol mewn trafodaethau am gadwraeth ac adfer coedwigoedd.
Mae coedwigoedd trofannol, fel y rhai ym Madagascar, yn storio carbon sy'n helpu i sefydlogi'r hinsawdd fyd-eang.
Mae yna sylw rhyngwladol enfawr felly i'r coedwigoedd hyn a'r cyfraddau uchel o ddatgoedwigo.
Yn anffodus, yn aml nid oes gan bobl leol, y rhai yr effeithir arnynt fwyaf gan bolisïau cadwraeth, lais gwirioneddol yn y trafodaethau hyn.
Gwnaeth y tîm ffilm sy'n rhoi llais i gymunedau ar gyrion coedwigoedd a'u pryderon a'u hawgrymiadau ynghylch sut y gellid gwella ymdrechion cadwraeth coedwigoedd.
Dangoswyd rhan o’r ffilm honno (Voices from the Forest) yn COP26 gan weinidog yr amgylchedd a datblygu cynaliadwy Madagascar.
Mae Gweinyddiaeth yr Amgylchedd a Datblygu Cynaliadwy Madagascar wedi bod yn cynnal diwygiadau mawr i’w pholisïau cadwraeth ac rydym ni, ynghyd â’n partneriaid Malagasy, wedi bod yn cydweithio’n agos iawn gyda nhw, i sicrhau bod ein hymchwil yn llywio eu gwaith llunio polisi mewn modd cyfredol.
Dyma’r ffordd orau o sicrhau bod ein hymchwil yn cael effaith gadarnhaol, nid yn unig ar bolisi, ond yn y pen draw ar filoedd o bobl sy’n byw o amgylch ardaloedd gwarchodedig Madagascar.
Mae ymchwil peirianneg ym Mhrifysgol Bangor yn canolbwyntio ar dair thema sy’n cyd-fynd â sectorau diwydiannol o bwys rhyngwladol:
Mae datblygiad Prifysgol Bangor o’r cymhwysiad rhithrealiti Ocean Rift, un o'r apiau rhithrealiti cyntaf a mwyaf poblogaidd yn y byd, wedi helpu i arwain y diwydiant rhithrealiti byd-eang sydd bellach yn ffynnu, mewn partneriaeth â Samsung, Facebook a Google.
Profiad Realiti Rhithwir (VR) yw Ocean Rift lle mae'r defnyddiwr yn ei gael ei hun mewn byd tanddwr llachar.
Mae'n rhoi'r profiad i'r defnyddiwr o nofio gyda chreaduriaid dyfrol amrywiol gan gynnwys dolffiniaid, crwbanod, nadroedd môr, cathod môr, siarcod, morfilod, a hyd yn oed ymlusgiaid cynhanesyddol diflanedig.
Mae'r ap yn galluogi defnyddwyr i ddewis o gyfres o gynefinoedd - gall hyn fod yn greigres gwrel neu'n llongddrylliad, neu'n lagŵn, y cefnfor a hyd yn oed Atlantis.
Yna gallant ryngweithio â chreaduriaid sydd wedi eu hanimeiddio gan system deallusrwydd artiffisial flaengar iawn a ddatblygwyd yn unswydd ar gyfer y project, lle mae'r creaduriaid wedi eu hanimeiddio yn ymddwyn mewn ffordd sy'n gwneud i chi gredu eu bod yn greaduriaid go iawn.
Mae Ocean Rift wedi bod yn deitl lansio trwy wahoddiad yn unig ar gyfer mwyafrif y prif glustffonau rhithrealiti rhwng 2014 a 2019, gan gynnwys y Samsung Gear VR, Oculus Rift, HTC Vive, Google Daydream, Xiaomi Mi, Oculus Go ac Oculus Quest.
Amcangyfrifir ei fod wedi cael ei lawrlwytho tua 1,800,000 o weithiau ac mae’n destun adolygiadau cadarnhaol cyson gan ddefnyddwyr a datblygwyr.
Mae’r ap yn seiliedig ar ymchwil sylfaenol i arferion gorau rhithrealiti ac animeiddio gweithdrefnol, gan gynnwys graffeg gyfrifiadurol newydd a thechnegau deallusrwydd artiffisial i gynhyrchu animeiddiad ac ymddygiad naturiol.
Mae’r cyd-destun addysg a gofal iechyd rhyngwladol wedi cael budd o’i ddefnyddio.
Mae rhithrealiti wedi tyfu'n gyflym o fod yn dechnoleg newydd i hobïwyr i fod yn ddiwydiant gwerth miliynau o ddoleri.
Mae’r ymchwil a wnaed ym Mhrifysgol Bangor wedi bod ar flaen y gad yn y broses hon.
Dechreuodd Ocean Rift fel arbrawf i weld pa mor bell y gallwn fynd â thechnoleg rhithrealiti newydd i wneud i rywun deimlo fel eu bod o dan y dŵr.
Rydych chi'n cael gwir ymdeimlad o faint a mawredd Morfil Glas pan fyddwch chi'n nofio ochr yn ochr ag ef yn Ocean Rift, sy'n rhywbeth na allwch chi ei brofi mewn unrhyw gyfrwng arall.
Mae'r nodwedd addysg yn gwella hyn hyd yn oed ymhellach, gan ganiatáu i chi ddysgu am fywyd yng nghefnforoedd y ddaear wrth gael eich trochi ynddynt.
Rwyf hefyd yn falch o fod wedi gweithio gyda phartneriaid i ddatblygu'r naratif yn y Gymraeg, gan alluogi plant ac oedolion Cymraeg eu hiaith i ddysgu am fywyd dyfrol yn y ffordd newydd a chyffrous hon'
Yn ystod 2009-2020, datblygodd Grŵp Ymchwil Ynni Cefnfor Prifysgol Bangor ddealltwriaeth arloesol o'r cyfleoedd a'r heriau sy'n wynebu'r diwydiant ynni llanw rhyngwladol wrth drosi ynni o safleoedd ynni llanw 'ail genhedlaeth' llai egnïol.
Mae ymchwilwyr wedi nodi set unigryw o heriau a chyfleoedd yn ymwneud â safleoedd ynni llanw llai egnïol.
Mae'r llwythi ar dyrbinau yn y safleoedd hyn yn caniatáu defnyddio dyfeisiau cost is.
Hefyd mae mwy o ofod môr ar gael ar gyfer safleoedd ynni is o gymharu â “chanolfannau” ynni uchel, a mwy o gyfleoedd ar gyfer cysylltedd grid.
Ond mae safleoedd llai egnïol yn gyffredinol mewn amgylcheddau dyfnach, mwy agored, ac felly caiff yr adnodd ei ddylanwadu gan brosesau tonnau.
O ganlyniad uniongyrchol i’r ymchwil hwn, mae’r diwydiant ynni llanw wedi esblygu drwy ddatblygu dyfeisiau llanw “ail genhedlaeth” llai (100-200kW) sydd bellach yn gystadleuol yn y Deyrnas Unedig, ac wedi creu llwybr ar gyfer datblygiad rhyngwladol drwy ailasesu adnodd ynni llanw gwledydd a ystyrid cyn hyn islaw’r trothwy hyfywedd ariannol.
Mae ymchwil dan arweiniad Prifysgol Bangor i anghymesuredd llanw a chamaliniad tonnau a llanw (sy’n gwneud yr ynni’n fwy heriol i’w ecsbloetio ac yn rhoi strwythurau tyrbinau llanw dan straen) wedi arwain at ddatblygu modelau peirianneg newydd o ran y rhyngweithio rhwng tonnau a’r llanw ac wedi llywio’r gwaith o ddylunio cyfleusterau labordy o'r radd flaenaf i feintioli/modelu'n uniongyrchol y grymoedd sy'n gweithredu ar fodelau graddfa o strwythurau tyrbinau llanw pan fydd llanw a thonnau heb eu halinio â’i gilydd.
Mae'r system leoli fyd-eang (GPS) a systemau llywio â lloeren byd-eang eraill (GNSS) wedi eu hymgorffori yn isadeiledd hollbwysig y byd, yn cynnwys awyrennau, llongau, telathrebu a ffonau clyfar.
Er gwaethaf dibyniaeth economaidd, cymdeithasol a llywodraethol ar lywio â lloeren ac amseru manwl gywir, mae GNSS yn agored i fethiant a bygythiadau i ddiogelwch.
Mae'r Athro David Last, ac aelodau eraill o Grŵp Llywio Radio Prifysgol Bangor, wedi gweithio gyda llywodraethau'r Unol Daleithiau, yr Undeb Ewropeaidd, y Deyrnas Unedig a De Corea i ddatblygu a gweithredu ‘Enhanced Loran (eLoran)’ i fod wrth gefn pe bai GNSS yn methu.
Mae Last a'i dîm wedi bod yn rhan sylfaenol o ddatblygiad rhyngwladol Enhanced Loran (eLoran), a hwy oedd y cyntaf i weithredu prototeip gweithredol ar raddfa fawr yn y Deyrnas Unedig yn 2015.
Mae’r system eLoran yn gwasanaethu uwch lywio morwrol a darparu amseru manwl gywir i ddefnyddwyr telathrebu ledled y Deyrnas Unedig a thu hwnt.
Mae llywodraethau'r Deyrnas Unedig, yr Unol Daleithiau a De Corea wedi buddsoddi'n uniongyrchol yn natblygiad technoleg a ddatblygwyd ar y cyd gan Fangor, sydd wedi bod yn rhwyd diogelwch economaidd hanfodol i forwyr a defnyddwyr traws-sector mewn perthynas â masnach ac amddiffyn.
Mae Ysgol Busnes Bangor ar flaen y gad o ran ymchwil a hyfforddiant ym meysydd cyfrifeg, bancio a chyllid yn y Deyrnas Unedig ac mae wedi ei rhestru ymhlith y 50 sefydliad gorau yn y byd am ymchwil Bancio.
Mae’r ymchwil yn canolbwyntio ar dair thema:
Mae marchnadoedd gwasanaethau ariannol manwerthu wedi bod yn ganolbwynt cryn sylw rheoleiddio ers amser maith.
Wrth i'r gwasanaethau hyn ddod yn hollbresennol, mae goblygiadau cymdeithasol sylweddol i'r ffordd y mae'r cynhyrchion hyn yn cael eu prisio a'u defnyddio.
/p>
Darparodd yr Athro Ashton yr asesiad cyntaf o'r gosb am deyrngarwch, sef sut mae cwsmeriaid ffyddlon yn talu mwy na chwsmeriaid newydd; a chostau cymhlethdod, sef sut mae darparwyr yn codi prisiau cynhyrchion cymhleth, ym marchnadoedd gwasanaethau ariannol manwerthu'r Deyrnas Unedig.
Mae'r canfyddiadau hyn wedi dylanwadu ar reoliadau'r Deyrnas Unedig a’r Undeb Ewropeaidd.
Rhoddodd Ashton gyngor ar waith yn ymwneud â chymhlethdod i Gyfarwyddiaeth Gyffredinol Iechyd a Diogelu Defnyddwyr y Comisiwn Ewropeaidd.
Mae ymchwil Nikolopoulos yn canolbwyntio ar ddadansoddi rhagfynegol gan ddefnyddio'r dull rhagfynegi Theta a ddatblygwyd ganddo.
Mae ei ymchwil empirig ym Mhrifysgol Bangor wedi arwain at arbedion effeithlonrwydd sylweddol a gwell penderfyniadau i gwmnïau rhyngwladol trwy wella rhagolygon.
Mae modelau rhagfynegi Nikolopoulos wedi cael eu dangos i fod yn gywir ac maent yn cynyddu cyflymder cyfrifiadurol mewn cystadlaethau rhyngwladol.
Mae Uber wedi defnyddio modelau Theta Nikolopoulos ledled y byd ers 2017 ar gyfer eu rhagolygon ariannol gydag arbediad effeithlonrwydd o oddeutu USD750,000,000 (04-2020) y flwyddyn.
Mae BOSCH ac Amazon Web Services yn defnyddio Theta i ragfynegi gofynion a gwerthiannau cynnyrch.
Mae dull Theta Nikolopoulos yn y pecyn rhadwedd R wedi cael ei lawrlwytho dros 6,500,000 o weithiau, sy’n dangos yn amlwg y defnydd ehangach y gwneir ohono.
Bu i ymchwil ym Mhrifysgol Bangor gefnogi newid rheoliadol sylweddol mewn ffioedd cyfnewid a ffioedd masnachwyr cardiau talu yn yr Undeb Ewropeaidd rhwng 2013 a 2016.
Roedd derbyn llwyfannau talu cardiau gan ddeiliaid cardiau a masnachwyr yn hanfodol i gynyddu defnydd o daliadau electronig yn yr Undeb Ewropeaidd er mwyn integreiddio systemau talu ar gyfer gwledydd yr Undeb Ewropeaidd.
Trwy ddangos y byddai gostwng ffioedd cyfnewid a disgownt masnachwyr yn fuddiol i bawb a thrwy ddarparu tystiolaeth sy'n hanfodol i benderfyniadau'r Undeb Ewropeaidd sy'n ymwneud â newidiadau rheoliadol, arweiniodd ymchwil Carbo-Valverde at ffioedd yn cael eu gostwng o fis Mehefin 2015.
Roedd y newidiadau hyn o fudd i'r holl fasnachwyr sy'n defnyddio taliadau electronig, a phob deiliad cerdyn a sefydliad ariannol ledled Ewrop, gydag arbedion blynyddol rhwng 2015 a 2017 o EUR1,200,000,000 (03-2020) i fasnachwyr yn yr Undeb Ewropeaidd ac EUR587,000,000 (03-2020) i ddefnyddwyr yn yr Undeb Ewropeaidd.
Mae'r canfyddiadau hefyd o fudd uniongyrchol i awdurdodaethau eraill y tu allan i'r Undeb Ewropeaidd.
Mae cymdeithasegwyr ym Mhrifysgol Bangor yn cynhyrchu ymchwil blaenllaw sy'n berthnasol i ddeinameg newydd ein byd cyfnewidiol.
Mae ein ffocws ar astudiaethau empirig, beirniadol a damcaniaethol o strwythurau cymdeithasol, pŵer, gwerthoedd ac arferion beunyddiol, gan gynnwys theori gymdeithasol ac astudiaethau hanesyddol a chymharol.
Defnyddir amrywiaeth fawr o ddulliau damcaniaethol ac empirig i archwilio gwahanol gymdeithasau, gydag arbenigedd yng Nghymru a Lloegr, yr Almaen, Gogledd America, Tsieina a Gwlad Groeg.
Mae’r ymchwil yn canolbwyntio ar bum thema:
Mae pedair canolfan ymchwil yn allweddol i’n cydweithrediadau a’r effaith a gawn ar gymdeithas: Sefydliad Ymchwil a Data Cymdeithasol ac Economaidd Cymru; Canolfan Defnydd Tir Cynaliadwy Syr William Roberts; y Labordy Deallusrwydd Artiffisial Emosiynol; a'r Rhwydwaith Astudio'r Cyfryngau a Chyfathrebu er Perswâd.
Mae ymchwil i wyliadwriaeth (‘veillance’ term ysgolheigaidd ar gyfer cydwylio) wedi tynnu sylw at y niwed i ddinasyddion sy'n deillio o broffilio digidol gan gyrff gwladol a masnachol gan gynnwys torri preifatrwydd a chael eu targedu gyda gwybodaeth anwir.
Yn dilyn datgeliadau gan Edward Snowden, chwythwr chwiban Asiantaeth Diogelwch Cenedlaethol yr Unol Daleithiau, o wyliadwriaeth dorfol arferol o gyfathrebiadau digidol pobl gan asiantaethau cudd-wybodaeth i nodi bygythiadau diogelwch, daeth y mater hwn yn bryder cyhoeddus ehangach.
Mae’r ymchwil hon yn galluogi cymdeithas sifil i ddatblygu gwell dealltwriaeth o sut i wneud cyrff gwladol a masnachol cyfrinachgar yn atebol yn gyhoeddus.
O dan y term ymbarél gwyliadwriaeth (veillance), fe nododd yr ymchwil dair proses glir o gyd wylio, a dealltwriaeth o'i ddynameg grym sy’n cynnwys:
Mae'r ymchwil wedi dylanwadu ar amrywiaeth o randdeiliaid a llunwyr polisi cenedlaethol a rhyngwladol yn uniongyrchol, gan gynnwys senedd y Deyrnas Unedig; yr Undeb Ewropeaidd; Goruchaf Lys India a Goruchaf Lys Jamaica; Uchel Lys De Affrica; arferion newyddiadurwyr proffesiynol o Brydain ac Iwerddon; sefydliadau anllywodraethol; a'r cyhoedd yn ehangach trwy sylw yn y cyfryngau yn fyd-eang.
Mae gwyliadwriaeth y wladwriaeth a masnachol o gyfathrebiadau digidol yn gymhleth ac yn haniaethol, nid oedd llunwyr polisïau, llunwyr deddfau, cymdeithas sifil a’r cyhoedd yn ymwybodol o sut mae eu ymddygiad ar-lein yn bwydo’r arferion hyn.
Roeddent hefyd yn aneglur sut i wrthsefyll a/neu ddal sefydliadau a oedd yn ymgymryd â gwyliadwriaeth yn atebol yn gyhoeddus.
Cafodd ymchwil Prifysgol Bangor effaith ar gyrff cenedlaethol a rhyngwladol drwy dynnu sylw at yr hyn sy'n achosi’r cyfryw ‘wyliadwraeth’, a phroblemau gyda ‘gwyliadwraeth’ o’r fath, gan gynnwys yr anghydbwysedd pŵer a thrwy hynny arwain a galluogi atebion mwy gwybodus
Mae ymchwil o Brifysgol Bangor ar 'Ddeallusrwydd Artiffisial Emosiynol' (Emosiynol AI) wedi datgelu angen dybryd a byd-eang i ystyried agweddau moesegol datblygiad technolegau sy'n mesur ac yn rhyngweithio â chyflyrau affeithiol ac emosiynol.
Mae'r ymchwil wedi dylanwadu ar lywodraethu, polisïau, modelau busnes ac arteffactau creadigol wrth ddylunio a chymhwyso technolegau newydd byd-eang.
Dyma rai o’r effeithiau: cyd-greu meincnodau moesegol cyntaf y byd ar gyfer deallusrwydd artiffisial emosiynol gyda rhanddeiliaid yn yr Unol Daleithiau; dylanwadu ar safonau a phrotocolau dylunio byd-eang ar gyfer emosiynau a thechnolegau sy'n seiliedig ar effaith; egluro hawliau preifatrwydd digidol i Uchel Gomisiynydd y Cenhedloedd Unedig dros Hawliau Dynol; distyllu safbwyntiau aml-randdeiliad i ddylanwadu ar benderfyniadau am foeseg deallusrwydd artiffisial emosiynol i adrannau Llywodraeth y Deyrnas Unedig, rheoleiddwyr a chwmnïau yn yr Unol Daleithiau/y Deyrnas Unedig; a llunio rhaglen gŵyl ryngwladol, ysbrydoli artistiaid a hysbysu dinasyddion.
Wrth i ni ddechrau rhyngweithio â thechnolegau trwy gyfrwng y corff a dimensiynau personol bywyd dynol, mae'r ymchwil hwn yn helpu i ddatrys sut y gellir siapio'r technolegau hyn i wasanaethu, gwella a difyrru, yn hytrach na manteisio’.
Mae Ysgol Gwyddorau Chwaraeon, Iechyd ac Ymarfer Prifysgol Bangor yn fawr ei bri ac yn cynnal ymchwil i wytnwch meddwl, perfformiad elît, perfformiad dynol ac iechyd mewn amgylcheddau eithafol, ymddygiad deietegol a metabolaeth, ac ymarfer corff ac iechyd fasgwlar.
Mae ein hymchwilwyr yn gweithio gyda dau sefydliad:
Mae’r Sefydliad Ffisioleg Ddynol Gymhwysol yn canolbwyntio ar bedair thema ymchwil: Meddygaeth Ataliol ac Adsefydlu; Pobl a’r Amgylchedd; Chwaraeon a Pherfformiad Dynol; a Ffisioleg a Thechnoleg.
Rydym yn ymchwilio i’r themâu hyn gan ddefnyddio’r dechnoleg ddiweddaraf i astudio ymatebion ymddygiadol a newidiadau integreiddiol mewn ffisioleg niwral, endocrinaidd, metabolaidd, arennol, cardiofasgwlaidd a resbiradol i ymarfer corff, afiechyd a'r amgylchedd.
Mae ein cyllidwyr yn cynnwys y Sefydliad Cenedlaethol dros Ymchwil Iechyd a Gofal a Chronfa Iach ac Egnïol Llywodraeth Cymru.
Mae ein gwaith ar faethiad wedi cael effaith arbennig, yn cael ei ddefnyddio gan y Weinyddiaeth Amddiffyn i wella iechyd a lles personél milwrol.
Mae ymchwil i ddiet milwyr wedi dangos bod salwch, anafiadau a thanberfformiad yn cael eu dylanwadu'n sylweddol gan ddiffygion yn neiet milwyr.
Mae hyn wedi arwain at newid ym mholisi'r Fyddin, gyda milwyr yn cael egni dietegol a fitamin D ychwanegol.
Dangosodd tîm Bangor fod hyfforddiant milwrol caled yn gwanhau'r system imiwnedd ac yn cynyddu achosion o heintiau ymysg recriwtiaid y Fyddin o gymharu â grwpiau rheolydd sy'n cyfateb o ran oedran.
Dangoswyd bod 7% o recriwtiaid wedi dioddef o leiaf un haint a gafodd ddiagnosis gan glinigwyr yn ystod hyfforddiant cychwynnol y Fyddin, gyda phob haint yn arwain at golli tri diwrnod o hyfforddiant ar gyfartaledd.
Dangosodd hefyd fod gofynion corfforol caled hyfforddiant y Fyddin yn cynyddu'r risg o anaf cyhyrysgerbydol gan arwain at golli rhagor o ddiwrnodau hyfforddi ac athreuliad meddygol, ar gost ariannol sylweddol.
Dangosodd astudiaethau labordy a maes dilynol fod maethiad annigonol wedi'i nodi fel cyfrannwr pwysig ac arwyddocaol at gynyddu achosion o heintiau ac anafiadau cyhyrysgerbydol yn ystod hyfforddiant milwrol caled.
Canfu ymchwil pellach nad oedd milwyr a oedd yn cael ychwanegion hyfforddi llawn egni bob nos fel 'pedwerydd pryd' yn dioddef effeithiau andwyol hyfforddiant ar gyfansoddiad y corff, perfformiad corfforol, imiwnedd ac iechyd esgyrn fel oedd yn digwydd gyda diffyg egni.
Gwelodd ymchwil ar statws haearn a fitamin D recriwtiaid gwrywaidd a benywaidd hefyd fod recriwtiaid â lefelau annigonol o fitamin D yn perfformio’n waeth yn gorfforol, fod ganddynt imiwnedd is a'u bod yn fwy tebygol o ddioddef heintiau resbiradol ac anafiadau na'r rhai oedd â lefelau uchel o fitamin D.
O ganlyniad comisiynwyd y tîm i ddatblygu ac ymchwilio i effeithiolrwydd ychwanegu fitamin D yn ystod y gaeaf.
Dangosodd yr ymchwil hwn fod ychwanegu fitamin D yn effeithiol o ran lleihau heintiau a thrwy sicrhau lefelau digonol o fitamin D mewn bron pob recriwt [mwy na neu'n hafal i 95%] roedd hyn yn sail wybodaeth i roi’r dosau cywir o ychwanegion i’r Fyddin at y dyfodol.
Mae gan y Fyddin Brydeinig ddyletswydd gofal tuag at ei holl filwyr, sy'n cynnwys darparu maeth digonol a phriodol.
Gwnaeth ein hymchwil ar ran y Fyddin Brydeinig ddangos fod diffygion yn neiet y recriwtiaid yn rhannol gyfrifol am salwch, anafiadau a thanberfformiad yn ystod hyfforddiant milwrol.
Nodwedd gyson yn yr holl waith hwn yw bod yr effeithiau buddiol wedi digwydd adeg yr ymchwil, a bod polisi maeth wedi newid er budd y Fyddin a’i phersonél.
Mae ymchwil i broffil datblygu athletwyr mwyaf llwyddiannus y Deyrnas Unedig wedi arwain at newidiadau yn null UK Sport o ymdrin â rhaglenni datblygu talent.
Cymharodd ymchwil a arweiniwyd gan Fangor fywydau athletwyr uwch elitaidd sy’n ennill medalau’n rheolaidd â bywydau athletwyr cyfatebol, nad ydynt yn ennill medalau.
Y cyfranogwyr oedd 32 o gyn-Olympiaid Prydain Fawr.
Roedd un ar bymtheg o'r rhain yn athletwyr uwch elitaidd a oedd wedi ennill sawl medal aur mewn mwy nag un bencampwriaeth fawr, megis y Gemau Olympaidd neu Bencampwriaethau'r Byd.
Roedd yr un ar bymtheg athletwr elitaidd arall yn athletwyr rhyngwladol a oedd yn cael eu cyllido a oedd wedi ennill medalau pencampwriaeth ond nid mewn pencampwriaethau mawr.
Datgelodd y canlyniadau wahaniaethau pwysig rhwng y ddau grŵp o ran newidynnau demograffig, ymarfer, hyfforddiant a hanes cystadleuaeth, a phrofiadau seicogymdeithasol, datblygiad a phersonoliaeth.
Roedd athletwyr uwch elitaidd yn fwy tebygol nag athletwyr elitaidd o fod wedi dioddef digwyddiad bywyd negyddol sylweddol yn ystod eu datblygiad; o fod yn ddidostur ac yn hunanol, ac yn obsesiynol ac yn berffeithydd, yn canolbwyntio ar feistrolaeth a chanlyniad; yn defnyddio dulliau paratoi llwyr a/neu agwedd wrthffobig er mwyn cynnal lefelau uwch o berfformiad dan bwysau; dod yn ôl o anawsterau perfformiad difrifol fel oedolyn a chael 'trobwyntiau' gyrfa sylweddol a arweiniodd at fwy o benderfyniad i ragori; mwy o arallgyfeirio ynghyd ag ymarfer a chystadlaethau chwaraeon-benodol helaeth yn ystod eu hieuenctid; a gwelliant parhaus mewn perfformiad dros fwy o flynyddoedd fel oedolyn.
TDarparodd yr ymchwil hwn feincnod rhyngwladol ar gyfer ymchwil i adnabod talent a datblygu.
Mae canfyddiadau Project Enillwyr Medalau Prydain Fawr wedi arwain at fwy o fuddsoddiad mewn gwybodaeth am chwaraeon a chasglu data ynglŷn ag athletwyr elitaidd posib.
Mae’r newidiadau hyn wedi cael canlyniadau pellgyrhaeddol o ran gallu cyrff llywodraethu cenedlaethol i archwilio eu data am dalent, cynnal cynadleddau achos am eu hathletwyr elitaidd posib a chynllunio rhaglenni datblygu talent fwy priodol.
Mae ysgolheigion o bob rhan o'r Celfyddydau a'r Dyniaethau yn galluogi portffolio o ymchwil cynaliadwy, sy’n seiliedig ar iaith ac yn ddiwylliannol amrywiol ac sy’n adlewyrchu cryfderau hanesyddol Prifysgol Bangor ac yn cael effaith ar ddiwylliant, cymdeithas a’r celfyddydau.
Caiff hyn ei gyfoethogi trwy gydweithio’n agos â’r Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol sy’n chwarae rhan allweddol mewn creu sylfaen ymchwil cyfrwng Cymraeg cynaliadwy ar lefel leol a chenedlaethol.
Mae ein hymchwil yn ategu pedair colofn Gweledigaeth Cyngor Cyllido Addysg Uwch Cymru ar gyfer Ymchwil ac Arloesedd yng Nghymru – sef rhagoriaeth, lle, arloesedd, a chydweithredu.
Gyda ffocws ymchwil ar y Gymraeg ac Astudiaethau Celtaidd, Astudiaethau Diwylliannol Rhyngddisgyblaethol, Ysgrifennu Creadigol a Pherfformio, ac Ieithyddiaeth a Chynllunio Ieithyddol rydym yn manteisio ar ddiwylliant Cymreig yr ardal y mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi ei lleoli ac yn gosod hynny mewn cyd-destun rhyngwladol.
Mae ein hymchwil arloesol yn mynd i’r afael â phryderon cyfoes ledled y byd gan rychwantu cyfnod amser o’r canol oesoedd hyd heddiw.
Mae ymchwil a wnaed gan Brifysgol Bangor mewn dau broject a ariannwyd gan yr AHRC ar 'Deithwyr Ewropeaidd i Gymru: 1750-2010' yn cynnwys darganfod, astudio a dehongli bron i 500 o hanesion gan deithwyr o bob rhan o Ewrop.
Mae gweithgareddau ymgysylltu cyhoeddus helaeth gan gynnwys arddangosfa deithiol, creu deunyddiau addysgol sydd ar gael am ddim ac amrywiaeth o adnoddau ar-lein wedi helpu pobl i ddeall Cymru yn well.
Drwy’r ymchwil darparwyd adnoddau hollol newydd ar gyfer astudio Cymru, gan ehangu ar weithiau teithio i gynnwys mwy na phortreadau Saesneg eu hiaith yn unig o Gymru.
Gan weithio gyda phartneriaid treftadaeth ar y wefan ‘Taith i'r Gorffennol', llwyddwyd i greu adnoddau amlgyfrwng sy'n cynnwys llwybrau thematig a phrofiad rhithrealiti o Abaty Tyndyrn.
Mae’r adnoddau hyn oll wedi'u defnyddio fel enghreifftiau o arfer da gyda sefydliadau treftadaeth eraill ledled y DU.
Roedd yr ymchwil a ddeilliodd o hyn hefyd yn cynnwys y llyfr cywaith 'Hidden Texts, Hidden Nation', sy'n gwneud cyfraniad gwreiddiol i astudiaethau ysgrifennu teithio, gan roi golwg newydd sbon ar Gymru.
Mae creu cronfa ddata o destunau teithio anghofiedig neu anhysbys am Gymru mewn amrywiol ieithoedd Ewropeaidd o fudd i ymchwilwyr a oedd yn paratoi’r cais buddugol i gydnabod Diwydiant Llechi Gogledd Cymru fel Safle Treftadaeth y Byd UNESCO.
Mae Govannon Consultancy, a gydlynodd y cais ynghyd â Chyngor Gwynedd, yn honni bod yr ymchwil hwn wedi cyfoethogi'r cais yn fawr.
Mae’r ymchwil wedi gwella’r ddealltwriaeth o Gymru fel cyrchfan deithio i dwristiaid a’r sector twristiaeth, gan ddarparu deunyddiau hyrwyddo newydd a ddosbarthwyd gan lawer o randdeiliaid gan gynnwys Croeso Cymru.
“Daethom o hyd i gyfrifon heb eu hastudio o’r blaen a oedd yn rhoi cipolwg ar sut mae pobl eraill wedi synio am Gymru.
Mae peth o'r ysgrifennu mewn dyddiaduron neu lythyrau, ac nid oedd llawer wedi'u bwriadu i'w cyhoeddi.
Mae ehangder y pynciau a drafodir yn dangos y diddordeb fu yng Nghymru ers amser maith.
Nid oedd yr holl ymwelwyr yn dwristiaid yn yr ystyr fodern - roedd rhai yn ffoaduriaid neu ar deithiau busnes, ond mae pob argraff yn codi cwr y llen ar Gymru drwy lygaid ymwelwyr o genhedloedd eraill Ewrop.
“Mae’r deunydd yn cwmpasu cyfnod o newid mawr yn nhirwedd, diwylliant a threftadaeth Cymru a bydd ymwelwyr modern yn gallu ‘profi’ y newidiadau hynny trwy lygaid y rhai fu’n tramwyo’r wlad o’u blaenau.
Rhydd hyn olygfa unigryw o Gymru i genhedlaeth newydd o deithwyr Ewropeaidd, ond gan daflu goleuni newydd hefyd ar sut mae ymwelwyr o’r Deyrnas Unedig a rhannau eraill o’r byd wedi gweld Cymru ar hyd yr oesoedd
Cynhaliwyd yr ymchwil hwn ar y cyd â Phrifysgol Abertawe a Chanolfan Uwchefrydiau Cymreig a Cheltaidd Prifysgol Cymru.
Mae ymchwil ym Mhrifysgol Bangor wedi datblygu’n sylweddol y ddealltwriaeth o’r defnydd a wneir o’r Gymraeg a throsglwyddiad iaith gan gael effaith ar bolisi iaith Llywodraeth Cymru mewn nifer o sectorau.
Fel rhan o ymchwil dan arweiniad Prifysgol Bangor dadansoddwyd y defnydd a wneir o’r Gymraeg mewn cymdeithas gyda phwyslais ar ddeall sut mae siaradwyr Cymraeg yn defnyddio’r Gymraeg a’r rhwystrau sy’n effeithio ar ddefnydd iaith mewn cymunedau.
Mae dealltwriaeth o’r fath yn hanfodol er mwyn gweithredu strategaethau cynllunio ieithyddol effeithiol i greu cymunedau Cymraeg cynaliadwy a gweithredu mewn cymunedau lle mae angen cymryd camau penodol i adfywio’r iaith.
Bu ymchwilwyr hefyd yn edrych ar rôl dwyieithrwydd ac addysg oddi fewn i’r agenda adfywio ieithyddol yng Nghymru.
Crëwyd e-adnoddau arloesol i uchafu dilyniant ieithyddol yn y maes addysgol.
Mae’r ymchwil hwn wedi dylanwadu’n sylweddol ar flaenoriaethau Llywodraeth Cymru ym maes cynllunio ieithyddol ac wedi cyfrannu at y dystiolaeth sydd ar gael.
Yn ogystal, deuir ar ofyn yr ymchwilwyr yn rheolaidd i roi mewnbwn arbenigol i adroddiadau a gwerthusiadau allweddol Llywodraeth Cymru, er enghraifft, Gwerthusiad Proses Cymraeg i Blant: Adroddiad Terfynol.
Mae Comisiynydd y Gymraeg yn cyfeirio’n rheolaidd at yr ymchwil hwn i gefnogi penderfyniadau ac i hysbysu cyrff cyhoeddus y mae’n ofynnol yn gyfreithiol iddynt gadw at Safonau’r Gymraeg.
Mae’r ymchwil hwn yn sail i adroddiad a luniwyd ar y cyd sy’n asesu’r defnydd o’r Gymraeg yn y sector gwirfoddol yng Nghymru y cyfeirir ato yn sesiynau hyfforddi Comisiynydd y Gymraeg ar gyfer sefydliadau’r trydydd sector.
Un o’r datblygiadau allweddol sy’n deillio o’r ymchwil hwn yw pecyn hyfforddi a gynhyrchwyd ar y cyd sy’n cefnogi gwaith y Mentrau Iaith i hybu’r defnydd o’r Gymraeg yn y gymuned.
Mae’r pecyn yn cynnwys enghreifftiau gwerthfawr o raglenni arloesol y gellir eu haddasu i weithio mewn cymunedau amrywiol yng Nghymru.
Nododd yr ymchwil hwn hefyd yr angen am ragor o ddeunyddiau Cymraeg ar gyfer plant yn eu harddegau a phobl ifanc, gan arwain at ddatblygu deunyddiau Cymdeithaseg cyfrwng Cymraeg amlgyfrwng unigryw a therminoleg safonol newydd.
Defnyddir y rhain i addysgu Lefel A, Bagloriaeth Cymru, a Chymdeithaseg ar lefel gradd ledled Cymru.
Mae ein hymchwil wedi cael effaith ar feysydd polisi iaith allweddol Llywodraeth Cymru, yn cynnwys y defnydd o’r iaith yn y gymuned a throsglwyddiad iaith rhwng cenedlaethau lle mae canfyddiadau ymchwil wedi dylanwadu ar y modd y mae Llywodraeth Cymru a swyddfa Comisiynydd y Gymraeg yn mynd ati i adfywio'r Gymraeg yn barhaus fel yr amlinellir yn y strategaeth iaith gyfredol, Cymraeg 2050
Mae ymchwil wedi ei gynnal gan Brifysgol Bangor ym maes technoleg iaith ar gyfer y Gymraeg fel iaith lai ei hadnoddau wedi galluogi datblygiad adnoddau ar-lein, wedi trawsnewid y defnydd o’r Gymraeg mewn ystod eang o amgylcheddau digidol, wedi helpu cwmnïau i ddatblygu cynnyrch newydd, ac wedi dylanwadu ar bolisi yng Nghymru ac yn fyd-eang.
Uned Technolegau Iaith Prifysgol Bangor oedd yn gyfrifol am ddatblygu Cysgliad – pecyn meddalwedd sy’n cynnwys gwirydd gramadeg a sillafu Cymraeg Cysill yn ogystal â chasgliad Cysgeir o eiriaduron.
Soniodd Comisiynydd y Gymraeg fod Cysgliad wedi helpu pobl i fagu hyder wrth ysgrifennu Cymraeg yn ogystal â bod yn gymorth hanfodol ym myd addysg, i gyfieithwyr a gweinyddwyr proffesiynol.
Caiff yr offer hyn eu defnyddio bob dydd yng Nghymru ac mae Comisiynydd y Gymraeg wedi gorchymyn pob awdurdod cyhoeddus i osod Cysgliad ar eu cyfrifiaduron./p>
Yn 2020, noddodd Llywodraeth Cymru drwyddedau Cysgliad am ddim ar gyfer y cyhoedd, ysgolion a busnesau bach a chanolig i helpu yn ystod pandemig COVID-19.
Yn ystod chwe mis cyntaf y cynnig, lawrlwythwyd 4,125 o drwyddedau ychwanegol am ddim.
Ers mis Awst 2013, mae'r Ap Geiriaduron, gan gynnwys Geiriadur Termau'r Coleg Cymraeg, wedi'i lawrlwytho mwy na 274,260 o weithiau.
Gyda llawer o bobl yng Nghymru yn defnyddio dyfeisiau fel Alexa a Siri yn Saesneg, mae datblygiad y cynorthwyydd llais Macsen wedi creu posibiliadau newydd i ddefnyddio technoleg lleferydd yn y Gymraeg yn yr un modd.
Gellir gofyn i Macsen wneud tasgau amrywiol neu ofyn am wybodaeth, er enghraifft, i roi’r golau ymlaen neu i ffwrdd, i gael y newyddion, y tywydd, chwarae cerddoriaeth bandiau Cymraeg, neu gyrchu gwybodaeth o fersiwn Gymraeg Wicipedia.
Mae ymchwil Yr Uned Technolegau Iaith mewn technoleg lleferydd Cymraeg wedi gwella bywydau Cymry Cymraeg sydd ar fin colli eu gallu i siarad o ganlyniad i afiechydon fel clefyd niwronau motor neu ganser y gwddf.
Trwy bartneriaeth gyda’r GIG yng Nghymru, creodd yr Uned Technolegau Iaith lwyfan sy’n galluogi cleifion, gyda chymorth therapyddion lleferydd, i greu eu llais synthetig personol eu hunain yn Gymraeg ac yn Saesneg.
Roedd y project yn destun rhaglen ddogfen 'Achub Llais John' a dyfarnwyd Gwobr Rhoi Llais iddo yn 2019 gan Goleg Brenhinol y Therapyddion Lleferydd ac Iaith.
Mae ymchwil Yr Uned Technolegau Iaith hefyd wedi arwain at weithio gyda chwmnïau lleol i wella cynhyrchion a gwasanaethau presennol a datblygu cynhyrchion a gwasanaethau newydd.
Er enghraifft, cafodd cwmni cyfieithu yng Nghaernarfon fudd o ymchwil yr Uned Technolegau Iaith i greu eu meddalwedd cyfieithu peirianyddol eu hunain.
Mae ymchwilwyr yr Uned Technolegau Iaith wedi gwasanaethu fel cynghorwyr ar Fwrdd Technoleg Iaith Gymraeg Llywodraeth Cymru, gan helpu i lywio’r dull o adfywio iaith drwy dechnolegau iaith.
Buont hefyd yn cynghori menter LT4All UNESCO a Phenderfyniad Senedd yr UE ar Gydraddoldeb Iaith yn yr Oes Ddigidol, a basiwyd yn llwyddiannus.
Mae datblygu adnoddau dan arweiniad ymchwil wedi cynorthwyo i hyrwyddo’r Gymraeg fel iaith fodern sy'n edrych i'r dyfodol, ynghyd â gwella ymarfer mewn diwydiant a dylanwadu ar bolisïau'r llywodraeth.
Mae'r effaith wedi ymestyn y tu hwnt i Gymru, gan ddylanwadu ar y strategaeth cydraddoldeb ieithoedd digidol yn rhyngwladol a dylanwadu ar ymarfer yn fyd-eang.
Gan fanteisio ar ddiwylliant Cymreig yr ardal y mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi ei lleoli, mae ymchwilwyr ym meysydd Llenyddiaeth Saesneg ac Ysgrifennu Creadigol, Ffilm, Hanes, a Cherddoriaeth yn ymchwilio i effaith diwylliant, cymdeithas a’r celfyddydau mewn cyd-destunau cenedlaethol a rhyngwladol.
Mae ein hymchwil yn canolbwyntio ar dri maes:
Mae ymchwil arloesol i gyfieithu, ysgrifennu creadigol a beirniadu barddoniaeth Saesneg o Gymru wedi dylanwadu ar ymarfer creadigol ac wedi codi ymwybyddiaeth cynulleidfaoedd lleol a rhyngwladol o lenyddiaeth ddwyieithog Cymru.
Daw’r cysylltiad rhwng cyfieithu, dealltwriaeth ryngddiwylliannol a chreadigrwydd llenyddol i’r amlwg yn nofelau Alys Conran, ym marddoniaeth Zoë Skoulding a’i hymchwil i gyfieithu barddoniaeth fel ymarfer creadigol, ac ym marddoniaeth a gweithiau beirniadol Carol Rumens.
Mae ymchwil ym Mhrifysgol Bangor wedi cynyddu ymwybyddiaeth o sut mae cyfieithu, fel pwnc ac ymarfer, yn fodd i godi ymwybyddiaeth y cyhoedd o'u diwylliant.
Mae cyfieithu hefyd yn ffordd o ddatblygu dealltwriaeth newydd o hunaniaeth, iaith a diwylliant deuol, a chyffredin, Cymru.
Amlygodd y sylw yn y cyfryngau y ffaith fod cyhoeddi Pigeon, nofel gyntaf Alys Conran, yn ddwyieithog, ynghyd â’r derbyniad a gafodd y nofel, yn meithrin creadigrwydd trawsddiwylliannol, ac mae Llenyddiaeth Cymru bellach yn ei defnyddio fel enghraifft o sut mae gwobr Llyfr y Flwyddyn yn 'cynyddu gwerth canfyddedig llenyddiaeth o Gymru ymhlith dinasyddion Cymru a gwledydd eraill'.
Mae dylanwadau trawsddiwylliannol a dealltwriaeth ddiwylliannol yn ganolog i gerddi Rumens.
Mae casgliad Rumens o gerddi wedi ei gyhoeddi yn UDA ac mae ei blog wythnosol ar gyfer y Guardian Online yn cael dylanwad rhyngwladol.
Mae’r blog yn cysylltu â rhwydweithiau barddonol byd-eang, ac yn cyflwyno barddoniaeth o ddiwylliannau eraill yn aml.
Caiff ei drafod ar y cyfryngau cymdeithasol gan feirdd a darllenwyr barddoniaeth ar draws y byd Saesneg ei iaith.
Mae’r hyn a ddewisa a’i thrafodaeth fanwl o gerddi unigol wedi eu llywio gan ei gwaith proffil uchel fel bardd a chyfieithydd.
Mae’n amlygu gallu’r cyfryngau ar-lein a’r cyfryngau cymdeithasol i fynd y tu hwnt i ffiniau cenedlaethol, gan ysgogi trafodaeth rhwng darllenwyr anacademaidd barddoniaeth a chyfieithiadau barddoniaeth ar sawl cyfandir.
Mae hefyd yn archwilio gyda phlant ysgol trwy gyfrwng darlithoedd ac mae wedi'i chynnwys fel rhan o faes llafur TGAU Llenyddiaeth Saesneg yr AQA ers 2017.
Gan weithio yn Saesneg yng nghyd-destun dwyieithog Cymru, mae ymchwilwyr Prifysgol Bangor wedi ymgysylltu â chynulleidfaoedd ledled y byd trwy lwyfannau o fri lleol, rhyngwladol a rhithiol.
Mae eu hymchwil sy’n seiliedig ar ymarfer yn adlewyrchu ac yn cryfhau cysylltiadau trawsddiwylliannol trwy ysgrifennu creadigol a beirniadaeth.
Roedd project Hidden Rivers Skoulding, a ffurfiai broject Cyfrif Cyflymydd Effaith yr ESRC, yn cynnwys bobl leol yn ail-fapio Bangor trwy gyfrwng teithiau cerdded barddonol ar hyd afon danddaearol Adda.
Yn eu plith roedd grwpiau megis Cymdeithas Deillion Gogledd Cymru a disgyblion Ysgol Glanadda.
Cyfrannodd sylwadau gan bobl leol, yn Gymraeg a Saesneg, am eu canfyddiadau newydd at ddilyniant o gerddi cydweithredol yn ei chasgliad Footnotes to Water.
Enillodd Wobr Barddoniaeth Llyfr Cymraeg y Flwyddyn yn 2020.Grym y gwaith, fel y nodwyd yn Poetry Wales gan Dai George, yw bod pobl leol, yn ganolog i’r broses greadigol wrth iddynt weld eu dinas o safbwynt newydd.
ae'n dangos y newid yn eu hymateb i'r ddinas a daw’r llais hwn o’r testun ei hun, yn enwedig yn 'Walking the Adda: A Collaboration', sef cerdd ryddieithol a luniwyd yn gyfan gwbl o blith sylwadau dinasyddion Bangor Cafodd hyn ei adlewyrchu ymhellach mewn perfformiad cyhoeddus poblogaidd o'r gwaith a ddeilliodd o hynny.
Mae ymchwil Prifysgol Bangor i lenyddiaeth diwedd yr oesoedd canol wedi bod yn mynd rhagddi ers ei sefydlu ym 1884
Yn fwy diweddar, mae ymchwil i lenyddiaeth Saesneg ganoloesol wedi dangos ei pherthnasedd yn y byd modern.
Mae wedi ehangu mynediad byd-eang i destunau ac archifau canoloesol; mae wedi dylanwadu ar lenyddiaeth Saesneg yng nghwricwla ysgolion cynradd ac uwchradd yng Nghymru a Lloegr; mae wedi dylanwadu ar ymarfer sefydliadau treftadaeth ddiwylliannol; ac mae wedi dangos, trwy gyfryngau amrywiol, berthnasedd parhaus rhan hanfodol o dreftadaeth lenyddol i bryderon modern ymhlith cynulleidfaoedd lleol, cenedlaethol a rhyngwladol.
Mae’r clwstwr ymchwil Testunau Materol yn yr Ysgol Ieithoedd, Llenyddiaethau ac Ieithyddiaeth, sy’n cynnwys Canolfan Stephen Colclough ar Hanes a Diwylliant y Llyfr, y Ganolfan Astudiaethau Arthuraidd (CAS), a’r Sefydliad Astudiaethau Canoloesol a Modern Cynnar (IMEMS), wedi meithrin ystod eang o ymchwil ym maes llenyddiaeth ganoloesol, gan ddatgelu perthnasedd parhaus y testunau hyn i gynulleidfaoedd cyfoes.
Mae ymchwil ym Mangor wedi cael effaith sylweddol a pharhaol ar fynediad byd-eang i'r copi hynaf o Canterbury Tales Chaucer, sy'n rhoi mynediad ar-lein am y tro cyntaf i ysgolheigion a'r cyhoedd (yn fyd-eang) i gopi Hengwrt o'r Canterbury Tales trwy gyfrwng Drych Digidol LlGC ac er 2014 mae wedi cael 23,345 o ymweliadau.
Mae ymchwil i astudiaethau llenyddol canoloesol wedi dylanwadu ar addysg ysgolion cynradd ac uwchradd gan gynnwys dysgu creadigol a llenyddiaeth Saesneg Safon Uwch ac mae ymchwil i astudiaethau Arthuraidd wedi llywio polisi addysgol llywodraeth Cymru wrth iddo gyflwyno rhaglen 'addysg barhaus'.
Roedd rhamant Arthuraidd a rhamant nad oedd yn Arthuraidd yn cael ei ddilorni gan athrawon ysgol y cyfnod ôl-ganoloesol gan nad oedd yn addas ar gyfer boneddigesau a merched (er enghraifft, ar sail godineb a dynladdiad yn frith yn y rhamant ganoloesol allweddol ‘The Death of Arthur’ gan Thomas Malory).
Ac eto mae apêl y chwedlau dros amser, lleoliadau ieithyddol a daearyddol wedi, hyd heddiw, fel bod ailgyflwyno’r maes astudio hynod ddiddorol hwn i’r cwricwlwm yn hynod bwysig.
Rydym wedi gweld cynnydd sylweddol yn ymgysylltiad disgyblion â llythrennedd, ac nid yw diddordeb y cyhoedd yn y chwedlau erioed wedi bod yn gryfach.’

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/y-brifysgol:
Sefydliad cryf, hyderus a gydnabyddir yn rhanbarthol, yn genedlaethol ac yn rhyngwladol fel canolfan ragoriaeth ar sail ei bortffolio amrywiol o addysgu ac ymchwil, ac am y profiad unigryw, amlddiwylliannol a chynhwysol y mae’n ei roi i’w staff a’i fyfyrwyr.
Mae tua 10,000 o fyfyrwyr yn astudio yn y Brifysgol, gyda staff dysgu wedi eu lleoli o fewn 14 o ysgolion academaidd.
Mae Adolygiad Sefydliadol yr Asiantaeth Sicrhau Ansawdd (QAA) wedi canmol y ffordd y mae’r Brifysgol yn rheoli ansawdd academaidd.
Cawsom ganmoliaeth arbennig am sawl gweithgaredd, gan gynnwys y ffordd rydym yn defnyddio dull sy’n cael ei yrru gan ddata i hysbysu a gwella profiad y myfyrwyr.
Ymhlith y meysydd eraill a gafodd ganmoliaeth arbennig oedd y bartneriaeth ddofn sydd gan y Brifysgol gyda’i myfyrwyr, a’r ffaith bod dwyieithrwydd wedi’i ymgorffori oddi mewn i brofiad y myfyriwr ac yn effeithio’n gadarnhaol ar bob agwedd ohono.
Rydym wedi ymateb i’r adroddiad QAA gyda’n cynllun gweithredu.
O fewn y Brifysgol mae tri Choleg sy’n cynnwys 9 o ysgolion academaidd , ynghyd a dros 50 o ganolfannau ymchwil arbenigol, sy’n galluogi darpariaeth o gyrsiau o fewn y Celfyddydau, Dyniaethau a Gwyddorau.
Rydym yn cynnig cannoedd o gyrsiau ar draws y celfyddydau a’r gwyddorau.
Rydym yn ymfalchïo yn safon ein haddysgu a chafodd ein cyrsiau a’n darlithwyr eu henwi’r ail orau ym Mhrydain yng ngwobrau myfyrwyr WhatUni 2018.
Prifysgol Bangor sy’n cynnig y nifer fwyaf o gyrsiau cyfrwng Cymraeg ac mae mwy o fyfyrwyr yn dewis astubcuio trwy’r Gymraeg yma nac yn unrhyw brifysgol arall.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi ymrwymo i ddatblygu cynaliadwy a dinasyddiaeth fyd-eang.
Ein nod yw hyrwyddo cynaliadwyedd mewn gweithgareddau ymchwil, busnes a menter.
Yn wir, mae llawer o’r hyn yr ydym yn ei wneud yn deillio o’n dymuniad i ddod â chynaliadwyedd yn fyw, boed drwy ein haddysgu, ymchwil neu ymgysylltu cyhoeddus.
Mae gennym achrediad ISO14001:2015 am reolaeth amgylcheddol, ac ystod o fesurau cynaliadwyedd ar waith, gan gynnwys safleoedd uchel yn nhablau Cynghrair Cynaliadwyedd y byd.
Am fwy o wybodaeth ar yr agenda cynaliadwyedd ehangach ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, ewch i dudalennau gwe Cynaliadwyedd .
Mae lleoliad Bangor – rhwng y mynyddoedd a’r môr – wedi cael ei ddisgrifio fel y lleoliad prifysgol orau ym Mhrydain.
Cafodd Gogledd Cymru ei henwi’r 4ydd lle gorau i ymweld ar draws y byd yn ôl y Lonely Planet , yn sgil ei harddwch naturiol a’r cyfleoedd antur newydd sbon sydd ar gael yn yr ardal.
Mae datblygiadau newydd y Brifysgol yn cynnwys Pontio , sef canolfan y celfyddydau ac arloesi sy’n gartref i Undeb y Myfyrwyr, adnoddau dysgu, theatr, sinema, bar, caffis a gofod arloesi.
Datblygiad diweddar arall yn cynnwys ailddatblygiad cyfleusterau chwaraeon y Brifysgol yng Nghanolfan Brailsford.
Mae bywyd ym Mhrifysgol Bangor yn fywiog ac yn amrywiol.
Mae gennym dros 150 o glybiau a chymdeithasau’n perthyn i Undeb y Myfyrwyr, sy’n cwmpasu ystod eang o ddiddordebau, gweithgareddau a chwaraeon – sy’n golygu fod yna rhywbeth i bawb.
Mae aelodaeth am ddim felly mae cyfle i’n holl fyfyrwyr fanteisio ar y cyfleoedd allgyrsiol sydd ar gael.
Enillodd Prifysgol Bangor y wobr am y clybiau a chymdeithasau gorau ym Mhrydain yng ngwobrau WhatUni 2019.
Caiff myfyrwyr ym Mangor gymorth a chefnogaeth o’r eiliad maent yn cyrraedd.
Mae ein canolfan Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr yn cynnig cyngor ac arweiniad ar faterion fel arian a chyllid, anabledd, cwnsela, dyslecsia a chyngor ar rentu tai preifat.
Pob blwyddyn mae cannoedd o fyfyrwyr yr ail a’r drydedd flwyddyn yn cael eu hyfforddi i weithio fel Arweinwyr Cyfoed sy’n croesawu myfyrwyr newydd i Fangor ac yn cynnig cymorth ymarferol er mwyn helpu iddynt ymgartrefu.
Cafodd llety Prifysgol Bangor ei restru ymhlith y 10 uchaf yng ngwobrau WhatUni 2024.
Rydym yn sicrhau ystafell yn ein neuaddau preswyl i holl fyfyrwyr y flwyddyn gyntaf sy’n nodi Bangor fel ei Dewis Cadarn ac yn gwneud cais cyn y dyddiad cau.
Mae gennym gysylltiadau agos gyda busnes a’r GIG yng Nghymru drwy Fwrdd Iechyd Prifysgol Betsi Cadwaladr.
Mae’r Brifysgol yn un o’r prif ddarparwyr hyfforddiant ac addysg ar gyfer y GIG ac mae hefyd yn un o’r prif bartneriaid yn Ysgol Glinigol Gogledd Cymru.
*heb gyfrif sefydliadau arbenigol a phrifysgolion oedd yn cyflwyno mewn un Uned Asesu yn unig

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/strategaeth-2030:
Byd cynaliadwy i genedlaethau'r dyfodol.
Strategaeth 2030 – PDF llawn Strategaeth 2030 - PDF Hygyrch

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/adroddiad-blynyddol:
Llwythwch y PDF Adroddiad Blynyddol i lawr
Llwythwch y PDF Adolygiad Blynyddol i lawr
Lawrlwytho Datganiad Tryloywder 23/24
Gwerth faint o ffioedd myfyriwr mae fy mhrifysgol yn ei gael?
Cawsom £88,651,000 mewn ffioedd dysgu yn 2022/23, sef 50% o incwm y brifysgol.
Fersiwn hygyrch o'r wybodaeth yn y llun uchod:
Cyfanswm yr incwm am 2022/23 oedd £178.0m.
Daw gweddill ein hincwm o grantiau gan gyrff ariannu at feysydd gwariant penodol, ffynonellau ariannu i dalu costau ymchwil, derbyniadau neuaddau ac arlwyo yn ogystal ag incwm o feysydd megis cyrsiau di-gredyd, Pontio, Academi, meithrinfa Tir Na Nog, y Ganolfan Rheolaeth, Parc Gwyddoniaeth Menai, Canolfan Brailsford a ffynonellau eraill.
Ar beth mae’n cael ei wario?
Cyfanswm y gwariant yn 2022/23 oedd £172.3m.
Mae'r siart hwn yn dangos ein holl wariant, gan gynnwys costau nad ydynt yn cael eu hariannu gan ffioedd dysgu megis ymchwil, gwasanaethau a ddarperir e.e.
gwaith ymgynghori a neuaddau.
Er mwyn dangos ar beth mae ffioedd dysgu yn cael eu gwario rydym wedi darparu dadansoddiad pellach isod.
Ar beth mae fy ffioedd yn cael eu gwario?
Rydym yn gwario'r incwm o'ch ffioedd dysgu i dalu am eich addysg a chefnogi dyheadau a rhagolygon ein holl fyfyrwyr at y dyfodol.
Er mwyn gwneud hyn, caiff mwyafrif y ffioedd eu gwario ar addysgu a chymorth academaidd yn ogystal â gwariant ar TG, y llyfrgell ac adeiladau i hwyluso eich astudiaethau.
Addysgu ac asesu
Amser addysgu ac amser cyswllt staff, amserlennu, darparu adnoddau ar-lein, trefnu arholiadau, amser tiwtor personol
Staff cefnogi mewn ysgolion
Staff gweinyddol a thechnegol sy'n gweithio yn ysgolion y brifysgol i gefnogi’r ddarpariaeth addysg
Costau ysgolion nad ydynt yn ymwneud â staff
Offer a nwyddau traul i gefnogi addysgu, hyfforddi staff academaidd a chostau teithio a recriwtio myfyrwyr
Gwasanaethau Cefnogi Myfyrwyr (costau staff)
Costau cefnogi myfyrwyr a chostau staff gweinyddol
Gwasanaethau Cefnogi Myfyrwyr (costau nad ydynt yn ymwneud â staff)
Darpariaeth staff o Wasanaethau TG a Llyfrgell
Costau staff TG a Gwasanaethau Llyfrgell
Costau Darparu Offer a Gwasanaethau Llyfrgell a TG nad ydynt yn ymwneud â staff
Costau offer TG cyfrifiaduron a rennir, cysylltiad di-wifr costau rhwydwaith, llyfrau a chyfnodolion nad ydynt yn ymwneud â staff
Costau cynnal a chadw adeiladau
Costau cynnal a chadw ystad y brifysgol gan gynnwys costau goleuo, gwresogi a chynnal a chadw
Gwasanaethau Proffesiynol
Costau i gefnogi'r brifysgol i weithredu'r swyddogaethau uchod.
Gwariant penodol ar Wasanaethau Cefnogi Myfyrwyr
O ran costau Cefnogi Myfyrwyr, rydym yn darparu'r gwasanaethau canlynol i wella cyfleoedd myfyrwyr i lwyddo.
Ariennir hyn gan ffioedd myfyrwyr sy'n ychwanegu at gyllid grant o tua £756k.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/ein-lleoliad:
Mae lleoliad Bangor, rhwng yr afon Fenai a pharc cenedlaethol Eryri yn cael ei gydnabod mewn sawl arolwg myfyrwyr fel un o’r lleoedd gorau ym Mhrydain i fod yn fyfyriwr.
Mae'r mwyafrif o adeiladau'r Brifysgol yng nghanol y ddinas ac ym Mangor Uchaf.
Mae ein pentrefi llety yn gyfleus ar gyfer eich darlithoedd, yr orsaf dren a chanol y ddinas.
Mae Pentref Ffriddoedd ym Mangor Uchaf ac Santes Fair oddeutu 5 munud ar droed o ganol y ddinas.
Gweld map o gampws y Brifysgol
Ewch i wefan National Rail neu Traveline Cymru am amserlenni i orsaf Bangor.
Mae nifer o wasanaethau yn rhedeg yn gyson i Fangor.
Os ydych am deithio ar y bws, ewch i wefan Traveline Cymru i gynllunio'ch taith neu ffoniwch 0871 200 22 33.
Mae gwasaneth bws TrawsCymru yn rhedeg yn ddyddiol rhwng Bangor â De a Gorllewin Cymru, Wrecsam a’r Bermo.
Mae gan Maes Awyr Ynys Môn hedfaniadau rhwng Maes Awyr Caerdydd ac Ynys Môn.
Ewch i’r wefan am fwy o fanylion.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/ysgolion-academaidd:
Mae gweithgareddau academaidd y Brifysgol wedi eu trefnu o fewn tri choleg.
Mae Coleg y Celfyddydau, Dyniaethau a Gwyddorau Cymdeithas yn cynnwys yr ysgolion a’r canolfannau academaidd canlynol:
Gwefan y Coleg
Mae'r Coleg Gwyddoniaeth a Pheirianneg yn cynnwys yr ysgolion a’r canolfannau academaidd canlynol:
Mae'r Coleg Meddygaeth ac Iechyd yn cynnwys yr ysgolion a’r canolfannau academaidd canlynol:

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/gwasanaethau-cyfleusterau:
Porwch y rhestr o'n Gwasanaethau a'n Cyfleusterau:

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/is-ganghellor:
"Rwy'n hynod falch o fod yn Is-ganghellor Prifysgol Bangor.
Rydym yn bodoli i greu byd cynaliadwy a llewyrchus i fyw ynddo, ar gyfer ein planed, i'n gwlad ac unigolion ar draws cymunedau.
Mae cynaliadwyedd yn werth craidd ac yn egwyddor arweiniol i'r Brifysgol, yn safle 15 yn y byd, am ein hymchwil enwog a'n hymrwymiad i ddiogelu'r amgylchedd.
Rydym hefyd yn Brifysgol ddwyieithog ymroddedig, sy’n ymfalchïo yn ein treftadaeth a’n hiaith Gymreig.
Mae Gogledd Cymru yn lle hynod o hardy i fyw a gweithio ynddo ac mae staff a myfyrwyr yma yn mwynhau profiad cyfoethog ac ansawdd bywyd.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi ennill gwobrau, am brofiad myfyrwyr ac am ymchwil ac arloesedd blaengar, sy'n cael effaith bellgyrhaeddol, byd-eang.
Rwyf wedi ymrwymo i fwrw ymlaen â’n Strategaeth 2030 i sicrhau twf cynaliadwy, addysg ragorol, ymchwil ag effaith fyd-eang, a phrofiad rhagorol i fyfyrwyr, fel bod y Brifysgol yn cynnal ei rôl wrth greu byd iach a llewyrchus i fyw ynddo.”
Gyda gyrfa sy'n ymroddedig i addysg uwch a mynd ar drywydd rhagoriaeth academaidd, mae'r Athro Burke wedi dal swyddi uwch ym Mhrifysgol Nottingham, Prifysgol Stirling, Prifysgol y Frenhines Mary yn Llundain yn ogystal ag, yn fwyaf diweddar, ym Mhrifysgol Caerlŷr.
Mae ganddo broffil ymchwil rhyngwladol nodedig mewn Ymchwil Gweithredol.
Mae ei ymchwil yn ymchwilio i fethodolegau cefnogi penderfyniadau deallus mewn amgylcheddau cymhleth ac mae'n gorwedd ar ryngwyneb Cyfrifiadureg a Mathemateg.
Mae'n Gymrawd yr Academi Beirianneg Frenhinol ac yn Llywydd y Gymdeithas Ymchwil Weithredol.
Fel arweinydd sefydliadol, mae wedi dangos gweledigaeth strategol ac effeithiolrwydd gweithredol trwy yrru mentrau newydd, rheoli rhaglenni newid cymhleth a chynhyrchu twf sylweddol a chynaliadwy.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/collaborationhub/index.php.cy:
Mae gan Brifysgol Bangor hanes llwyddiannus o weithio mewn partneriaeth â busnesau i ddatblygu pobl, cynhyrchion a phrosesau.
Cysylltwch â ni’n uniongyrchol i drafod ffyrdd o ymgysylltu â’r Brifysgol i ddiwallu anghenion eich sefydliadol.
Mae cynlluniau Cyfnewid Gwybodaeth (KE) yn creu rhaglen strategol busnes/Prifysgol a fydd yn fanteisiol i’r ddwy ochr o dan arweiniad rhywun graddedig sydd â chymwysterau addas.
Nod y partneriaethau hyn yw sefydlu arbenigedd newydd, ysgogi twf busnes a sbarduno arloesedd.
Gyda chymorth grant hyd at 75% o gostau'r project, mae prosiect KE yn rhoi mynediad cost-effeithiol i fusnesau i'r adnoddau unigryw sydd o fewn sylfaen wybodaeth y Brifysgol: ei harbenigedd ymchwil, ei thechnoleg flaengar, a'i hoffer.
Gall rhaglenni cyfnewid gwybodaeth bara rhwng 6 a 36 mis.
Y rhaglenni cyfnewid gwybodaeth craidd yw Partneriaeth Trosglwyddo Gwybodaeth (Y Deyrnas Unedig) a Phartneriaeth SMART (Cymru).
Mwy o wybodaeth am Gyfnewid Gwybodaeth
Mae cynghorau ymchwil yn cynnig cefnogaeth i brojectau ymchwil cydweithredol gyda phartneriaid diwydiannol.
Mae llawer o wahanol fathau o gyllid ar gael i brojectau cydweithredol ac mae nodweddion penodol y cyfleoedd ariannu’n dibynnu ar faint y prosiect, ei gwmpas a nodau'r cyllidwr.
Mae Innovate UK yn gyngor cyllido allweddol sy’n rhoi pwyslais ar arloesedd a arweinir gan fusnes.
Mae projectau ymchwil cydweithredol yn ymrwymiad mawr ac mae angen perthynas waith dda rhwng yr holl bartneriaid.
Mwy o wybodaeth am Brojectau Ymchwil Cydweithredol
Ffordd o gael hyfforddiant yn y gwaith at yrfaoedd proffesiynol yw interniaeth.
Gall interniaeth amrywio o ran hyd o ychydig wythnosau i sawl mis a gall fod â thâl neu heb dâl, gan ddibynnu ar y cyflogwr.
Mae interniaethau’n cynnwys cyfnewid gwasanaethau neu brofiad rhwng yr unigolyn a sefydliad.
Maent yn ffordd wych i sefydliadau ymgysylltu â myfyrwyr dawnus ac adnabod darpar weithwyr y dyfodol.
Mwy o wybodaeth am Interniaethau
Mae graddau PhD neu MPhil o dan nawdd diwydiant yn ffordd wych o feithrin perthynas estynedig, barhaus, hirdymor gydag adran academaidd.
Mae project MPhil 1-2 flynedd neu PhD 3-4 blynedd yn fodd i ddatblygu dealltwriaeth fanwl o faes ymchwil ac ymgorffori'r wybodaeth honno mewn cwmni.
Mae MPhil neu PhD o dan nawdd diwydiant yn creu deilliannau o ran ymchwil a datblygu a wnaiff wella gweithgareddau, cynhyrchion, prosesau a/neu wasanaethau craidd y cwmni.
Mwy o wybodaeth am Edrydiaeth PhD / MPhil
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn cynnig mynediad uniongyrchol i academyddion a grwpiau ymchwil trwy brosiectau ymgynghorol pwrpasol.
Mae ymgynghoriaeth yn galluogi busnesau i gael mynediad at arbenigedd y Brifysgol i ddod o hyd i atebion i broblemau penodol mewn ffordd effeithlon ac effeithlon.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn cyflogi academyddion sydd gyda’r gorau yn y byd sy'n ymroddedig i lunio a chynnal gwybodaeth pwnc benodol o'r radd flaenaf.
Mae’r gwasanaethau ymgynghori’n cynnwys, ymhlith eraill; cynghori, dadansoddi, profi, barn arbenigol, tyst arbenigol, a hyfforddiant.
Caiff rhaglenni a chyrsiau byr prifysgol Bangor eu darparu gan arbenigwyr academaidd a gweithwyr proffesiynol yn y diwydiant o amrywiaeth o ddisgyblaethau a fformatau.
Fe’u hanelir at unigolion sy'n ceisio gwella eu sgiliau a'u rhagolygon gyrfa eu hunain a chyflogwyr sydd am ddatblygu’r gweithlu.
Mwy o wybodaeth am Hyfforddiant a Datblygiad Proffesiynol Parhaus
Mae’r cynllun Taleb Sgiliau ac Arloesedd yn cynnig cyfle i fusnesau sy’n gweithredu yn siroedd Gwynedd, Ynys Môn a Sir y Fflint gydweithio â ni ym Mhrifysgol Bangor drwy’r Cronfa Ffyniant Gyffredin .
Mae'r cynllun SPF yn rhan o agenda Ffyniant Bro Llywodraeth y DU, i gefnogi busnesau, pobl a sgiliau lleol.
Mwy o wybodaeth am y cynllun Taleb Sgiliau ac Arloesedd
Hwb Cydweithredu, Prifysgol Bangor, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/cenhadaeth-ddinesig:
Ers sefydlu'r Brifysgol yn 1884, rydym yn ymwybodol o'r cysylltiad arbennig rhwng y sefydliad a'r ardal yr ydym wedi'n lleoli ynddi.
Tudur Owen Ers dyddia cynta’r Brifysgol bron i 150 o flynyddoedd yn ôl, ma’r cysylltiad hefo’r ardal leol wedi bod yn bwysig iawn.
A mi oedd gweithio hefo’r gymuned i godi dyheadau ac ansawdd bywyd yn bwysig iawn, a mae o dal i fod wrth wraidd gwaith y Brifysgol hyd heddiw.
Ma gallu y Brifysgol i gyfrannu at lesiant economaidd, amgylcheddol, diwylliannol a chymdeithasol yn bwysig, ac yn werthfawr iawn.
A dyma pam mai cenhadaeth ddinesig y Brifysgol ydy hyn: i flaenoriaethu llesiant ein cymunedau a’r ardal.
Trwy gydweithio gyda’n partneriaid cymunedol, gall Prifysgol Bangor helpu greu budd cynaliadwy ar gyfer cenedlaethau’r presennol a’r dyfodol, yma yng ngogledd Cymru.
Ymunwch a ni wrth i ni wrando ar rai o’r rheini sydd wedi elwa o’r genhadaeth yma.
Ma’r ffilm yma am eu storïau, a’u lleisiau.
Aaron Pleming Aaron Pleming di fy enw i, a dwi’n gwirfoddoli yma yn Pontio, a dwi’n byw hefo cerebral palsy.
Ma Pontio jyst fatha teulu mawr, a da ni’n gyd yn nabod ein gilydd.
Da chi medru fynd i weld petha yn y sinema a theatr, a ma stiwdants yn medru dod yma i socialisio, ma jyst fatha teulu mawr yma yn Pontio rili.
Dwi di cael cefnogaeth massive gan y criw yma yn Pontio.
Ma nhw ddim yn gweld fi fatha Aaron hefo cerebral palsy, ma nhw’n gweld fi fatha Aaron, does na ddim barrier yna basically.
Rhian Parry Jones Rhian Parry Jones dwi i, Pennaeth Ysgol Dyffryn Nantlle, a dwi yn gyfrifol am yr ysgol yma, sy’n ysgol uwchradd sy’n gwasanaethu ardal Penygroes.
Ma’r gefnogaeth da ni’n gael gan y Brifysgol a gan partneriaethau gwahanol sy’n cael ei trefnu drwy’r Prifysgol yn galluogi ni i ehangu gorwelion ein disgyblion ni yma.
Ma’n galluogi nhw i weld be di’r cyfleoedd eraill sydd yna ar gael iddyn nhw tu allan i’r ysgol, ac efallai gwneud i nhw ystyried gyrfaoedd mewn gwahanol gyrfaoedd STEM er enghraifft, falle byse nhw ddim wedi cysidro, cyn iddyn nhw gael y profiadau gwahanol ma nhw’n gael.
Huw Evans So da ni wedi bod yn cydweithio hefo’r Brifysgol ers dipyn o flynyddoedd ar nifer fawr o brosiectau, cychwyn ffwrdd hefo Ehangu Mynediad, a hwnna di mynd yn nol i cyn 2018.
Da ni wedyn di bod yn cydweithio ar brosiectau eraill hefo Ymestyn yn Ehangach hefo’r Brifysgol, a cydweithio hefo nhw ar nifer fawr o brosiectau STEM, a gwahanol brosiectau eraill, a hefyd da ni wedi bod yn cydweithio hefo M-SParc yn Gaerwen.
So heddiw ma gyno ni focus ar gwyddoniaeth, so da ni’n edrych ar brosiectau STEM.
So da ni’n edrych ar egni lleol yn gynta, wedyn ma gyno ni cwmni Explore yn dod i fewn, a ma gyno ni 2 grŵp yn neud prosiectau, un ar y bydysawd ac astro-ffiseg ac edrych ar rocedi, a wedyn ma gyno ni grŵp arall wedyn yn edrych ar ceir sydd yn gyrru heb gyrwyr.
Alaw Y peth gora genai i yw da ni’n cael fel cyfleoedd o pethau gwahanol, i gweld, jyst i cael blas o pethau gwahanol.
Efa Dwi wedi mwynhau dysgu pethau newydd yn yr ysgol, a cael y profiadau i neud o.
Yn fy marn i yr un gorau dwi di neud ydy’r World of Work oherwydd ma na llawer o gyflogwyr wedi dod i fewn i’r ysgol a dysgu petha gwahanol i ni.
Huw Yn y gorffennol da ni wedi cael lot fawr o brosiectau o STEM, cymhwysedd digidol, gyrfaoedd, cael pobl i fewn o gwahanol gwmnïau, i roi yr arlwy disgyblion o be sydd ar gael i nhw yn y dyfodol a’r potensial i ehangu eu gorwelion nhw ar gyfer pa fath o swyddi sydd yn y byd STEM neu sydd yn y byd gwaith ehangach tu allan yn lleol.
Wel ma’r gefnogaeth da ni wedi ei gael gan y Brifysgol wedi helpu ni fel staff a’r disgyblion.
O ran y disgyblion, ma nhw’n cael sgiliau meddal, ma nhw’n cael profiadau bythgofiadwy, ma’r disgyblion wastad yn sôn am y profiadau ma nhw’n cael hefo’r sesiynau da ni’n neud yn yr ysgol hefo’r Brifysgol.
Ma’r staff hefyd yn elwa achos bod nhw’n gallu gweld y potensial yn y disgyblion, a gweld ongl gwahanol i’r disgyblion pan ma nhw yn cael mynediad at y math yma o weithgaredd.
Guto Hughes Fy enw i yw Guto Wyn Hughes, dwi’n astudio PhD yma ym Mangor, yn edrych ar gweithrediad pwysau gwaed mewn pobl.
Ges i fy ngeni a magu yma ym Mangor, a wedi bod yn dod i Canolfan Brailsford, neu fel oedd o ers talwm, Maesglas, ers i mi fod yn ysgol gynradd.
Odd na glybiau addysg gorfforol a ballu yn digwydd yma, a hefyd pan on i’n ysgol uwchradd ddos i yma ar gyfer wythnos o brofiad gwaith.
So dwi’n astudio PhD yma ym Mangor ar hyn o bryd, wedi i mi astudio gwyddorau chwaraeon lawr yng Nghaerdydd, a wedi hynna rodd na brosiect PhD perffaith i mi yma ym Mangor, ag oedd o’n teimlo fel y peth iawn i neud i ddod nol adra i astudio’n ymhellach.
Dwi’n mwynhau ymarfer yma yn Brailsford, yn arbennig oherwydd ma na gymuned unigryw yma sydd ddim yn digwydd yn unlla arall.
Ti’n cael yr ochr mwy elite a’r pobl sy’n cystadlu yn yr lefelau top sy na, a hefyd da ni’n cael pobl sydd jyst yn dod fewn o’r gymuned, sydd jyst yma i neud ymarfer corff, ond hefyd yn gweld be da ni’n neud ac yn meddwl ei fod yn edrych yn diddorol a isio cymryd rhan yn y math yna o beth.
A felly da ni’n cychwyn pigo fyny pobl o bob ochr nes bod gyno ni’r gymuned unigryw iawn yma yn Brailsford.
So ar hyn o bryd ma gyno ni paratoadau yn mynd ymlaen ar gyfer Pencampwriaeth Codi Pwysau Prifysgolion Prydain yma ym Mangor am y tro cynta, y tro cynta tu allan i Llundain o gwbl.
Ma gyno ni gyfleusterau unigryw iawn yma, o ran bod y lle da ni’n cynhesu i fyny ac yn paratoi ar gyfer y gystadleuaeth yn cyfleusterau arbennig o dda a hefyd reit yn ymyl lle ma’r gystadleuaeth yn digwydd.
Yn aml iawn da ni fel arfer gorfod cerdded lawr rhyw coridors hir i gyrraedd lle ma’r gystadleuaeth.
Yma, da ni’n syth allan o’r stafell cynhesu i fyny, a syth ar y platfform cystadlu.
Mae o’n berffaith.
Dwi’n argymell i unrhyw berson sydd hefo diddordeb mewn chwaraeon neu jyst ymarfer corff, dim bwys be fath, i ddod i Brailsford.
Ma na gymuned i bob grŵp, a dim bwys be fath o chwaraeon da chi’n edrych am, da chi wastad yn gallu ffeindio eich grŵp chi.
Lowri Morris Fy enw i ydy Lowri Morris, a dwi yn gweithio i Wild Elements, a da ni’n cwmni gymdeithasol di-elw, a mi da ni’n gwneud llawer iawn o weithgareddau, dwi fy hun yn gweithio mewn sesiynau yn yr awyr agored, a mi fyddai’n gwneud digwyddiadau awyr agored, fel sydd yma heddiw, a hefyd mi fyddai i yn bersonol mi fyddai i yn mynd i fewn i ysgolion i gyflwyno sesiynau hefo ysgolion lleol a hefyd mi fydd yr ysgolion yn dod atom ni yn Treborth hefyd i gael sesiynau yn yr gardd fotaneg Treborth a yn yr ysgol goedwig hefyd.
Heddiw ma gyno ni Draig Beats yn mynd ymlaen yma, a da ni fel Elfennau Gwyllt yn cymryd rhan yn y diwrnod yma.
Ma gyno ni stall ein hunain yma, yn gwerthu nwyddau sydd gyno ni yn ein siop eco ym Mangor, a hefyd da ni’n cynnal digwyddiadau i blant, celf a chrefft, a ma gyno ni hefyd saethyddiaeth a da ni’n neud smores i blant hefyd a pobl yn yr ysgol goedwig.
Pwynt cyswllt cynta fi fy hun hefo Prifysgol Cymru Bangor odd pan wnes i ddechrau chwilio am cyrsiau i neud yn y Brifysgol ar ôl Lefel A, a be on i isio bod oedd athrawes cynradd, felly ar y pryd mi oedd na gwrs i athrawon cynradd i hyfforddi fel athrawon cynradd yn Bangor ar safle Normal, felly fana es i yno i neud fy gradd mewn addysg i 7 i 11, yn arbenigo mewn addysg mewn gwyddoniaeth.
Mi da ni’n gweithio yn agos iawn hefo ysgolion lleol yn yr ardal.
Ar hyn o bryd da ni’n gwneud sesiynau ar prosiect ar thema o cemeg.
A felly da ni wedi bod i naw ysgol lleol yn yr ardal, a ma sesiynau yn seiliedig hefyd i atgyfnerthu y cwricwlwm yng Nghymru.
Y manteision o weithio hefo Gardd Fotaneg Treborth efo ni yw da ni’n cael defnyddio fel da chi’n gwybod yr ardal ei hun fel yr ysgol goedwig sydd gyno ni fama ond hefyd da ni’n cael defnyddio da chi’n gwybod, ma’r arbenigedd yma i ni gael holi beth sydd yn tyfu yma, y datblygiadau sydd yn digwydd yma fel bod ni’n gallu hefyd defnyddio hynna yn ein sesiynau ni hefo’r plant a’r cyhoedd.
Anna Roberts Anna Roberts dwi i, fi di Prif Weithredwr a sylfaenydd Explorage.com, a rydym wedi ein lleoli yma yn M-SParc ar Ynys Môn.
Prifysgol Bangor yw ein prifysgol lleol, mae ar ein stepen drws, felly da ni wastad bod yn gyfarwydd hefo fo, ond fy ymgysylltu personol cynta hefo hi oedd cwrs Arweinyddiaeth ION Lefel 5, a rodd yn rhywbeth nad oeddwn wedi ei hystyried tan i mi wneud gwaith gyda chwmni arall, a wedyn wnes i feddwl ma gen i fy nghymwysterau proffesiynol, rŵan dwi angen rhywbeth i gadarnhau fy ngalluoedd arweinyddiaeth.
A dyma pam wnes i edrych ar y cwrs Arweinyddiaeth ION, ond actually canlyniadau’r cwrs ION, a’r cynnwys a’r cysylltiadau dwi wedi ei wneud wedi mynd yn bell tu hwnt i fy nisgwyliadau.
So rodd hynna’n grêt, a tu hwnt i hyn ma nhw wedi bod yn gefnogol tra bod ni wedi lleoli yma yn M-SParc, yn nhermau siarad gyda amryw o arweinwyr cyfadran am cydweithio posibl gyda myfyrwyr medrwn ei wneud gyda Explorage wrth i ni barhau i arloesi a thyfu.
Da chi’n rhan mawr o hwb o weithgaredd neu rydych chi’n gwybod be sy’n digwydd ar lawr gwlad.
Rydym wedi gweithio yn uniongyrchol gyda sawl tenant arall yn yr adeilad, felly rydym yn defnyddio eu gwasanaethau, a gofyn am eu cyngor ar bethau hefyd!
Rydym wedi cael lleoliad Academi Sgiliau o ganlyniad i M-SParc, a felly ma hyn wedi datblygu i fewn i weithiwr llawn amser a bellach yn aelod o’n tîm, rydym hefyd wedi cael person profiad gwaith.
Os na fuasem di cael y cefnogaeth o M-SParc a Phrifysgol Bangor da ni wedi ei dderbyn, mi fyse wedi bod yn fynydd llawer anoddach i’w ddringo, a byse di cymryd llawer yn hirach i gyrraedd lle ydym ni.
Ma’r cefnogaeth di neud ni teimlo fel rhan o rhywbeth a helpu ni i gadw’r momentwm i fynd, a ma di agor drysau i ni lle ffordd arall buasem wedi bod yn cnocio ein pennau ar wal o frics!
Felly rydym yn ddiolchgar iawn amdano.
Tudur Hyn, stori’r unigolion sy’n gysylltiedig gyda’r Brifysgol mewn amryw o wahanol ffyrdd.
Yma i weithio gyda chi, ac i gefnogi chi.
Prifysgol Bangor: Eich Prifysgol, Eich Cymuned.
Gyda diolch i'n partneriaid Aaron Pleming, Pontio ; Rhian Parry Jones a Huw Evans Ysgol Dyffryn Nantlle ; Guto Wyn Hughes, Canolfan Brailsford ; Lowri Morris, Elfennau Gwyllt ; Anna Roberts, Explorage a roddodd eu hamser i gefnogi'r fideo yma.
Mae gan Brifysgol Bangor hanes hir o weithio gyda'r gymuned leol i godi dyheadau a gwella ansawdd bywyd.
Os hoffech weithio gyda ni, boed fel unigolyn, grŵp, ysgol, neu sefydliad, cysylltwch â ni trwy cymuned@bangor.ac.uk neu llenwch y ffurflen ymholiadau hon .
Mae ein Strategaeth Ymgysylltiad Dinesig newydd yn amlinellu sut y byddwn yn gweithio gyda'n cymunedau.
Mae ein gwaith yn y maes hwn yn dod o dan dair thema ymbarél.
Trwy bartneriaethau a chydweithio, ceisiwn gyfrannu at les economaidd, amgylcheddol, diwylliannol a chymdeithasol ein hardal.
Edrychwch ar enghreifftiau o'r gwaith hwn isod.
(e.e.
iechyd, hinsawdd, y Gymraeg, tai, tlodi, poblogaeth sy'n heneiddio)
Yn 2022, sefydlwyd y Bwrdd Cymunedol.
Mae'r Bwrdd yn disodli'r hen Grŵp Cyswllt Prifysgol Bangor (BULG), ac mae'n cynnwys cynrychiolwyr o ystod eang o sefydliadau, sefydliadau a phartneriaid gwasanaethau cyhoeddus ym Mangor ac ar draws gogledd orllewin Cymru.
Mae’r Bwrdd yn ffordd bwysig o gysylltu’r Brifysgol â’n cymunedau, i drafod meysydd ar gyfer cydweithio ac i gydweithio ar faterion o ddiddordeb cyffredin.
Datblygodd gwyddonwyr o Brifysgol Bangor y broses o brofi dŵr gwastraff ar gyfer COVID-19 i ddechrau, a defnyddiwyd y gwaith hwn, a wnaed mewn partneriaeth â Llywodraeth Cymru, Prifysgol Caerdydd, Dŵr Cymru a Hafren Dyfrdwy, i ganfod yn gynnar y don Omicron ar draws Cymru.
Mae’r tim bellach yn cydweithio ag ysbytai ac wedi ychwanegu glefydau trosglwyddadwy i’w alluoedd.
Mae’r rhaglen yn darparu data hanfodol ar nifer yr achosion o’r coronafeirws yn y gymuned a bydd ychwanegu’r safleoedd allweddol hyn a chlefydau trosglwyddadwy ychwanegol at y gwaith monitro sydd eisoes ar waith ar draws byrddau iechyd ac awdurdodau lleol Cymru er mwyn dyfnhau’r mewnwelediad a’r wybodaeth leol sydd ei angen wrth wneud penderfyniadau iechyd cyhoeddus.
Mae astudiaeth fwy diweddar wedi ymchwilio i weld a allai defnyddio profion dŵr gwastraff fel ffordd o fonitro iechyd cyffredinol teithwyr ar awyrennau sy'n dod i'r wlad yn y dyfodol.
Sefydlwyd y rhaglen M.A.
Gwaith Cymdeithasol yn 2012 er mwyn sicrhau cyflenwad o weithwyr cymdeithasol dwyieithog, sydd yn bennaf ddiwallu anghenion y gweithlu gwaith cymdeithasol lleol.
Mae hyn mewn partneriaeth gyda Chynghorau Ynys Môn, Gwynedd a Chonwy sydd yn darparu lleoliadau gwaith ar gyfer myfyrwyr sydd o gwmpas 50% o’u hyfforddiant proffesiynol.
Drwy addysgu’r boblogaeth leol i wasanaethu’r boblogaeth leol mae’r rhaglen yn gweithio gydag unigolion i sefydlu eu canlyniadau llesiant ac yn cydweithio gydag asiantaethau a gweithwyr proffesiynol eraill megis yr heddlu, gweithwyr iechyd, y sector addysg a ‘r sector tai, er mwyn darparu gwasanaethau sydd yn gwella ansawdd bywyd, diogelu rhag niwed a chamdriniaeth, a gwella rhagolygon i allu byw bywyd mor llawn â phosib.
Mae’r Brifysgol yn cefnogi pobl sy’n byw gyda dementia, eu partneriaid, teuluoedd a gofalwyr mewn nifer o ffyrdd, gan gynnwys Grŵp Caban, Rhwydwaith Dementia Gogledd Cymru, a gweithio tuag at ddod yn Brifysgol sy’n Deall Dementia.
Datblygir ymchwil ochr yn ochr â phobl y mae dementia yn effeithio arnynt.
Ecoamgueddfa Pen Llŷn - Partneriaeth sy’n hyrwyddo Pen Llŷn fel cartref yn ogystal â chyrchfan neu faes chwarae i ymwelwyr.
Yn syml, ‘amgueddfa’ neu gydweitho sy’n datblygu ar y cyd i adlewyrchu lle neu ardal, ei phobl a’i chymunedau – dyna yw Ecoamgueddfa.
O Ffrainc y daeth y syniad yn wreiddiol ac yno, yn 1971 y cafodd y gair ei fathu.
Mae’r ‘eco’ yn dalfyriad o ‘ecoleg’ ond yn cyferio yn benodol at syniad newydd o ddehongli treftadeth ddiwylliannol yn ei holl goniant, yn hytrach na thrwy ganolbwyntio ar greiriau penodol neu gyfnod hanesyddol fel sy’n tueddu i ddigwydd mewn amgueddfa draddodiadol.
Ein nôd ers 2015 pan sefydlwyd yr ecoamgueddfa yw sicrhau fod cymunedau heddiw a chymunedau’r dyfodol yn gallu ffynnu yn eu milltir sgwar eu hunain ar eu telerau eu hunain a thrwy wneud hynny, cyfoethogi profiad yr ymwelydd, a symud oddi wrth dwristiaeth sy’n echdynu’n unig tuag at economi ymwelwyr adfywiol.
Ariannwyd gan Lywodraeth y DU, ac wedi'i yrru gan Ffyniant Bro Cyngor Gwynedd.
Arweiniodd y Brifysgol ar ymchwil newydd yn 2021 i archwilio dylanwad negeseuon yn y cyfryngau ar ddewisiadau gwisgo masgiau pobl yn ystod pandemig Covid-19.
Yn 2020, cwblhawyd map yn dangos hanes Iddewig Llandudno.
Mae'r map yn dathlu presenoldeb Iddewon yn Llandudno o ddiwedd y bedwaredd ganrif ar bymtheg hyd heddiw.
Mae'n cyd-fynd â'r map cynharach o hanes Iddewig Bangor.
Mae’r prosiect wedi’i ddylunio a’i redeg gan ymchwilwyr yn yr Ysgol Seicoleg a Gwyddor Chwaraeon, a Chanolfan Dyslecsia Miles yn y Brifysgol.
Mae'n cynnwys rhaglen iaith a llythrennedd fer ar gyfer plant Cyfnod Allweddol 2, ac fe'i lansiwyd mewn ymateb i bandemig Covid-19 a'r cyfyngiadau symud cenedlaethol o ganlyniad ym mis Ebrill 2020.
Mae'r prosiect bellach yn rhedeg mewn tua 100 o ysgolion yng Nghymru a Lloegr ac wedi cyrraedd drosodd.
1,000 o blant.
Y genhadaeth yw sicrhau bod plant - yn enwedig y rhai sy'n cael trafferth darllen ac ysgrifennu - yn cael y cyfarwyddyd llythrennedd gorau posibl.
Ymgyrch a ddechreuwyd er mwyn annog pobl sydd wedi symud allan o Gymru i ddychwelyd i fyw a gweithio yma.
Hyd yn hyn mae pump o bobl wedi dychwelyd, un bellach wedi ei leoli yn M-SParc, ac yn dod o lefydd mor bell â Lerpwl, Llundain, a Texas!
Mae'r ymgyrch yn cael ei rhedeg mewn partneriaeth â Bwrdd Uchelgais Economaidd Gogledd Cymru, Llwyddo'n Lleol, ac eraill.
Mewn cydweithrediad unigryw â’r GIG, mae rhwng 16-20 o fyfyrwyr MSc Cwnsela Prifysgol Bangor yn cynnig 2000 neu fwy o oriau cymorth cwnsela'r flwyddyn o fewn Gwasanaeth Iechyd Meddwl Sylfaenol Bwrdd Iechyd Prifysgol Betsi Cadwaladr.
Mae'r math hwn o gydweithio ar leoliad yn unigryw i Brifysgol Bangor ac roedd yn ganlyniad i fwy o alw gan y cyhoedd am wasanaeth y GIG, a diffyg myfyrwyr 'parod i ymdrin â chleientiaid' yn gadael y brifysgol.
Mae Clinig y Gyfraith Gogledd a Chanolbarth Cymru yn bartneriaeth o saith cangen Cyngor ar Bopeth Lleol ac Ysgol Hanes, y Gyfraith a Gwyddorau Cymdeithas y Brifysgol sy’n darparu gwasanaeth i gefnogi Ymgyfreithwyr wyneb yn wyneb ar bob cam o’u taith.
Mae myfyrwyr Prifysgol Bangor yn cael eu hyfforddi mewn meysydd allweddol megis cyfraith teulu, gofal cymunedol a chyfraith cyflogaeth ac yn cael cynnig y cyfle i ddatblygu a defnyddio eu gwybodaeth gyfreithiol mewn sefyllfa bywyd go iawn.
Mae’r Uned Technolegau Iaith ym Mhrifysgol Bangor yn cynnal ymchwil i sut y gall pobl gyfathrebu â’i gilydd yn Gymraeg drwy gymorth cyfrifiaduron newydd a dyfeisiau clyfar a datblygu technoleg sy’n adnabod yr hyn y mae pobl yn ei ddweud yn Gymraeg, yna’i deipio neu ateb cwestiynau yn Gymraeg.
Mae eu rhaglen Cysgliad, sy'n cynnwys Cysill (gwirydd sillafu a gramadeg Cymraeg), a Cysgeir (casgliad o eiriaduron electronig Cymraeg) ar gael yn rhad ac am ddim trwy haelioni Llywodraeth Cymru.
Mae’r Uned hefyd yn gyfrifol am safoni termau Cymraeg ar gyfer addysg yng Nghymru, gan gynnwys Y Termiadur Addysg a Geiriadur Termau’r Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol.
Mae Gwirfoddoli Myfyrwyr Bangor yn trefnu llu o weithgareddau i drigolion lleol, yn cynnwys te partis (sydd wedi bod yn rhedeg ers 1952), teithiau undydd i bobl hŷn, tripiau i gael te prynhawn a hyd yn oed ymweliadau â gwarchodfa boblogaidd i fulod yn Eryri.
Mae myfyrwyr yn gwirfoddoli'n rheolaidd mewn cartrefi gofal lleol ac yn helpu i drefnu llu o weithgareddau yn ogystal â bod yn glust i wrando ar drigolion sydd eisiau dim byd ond sgwrs.
Yn yr un modd, mae Caffi’r Hafan yng nghanol dinas Bangor yn rhoi cyfle i fyfyrwyr wirfoddoli mewn canolfan gymunedol sy’n hybu lles a byw’n annibynnol ac yn cynnig lle i aelodau o’r gymuned leol gael paned a chymdeithasu.
Ariennir BLAS gan Gyngor Celfyddydau Cymru a Phlant mewn Angen, ac yn brosiect sy’n darparu cyfleoedd artistig i bobl ifanc ym Mangor gan Pontio.
Mae Ysgoloriaethau Sgiliau’r Economi Gwybodaeth (KESS 2) yn ymgyrch fawr Cymru gyfan a gefnogir gan Gronfa Gymdeithasol Ewrop (ESF) trwy Lywodraeth Cymru.
Mae KESS 2 yn cysylltu cwmnïau a sefydliadau sydd ag arbenigedd academaidd yn y sector Addysg Uwch yng Nghymru i hwyluso projectau ymchwil cydweithredol, sy’n gweithio tuag at gymhwyster PhD neu Feistr Ymchwil.
Cefnogir project arweinyddiaeth ION gan Gronfa Gymdeithasol Ewrop drwy Swyddfa Cyllid Ewropeaidd Cymru, ac fe'i harweinir gan Brifysgol Abertawe mewn partneriaeth â Phrifysgol Bangor.
Mae’r project yn fenter strategol bwysig a luniwyd i ddatblygu a gwella sgiliau arwain perchnogion, rheolwyr a’r rhai sy’n gwneud penderfyniadau allweddol i fusnesau ledled Gorllewin Cymru a'r Cymoedd.
Mae gan Raglen Arweinyddiaeth a Thwf Busnes Cymru ym Mhrifysgol Metropolitan Caerdydd, ar y cyd â Phrifysgol Bangor, enw da am gyflwyno sgiliau arwain a rheoli rhagorol a thwf busnes cynaliadwy yng Nghymru.
Cwrs datblygu gweithredol unigryw ym maes arwain a rheoli wedi'i gynllunio i'ch helpu chi i dyfu eich busnes
Er mwyn cefnogi busnesau y tu allan i’r sectorau carbon isel, ynni a’r amgylchedd, digidol a gwyddorau bywyd, mae M-SParc a Menter Môn wedi partneru ar yr Hwb Menter.
Wedi’i ariannu gan Gronfa Datblygu Rhanbarthol Ewrop drwy Lywodraeth Cymru, mae’r Hwb yn caniatáu i M-SParc gefnogi busnesau newydd mewn unrhyw sector drwy ddarparu gofod swyddfa wedi’i ariannu’n llawn, digwyddiadau, a chefnogaeth i fusnesau.
Mae’r Gwasanaeth Cyflogadwyedd yn cefnogi myfyrwyr a graddedigion trwy ystod o wasanaethau gan gynnwys cefnogaeth un i un, gweithdai, cyngor hunangyflogaeth, menter ac arloesi , meithrin uchelgais , cyflwyniadau gan gyflogwyr, interniaethau a lleoliadau gwaith, yn ogystal ag amrywiaeth o adnoddau ar-lein.
Mae'r gwasanaeth hefyd yn gweithio gyda chyflogwyr o bob maint, yn enwedig cwmnïau lleol, cenedlaethol a rhyngwladol i ddod o hyd i gyfleoedd ar gyfer ymgysylltu a datblygu.
Gall pob sefydliad gofrestru gyda'n gwasanaeth ar-lein i weithio gydag unrhyw un o’n timau neu brojectau a hysbysebu swyddi, lleoliadau, interniaethau a chyfleoedd gwirfoddoli addas.
Mae graddedigion Prifysgol Bangor yn gymwys i gael mynediad i’n gwasanaethau am dair blynedd ar ôl graddio, a gallant hefyd fod yn gymwys i gael profiad gwaith a hyfforddiant wedi’i ariannu drwy’r Rhaglen Cefnogaeth i Raddedigion .
Rôl Gwasanaeth IRIS yw cefnogi rhagoriaeth ymchwil a gweithgareddau effaith yn y Brifysgol ac mae'r tîm yn ganolog i gyflawni Strategaeth 2030 newydd y brifysgol: Strategaeth Ymchwil ac Effaith.
Mae IRIS yn gweithio gydag ymchwilwyr i feithrin perthnasoedd cynaliadwy gyda phartneriaid busnes lleol, rhanbarthol a chenedlaethol a rhanddeiliaid allweddol eraill a nodwyd fel darpar gydweithwyr a/neu fuddiolwyr ein hymchwil.
Yn ogystal â chefnogi ymchwilwyr i sicrhau cyllid ymchwil, mae IRIS hefyd yn chwarae rhan allweddol mewn ymarferion adrodd ac asesu, megis y Fframwaith Rhagoriaeth Ymchwil (REF) a HE-BCI
Canolfan y Brifysgol sy’n cynnig cyfuniad cyffrous ac unigryw o'r celfyddydau a diwylliant, arloesedd, addysg a chymuned
Campfa o'r radd flaenaf wedi'i lleoli yng nghanol Bangor.
Dyma ganolfan chwaraeon y brifysgol ac mae'n darparu cyfleusterau chwaraeon a hamdden i staff a myfyrwyr y brifysgol ac i'r cyhoedd.
Parc Gwyddoniaeth cyntaf Cymru, M-SParc yw cartref arloesedd a chyffro yng ngogledd Cymru, gyda ffocws ar y sectorau ynni carbon isel, TGCh ac amgylcheddol.
Rydym yn fwy nag adeilad yn unig; ein cenhadaeth yw cefnogi Ynys Môn, Gwynedd, Conwy a thu hwnt trwy ein prosiect MSParc #AryLôn.
Wedi’i lleoli ar lannau’r Fenai, mae Gardd Fotaneg Treborth yn eiddo i Brifysgol Bangor ac yn cael ei defnyddio fel adnodd ar gyfer addysgu, ymchwil, ymgysylltu â’r cyhoedd a mwynhad.
Ei chenhadaeth yw hyrwyddo cadwraeth, defnydd cynaliadwy o blanhigion a'r byd naturiol a’u mwynhau.
Project newydd sydd i fod i gael ei gwblhau yn 2024.
Gweledigaeth y Brifysgol ar gyfer y parc yw ei agor a chreu lle gwyrdd croesawgar a dymunol yng nghanol y ddinas.
Mae GMB yn cynnig amrywiaeth o gyfleoedd, gan gynnwys gweithgareddau ar ôl ysgol, sesiynau i blant awtistig, mentora un-i-un mewn ysgolion cynradd lleol a diwrnodau allan i blant y mae salwch teuluol yn effeithio arnynt.
Sefydlwyd yn 2019, clwb pêl-droed lleol sydd wedi chwarae ei gemau cartref ar arwyneb 3G ar Gaeau Chwarae Treborth y Brifysgol rhwng 2019-2023.
Mae gan y clwb broffil ymgysylltu cymunedol sylweddol, ac mae'n bwriadu partneru â'r Brifysgol ar draws amrywiaeth o fentrau.
Mae’r Brifysgol wedi gweithio mewn partneriaeth ag RGC ers nifer o flynyddoedd, gan ddarparu cyfleoedd addysg bellach ac ysgoloriaeth i chwaraewyr tra maent ar eu llwybr i rygbi proffesiynol, a chydweithio ar brojectau ymchwil.
Ffurfiwyd yn 2009 i helpu i godi arian ac ymwybyddiaeth at achosion da.
Mae’r tîm wedi tyfu ymhell y tu hwnt i’n pwrpas cychwynnol, gan ffurfio tîm pêl-droed merched yn 2021, wrth i ni barhau i gefnogi elusennau, grwpiau cymunedol a busnesau.
Mae cyfranniad Prifysgol Bangor mewn gwyliau bwyd lleol, gwyliau cerdd, sioeau amaethyddol a’r Eisteddfod Genedlaethol yn ffordd bwysig o gyfarfod a siarad â phobl, i arddangos a hyrwyddo’r hyn sydd gan y Brifysgol i’w gynnig, ac i wneud y cysylltiadau rhwng staff y Brifysgol a chymunedau yn ngogledd orllewin Cymru a thu hwnt.
Mae'r Ganolfan Addysg Ryngwladol yn cynnig Cyrsiau Diwylliannau Rhyngwladol a Saesneg (ICE) am ddim i bawb sy'n dymuno gwella eu Saesneg yn ystod eu hamser ym Mangor.
Sefydliad rhyngwladol ar y cyd rhwng Prifysgol Bangor a Phrifysgol Gwyddorau Gwleidyddiaeth a Chyfraith Tsieina (CUPL) yn Beijing.
Ein nod yw rhoi cyfle i bobl y gogledd brofi a dysgu mwy am iaith a diwylliant Tsieina.
Mae’r Ganolfan Ymchwil ac Ymarfer Ymwybyddiaeth Ofalgar (CMRP) yn sefydliad hunan-gyllidol yn yr Ysgol Gwyddorau Dynol ac Ymddygiadol, ac mae wedi ymrwymo i hyrwyddo lles drwy ddefnyddio dulliau wedi’u seilio ar ymwybyddiaeth ofalgar.
Ewch i'n gwefan ac ymunwch â ni am ein sesiynau myfyrio wythnosol rhad ac am ddim'
Mae’r adran Archifau a Chasgliadau Arbennig yn gyfrifol am gasglu, a chadwraeth hirdymor llawysgrifau, casgliadau archifol ac amrywiaeth eang o lyfrau a deunydd printiedig prin, ac mae modd i bob ymchwilydd gael mynediad atynt yn rhad ac am ddim.
Rydym yn ymwneud â’r gymuned ehangach yn ein gweithgareddau yn ogystal â staff a myfyrwyr y Brifysgol.
Mae gan Brifysgol Bangor ddwy lyfrgell mynediad agored (Bangor a Wrecsam) ac mae croeso i aelodau'r cyhoedd bori drwy ein casgliadau yn rhad ac am ddim.
Gallwch hefyd wneud cais i ymuno yn rhad ac am ddim trwy gynlluniau benthyca cyfatebol lleol neu genedlaethol fel Linc Y Gogledd neu Sconul Access.
Beth bynnag fo'ch anghenion argraffu, rydym yn cynnig ystod eang o gynhyrchion a gwasanaethau, ac yn dosbarthu’n gyflym a hyblyg.
Mae ein hargraffwyr digidol o ansawdd proffesiynol yn cynnig atebion ar gyfer unrhyw broject, o daflenni syml i bamffledi sgleiniog, ynghyd ag argraffu posteri fformat mawr ac opsiynau rhwymo amrywiol.
Yn 2020 cyhoeddodd Prifysgol Bangor a Choleg Cambria weledigaeth am bartneriaeth newydd i ddatblygu eu perthynas er lles dysgwyr a busnesau Gogledd Ddwyrain Cymru.
Yn ein perthynas strategol mae'r ddau sefydliad yn cydweithio i sefydlu rhaglenni a llwybrau newydd i addysg uwch yn ogystal â darparu sgiliau a chyfleoedd hanfodol i fusnesau yng Ngogledd Ddwyrain Cymru trwy’r rhaglen Medru.
Mae MEDRU yn cyfuno arbenigedd o ddiwydiant ac addysg, sy’n golygu ein bod mewn sefyllfa berffaith i arfogi pobl a busnesau â’r sgiliau sydd eu hangen arnynt nawr ac at y dyfodol.
Cânt eu cyflwyno ar y cyd â’r Brifysgol Agored, sy’n fodd i gyflwyno’r cynnig yn y cnawd ac ar-lein ac arddangos y datblygiadau mwyaf newydd a chyffrous ym myd Diwydiant 4.0, Gweithgynhyrchu Digidol, a Ffatrïoedd Clyfar.
Mae’r berthynas rhwng y sefydliadau’n targedu proses barhaus o ddatblygiad a dilyniant wrth inni ymateb i anghenion dysgwyr a busnesau mewn amrywiol sectorau a chysylltu â’r cyfleoedd a gynigir gan gampws y Brifysgol yng Ngogledd Ddwyrain Cymru ac arlwy eang Coleg Cambria.
Mae gan y Brifysgol bartneriaeth hir sy'n arwain y sector gyda Grŵp Llandrillo Menai ar ei hamrywiol gampysau yng Ngogledd Orllewin Cymru.
Mae gan y bartneriaeth bortffolio o fwy na 40 o raglenni dilys ac amryw o gyweithiau addysgu ymhlith y gweithlu yng Ngogledd Cymru, gan gynnwys iechyd, twristiaeth ac adeiladu.
Yn ddiweddar tyfodd y bartneriaeth i gynnwys cyd-ddarpariaeth mewn amryw o Brentisiaethau Gradd yn nisgyblaethau cyfrifiadureg a pheirianneg ac i arwain partneriaeth a dyfodd i gynnwys cydweithwyr yng Ngholeg Cambria.
Yn ogystal â chydweithio ar addysgu, mae’r bartneriaeth hefyd yn cyflawni o ran cynyddu mynediad ac ehangu cyfranogiad mewn Addysg Uwch, ymyriadau pwrpasol megis sgiliau niwclear a chydweithio’n ehangach i ddatblygu’r economi rhanbarthol trwy gysylltu arloeswyr ledled y timau i gefnogi datblygiad polisi economaidd a chyflawni ar hyd y rhanbarth.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor ac Adra, darparwr tai cymdeithasol mwyaf Gogledd Cymru, wedi arwyddo Memorandwm Cyd-ddealltwriaeth (MoU) i ddatblygu sgiliau ac ymchwil i ddatgarboneiddio stoc tai.
Rhagor o wybodaeth am y cydweithio rhwng y Brifysgol ac Adra
Am fwy o wybodaeth am ein gwaith, cysylltwch â ni:
Mrs Gwenan Hine sy’n arwain ar ddarparu gweithrediad strategol ac effeithiol Swyddfa’r Is-ganghellor, darparu gwasanaethau cyfreithiol, cydymffurfiaeth ym maes contractau a gwybodaeth, llywodraethiant a moeseg ymchwil, ordinhadau a pholisïau.
Mae Gwenan hefyd yn arwain ar oruchwylio gweithrediad ymgysylltu dinesig.
Iwan Williams yw’r Uwch Swyddog Ymgysylltiad Dinesig.
Dechreuodd Iwan yn ei swydd ym mis Ionawr 2022.
Mae swyddi blaenorol Iwan yn cynnwys gweithio i Gymdeithas Llywodraeth Leol Cymru, Comisiynydd Pobl Hŷn Cymru, Cynghorau Gwynedd/Ynys Môn a Chyngor Dinas Bangor.
Kathryn Caine yw’r Swyddog Ymgysylltiad Dinesig.
Dechreuodd Kathryn yn ei swydd ym mis Tachwedd 2021 yn dilyn swyddi amrywiol yn y Brifysgol gan gynnwys Gwasanaethau Campws, Pontio ac yn fwyaf diweddar, IRIS.
Cyn ymuno â'r Brifysgol, treuliodd Kathryn 10 mlynedd yn gweithio yn y sector Gwasanaethau Ariannol.
Kathryn hefyd yw’r Hyrwyddwr Lles ar gyfer Swyddfa’r Is-ganghellor, IRIS, Tim Llywodraethu a Chydymffurfiaeth a Cynllunio a Phrosiectau Strategol.
Dilynwch y cyfrifon sy'n ymwneud â'r Brifysgol ar Twitter:
@PrifysgolBangor

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/bangorgynaliadwy:
Ym Mhrifysgol Bangor rydym yn bwriadu gwneud ein Prifysgol yn gyfystyr â chynaliadwyedd.
yn y DU
yn Sgór Effaith y Times Higher Education a aseswyd yn erbyn Nodau Datblygu Cynaliadwy’r Cenhedloedd Unedig, 2025
yn y byd
Cynghrair Prifysgol People & Planet, 2024/25
yn y byd : treuliant a chynhyrchu cyfrifol
Cynghrair Effaith Addysg Uwch y Times, 2025
Datblygiad sy'n diwallu anghenion y presennol heb beryglu gallu cenedlaethau'r dyfodol i ddiwallu eu hanghenion eu hunain.
Ein nod yw ysbrydoli ein cymuned academaidd, ein timau yn y Gwasanaethau Proffesiynol, a'n myfyrwyr i greu byd mwy cynaliadwy sy'n cyd-fynd â'n gweledigaeth i sbarduno llwyddiant trwy ymchwil ac addysgu trawsnewidiol, arloesol sy'n cael eu sbarduno gan effaith.
Credwn fod gan y brifysgol hon ran i'w chwarae mewn cymdeithas, gan adeiladu y ffocws sydd gennym ar ddarganfod, cynaliadwyedd, diogelu'r amgylchedd, a hyrwyddo ffyniant yr economi, cymdeithas, dwyieithrwydd a diwylliant.
Fel Prifysgol dan arweiniad ymchwil ac fel unigolion sy'n poeni'n fawr am y byd yr ydym yn byw ynddo, rydym am gyfrannu at ddatrys heriau'r byd, megis newid yn yr hinsawdd, anghydraddoldebau iechyd, a datblygu'r gweithlu.
Rydym yn angerddol am hyrwyddo diwylliant ac ysgolheictod o stiwardiaeth amgylcheddol, gan fyw mewn cytgord, a gofalu am y byd mewn ffyrdd sy'n diwallu ein hanghenion economaidd, cymdeithasol, amgylcheddol a diwylliannol.
Byddwn, gyda’n hymchwil blaenllaw yn sylfaen i ni, yn cefnogi datblygiad Cymru fel gwlad ddwyieithog sy’n dysgu, lle ceir economi a sbardunir gan wybodaeth er budd y byd a chenedlaethau'r dyfodol.
Rydym yn sylweddoli nad yw cynaliadwyedd yn ymwneud â’r amgylchedd yn unig.
Ochr yn ochr ag adnoddau naturiol mae arnom angen adnoddau cymdeithasol, diwylliannol ac economaidd hefyd.
Felly pedair conglfaen cynaliadwyedd yw: yr amgylchedd, diwylliant, cymdeithas a’r economi.
Mae ein targedau cynaliadwyedd yn cwmpasu pob un o'r pedair agwedd ac yn datblygu set o ddangosyddion perfformiad allweddol perthnasol.
Byddwn yn dod yn arweinydd mewn cynaliadwyedd ac i wneud hyn mae'n rhaid i ni fod yn uchelgeisiol yn y targedau rydym yn gosod i ni ein hunain.
Fodd bynnag, rhaid i'r uchelgeisiau hyn, a'r camau gweithredu angenrheidiol, beidio â bod yn adweithiol a dim ond dilyn y ffasiwn.
Byddant yn seiliedig ar dystiolaeth amlddisgyblaethol gadarn, a ddarperir gan ein harbenigwyr a'n hymchwilwyr ein hunain ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Rydym ar daith i fod y brifysgol fwyaf cynaliadwy yn y DU a byddwn yn onest ac yn dryloyw ynglŷn â’r hyn yr ydym wedi’i wneud yn dda, ac yn yr un modd yr hyn y gallem ei wneud yn well.
Ni fydd Prifysgol Bangor byth yn gallu cael ei chyhuddo o ‘wyrddgalchu’.
Bydd cynaliadwyedd yn cael ei ymgorffori ym mhob agwedd ar fywyd ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, ac yn holl weithgareddau ein staff a'n myfyrwyr.
Yn benodol, byddwn yn sicrhau bod cynaliadwyedd yn dod yn thema ganolog yn ein cwricwlwm a’n harbenigeddau ymchwil.
Bydd datblygiadau ar draws y campws, ein prosesau caffael, hyfforddiant staff a’r gweithgareddau a wnawn i ymgysylltu â'r gymuned hefyd yn ymgorffori egwyddorion cynaliadwyedd yn rhan ohonynt.
Yma ym Mangor, mae Cynaliadwyedd yn fwy na gair, mae'n ffordd o fyw.
Dewch i ddarganfod sut mae ei hymchwil yn chwarae rhan yn hynny:
Mae bod yn brifysgol wirioneddol gynaliadwy yn golygu nid yn unig edrych ar ôl ein hadnoddau naturiol a’r amgylchedd – mae’n golygu gofalu am ein cymunedau, ein diwylliant a’n hadnoddau economaidd.
Ym Mhrifysgol Bangor rydym yn bwriadu gwneud ein prifysgol yn gyfystyr â chynaliadwyedd..
Mae cynaliadwyedd yn fwy na’r amgylchedd, ac mae’n fwy na gwaith un adran - mae ym mhopeth a wnawn.
Gan weithio gyda Deddf Llesiant Cenedlaethau'r Dyfodol (Cymru) Llywodraeth Cymru 2015, a Nodau Datblygu Cynaliadwy'r Cenhedloedd Unedig, ymrwymwn i unioni’r heriau y mae’r gymuned fyd-eang yn eu hwynebu.
O’n modiwlau israddedig i’n prosiect ymchwil, mae popeth a wnawn yn cael ei fapio ar 17 Nod Cynaliadwyedd y Cenhedloedd Unedig a defnyddio egwyddorion Deddf Llesiant Cenedlaethau’r Dyfodol (Cymru) 2015 Llywodraeth Cymru.
Deddf Llesiant Cenedlaethau’r Dyfodol (Cymru) 2015 Llywodraeth Cymru
Nod Cynaliadwyedd y Cenhedloedd Unedig
Amcangyfrifir bod 30-40% o ffrwythau a llysiau Uganda yn cael eu gwastraffu cyn cyrraedd y farchnad.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn gweithio gyda chydweithwyr ym Mhrifysgol Makerere yn Uganda i ddatblygu dulliau amgen o becynnu bwyd yn gynaliadwy.
Project bwyd o dan arweiniad myfyrwyr Prifysgol Bangor yw’r Ddraig Lwglyd (Hungry Dragon), ac mae’n arbed bwyd sydd dros ben ym Mangor.
Yn ddiweddar, mewn partneriaeth â Chaffi Pris Teg Bangor, maent yn troi ffrwythau a llysiau dros ben o archfarchnadoedd lleol yn gyffeithiau ac yn brydau bwyd.
Fel Prifysgol, rydym yn deall bod ein defnydd o ynni sy'n deillio o danwydd ffosil yn cyfrannu at y newid yn yr hinsawdd byd-eang.
Yn 2019, fe ddatganon ni Argyfwng yr Hinsawdd a chyhoeddi bod 100% o'n trydan bellach yn cael ei gyflenwi o ffynonellau adnewyddadwy gwarantedig.
Mae gennym arbenigedd mewn ynni adnewyddadwy morol (gan gynnwys lliniaru'r effeithiau ar fywyd gwyllt y môr) ac ynni niwclear, sy'n hanfodol i barhau i ddatgarboneiddio’r modd yr ydym yn cynhyrchu trydan, ac sy'n sail i ostwng allyriadau mewn sectorau eraill.
Mae gogledd Cymru mewn lle da’n ddaearyddol i arwain ar dechnolegau amgylcheddol.
Yn 2019/20 llwyddodd y Brifysgol i beidio ag anfon 100% o'i gwastraff i safleoedd tirlenwi.
O'r gwastraff a gyfeiriwyd i lefydd eraill, cafodd 2% ei ailddefnyddio, cafodd 59% ei ailgylchu ac adferwyd 39%.
Cynhyrchwyd 617T o wastraff, gostyngiad o 196T (24%) ar y flwyddyn flaenorol.
Ein nod yw ailddefnyddio/ailgylchu 70% o'n gwastraff erbyn Gorffennaf 2025, fel y nodir yn strategaeth wastraff gyffredinol Cymru - Tuag at Ddyfodol Di-wastraff.
Rydym yn gweithio ar lawer o eitemau i wella ein perfformiad amgylcheddol a moesegol, mewn meysydd fel addysg ar gyfer datblygu cynaliadwy, ymgysylltu â staff a myfyrwyr, a chyllid a chaffael
Mae ein polisïau a'n strategaethau yn siapio dyfodol y Brifysgol yn ogystal â chanolbwyntio ar faterion sy'n wynebu staff a myfyrwyr presennol.
Ac mae ein Hadroddiadau yn tystio i'n hymdrechion hyd yn hyn.
Mae pawb sy'n ymwneud â Chynaliadwyedd ym Mangor yn rhannu'r un weledigaeth a gwerthoedd er eu bod yn dod ag arbenigedd a phrofiadau gwahanol iddo.
O ran tîm credwn fod y cyfan yn fwy na chyfanswm ei rannau - ond os hoffech bori trwy'r enwau gwiriwch y rhestr isod.
Os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau am gynaliadwyedd ym Mhrifysgol Bangor e-bostiwch sustainability@bangor.ac.uk
Dilynwch a defnyddiwch yr hashnod #BangorGynaliadwy ar gyfer popeth cynaliadwy ym Mhrifysgol Bangor ar gyfryngau cymdeithasol.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/iechyd-a-lles:
Mae'r tudalennau hyn yn rhoi gwybodaeth i staff y Brifysgol am y ddarparaeth lles sydd ar gael iddynt.
Os ydych yn edrych am gefnogaeth i fyfyrwyr, ewch i dudalennau gwe Gwasanaeth Lles y Myfyrwyr .
Dilyn LLes Staff Bangor ar X

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/cysylltiadau:
Os yw'ch ymholiad yn ymwneud ag astudio israddedig neu ôl-raddedig ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, defnyddiwch y ffurflen isod i gysylltu â ni.
Os ydych chi'n cysylltu am unrhyw rheswm arall, gwelwch y cysylltiadau defnyddiol ar waelod y dudalen hon.
Mae croeso i chi gysylltu â’r Brifysgol yn y Gymraeg neu’r Saesneg fel a nodir yn ein Cynllun Iaith Gymraeg.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/governance-and-compliance/policy-register/index.php.cy:
Neu pori meysydd astudio Adnoddau Dynol Arholwyr Allanol Asesu Myfyrwyr Cydymffurfio Cyfreithiol Cyfarwyddyd Rhyddid Mynegiant ac Ymgyrchu Etholiadol Cyllid Cysylltiadau Personol a Datganiadau Buddiannau Deddf Caethwasiaeth Modern 2015 Fisâu a Mewnfudo Gwasanaethau Llyfrgell Gwasanaethau Technoleg Gwybodaeth Iaith Gymraeg Iechyd a Diogelwch Lles Myfyrwyr Llywodraethu Llywodraethu Gwybodaeth Materion Academaidd Moeseg a Moeseg Ymchwil Oedolion Bregus Plant a Phobl Ifanc Recriwtio (Myfyrwyr) Rhaglenni Ymchwil Sicrhau Ansawdd Trwyddedu Corfforaethol Ymchwil Ystadau
Amcan y safle hwn yw rhoi lle i gadw polisïau’r brifysgol.
Diffinnir polisi prifysgol fel polisi y gellir ei gymhwyso’n gyffredinol drwy’r brifysgol, sy’n helpu i sicrhau cydymffurfiad cydlynol â deddfau a rheoliadau perthnasol; yn hyrwyddo gweithredu effeithlon; yn hybu cenhadaeth y brifysgol; ac yn lleihau risg i’r sefydliad.
Mae’r safle hwn yn cynnwys Polisïau, Gweithdrefnau, a dogfennau cysylltiedig eraill a gymeradwywyd gan y Cyngor neu gan awdurdodau dirprwyedig, megis Canllawiau, Rheoliadau, Codau Ymarfer, Fframweithiau, Safonau a Chynlluniau.
Mae llawer o bolisïau pwysig colegau, ysgolion, adrannau neu wasanaethau canolog yn ateb dibenion tebyg ond maent yn benodol i’r uned ac felly nid ydynt wedi eu cynnwys ar y wefan hon.
Dylai colegau, ysgolion, adrannau neu wasanaethau canolog y brifysgol ddarparu cyswllt â’r wefan hon yn hytrach na chreu eu tudalennau eu hunain ar gyfer polisïau’r brifysgol.
Bydd hyn yn helpu i sicrhau bod pawb yn y brifysgol yn cyfeirio at fersiynau diweddaraf y polisïau.
Mae’r storfa ganolog ar-lein hon ar gyfer polisïau, gweithdrefnau a metadata cysylltiedig y sefydliad:
Pwrpas y Fframwaith Datblygu Polisi yw gosod disgwyliadau clir ar gyfer ysgrifennu polisïau ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, a chreu dull gweithredu cyffredin o ran datblygu, gweithredu a rheoli holl bolisïau Prifysgol Bangor.
Anogwn berchnogion ac awduron polisïau i ddefnyddio’r Fframwaith, a’r templed sydd yma, ar gyfer polisïau hen a newydd.
Gellir cael arweiniad gan Colin Ridyard yn y Gwasanaethau Llywodraethu.
Os ydych yn gwybod am Bolisi, Gweithdrefn neu Nodyn Cyfarwyddyd prifysgol nad yw wedi’i gynnwys yn y Gofrestr ar hyn o bryd, cysylltwch â Colin Ridyard yn Gwasanaethau Llywodraethu: mhsa08@bangor.ac.uk
Amdanom Ni
Gwasanaethau a Chyfleusterau

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/amdanom-ni/rheolaeth-a-llywodraethiant:
Y Cyngor yw corff llywodraethu pennaf y Brifysgol fel y nodir yn Siarter y Brifysgol ac mae'n gyfrifol am weithredu pwerau'r Brifysgol.
Ordinhad y Cyngor
Y Llys yw grŵp rhanddeiliaid Prifysgol Bangor, ac mae'n darparu fforwm i aelodau'r gymuned ryngweithio â'r brifysgol.
Mae’r Llys yn cynnwys cynrychiolwyr o awdurdodau lleol, aelodau Seneddol ac aelodau’r Senedd, y bwrdd iechyd lleol, cynrychiolwyr cyn-fyfyrwyr, yn ogystal â rhanddeiliaid allweddol eraill.
Ordinhad Y LLYS
Y Pwyllgor Gweithredu yw uwch grŵp rheoli’r Brifysgol, ac mae'n gyfrifol am reolaeth a gweinyddiad cyffredinol y Brifysgol.
Y Senedd yw awdurdod academaidd y brifysgol a dyma’r corff llywodraethol ar faterion sydd angen barn academaidd.
Gall y Senedd hefyd drafod materion strategol sy’n effeithio ar y maes academaidd.
Mae'r Senedd yn cytuno Penodiadau er Anrhydedd, sydd yn cydnabod cyfraniad gwirfoddol, di-dâl at weithgareddau ysgol neu'r brifysgol, ar argymhelliad Pennaeth Ysgol.
Ordinhad y Senedd

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/pontio:
Cymysgedd cyffrous ac unigryw o’r Celfyddydau a Diwylliant, Arloesi, Addysg a Chymuned
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn eich croesawu i Pontio – canolfan lle ceir cymysgedd cyffrous ac unigryw o’r Celfyddydau a Diwylliant, Arloesi, Addysg a Chymuned.
Mae’r enw ‘Pontio’ yn ymgorffori hanfod ac ethos ein canolfan newydd.
Mae Pontio’n dod â’r ddinas a’r Brifysgol at ei gilydd mewn ffordd real a gweladwy, wrth i bawb ddod ynghyd i arloesi a dysgu a mynd i’r sinema , y theatr , ac i'r llefydd bwyta ac yfed .
Mae Pontio nid yn unig yn arddangos y gorau o fyd y celfyddydau a diwylliant gan gynnwys drama, cerddoriaeth, dawns, a syrcas cyfoes yn lleol a rhyngwladol.
Mae yn fan gwerthfawr i arloesi a menter, gan gysylltu arbenigedd y Brifysgol mewn ymchwil, dylunio a datblygu cynnyrch â busnesau a menter yn ein rhanbarth.
Mae Pontio hefyd yn ganolbwynt i fyfyrwyr, gan gynnwys swyddfeydd newydd Undeb y Myfyrwyr ac ystafelloedd dysgu a mannau cyfarfod cymdeithasol o ansawdd uchel y gall pawb eu mwynhau.
Ac, yn eithriadol bwysig, mae’r ganolfan yn ychwanegu’n sylweddol at y cyfleusterau a geir ym Mangor a’r cyffiniau er budd economaidd, cymdeithasol a diwylliannol y Brifysgol a’r gymuned ehangach.
Mewn sawl ffordd, felly, mae canolfan Pontio’n cyfiawnhau ei henw a’i gweledigaeth drwy sefydlu pont rhwng gwahanol elfennau’r brifysgol a’r gymuned yng ngogledd-orllewin Cymru.
Cyllidwyd Pontio gan y Brifysgol, gyda chymorth sylweddol gan Lywodraeth Cymru, Cronfa Datblygu Rhanbarthol Ewrop a Chyngor Celfyddydau Cymru.
Hwn yw’r prif broject yn ystod cam presennol rhaglen fuddsoddi Prifysgol Bangor yn ei hystâd a’i chyfleusterau.
*Cyllidir Pontio trwy Gronfa Buddsoddi Cyfalaf Strategol (SCIF) Llywodraeth Cymru, Cronfa Datblygu Rhanbarthol Ewrop (ERDF), Prifysgol Bangor a Chyngor Celfyddydau Cymru.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/chwaraeonbangor:
Ymuno â'r gampfa
Archebu dosbarth ffitrwydd
Hyfforddiant Ymsefydlu
Rydym yn canolbwyntio 100% ar eich cefnogi CHI i’ch galluogi i fod y fersiwn gorau ohonoch CHI!
Darganfod Mwy
Byddwn yn eich helpu i gyrraedd eich nodau ffitrwydd
Llenwch yr Holiadur
Mae Canolfan Brailsford yn gampfa gydag adnoddau rhagorol, wedi ei lleoli yng nghanol Bangor.
Gallwch brynu neu adnewyddu eich aelodaeth ac archebu dosbarthiadau a gweithgareddau ar-lein.
Rydym ar agor yn ddyddiol o fore cynnar tan yn hwyr.
Dysgwch sut i ddefnyddio'r gampfa yn ddiogel ac yn effeithiol.
Mae ein cyfleusterau'n cynnwys caeau chwarae, cyrtiau dan do ac awyr agored, trac athletau a wal ddringo.
Edrychwch ar amserlen ein dosbarthiadau ffitrwydd.
Gweld ein rhestr llawn o brisiau.
Rydym yn cynnig amrywiaeth o weithgareddau a gwasanaethau.
Mae ein rhaglen ar gyfer plant yn cynnig dosbarthiadau wythnosol a gwersylloedd chwaraeon i'w diddanu yn ystod y gwyliau.
Mae ein rhaglen o weithgareddau ffitrwydd Staff Actif yn arbennig ar gyfer staff Prifysgol Bangor.
Mae triniaethau therapi ar gael yn Canolfan Brailsford trwy ein partneriaeth â LEAF Health.
Mae ein llety ar y safle yn berffaith i dimau, hyfforddwyr ac athletwyr sy'n teithio i'r brifysgol neu'r ardal leol i gystadlu neu hyfforddi.
Mae ein rhaglen wedi'i chynllunio i helpu i ddatblygu chwaraewyr i gyflawni eu potensial llawn.
Trwy gyfuniad o hyfforddiant unigol a sesiynau tîm, byddwch yn gweld cynnydd sylweddol ac yn gwella eich datblygiad cyffredinol naill ai drwy'r rhaglen berfformio neu ein timau datblygu a chymdeithasol.
Ymunwch â ni a mynd â'ch gêm rygbi i'r lefel nesaf!
Rydym yn cynnig cyfleoedd i chi ddatblygu eich sgiliau, eich profiad a'ch gwybodaeth ac rydym yn cydweithio â nifer o glybiau a mudiadau chwaraeon.
Mae ein staff ac hyfforddwyr yma i'ch helpu i gyrraedd eich targed ffitrwydd.
Mae'r Undeb Athletau yn rhan o Undeb y Myfyrwyr Bangor ac mae'n cynnig ystod enfawr o gyfleoedd chwaraeon i fyfyrwyr.
Mae Chwaraeon Campws yn rhaglen chwaraeon am ddim sydd ar gael i bob myfyriwr.
Gallwch gyrchu ysgoloriaethau a bwrsariaethau i'ch cefnogi yn eich gyrfa chwaraeon.
Gwirfoddolwch mewn chwaraeon a chewch brofiad gwerthfawr.
Canolfan Brailsford, Ffordd Ffriddoedd, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2EH

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/commercial-services/conferencing.php.cy:
Cofrestrwch am ein newyddion, digwyddiadau a chynigion diweddaraf.
Mae mynyddoedd Eryri a’r Fenai yn cynnig cefnlen berffaith i bob digwyddiad.
Mae’r Brifysgol o fewn cyrraedd rhwydd i ymwelwyr cenedlaethol a rhyngwladol.
Mae yma leoedd sy’n addas i bob achlysur, yn cynnwys neuaddau hanesydddol ac ystafelloedd modern sy’n gallu dal rhwng 4 a 450 o bobl.
Mae ein dewis o leoliadau ar gyfer cynadleddau a chyfarfodydd yn golygu y gallwn gynnig llawer o hyblygrwydd i drefnwyr, gyda’r dewis o ddefnyddio cyfuniad o leoliadau ar draws y campws.
Prif Adeilad y Celfyddydau
Y Ganolfan Rheolaeth

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/commercial-services/places-to-eat-and-drink.php.cy:
O ran bwyd a  diod mae gennym amrywiaeth eang o ddewisiadau.
Os ydych eisiau paned cyflym o  goffi, brecwast mawr, cinio ysgafn neu swper blasus mae gennym rywbeth sy'n  addas i bawb.
Rydym yn  ymrwymedig i ddarparu bwyd blasus sy'n rhoi gwerth am arian gan ddefnyddio cynhwysion ffres ac o ffynonellau lleol lle bo modd.
Rydym yn Brifysgol gydag achrediad Masnach Deg.
Rydym yn cynnig cynnyrch achrededig Masnach Deg yn ein holl fannau gwerthu; rydym yn defnyddio pysgod o ffynonellau cynaliadwy ac mae ein holl wyau yn wyau maes.
Cliciwch  ar y cysylltiadau isod i gael rhagor o wybodaeth am ein gwahanol leoliadau.
Lolfa Teras
Bwyd a Diod Pontio
Oriau agor Arlwyo Haf 2025

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/widening-access/index.php.cy:
Codi dyheadau, cyrraedd llwyddiant.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi ymrwymo i gefnogi myfyrwyr sydd hefyd yn ofalwyr ifanc a'r rhai sydd â phrofiad o ofal i gwrdd â'u dyheadau mewn addysg ac yn y gweithle.
Rydym yn deall efallai bod gennych bryderon sydd yn ymwneud gyda materion fel cyllid, cydbwyso astudio gyda cyfrifoldebau gofalu a gadael y rhai sydd yn dibynnu arnoch am ofal.
Ein diffiniad ni o Ofalwr yw rhywun sy’n gofalu am aelod o’r teulu, partner neu ffrind ag anabledd corfforol neu synhwyraidd, anabledd dysgu, cyflwr meddygol, anawsterau iechyd meddwl neu rywun sy’n gaeth i gyffuriau, alcohol neu hapchwarae/gamblo.
Mae rhywun sydd gyda phrofiad o ofal yn golygu y byddwch wedi bod yng ngofal eich awdurdod lleol am o leiaf 13 wythnos ar unrhyw adeg ers yn 14 oed.
Os ydych chi'n ofalwr ifanc sydd â diddordeb mewn mynychu ein ysgol breswyl eleni, cysylltwch â'ch darparwr gofal lleol i archebu eich lle.
Mae profiad o ofalu yn gallu cael effaith gadarnhaol ar ofalwyr.
Er hyn, gall hefyd effeithio ar les corfforol ac emosiynol Gofalwyr.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn ymwybodol o hyn ac wedi sefydlu ei Pholisi Gofalwyr i helpu cefnogi staff a myfyrwyr sydd â chyfrifoldebau gofal.
Rydym yn deall gall bywyd academaidd fod yn heriol.
Pe baech yn teimlo eich bod am ddatgelu eich amgylchiadau ai peidio, rydym yma i'ch cefnogi mewn sawl ffordd.
Ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, rydym yn rhoi blaenoriaeth uchel i ofalu am ein myfyrwyr a rhoi cefnogaeth iddynt.
Rydym yn cynnig gwasanaeth lles cynhwysfawr i fyfyrwyr, felly fel myfyriwr sydd wedi gadael gofal i ddod i Addysg Uwch, neu fel rhywun sy’n rhoi cyngor i fyfyriwr â phrofiad gofal, gallwch fod yn sicr y cewch y gefnogaeth a’r wybodaeth angenrheidiol ym Mangor.
Mae’r gefnogaeth hon i’w chael o’r cam cyntaf, tra byddwch yn dal i geisio penderfynu lle neu beth i’w astudio, ac mae’n parhau ar gael i chi drwy’r broses gwneud cais am brifysgol ac ar ôl i chi ddechrau ar eich cwrs yma.
Ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, gallwn ddarparu’r canlynol:
Bob blwyddyn, mae Prifysgol Bangor yn croesawu gofalwyr ifanc i Ddigwyddiad Preswyl, sy'n rhoi cyfle i bobl ifanc 16-25 oed i gael blas ar fywyd prifysgol a'r gefnogaeth a gynigir iddynt yma ym Mangor.
Yn ystod y digwyddiad, mae llawer o ysgolion academaidd yn cyflwyno sesiynau blasu pynciol.
Caiff y bobl ifanc gyfle i edrych o gwmpas y brifysgol, Pontio, Undeb y Myfyrwyr a manteisio ar y cyfleusterau hamdden yng Nghanolfan Brailsford cyn treulio noson yn llety'r brifysgol.
Mae UCAS wedi cyflwyno rhan newydd yn y cais i alluogi chi i rannu mwy o wybodaeth am eich amgylchiadau gyda’r brifysgol – gan gynnwys a oes gennych chi gyfrifoldebau gofalu.
Mae'r wybodaeth yma yn golygu y gallwn cysylltu gyda chi  â chymorth ar gyfer eich anghenion yn gyflym a sicrhau bod gennych yr holl wybodaeth sydd ei hangen arnoch.
Rhoddir cymorth ac adnoddau ychwanegol i ofalwyr sy'n mynychu'r brifysgol gan ddarparwyr gofal lleol a'r Ymddiriedolaeth Gofalwyr.
Mae'r rhain yn cynnwys cymorth ymarferol fel darparu dillad gwely, offer a thywelion.
Bydd y cerdyn adnabod  yn rhoi ffordd gyflym a hawdd i hysbysu darlithwyr, staff, a gwasanaethau cymunedol megis canolfannau hamdden a thrafnidiaeth leol, eu bod yn gofalu am rywun.
Rydym ni yn gweithio mewn partneriaeth gyda Ymestyn yn Ehangach ar amrywiaeth o brosiectau.
Mae Partneriaeth Ymestyn yn Ehangach Gogledd a Chanolbarth Cymru yn broject a gyllidir gan HEFCW.
Ein cenhadaeth yw creu cysylltiad ag ysgolion cynradd ac uwchradd, oedolion 21 oed a hŷn heb unrhyw gymwysterau addysg uwch, o ddau gwintel isaf Mynegai Amddifadedd Lluosog Cymru.
Mae bod yn ofalwr llawn amser ac yn fyfyriwr llawn amser yn anodd ond mae staff y Brifysgol yn hynod gefnogol ac yn gwneud popeth o fewn eu gallu i'w wneud ychydig yn haws.
Rydym yn falch iawn o groesawu myfyrwyr o bob cefndir ym Mangor.
Os rydych chi dros 21 oed, rydych chi'n cael eich ystyried yn fyfyriwr aeddfed.
Dyma rhagor o wybodaeth a chyngor i helpu ar eich llwybr newydd.
Mae ein cefnogaeth i fyfyrwyr hŷn yn cynnwys:
Manylion i ddilyn
Do nes i benderfynu mynd am y cwrs, roeddwn i'n teimlo mod i'n barod i stepio ymlaen efo fy mywyd.
O'n i'n gweithio fel gofalwr cefnogi yn Antur Waunfawr a, ia, o'n i jest yn teimlo bo fi'n barod i gael dysgu mwy.
Ia, ac wedyn jest es i am y cwrs.
Ffion dwi ac rydw i'n astudio Nyrsio Anableddau Dysgu ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Ers i fi ddechrau yna, oeddwn i'n teimlo mai dyna beth oeddwn i fod I wneud, so mae'r holl beth wedi dod at ei gilydd yn reit dda.
A'r bobl dwi wedi cefnogi di, yw'r rheswm dwi'n isio neud o, i fedru helpu pobl fatha nhw i gael byw bywydau hapus.
Un pethau o'n i yn poeni amdano oedd os oeddwn i yn medru gweithio a gwneud prifysgol hefyd.
Dwi'n ffeindio dwi'n medru ei wneud yn iawn.
Mae gen i falans reit dda.
Dwi'n gweithio, dwi'n mynd i'r brifysgol a dwi'n gneud pethau yn fy amser fy hun.
A pan mae'n dod i leoliadau hefyd, ia, dwi'n ffeindio mod i yn medru rhoi balans i bethau reit dda.
Ond mae yna opsiynau i gael cefnogaeth efo pres hefyd.
Dwi'n dysgu cymaint gan y staff dwi'n gweithio gyda,  y nyrsys a hefyd y cleifion - dwi'n dysgu cymaint gan nhw.
A mynd ymlaen yn y cwrs, dwi jest yn edrych mlaen i gael dysgu mwy am y sgiliau clinigol a chael mwy o leoliadau, achos mae'n rhoi syniad reit dda i chi o lle rydych chi isio gweithio a pha fath o faes nyrsio rydych chi'n mynd iddo.
Ti'n dysgu cymaint mor sydyn.
Dwi'n falch mod i wedi neud o.
Dwi'n fwy hyderus yn mi fy hun.
Dwi jest yn mwynhau.
Dwi'n dysgu lot pob dydd a dwi'n medru ei wneud o yn fy ffordd i hefyd.
Ia, dwi'n mwynhau.
Ia, dwi'n reit falch ohonof fy hunan a dwi'n edrych mlaen at y dyfodol rwan.
Ia, dwi'n hapus mod i'n ei wneud o.
Os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiwn, archebwch sgwrs gyda ein Swyddog Ehangu Mynediad cyfeillgar a phrofiadol.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/mrc/schools.php.cy:
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn cynnig amrywiaeth o weithgareddau i ysgolion a cholegau.
Amcan hyn yw cynyddu ymwybyddiaeth o Addysg Uwch ac annog pobl ifanc i ystyried cyfleoedd sydd ar gael iddynt.
Mae’r gweithgareddau hyn yn amrywio o gyngor cyn ymgeisio a sgyrsiau cyfarwyddo i sesiynau rhyngweithiol sy’n anelu at hybu diddordeb a dyheadau disgyblion iau.
Dyma rai o’r gweithgareddau y gallai eich ysgol fod â diddordeb ynddynt:
Cynigir cyflwyniadau ar baratoi ar gyfer Addysg Uwch gan Swyddogion Cyswllt Ysgolion y Brifysgol.
Mae’r pynciau yr ymdrinnir â hwy yn cynnwys Sut i ddewis, Ble i ddewis; Llenwi’r Ffurflen UCAS; Paratoi eich Datganiad Personol; Paratoi ar gyfer cyfweliadau.
I drefnu cyflwyniad a/neu ymweliad llenwch eich ffurflen ar-lein os gwelwch yn dda.
Gall myfyrwyr presennol o Fangor ymweld â’ch ysgol i arwain sesiwn holi ac ateb ar fywyd myfyrwyr a sut brofiad yw astudio mewn Prifysgol.
Llunnir rhaglen arbennig ar gyfer pob ysgol sydd eisiau dod â grwp o ddisgyblion (neu grwp blwyddyn gyfan) ar ymweliad â Bangor.
Mae’r gweithgareddau sydd ar gael yn cynnwys  sgyrsiau gan aelodau staff; teithiau tywysedig o amgylch y campws (yn cynnwys llety myfyrwyr a chyfleusterau chwaraeon); ymweliad â/cyflwyniad gan Undeb y Myfyrwyr; gweithdai/cyflwyniadau ar adeiladu tîm, gyrfaoedd i raddedigion, sgiliau astudio a symud ymlaen i Addysg Uwch.
Gall ymweliadau fod naill ai’n rhai diwrnod neu’n rhai preswyl.
Fel rheol, bydd ysgol sydd eisiau dod â grwp o ddisgyblion iau ar ymweliad â’r Brifysgol yn cael cynnig rhaglen eang yn cynnwys, er enghraifft, ymweliad ag adran academaidd, taith dywysedig o amgylch y campws (yn cynnwys llety myfyrwyr a chyfleusterau chwaraeon), a chyflwyniad cyffredinol i fywyd prifysgol a myfyrwyr.
I gael mwy o wybodaeth am unrhyw rai o’r gweithgareddau sydd wedi eu hanelu at naill ai Blwyddyn 12 a 13, neu at ddisgyblion iau, cysylltwch â:
Yr Uned Recriwtio Myfyrwyr Prifysgol Bangor LL57 2DG
Ffôn: 01248 388144/382005 Ebost: marchnata@bangor.ac.uk
Mae Bangor yn ganolfan ddelfrydol ar gyfer ymweliad preswyl ac mae dwsinau o ysgolion yn dychwelyd yma’n flynyddol ar gyfer gweithgareddau’n amrywio o waith maes ac wythnosau gweithgaredd i raglenni Cynefino i’r Chweched Dosbarth a Cyflwyniad i AU.
Mae’r llety sydd ar gael naill ai’n llety safonol mewn neuaddau preswyl traddodiadol neu’n ystafelloedd en-suite yn y neuaddau mwy newydd.
O ran arlwyo cynigir prydau bwyd mewn caffeteria a chinio pecyn fel bo’r angen.
Mae pecyn gwybodaeth sy’n rhoi mwy o fanylion am y cyfleusterau a’r gwasanaethau preswyl sydd ar gael i ysgolion i’w gael o'r Swyddfa Gynadleddau.
I gael copi o’r pecyn neu i drafod ymweliad preswyl posibl, cysylltwch â'r Swyddfa Gynadleddau os gwelwch yn dda:
Ffôn.: 01248 388088 Ebost - aros@bangor.ac.uk Gwefan - www.bangor.ac.uk/commercial-services/conferencing.php.cy
Mae’r Ysgol Addysg a Datblygiad Dynol ym Mhrifysgol Bangor yn darparu hyfforddiant cychwynnol i athrawon (BEd, BSc yn arwain at Statws Athro Cymwysiedig (QTS), a chyrsiau TAR) i rai sydd eisiau gyrfa mewn addysg, yn ogystal â chyrsiau datblygiad proffesiynol cyson i athrawon.
Dyma’r manylion:
Profiad Ysgol i athrawon dan hyfforddiant ar y cyrsiau canlynol:
Ysgol Addysg a Datblygiad Dynol
Prifysgol Bangor Bangor Safle’r Normal Bangor LL57 2PX Ffôn: 01248 383082/351151 Gwefan: www.bangor.ac.uk/addysg

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/gwasanaethau-busnes:
Rydym yn cynnig amrywiaeth o wasanaethau busnes.
Mae gan Brifysgol Bangor amrywiaeth o wasanaethau busnes yn amrywio o gyfleoedd ymchwil a datblygu cydweithredol i ymgynghori, cyfleusterau busnes a hyfforddiant.
Mae gennym hefyd amrywiaeth o wasanaethau arlwyo a chynadledda.
Mae'r Hwb Cydweithredu yn darparu mynediad i'r ystod eang o gyfleoedd cymorth busnes ac arloesi sydd ar gael trwy Brifysgol Bangor, boed yn sefydliadau micro, busnesau bach a chanolig, ddim er elw neu sefydliadau mawr.
Mae Eiddo Deallusol yn deillio o weithgareddau ymchwil, addysgu a throsglwyddo gwybodaeth academyddion y Brifysgol a myfyrwyr ymchwil ôl-radd.
Mwy o wybodaeth am Eiddo Deallusol & Masnacheiddio
Mae gennym amrywiaeth o leoliadau cynadledda a chyfarfod ar draws y campws.
Mae ein gwasanaeth ciniawa busnes yn cynnig lle perffaith i gynnal cinio busnes neu i ddifyrru gwesteion.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/commercial-services/business-dining.php.cy:
Wedi'i lleoli yn adeilad hanesyddol y  Prif Gelfyddydau mae gan Lolfa’r Teras awyrgylch hamddenol ond mireinio ac yn ymfalchïo yn ei fwydlen sydd wedi ei gynllunio’n ofalus.
Dyma’r lle perffaith i gynnal cinio busnes neu i ddiddanu gwesteion.
Ar agor dydd Llun i ddydd Gwener o 8:00 yn tan 6:00yh  mae Lolfa’r Teras hefyd ar gael i'w llogi preifat yn ystod y nosweithiau ac ar benwythnosau.
Am ragor o wybodaeth ewch i dudalen we Teras
Mi ddowch o hyd i fwyty Gorad ar ail lawr adeilad Pontio.
Gyda ei ddyluniad modern a phwyslais ar gynhwysion ffres mae'n cynnig ei hun yn dda ar gyfer prydau busnes.
Am ragor o wybodaeth ymwelwch â thudalennau gwe Bwyd a Diod Pontio

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/eiddo-deallusol:
Mae hefyd yn deillio o gydweithio â sefydliadau sy'n bartneriaid megis busnesau, prifysgolion a sefydliadau'r sector cyhoeddus.
Drwy weithio mewn partneriaeth â'r sefydliadau hyn, mae Prifysgol Bangor yn nodi eiddo deallusol, gwybodaeth a thechnoleg newydd o weithgareddau ymchwil, addysgu a throsglwyddo gwybodaeth y Brifysgol ac yn ei droi'n realiti masnachol.
Gwneir y defnydd llwyddiannus hwn o eiddo deallusol, a elwir yn fasnacheiddio, naill ai trwy drwyddedu neu greu cwmni deillio.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn mynd ati i hyrwyddo’r defnydd o’i gwaith ymchwil.
Gwneir hyn yn aml drwy drwyddedu ei heiddo deallusol i fusnesau a sefydliadau: Am ragor o wybodaeth, cysylltwch drwy ebostio commercialisation@bangor.ac.uk
Mewn rhai achosion, gellir sefydlu cwmni newydd i fanteisio ar weithgareddau ymchwil, addysgu a throsglwyddo gwybodaeth y Brifysgol ac yn yr achos hwn mae'r eiddo deallusol wedi ei drwyddedu i'r cwmni newydd.
Yn ystod y blynyddoedd diwethaf mae'r Brifysgol wedi ysgogi sawl cwmni sydd ar wahanol lefelau o ddatblygu.
Am ragor o wybodaeth, cysylltwch drwy ebostio ommercialisation@bangor.ac.uk
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn croesawu’r Adolygiad Annibynnol o Gwmnïau Deillio Prifysgolion .
Rydym wedi ymrwymo i feithrin arloesedd, entrepreneuriaeth a thwf economaidd drwy gwmnïau deillio’r brifysgol.
Yn unol ag argymhellion yr Adolygiad Annibynnol o Gwmnïau Deillio Prifysgolion, rydym yn mabwysiadu set o egwyddorion ac arferion sydd wedi'u cynllunio i uchafu effaith a llwyddiant ein gweithgarwch deillio, a hynny wrth gefnogi ein hymchwilwyr, myfyrwyr, a'r gymuned ehangach.
Bydd Prifysgol Bangor yn parhau i adolygu ac addasu ei strategaeth, polisïau, a phrosesau o ran cwmnïau deillio, yn unol â chanllawiau cenedlaethol a chanllawiau’r sector.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/bangor-140:
Yn 2024, bydd Prifysgol Bangor yn nodi 140 mlynedd ers ei sefydlu, gan ddathlu cant a deugain o flynyddoedd o ragoriaeth academaidd, ymchwil arloesol a phrofiadau gwych i fyfyrwyr.
Ymunwch â ni wrth i ni ailedrych ar yr etifeddiaeth a ddechreuodd ym 1884, a cadwch lygad ar y dudalen hon gan mai yma byddwn yn rhannu newyddion am ddigwyddiadau difyr, a straeon calonogol wrth i ni ddathlu'r garreg filltir fawr hon.
Ar ddechrau'r 1880au gorymdeithiodd torf o dair mil o ffermwyr, chwarelwyr a'u teuluoedd i lawr Stryd Fawr Bangor i fynnu addysg uwch.
Codwyd £1,200 ganddynt i drawsnewid hen dafarn y goets fawr, y Penrhyn Arms, i fod yn Goleg Prifysgol Gogledd Cymru, fel yr adwaenid y sefydliad bryd hynny.
Agorodd y Brifysgol ei drysau ar 18 Hydref 1884 i 58 o fyfyrwyr, gyda deg aelod o staff.
Cyflwynwyd graddau i fyfyrwyr i ddechrau gan Brifysgol Llundain tan 1893, pan ddaeth Bangor yn un o dri choleg cyfansoddol gwreiddiol Prifysgol Cymru.
Merch oedd y cyntaf i gofrestru.
Roedd Mary Ellen Williams yn ferch gyffredin, nid o gefndir cyfoethog a dylanwad fel y byddech chi'n ei ddisgwyl.
Merch leol oedd hi, merch i groser.
Roedd myfyrwyr benywaidd yn draean o’r myfyrwyr yn y blynyddoedd cynnar - a oedd yn anarferol yn y cyfnod.
Un o'r merched cyntaf yn y Brifysgol oedd Margaret Verney o Blas Rhianfa ar Ynys Mon.
Byddai merched yn gwneud cyfraniad mawr at dwf addysg prifysgol yng Nghymru.
Ym 1903, rhoddodd cyngor dinas Bangor lain 10 erw o dir yn edrych dros y ddinas ar gyfer adeiladu adeilad prifysgol newydd, mwy.
Lewis D Jones (Llew Tegid), prifathro lleol, a arweiniodd yr ymdrechion codi arian ar draws Gwynedd a Môn i helpu ariannu’r adeilad newydd.
Cyfrannodd miloedd o ffermwyr, chwarelwyr a phobl leol at y nod o godi £120,000.
Gosodwyd y garreg sylfaen ym 1907, a phedair blynedd yn ddiweddarach, ym 1911, agorwyd y prif adeilad trwy ymweliad Brenhinol.
Trwy gydol y flwyddyn hon o ddathliadau, bydd y brifysgol yn lansio cyfres o 6 ffilm sy’n adrodd hanes difyr Bangor.
Ymunwch â Gari Wynn, yr hanesydd a’r gŵr busnes lleol, wrth iddo fynd â ni ar daith o amgylch y campws a dinas Bangor, a chael gweld arddangosiad o rai o gasgliadau arbennig Adran Archifau Prifysgol Bangor.
00:00:01 Dyma Brifysgol Bangor.
Prifysgol â thros 10,000 o fyfyrwyr, nid yn unig o Gymru, ond o bedwar ban byd.
00:00:04 Ymunwch â ni yn y ffilm fer hon i glywed sut y daeth y brifysgol i fod.
Mae stori dechreuad Prifysgol Bangor yn hudolus.
Lowri ydw i, a dwi’n astudio Astudiaethau Plentyndod ac Ieuenctid yma ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Dyma'r gyntaf mewn cyfres o chwe
00:00:34 ffilm sy'n archwilio hanes Prifysgol Bangor.
Yma i fynd â ni ar daith hynod ddiddorol mae Gari Wyn, hanesydd lleol, dyn busnes ac un a raddiodd o Ysgol Hanes Prifysgol Bangor.
Helo Gari, felly be ydi'r stori heddiw i mynd ymlaen hefo ni.
Wel,‘da ni’n dechrau yn y dechrau.
Sefydlu’r coleg cyntaf yn 1884 a gwireddu’r freuddwyd yma yn lle ‘da ni’n sefyll rŵan yn y cwad yn 1911.
00:00:59 Uwch ben y twr draw acw mae gennym ni ffigyrau pwysig yn hanes Cymru.
O'r ochor yma.
O’r ochr yma ‘da ni ddim ond yn gweld Llywelyn ap Gruffudd ac yna Dewi Sant.
Ond ar yr ochor arall mae Owain Glyn Dwr a mae Owain Gwynedd
00:01:11 dau dywysog cyntaf Cymru ac Owain Glyndŵr ydi’r dyn greodd y freuddwyd yma achos holl syniad Owain Glyndŵr oedd Dyma chi ddechreuad cenedlaetholdeb Cymreig,
00:01:24 eglwys ddatgysylltiedig a hefyd Senedd annibynnol ac efallai, efallai yn fwy perthnasol i ni yn sefyll yma yn cwad y Brifysgol newydd, Prifysgol
00:01:36 annibynnol.
Felly byddaihynny wedi cymryd pedwar can mlynedd i gael ei hun yn barod?
Yn union, pedwar can mlynedd cyn i’r holl beth ddigwydd ac wedyn pobl ym Mangor, pobl busnes lleol, pobl hefo gweledigaeth yn sicrhau cael y gwesty gan y teulu Penrhyn ac
00:01:51 wedyn newid y gwesty i fod yn goleg annibynnol hefo adrannau gwahanol ac un hefo llyfrgell.
Wedyn cam wrth gam, yn mynd o 1884, a (David) Lloyd George yn dod i mewn i’r stori yn 1890 a sawl person unigol arall ym Mangor yn
00:02:08 helpu i greu'r adeilad gwych yma a godwyd rhwng 1907 ac 1911, a hynny wedi ei fodelu ar golegau Lloegr Balliol a Choleg Yr Iesu yn fwy arbennig.
Bysa ni’n gallu dweud bod hwn yn enghraifft gyntaf o ariannu torfol o’r adeg yna...Mae hynny’n berffaith wir Lowri.
00:02:29 Y gwir amdani ydi oedd yna drawstoriad o gymdeithas.
Oedd gennych chi’r chwarelwyr tlawd, yr amaethwyr tlawd, unigolion amlwg iawn – pob math o bobl i gyd hefo un nod sef gwireddu’r freuddwyd o greu’r brifysgol gyntaf oedd gynna ni yng Ngogledd Cymru a a gwneud hynny yn y pen draw a gwneud hynny yn y pen draw ar ôl wythnosau a
00:02:49 misoedd o gasglu arian.
Dechrau hefo 1200 o chwarelwyr tlawd oedd wedi cyfrannu tuag at yr holl broses a wedyn erbyn -amser agor y gwesty mawr yma a’i droi o’n brifysgol fodern, a hynny ym mis Hydref 1884, rydym yn ffeindio
00:03:08 eu bod wedi casglu £35,000!
Wedyn, ar hyd stryd fawr Bangor, sef y stryd hiraf yng Ngogledd Cymru, y stryd fawr hiraf yng Nghymru i gyd.
dwy filltir bron iawn o un pen i’r llall, roedd prosesiwn enfawr o bobl.
Tair mil o bobl yr ardal yn dod ac yn clodfori'r digwyddiad mawr yma a hynny wrth gwrs yn
00:03:29 tanio’r freuddwyd fawr o ddechreuad y brifysgol ti’n rhan ohoni heddiw.
A faint o fyfyrwyr oedd yn y brifysgol ar.
Yr adeg yna?
Wel y cofrestru cyntaf yn y flwyddyn gyntaf, 58 o fyfyrwyr, ond beth sy’n hynod o arloesol
00:03:44 ydi bod 19 o rheini yn ferched ac roedd hynny’n hollol ddieithr yn hanes prifysgolion Cymru felly roedd Bangor ar flaen y gad o safbwynt addysg merched hefyd.
Felly Gari, ydynni’n gwybod rhywbeth am y merched cyntaf a raddiodd yma ym Mhrifysgol Bangor?
00:04:00 Mae gennym ni lot o wybodaeth amdanyn nhw Lowri.
Roedd sawl un yn gymeriadau difyr iawn ond efallai’r pwysicaf ohonynt i gyd yw dynes o’r enw Margaret Mary Verney, hi’n aelod
00:04:11 amlwg o deulu Plas Rhianfa ar Ynys Môn a’r ferch gyntaf i raddio ymysg merched cyntaf Bangor.
Hefyd wedyn yn dod yn aelod o Gyngor y Brifysgol ac efallai’n bwysicach na dim, yn cyfrannu tuag at addysg merched trwy Brydain, rhywbeth doedd merched ddim yn gwneud yn ystod y cyfnod yna
00:04:32 a dod yn aelod o’r pwyllgor oedd yn datblygu Prifysgol Cymru.
Felly mae cyfraniad Margaret Verneyyn gyfraniad allweddol pwysig yn hanes addysg yng Nghymru a hyd yn oed
00:04:42 yn hanes addysg ym Mhrydain hefyd.
Felly Shan, allwch chi ddweud rhywbeth am brifathro cyntaf a’r athrawon cyntaf yma ym Mhrifysgol Bangor?
Pwy oedd y cyntaf i ddysgu yma?
Harry Reichel oedd y prifathro cyntaf.
Gwyddel o dras
00:04:57 Almaeneg chwaraeodd ran allweddol yn datblygu’r brifysgol am bron i hanner canrif ac fe ddysgodd Cymraeg yn rhugl.
Mi ddechreuodd o adrannau hollol chwyldroadol yn y byd addysg ar y pryd – adran
00:05:14 coedwigaeth, adran clasuron, ac efallai yn fwy arbennig na dim, yr adran amaethyddiaeth - y cyntaf un ym Mhrydain yma ar gyrion Bangor.
00:05:24 Doedd o erioed wedi digwydd mewn Prifysgol o’r blaen ac roedd o hefyd yn ddyn oedd yn tynnu pobl alluog o’i gwmpas o.
Yn enwedig yr athrawon newydd
00:05:35 Syr Henry Jones, un o athronwyr mwyaf yn hanes athroniaeth y brifysgol ac yna nes ymlaen roedd Syr John Morris Jones.
Heb Syr John Morris Jones ddaeth yn athro yma ychydig o flynyddoedd wedyn, o dan arweiniad Reichel,
00:05:53 fysa gennym ni ddim gramadeg Cymraeg heddiw yma.
Fysa na ddim patrwm o orgraff a sylfaen i addysgu'r Gymraeg mewn prifysgolion ddim wedi cael ei gosod oni bai am Harry Reichel.
Felly oedd popeth yn tyfu,
00:06:07 ond o ble oedd y cyllid a’r arian yn dod?
Unwaith eto oedd y gymdeithas yn dod at ei gilydd, ychydig iawn o’r arian oedd yn dod o’r tu allan.
Mi roedd pobl fel William Rathbone o Lerpwl yn hel pobl at ei gilydd ac roedd
00:06:21 adeiladwyr o Lerpwl fel y teulu Clwyd a’r teulu Roberts i gyd yn rhoi arian tuag at ddyfodol y coleg ac i feithrin adrannau newydd.
Mewn dim o amser
00:06:31 roedd pobl yn cael parch newydd tuag at y ddinas oherwydd yr holl waith oedd Bangor yn wneud ir byd addysg.
ac mi ddaru’r Caernarfon and Denbigh gyfeirio at Fangor yn y cyfnod yma fel: ‘The Athens of Wales!” Diolch Gari, ffordd wych i orffen y bennod gyntaf.
00:06:49 Dilynwch ran nesaf y stori hynod ddiddorol hon drwy ymuno â ni yn rhan dau – Gweledigaeth 1884 – Twf y brifysgol a’i hadeiladau.
Gweledigaeth 1884 – Twf y Brifysgol a’i hadeiladau.
00:00:01,600 --> 00:00:10,330 Dyma Prifysgol Bangor.
Un o'r prifysgolion gyntaf i'w adeiladu yn Nghymru a bellach yn y pump uchaf yn y Deyrnas Unedig.
00:00:10,720 --> 00:00:15,400 Lowri ydw i a dwi'n astudio a symud a plentyndod ieuenctid ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
00:00:15,730 --> 00:00:20,080 Dyma'r ail allan o Chwech ffilm sydd yn edrych i fewn i hanes Prifysgol Bangor.
00:00:20,410 --> 00:00:26,979 Felly Gary dywedwch i ni'r cam nesaf o'r stori hyn.
Wel ar ôl i'r coleg sefydlu ei hun draw yn fan acw
00:00:26,980 --> 00:00:31,840 drosodd milltir i'r dwyrain yn Porth Penrhyn yn y Gwesty Penrhyn,
00:00:32,080 --> 00:00:37,209 mi roedd dechrau galw am fwy o addysg i bobl y cylch ac angen prifysgol newydd
00:00:37,210 --> 00:00:40,810 i Ogledd Cymru.
Wedyn mae Lloyd George yn dod i mewn i'r stori achos yn 1890
00:00:40,810 --> 00:00:49,510 mae Lloyd George yn dod yn Brif Weinidog yr Amgueddfa Genedlaethol yn cael ei adeiladu ac yn anelu at godi'r adeilad gwych yma yn y flwyddyn
00:00:49,510 --> 00:00:56,379 1911 ac i wneud hynny oedd angen cant a hanner o filoedd rhywbeth tebyg i dri chan miliwn heddiw ma
00:00:56,380 --> 00:01:05,190 Fyswn i'n ddweud Lowri.
Felly Gari lle gafon nhw'r arian i adeiladu'r prifysgol newydd?
00:01:05,190 --> 00:01:11,909 Wel mi aeth pobl fatha Lloyd George a William Rathbone ati i sefydlu Pwyllgor Codi Arian a phenodi dyn o'r enw
00:01:11,910 --> 00:01:19,080 Llew Tegid oedd yn brifathro lleol yn Ysgol y Garth a'i swydd newydd o oedd y casglu'r
00:01:19,080 --> 00:01:26,069 arian ag perswadio bobl i gyfrannu tuag at godi yr adeilad gwych yma oedd yn mynd i fod yn hollol
00:01:26,070 --> 00:01:32,370 wahanol adeilad i'r hen goleg a dechrau ar y gwaith hwnnw yn 1907 a'r garreg yma,
00:01:32,370 --> 00:01:41,040 sef y garreg sylfaen gwreiddiol yn cael ei dadlennu gan y Brenin Edward y Seithfed y cwmni lleol yr enw Cwmni Watkin Jones yn gwmni enwog y Mangor.
00:01:41,040 --> 00:01:44,879 yn gyfrifol am wneud y gwaith cynnar a hefyd o dan y garreg,
00:01:44,880 --> 00:01:52,560 welwch chi garreg i goffhau Henry Hare sef y pensaer arbennig unigryw hwnnw oedd mor enwog yn Lloegar am i adeiladau
00:01:52,560 --> 00:01:59,310 yn Rhydychen a Chaergrawnt a llefydd felly a mae ei garreg o yn fama hefyd yn atgoffa ni am y diwrnod yna yn 1907
00:01:59,310 --> 00:02:06,510 ac ym mhen pedair blynedd oedd yr adeilad ysblennydd yma wedi agor.
Felly Gari da ni yn llyfrgell Shankland
00:02:06,510 --> 00:02:14,819 rwan.
Lle yn union gafodd y Brifysgol yr holl arian a defnyddiau i allu gwneud yr adeilad yma?
Wel mae'r stori yma'n hollol unigryw.
00:02:14,820 --> 00:02:22,139 Y dyn gafodd ei benodi i greu y llyfrgell, cyntaf un o gasgliad enfawr o lyfrau mwy a gwerthfawr
00:02:22,140 --> 00:02:28,950 a prin oedd gan Cymru yn ei bodolaeth oedd Thomas Shankland ac oedd angen adeilad oedd yn
00:02:28,950 --> 00:02:36,090 cyd fynd yn urddasol hefo'r holl hanes yna ag wedyn mi ddaru na ddyn or enw Owen Owens,
00:02:36,390 --> 00:02:46,230 perchennog siop fawr yn Llundain ac yn Lerpwl a ty haf ganddo yn Penmaenmawr yn wreiddiol o Machynlleth a fo dalodd am y paneli derw gwych.
00:02:46,230 --> 00:02:56,460 yma sydd wedi dod o Awstria yr adeilad ei hun y strwythur, wedi cael ei adeiladu ar arian cymdeithas y brethynwyr,
00:02:56,790 --> 00:03:04,439 sef y Royal Drapers' Society, does yna ddim adeilad tebyg iddo yn y coleg yma
00:03:04,440 --> 00:03:07,980 a dros am adeilad tebyg iddo fo yng Ngogledd Cymru os fyswn i'n bod yn fanwl gywir.
00:03:11,280 --> 00:03:16,710 Oce ta Gari da ni rwan yn y neuadd dwi'n siwr bod ganddo chi lot o hanes am yr ystafell yma.
00:03:17,340 --> 00:03:20,960 Beth ydi'r prif hanes yn fan hyn?
Wel, mae rhaid i ni gofio
00:03:20,970 --> 00:03:26,280 Mae John Pritchard Jones o boced ei hun.
Mab ffarm o ardal lle ti'n dod ohoni
00:03:26,280 --> 00:03:32,129 hi yn wreiddiol Lowri wedi talu bron i bymtheg mil o bunnoedd a hynny oherwydd bod Lloyd George wedi gofyn iddo
00:03:32,130 --> 00:03:40,530 wneud hynny oherwydd roedd nhw'n teimlo bod rhaid cael neuadd wych urddasol enfawr fel hyn a
00:03:40,530 --> 00:03:44,730 roedd hi'n arloesol yn ei chyfnod oherwydd nid yn unig oedd hi'n dal 1500 o bobl,
00:03:45,030 --> 00:03:54,240 ond hefyd wyt ti'n mae yna bob math o nodweddion cynnar, newydd, modern yma yn arbennig felly y goleuadau ma achos mae'r goleuadau yma
00:03:54,480 --> 00:04:03,180 yn cael eu galw yn Electroliers a be ydi hynny yn y pen draw ydi'r canhwyllyr cyntaf ym Mhrydain yn gweithio hefo trydan a fel ti'n gweld
00:04:03,180 --> 00:04:11,489 mae yna urddas arbennig y paneli y paneli derw yma wedi dod, y rhan fwyaf o Awstria a ffenestri arbennig a'r bleindiau arbennig.
00:04:11,490 --> 00:04:18,540 Mae bob dim wedi cael i'w bwyso a mesur gan y pensaer Henry Hare.
00:04:19,030 --> 00:04:25,500 Dwi'n ym meddwl fod yna neuadd fawr mwy urddasol na hon ym Mhrydain i gyd.
Da ni'n lwcus iawn yma ym Mangor felly!
Gwir!
00:04:26,500 --> 00:04:30,219 Diolch yn fawr iawn Gari mae'n rhoi persbectif gwahanol ar yr adeiladau
00:04:30,220 --> 00:04:36,670 mae myfyrwyr yn cerdded drwyddyn nhw bob un dydd bob un dydd.
Ymunwch a ni eto nesa i ddarganfod mwy am hanes Prifysgol Bangor.
00:00:02,340 --> 00:00:06,150 Lowri ydw i, ac ymunwch â ni heddiw am hanes Prifysgol Bangor,
00:00:06,450 --> 00:00:13,260 ac hefyd i ddysgu am yr holl bobl bwysig oedd yn rhan or daith.
Felly Gari, 'da ni yn mynwent Glanadda.
00:00:13,860 --> 00:00:19,169 Pan 'da ni'n fan hyn heddiw?
'Da ni reit yng nghanol yr hen fynwent ac yn canol yr ynys yma o feddau.
00:00:19,170 --> 00:00:23,760 Mae na amryw o bobl allweddol iawn yn hanes sefydlu y Brifysgol.
00:00:23,760 --> 00:00:26,790 Mae gennych chi Henry Lewis, Maer Bangor.
00:00:26,790 --> 00:00:30,359 Mae gennych chi Llew Tegid, oedd yn trefnu'r arian ond yn fama
00:00:30,360 --> 00:00:34,380 mae na un o rai pwysica un, sef William Cadwaladr Davies
00:00:35,310 --> 00:00:39,600 oedd wedi priodi cantores enwog yn Llundain
00:00:39,810 --> 00:00:46,710 sef Mary Davies, ond mae o'n bwysig i ni yma ym Mangor oherwydd fo oedd yr ysgrifennydd cyntaf a hefyd fo
00:00:46,980 --> 00:00:54,450 oedd y cofrestrydd cyntaf Bangor ac am y blynyddoedd yna mi fuodd o'n allweddol iawn
00:00:54,450 --> 00:01:00,299 yn hanes datblygu corff Prifysgol Cymru a mae rhai o'i gyd weithwyr o a bobl oedd
00:01:00,300 --> 00:01:04,710 yn allweddol yn y stori yma i gyd yn gorwedd yn y cylch yma yng nghanol Glanadda.
00:01:05,040 --> 00:01:13,660 Felly Gari 'da ni'n y fan yma rwan wrth ymyl bedd Syr Isambard Owen pam 'da ni'n fan hyn?
Mae hwn eto yn ddyn allweddol bwysig oedd yn cydweithio hefo'r
00:01:13,830 --> 00:01:20,250 pensaer Syr Henry Hare ac yn un o'r bobl oedd yn gwneud y penderfyniadau mawr wrth ddatblygu'r coleg ar y bryn.
00:01:20,500 --> 00:01:25,889 Roedd o hefyd wedi cael ei enw gan Isambard Kingdom Brunel oherwydd oedd ei
00:01:25,890 --> 00:01:32,640 dad o yn beiriannydd ar lein y GWR ac mi roedd yn allweddol hefyd
00:01:32,640 --> 00:01:37,200 mewn hanes prifysgolion Prydain hefyd hyd yn oed ym Mharis yn Durham,
00:01:37,200 --> 00:01:44,160 Llundain a Paris ac yn Gymro amlwg iawn iawn yn Llundain ac yn feddyg o fri oedd yn un o ddynion pwysica yn hanes Cymru.
00:01:44,400 --> 00:01:47,880 Ond dydi o ddim wedi cael gymaint o sylw a mae o'n ei haeddu mewn gwirionedd.
00:01:50,060 --> 00:01:53,300 Felly Gari 'da ni tu allan i Neuadd Reichel.
00:01:53,630 --> 00:01:58,220 Ydw i yn iawn i ddweud oedd o wedi cael ei enwi ar ôl prifathro cyntaf Prifysgol Bangor?
00:01:58,220 --> 00:02:03,500 Ydi mae hynny'n berffaith wir ac roedd Syr Harry Reichel yn ddyn mor bwysig yn hanes addysg yng Nghymru,
00:02:04,010 --> 00:02:12,049 ac wedi ychydig flynyddoedd ar ôl iddo farw, codi yr adeilad yma sydd yn union yr un patrwm a Neuadd Gymraeg yn Pantycelyn yn Aberystwyth
00:02:12,050 --> 00:02:19,130 ac yr union nyr un pensaer yn ôl pob tebyg.
Oedd Harry Reichel yn ddyn wnaeth adael gymaint o ddylanwad ar addysg yng Nghymru.
00:02:19,430 --> 00:02:21,319 Nid yn unig fel prifathro coleg,
00:02:21,320 --> 00:02:28,790 ond ei ran o ym Mhrifysgol Cymru ac yn natblygiad y corff hwnnw ac yn gwneud yn siŵr trwy amser bod yna bobl dda o i gwmpas o.
00:02:29,060 --> 00:02:35,810 A rheiny rhan fwyaf o'r amser yn Gymry hefyd yn y cyfnod yma.
Pobl fel Syr Henry Jones a Syr John Morris
00:02:35,810 --> 00:02:42,440 Jones yn cydweithio hefo pobl fel Isambard Owen a hyn a llall ac yn dysgu Cymraeg
00:02:42,440 --> 00:02:50,089 ei hun ac yn gadael ei stamp ar Fangor cyn i'r brifysgol dyfu i fod yn fwy eang dros Prydain a dros
00:02:50,090 --> 00:02:55,879 Ewrop i gyd.
Yn ystod yr un cyfnod aeth Syr John Edward Lloyd yn gofrestrydd ar y coleg.
00:02:55,880 --> 00:03:00,890 Mi gyhoeddodd o ymchwil a chyfrolau nodedig am hanes Cymru a hyd heddiw
00:03:00,890 --> 00:03:07,880 mae ei waith o ar yr Oesoedd Canol ac ar hanes Owain Glyndŵr yn benodol yn cael ei gyfri fel y prif ffynhonnell
00:03:08,180 --> 00:03:14,809 ar hanes Cymru yn ystod y cyfnod hwnnw.
Oedd yna wraig amlwg arall yn hanes y coleg hefyd yn y cyfnod yma,
00:03:14,810 --> 00:03:22,670 sef Mary Rathbone.
Roedd hi yn aelod o deulu enwog y Rathbones o Lerpwl ac mi gafodd hi ei magu yn
00:03:22,670 --> 00:03:27,620 Llandegfan.
Oedd hi yn perthyn i William Rathbone a helpodd sefydlu'r Brifysgol?
00:03:27,860 --> 00:03:35,390 Nathon ni siarad amdano fo mewn ffilm gynharach yn do?
Do wyt ti yn hollol iawn.
Roedd hi yn aelod o'r teulu dylanwadol yma,
00:03:35,660 --> 00:03:44,059 ac mi roedd Mary yn aelod o Gyngor y Brifysgol ac yn noddwr hael i bob achos oedd yn ymwneud efo addysg merched ond efallai
00:03:44,060 --> 00:03:47,840 roedd hi yn cael ei chofio yma ym Mangor yn fwy na ddim byd oherwydd y ffaith ei bod hi wedi
00:03:47,840 --> 00:03:53,660 sefyll mor amlwg dros yr hawl i ferched gael neuaddau preswyl oedd yn annibynnol.
00:03:54,230 --> 00:03:56,000 Felly oedd yna neuadd i ferched?
00:03:56,270 --> 00:04:04,040 Wel, fe roedd yna neuadd i ferched reit yn y dechrau, ond fe oedd yna dipyn o helynt ynghylch y peth; rhieni y myfyrwyr ifanc, rhai o'r merched yma yn
00:04:04,040 --> 00:04:09,020 dod i'r coleg yn un deg chwech oed cofiwch oedd ganddo chi drawstoriad o ferched rhwng un deg chwech a dau ddeg chwech oed,
00:04:09,860 --> 00:04:19,069 ond yn y diwedd yn 1893 mi gafwyd neuadd hollol swyddogol newydd o dan arweiniad y prifathro Harry Reichel
00:04:19,070 --> 00:04:28,100 a hynny yn yr adeilad sydd heddiw yn Rathbone, fuodd cynt yn Neuadd John Morris Jones, oedd ar yr adeg honno yn cael ei alw yn 'University Hall'
00:04:28,100 --> 00:04:37,010 a hon oedd un or neuaddau merched swyddogol cyntaf yng Nghymru ac er yr holl helynt fuodd a'r ffraeo ynghylch y peth,
00:04:37,280 --> 00:04:46,189 yn raddol mi sefydlwyd hynny a mi sefydlwydd mwy a mwy o hunan barch i addysg Merched.
Waw, dwi'n siwr fysa pawb yn cytuno pa mor
00:04:46,190 --> 00:04:53,570 bell 'da ni wedi dod a pa mor bell yda ni rwan fel Prifysgol Bangor i feddwl bod gennym ni neuaddau cymysg yn y Brifysgol rwan.
00:04:54,650 --> 00:05:03,170 Ymunwch â ni y tro nesaf.
Byddwn yn troi at hanes mwy diweddar ac yn darganfod sut y gwnaed y Brifysgol gofleidio dwyieithrwydd.
0:02 Dyma Brifysgol Bangor.
Prifysgol fyd eang ac ysbryd cyffredin yn sbardun iddi.
Balchder yn y diwylliant Cymreig a hanes Cymru ac ymrwymiad cadarn i fod yn rhan o'r gymuned a meithrin cymunedau.
0:17 Felly Gari, 'da ni am edrych rŵan ar yr hanes mwyaf diweddar Prifysgol Bangor a sut ddaeth o yn brifathro ar y coleg ac dechrau newydd mawr achos yn y cyfnod yna daeth y Llywodraeth allan hefo adroddiad Robbins Report oedd nhw yn ei galw hi.
A beth oedd hwn yn neud oedd pwyso ar brifysgolion i ehangu prifysgolion i trio cael mwy a mwy o bobl i mewn i prifysgolion.
Wedyn mewn cyfnod byr iawn,
0:42 mi fasa Bangor yn mynd dair gwaith ei maint, ac mi roedd Charles Evans yn credwr mawr bod hyn yn beth iawn i wneud, ac wrth gwrs, mi roedd llawer iawn o fyfyrwyr Cymraeg yn dechrau gweld am y tro cyntaf un fod y ffigyrau'r Gymraeg yn gostwng, llai o bobl dim ond pymtheg y cant i fod yn onest o fyfyrwyr Bangor yn yn gwneud eu pynciau ac yn Gymry Cymraeg erbyn canol erbyn dechrau'r saithdegau ac roedd effaith hyn yn siŵr o greu helynt yn y pen draw,
1:13 a jyst mater o amser oedd o nes bod yr yr holl densiwn yn troi yn ffrwgwd fawr.
Felly 'da ni rŵan yn pontio a hefo ni rwan ydy Celt Jones, Llywydd presennol UMCB a dwi'n siŵr bod hynny yn dod â llawer o atgofion yn ôl i chi?
Wel mewn gwirionedd, mi ddechreuodd y cwbl hefo Cymdeithas y Cymric, a hynny yn ystod dechrau'r saith degau - cymdeithas lenyddol ddiwylliannol gymdeithasol yn trefnu bob math o ddigwyddiadau ar gyfer myfyrwyr Cymraeg oedd Cymdeithas y Cymric.
1:47 Ond fel oedd y twf yn digwydd i'r coleg a mwy a mwy o fyfyrwyr yn dod i mewn, roedd yna fwy o aflonyddwch ymysg y myfyrwyr Cymraeg, a mi ddaru hyn wedyn arwain i deimlad bod rhaid gwneud rhywbeth am y peth, ac wedyn dyma na brotestiadau yn cael eu trefnu, rali enfawr yn cael ei threfnu yn y cwad o flaen y Coleg, Dafydd Iwan yn dod yno ac ac yn areithio o flaen tair mil o bobl a hynny wedyn yn creu bwrlwm cymdeithasol yr ardal gwleidyddion a ballu yn dod i mewn ac yn 1976
2:19 wedyn o ganlyniad i r protestiadau a meddiannu darnau r coleg, mi daflwyd pedwar o fyfyrwyr allan!
Mi ddigwyddodd dau brif brotest mewn gwirionedd un yn 1974 a'r llall wedyn pedair blynedd yn ddiweddarach yn 1978 ac erbyn 1976 wrth gwrs, mi roedd angen corff cryfach na'r Cymric, a dyna lle 'da ni'n dod i mewn i dy hanes di mewn gwirionedd yn de Celt?
3:04 Ie, ac felly beth ddaeth or aflonyddwch yna felly?
Wel mewn gwirionedd, yr corff wyt ti yn llywydd arno fo heddiw ma fel Undeb Myfyrwyr Colegau Bangor a hwnnw sydd yn dal hyd at heddiw yn gwarchod buddiannau'r Gymraeg ac yn ennill parch i fyfyrwyr am wneud safiad dros yr hyn oeddan nhw yn gredu oedd yn iawn, pobl ar y pryd
3:09 gan gynnwys y prifathro Charles Evans, a phobl felly yn credu bod isho gwasgu ar y myfyrwyr a pheidio cymryd dim sylw o'u hawliau nhw a'u barn nhw tuag at bethau gwleidyddol, a phethau'n ymwneud â'r Gymraeg.
Ond yn y pen draw, dyma sut mae prifysgolion yn cyfrannu tuag at y meddwl gwleidyddol ar ar pethau da sydd gennym ni yng Nghymru heddiw.
3:32 Jest i ategu hynny fel Llywydd yr Undeb Myfyrwyr Cymraeg presennol, allai ddweud bod ffrwyth llafur chi wedi talu ffordd.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn cynnig y mwyaf o gyrsiau trwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg trwy Gymru gyfan.
Mae'r darpariaeth cyfrwng Gymraeg y gorau fedrwch chi gael trwy Gymru.
Felly yn sicr mae'r gwaith caled wedi talu ffordd.
Diolch yn fawr, Gari a Celt.
4:03 Roedd y saith degau a'r wyth degau yn sicr yn gyfnod hynod ddiddorol yn hanes y brifysgol.
Bu newidiadau mawr a gafodd ei arwain gan y myfyrwyr a'r staff.
Mae'n ymddangos bod Prifysgol Bangor wedi eu gwerthfawrogi ei gweledigaeth, ei dewrder a'i hysbryd arloesol erioed.
Ymunwch â mi y tro nesaf ar gyfer y ffilm olaf, ond un o'r gyfres.
00:00:01 Dyma Brifysgol Bangor sydd wedi cael effaith sylweddol ar y byd ers 1884 ac wedi gwneud cyfyngiadau enfawr yn fyd eang.
Ymunwch â ni wrth i ni barhau i deithio drwy goridorau hanes addysg.Rydym yn gorffen y gyfres hon drwy ddathlu rhai o lwyddiannau enfawr y merched cyntaf wnaeth raddio ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
00:00:23 Mae Shan Robinson o Adran Archifau Prifysgol Bangor wedi ymuno efo ni heddiw i ddweud yr hanes.
Helo Shan.
Helo Lowri.
Dwi'n edrych ymlaen yn arw i glywed am yr holl hanes am sut oedd merched yn cael eu trin ym Mhrifysgol Bangor flynyddoedd yn ôl.
Ydw i'n iawn i ddweud Shan mai merch oedd y gyntaf i gofrestru ym Mhrifysgol Bangor nôl yn 1884?
Wel, ydych a Mary Ellen Williams oedd ei henw hi.
00:00:50 Hogan o deulu cyffredin.
Roedd hi'n byw ym Mangor Uchaf ac oedd hi'n ferch i grysyr.
Dim ond tri tymor wnaeth Mary Ellen gwblhau a 'da ni ddim yn gwybod pam.
Ond oedd hyn yn rhybeth eitha cyffredin i ferched yr oes.
Roeddan nhw yn dod i Fangor i astudio ond dim bob amser yn cwblhau gradd.
00:01:13 Aeth Mary ymlaen i weithio yn yr Union Infirmary yn Gaernarfon fel nyrs.
'Da ni'n lwcus ofnadwy ym Mangor bod y cofrestr cyntaf wedi goroesi a mae o ar gael yn yr archifdy ac enw Mary Ellen, enw merch ydi'r enw cyntaf un yn y gofrestr.
Waw am ddiddorol.
A fel 'da ni wedi trafod o'r blaen Siân yn y ffilmiau gynharach, 'da ni wedi gallu gweld yr effaith a dylanwad
00:01:42 mae merched wedi gael sut i graddio yn Prifysgol Bangor ar y byd.
Wnaethom ni siarad am Mary Sutherland do am yr effaith a dylanwad mae hi di cael.
Ond pwy arall sydd ei graddio yma ym Mhrifysgol Bangor a sydd i gael dylanwad ar y byd Shan?
Beth am Rosa Mabel Lee?
Mae gennym ni lun ohoni efo'i cyd-fyfyrwyr yn dyddio tua 1903.
Hogan o Gonwy, merch i wasg sifil.
Graddiodd hefo BA yn 1904 ac aeth Rosa ymlaen i fod
00:02:19 yn ystadegydd a hi oedd y ferch cyntaf i gael swydd efo'r Marine Biological Association.
A felly Shan, pam 'da ni o flaen yr murlun yma?
Wel i mi gael dangos llun o Kate Roberts i chi.
Graddiodd o Fangor yn 1913 ac aeth Kate ymlaen i redeg gwasg argraffu fawr a chyhoeddi'r prif bapur newydd cenedlaethol Cymraeg.
Helpodd hi sefydlu Plaid Cymru, a bu yn ymgyrchydd diflino dros yr iaith Gymraeg yn herio stereoteipiau yn y Gymru batriarchaidd draddodiadol.Roedd hi'n awdur o gorff o waith llenyddol yn yr iaith Gymraeg.
00:03:00 Un o lenorion Cymraeg gorau yr ugeinfed ganrif a chydnabyddir hi fel brenhines ein llên.
Waw, mae hyn yn anhygoel Shan.
Beth am wyddonwyr?
Oedd 'na ferched yn graddio mewn gwyddoniaeth yma ym Prifysgol Bangor.
Wel oedd beth am Phillys Violet McKie.
Mi nath Phillys graddio mewn cemeg o Fangor yn 1917.
00:03:27 Roedd ei thad yn glerc yn swyddfa Penrhyn ym Mangor.
Oedd Phillys fel llawer o ferched llwyddiannus mewn cemeg, ymlaen i gymryd rhan pwysig yn y Rhyfel Byd Cyntaf.
Ond Phillys oedd yr amlycaf am bod hi wedi dyfeisio ffor o wneud ffrwydron arbennig i'r weinyddiaeth Arfau.
Diolch Shan.
Mae hyn yn sicr wedi bod yn ysbrydoliaeth.
00:03:59 Felly fel yr ydym ni yn dod i ddiwedd y daith i ddarganfod hanes Prifysgol Bangor, rydym yn sicr wedi darganfod bod Bangor wedi bod ar flaen y gad ers y dechrau.
Trwy gydol y gyfres hon, rydym wedi clywed am yr unigolion arloesol sydd wedi llunio hanes y Brifysgol- o'r Undeb Myfyrwyr Cymraeg cyntaf,
00:04:21 i'r graddedigion benywaidd blaengar a fu'n herio'r drefn a helpu i baratoi'r ffordd ar gyfer cenedlaethau'r dyfodol.
Gobeithiwn fod y gyfres hon wedi rhoi mwy o werthfawrogiad i chi o etifeddiaeth ryfeddol Prifysgol Bangor ac wedi eich ysbrydoli i ddysgu mwy am yr hyn y mae'r brifysgol yn ei gynnig i'r byd heddiw.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/our-public-lectures:
Ymunwch â ni mewn Darlith Gyhoeddus Prifysgol Bangor sydd am ddim - agorwch eich meddwl, taniwch eich dychymyg, a chael eich swyno gan arbenigwyr yn eu maes.
Yn eu plith mae astroffiseg a chwedlau hynafol, deallusrwydd artiffisial a chrefft adrodd straeon.
Mae ein cyfres o Ddarlithoedd Cyhoeddus yn rhychwantu llawnder gwybodaeth ddynol yn ei holl agweddau.
Mae’n siŵr y bydd rhywbeth i danio brwdfrydedd pawb.
Cewch wrando’n uniongyrchol ar academyddion adnabyddus, awduron arobryn, ac arweinwyr o fyd diwydiant - yr union bobl sy'n llunio'r dyfodol.
Cewch gymryd rhan mewn trafodaethau bywiog, gofyn cwestiynau llosg, a chael golwg unigryw ar bethau gan rai sy’n flaenllaw yn eu meysydd.
Mae’r Darlithoedd Cyhoeddus yn agored i bawb – myfyrwyr, cyn-fyfyrwyr, aelodau o’r gymuned, a meddylwyr chwilfrydig o bob oed.
Mae pob un o’r Darlithoedd Cyhoeddus AM DDIM.
Rydym wedi creu llyfrgell ar-lein bwrpasol o Ddarlithoedd Cyhoeddus y gorffennol, i’w gweld ar YouTube fel y gallwch danysgrifio a bod y cyntaf i wybod pan fydd recordiad newydd ar gael.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/newyddion/2025-06-09-prifysgol-bangor-yn-y-safle-cyntaf-yng-nghymru-ac-yn-15fed-yn-y-deyrnas-unedig:
Mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi'i henwi fel y brifysgol orau yng Nghymru yn y University Compare Rankings 2026.
Mae'r Brifysgol hefyd wedi gwneud cynnydd sylweddol yn genedlaethol, gan godi 49 lle i'r 15fed safle yn y Deyrnas Unedig, gan ei gosod yn gadarn o fewn 20 prifysgol orau'r wlad.
Mae'r gwelliant hwn yn adlewyrchu datblygiadau cadarnhaol ar draws nifer o feysydd o'n profiad myfyrwyr.
Mae’r University Compare Rankings yn seiliedig ar gyfuniad o adolygiadau myfyrwyr wedi eu gwirio a metrigau perfformiad allweddol.
Mae'r rhain yn cynnwys ansawdd cyrsiau, cyflogadwyedd graddedigion, bywyd myfyrwyr a llety.
Safleoedd Prifysgol Bangor 2026:
Mae'r safleoedd yn adlewyrchu adborth gan y gymuned fyfyrwyr.
Mae University Compare yn defnyddio methodoleg sy'n seiliedig ar adolygiadau, gan gasglu degau o filoedd o adolygiadau gan fyfyrwyr ar draws pedwar maes allweddol.
Mae adolygiadau'n cael eu sgorio ar raddfa o 1 i 5, ac mae safleoedd yn cael eu cyfrifo gan ddefnyddio system bwysol - yn debyg i lwyfannau fel TripAdvisor neu Airbnb.
Roedd Prifysgol Bangor hefyd yn 1af yn y Deyrnas Unedig ar gyfer Meddygaeth a Deintyddiaeth yn y safleoedd pynciau penodol, gan adlewyrchu'r lefel uchaf o foddhad myfyrwyr yn y disgyblaethau hyn.
Dywedodd yr Athro Nicky Callow, Dirprwy Is-ganghellor (Addysg a Phrofiad Myfyrwyr), "Mae'r canlyniadau hyn yn amlygu ansawdd ein haddysgu, cryfder ein gwasanaethau cymorth, a'r berthynas gadarnhaol sydd gennym gyda'n myfyrwyr.
Rwy'n arbennig o falch o weld y gwelliannau sy'n ymwneud â chyflogadwyedd a bywyd myfyrwyr gan ein bod wedi bod yn gweithio'n eithriadol o galed yn y meysydd hyn ar draws y sefydliad.
Fel y mae'r staff yn ymwybodol, cawsom chwe chanmoliaeth yn ein Hadolygiad Gwella Ansawdd allanol diweddar sy'n ymwneud â'n darpariaeth addysgol a phrofiad myfyrwyr, ac mae'n wych hefyd cael ansawdd ein darpariaeth wedi'i gymeradwyo gan ein myfyrwyr."

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/newyddion/2023-09-12-bangor-yn-cael-ei-henwin-brifysgol-y-flwyddyn-yng-nghymru:
Mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi’i henwi’n Brifysgol y Flwyddyn yng Nghymru yn y canllaw prifysgolion cyntaf erioed i’r Daily Mail ei gyhoeddi.
Yn ogystal â chael ei henwi’n Brifysgol y Flwyddyn yng Nghymru, gosodwyd y Brifysgol yn y 50 uchaf o blith prifysgolion Prydain ac yn drydydd yng Nghymru, llamodd y Brifysgol 28 lle i gyrraedd safle 54 yn y Guardian University Guide 2024 sydd newydd ei gyhoeddi.
Mae  ganmoliaeth y Daily Mail yn sôn am sefydlu’r ysgol feddygol newydd fel un o’r datblygiadau mwyaf arwyddocaol yn hanes y brifysgol.
Wrth groesawu’r newyddion dywedodd yr Athro Edmund Burke, Is-ganghellor y Brifysgol,
Mae’r canlyniadau’n adlewyrchu ein huchelgais i ddarparu addysg o safon sy’n arwain y byd, wedi’i hysbrydoli gan ymchwil i’n myfyrwyr, ac i’w harfogi â’r profiadau angenrheidiol i raddedigion fel y gallant wneud cyfraniad gwerthfawr yn y gyrfaoedd y dewisant eu dilyn.
Bydd hon yn flwyddyn arwyddocaol yn hanes Prifysgol Bangor.
Bydd agor yr ysgol feddygol newydd yn ddatblygiad chwyldroadol, gyda’r myfyrwyr meddygaeth cyntaf yn cael eu derbyn fis Medi nesaf.” “Mae’r fenter yn nodweddiadol o brifysgol sydd a’i gwreiddiau’n ddwfn yn ei chymuned, gan mai pennaf orchwyl yr Ysgol Feddygol fydd mynd i’r afael â’r prinder difrifol o feddygon teulu yng ngogledd Cymru.
“Mae sawl cwrs arall yn y sefydliad hefyd yn cyfrannu at anghenion y rhanbarth, gyda gwyddorau’r môr a chadwraeth yn feysydd o bwys byd-eang ac ymysg arbenigeddau Prifysgol Bangor.
Mae bod yn 15fed trwy’r Deyrnas Unedig am ei llwyddiant wrth ddenu incwm ymchwil yn tystio i ansawdd a pherthnasedd gwaith ymchwil y brifysgol.
Mae safle o fewn y 50 uchaf a bod yn drydydd ymhlith prifysgolion Cymru, ynghyd â phwysigrwydd strategol yr ysgol feddygol newydd yn gwneud Prifysgol Bangor yn enillydd clir yng Ngwobrau Prifysgol y Flwyddyn yng Nghymru’r Daily Mail.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/newyddion/2025-06-18-safle-prifysgol-bangor-yn-codi-o-ran-cynaliadwyedd-byd-eang:
Mae Prifysgol Bangor yn y deg uchaf am ei harferion cynaliadwyedd, ac am y bedwaredd flwyddyn yn olynol yn un o'r 100 prifysgol orau yn y byd.
Mae Prifysgol Bangor bellach yn safle 64 o ran prifysgolion mwyaf cynaliadwy’r byd a’r nawfed yn y Deyrnas Unedig yn ôl y Times Higher Education Impact Rankings blynyddol.
Mae hyn yn nodi gwelliant cryf ar safle Prifysgol Bangor yn 77 ar y rhestr bydol yn 2024, dyma’r tro cyntaf mae’r brifysgol wedi’i henwi yn y deg uchaf ym Mhrydain.
Mae’n gyflawniad hyd yn oed yn fwy trawiadol o ystyried bod 2,318 o brifysgolion wedi'u cofrestru yn y system eleni, sef y nifer uchaf erioed.
Y Times Higher Education Impact Rankings yw’r unig dabl perfformiad byd-eang sy’n asesu prifysgolion yn ôl Nodau Datblygu Cynaliadwy (SDG) y Cenhedloedd Unedig ac sy’n defnyddio tystiolaeth fanwl i asesu sefydliadau mewn pedwar maes: ymchwil, stiwardiaeth, allgymorth ac addysgu.
Am y tro cyntaf, cyflwynodd Brifysgol Bangor ddata ar gyfer 16 allan o'r 17 Nod Datblygu Cynaliadwy, sy’n gynnydd ar 10 yn 2024 – y cyflwyniad mwyaf cynhwysfawr y mae'r brifysgol wedi'i wneud hyd yn hyn.
Mae cynaliadwyedd yn werth craidd ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, ac mae’r cynnydd yn ein safle byd-eang a'n cyflwyniad ehangach o Nodau Datblygu Cynaliadwy’n adlewyrchu ymroddiad ein staff, myfyrwyr a phartneriaid cymunedol.
Yn ogystal â chydnabod ein cynnydd, mae’r canlyniadau hyn hefyd yn tynnu sylw at y meysydd lle gallwn - a lle byddwn - yn gwneud mwy.
Mae’n anhygoel meddwl ein bod yn un o’r prifysgolion mwyaf cynaliadwy yn y byd.
Nid yw hyn oherwydd ein bod wedi taflu llwyth o arian at y mater yn unig – mae oherwydd bod pob un ohonom ym Mhrifysgol Bangor yn gwneud llawer o bethau da bob dydd; mae’n debyg heb hyd yn oed sylweddoli.
Rydym yn brifysgol wych sy’n gwneud gwaith gwych, ac rwy’n credu y dylai pob un ohonom fod yn falch iawn o hynny.
Mae rhestrau 2025 yn dangos cynnydd nodedig mewn sawl Nod Datblygu Cynaliadwy unigol, gyda Phrifysgol Bangor wedi'i rhestru fel a ganlyn:
I weld rhagor o wybodaeth am fentrau cynaliadwyedd Prifysgol Bangor a'i pherfformiad yn y Times Higher Education Imapct Rankings , ewch i: www.bangor.ac.uk/cynaliadwyedd

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/newyddion/2023-12-05-prifysgol-bangor-yn-codi-ir-10-uchaf-yn-y-byd-mewn-cynghrair-cynaliadwyedd-byd:
QS World University Rankings: Sustainability 2024 , yn gosod y Brifysgol ymhlith y 10% uchaf o blith prifysgolion y byd o ran cynaliadwyedd.
Cafodd enw da Prifysgol Bangor fel prifysgol gynaliadwy hwb arall gyda chyhoeddi’r QS World University Rankings: Sustainability 2024 , heddiw (5 Rhagfyr), sy’n ei gosod ymhlith y 10% uchaf o blith prifysgolion y byd o ran cynaliadwyedd.
Mae’r cynghrair yn ystyried yr amryfal ffyrdd y mae prifysgolion yn gweithredu i daclo’r materion dwysaf sy’n ein hwynebu ni oll o ran yr amgylchedd, cymdeithas a llywodraethu.
Gosoda’r tabl cynghrair y Brifysgol yn safle 33 o blith 93 o sefydliadau yn y Deyrnas Unedig a gynhwysir yn y cynghrair, safle 63 o blith 493 o brifysgolion yn Ewrop a ystyriwyd ac yn gyfartal yn safle 139 o blith y 1403 o sefydliadau ledled y byd a adolygwyd am eu rhinweddau o ran cynaliadwyedd (sustainability credentials).
Dyma newyddion gwych i’r Brifysgol sy’n rhoi ystyriaeth i gynaliadwyedd yn ei holl weithgareddau.
Mae cynaliadwyedd o’r pwys mwyaf inni fel prifysgol, ac mae cyfle gwych i addysgu, ysbrydoli a dylanwadu i sicrhau  newid positif.
Mae’r pwyslais sydd gennym ar gynaliadwyedd hefyd yn adlewyrchu blaenoriaethau’r myfyrwyr a chymdeithas yn ei chyfanrwydd,.
Mae’r Brifysgol wedi codi ei safle yng nghategorïau’r Effaith Amgylcheddol (Environmental Impact) a’r Effaith Gymdeithasol (Societal Impact).
Cafodd categori newydd Effaith Lywodraethol ei ychwanegu eleni.
O blith yr  is-gategorïau, mae’r Brifysgol yn safle 30 yn fyd-eang am iechyd a lles, a safle 33 am addysg amgylcheddol.
Bu gwelliannau hefyd yn ein safleoedd am ymchwil amgylcheddol a chydraddoldeb a chyfnewid gwybodaeth.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/newyddion/2023-08-16-prifysgol-bangor-ar-y-brig-mewn-tabl-cynghrair-amgen-i-brifysgolion:
Mae tabl cynghrair newydd wedi canfod mai Prifysgol Bangor yw’r orau yn y Deyrnas Unedig wrth ystyried ffactorau sy’n ymwneud â bywyd a phrofiadau myfyrwyr.
Yn lle tabl cynghrair traddodiadol sydd yn canolbwyntio ar raddau, cofrestriadau a rhagolygon mae tabl cynghrair amgen Unifresher yn cymharu ffactorau sy’n darlunio costau byw a lefelau trosedd, yn ogystal â’r ymdrechion a wna prifysgolion o ran cynaliadwyedd a darparu bywyd cymdeithasol gwych i fyfyrwyr.
Mae agwedd Prifysgol Bangor at gynaliadwyedd, a’i huchelgais i arwain y maes o ran cynaliadwyedd wedi ennill sgôr uchel i’r brifysgol, a’i gosod ar frig y rhestr.
Gosodwyd y Brifysgol ar y brig hefyd am fod yn lle cymharol rad a diogel i astudio, yn ôl y canllaw amgen.
Roedd yr elfen olaf yn ychwanegu gwybodaeth o ffynonellau sy’n dangos barn y myfyrwyr eu hunain am fywyd cymdeithasol.
Wrth groesawu’r newyddion bod Bangor ar y brig yn y tabl drwyddo draw, gan ddod yn uchaf o blith 94 o brifysgolion yn y Deyrnas Unedig yr oedd yr holl ddata ar gael ar eu cyfer, dywedodd Carys Roberts, Pennaeth Recriwtio Myfyrwyr y Deyrnas Unedig, “Mae llawer o ffyrdd i ganfod gwybodaeth am y brifysgol yr hoffech astudio ynddi.
Mae’r canllaw yma’n edrych ar agweddau cymdeithasol ar astudio mewn prifysgol.
Wrth ystyried i ba brifysgol i anfon cais, mae'r rhain yn ystyriaethau sydd yr un mor deilwng â natur ac ansawdd yr addysgu a’r cwrs y mae arnoch eisiau ei ddilyn.
Rydym wastad yn annog  ymgeiswyr i ganfod gwybodaeth o amrediad eang o ffynonellau, ac yn bwysicach, i ymweld â’r prifysgolion sydd o ddiddordeb i chi,  fel eich bod yn cael ymdeimlad go iawn o’r lle a chyfle i gyfarfod â rhai o’r darlithwyr a fydd efallai’n darlithio i chi.”
Mae Cymru’n gwneud yn dda iawn yn y Canllaw, gyda phum prifysgol ymysg y 10  uchaf.
Hefyd daw’n amlwg fod mantais o fod ger y môr gyda naw allan o’r 10 prifysgol orau ar yr arfordir, gan ddangos cysylltiad posib rhwng lleoliad a bodlonrwydd myfyrwyr!
Â hithau yng Nghymru a ger y môr, mae Bangor yn disgyn i’r ddau gategori!
Seiliwyd y gynghrair ar restr The Complete University Guide <https://www.thecompleteuniversityguide.co.uk/> , a defnyddiwyd cronfeydd data cyhoeddus er mwyn canfod costau byw, gweithio allan lefelau troseddu, cost ‘McMeal’, tocyn sinema, a phris peint.
Seiliwyd y sgôr cynaliadwyedd ar yr wybodaeth a gynhyrchir gan People and Planet <https://peopleandplanet.org/university-league> , a sgôr defnyddwyr a phrofiadau ar University Compare <ttps://universitycompare.com/rankings/student-life> i sgorio bywyd cymdeithasol prifysgol.
Yn olaf, cafwyd pris taith tacsi Uber 10 cilomedr o wybodaeth y cwmni hwnnw.
Gellir canfod manylion Diwrnodau Agored nesaf Prifysgol Bangor yma: https://www.bangor.ac.uk/cy/diwrnodagored Mae Llinell Gymorth Clirio’r Brifysgol ar 0800 085 1818 https://www.bangor.ac.uk/cy/clirio

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/newyddion/2023-06-27-prifysgol-bangor-wedi-neidio-fyny-yn-y-tablau-cynghrair:
Mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi llamu dros 100 safle yn y QS World University Rankings gan sicrhau ei lle ymhlith prifysgolion blaenllaw drwy’r byd.
O ran safleoedd yn y Deyrnas Unedig, mae Bangor hefyd wedi ei gosod ymhlith y 50 prifysgol orau yn ôl yr ugeinfed rifyn o restrau prifysgolion y cyfeirir atynt fwyaf yn y byd.
Yn rhifyn 2024 o’r QS World University Rankings , a ryddhawyd heddiw gan y dadansoddwr addysg uwch byd-eang QS Quacquarelli Symonds, mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi cyrraedd y 500 (#481) uchaf yn y byd allan o 1499 ac yn safle 48 yn y Deyrnas Unedig.
Mae safle gwell Bangor yn adlewyrchu ein hymrwymiad i gynaliadwyedd ac yn arbennig ymchwil, fel y dangosir yn y dyfyniadau fesul dangosydd cyfadran.
Mae'r brifysgol yn croesawu cynnwys cynaliadwyedd yn y tablau QS, sy'n cyd-fynd â phrif thema cynllun strategol y brifysgol - Strategaeth 2030: byd cynaliadwy i genedlaethau'r dyfodol - ac sy'n adlewyrchu blaenoriaethau myfyrwyr a chymdeithas sydd wedi newid yn gyffredinol dros y blynyddoedd diwethaf.
Yn benodol, mae hyn yn adlewyrchu ein hymrwymiad clir i gynaliadwyedd gyda Phrifysgol Bangor yn safle 20 yn y Deyrnas Unedig a safle 108 yn y byd ar gyfer y metrig cynaliadwyedd.
Croesawyd y canlyniadau gan yr Athro Paul van Gardingen FRSA, Dirprwy Is-ganghellor (Ymgysylltu Byd-eang) gan ddweud, “Fel prifysgol, rydym wedi dewis blaenoriaethu cynaliadwyedd ein gweithgareddau yn ein holl bolisïau ac mae'n galonogol gweld y tabl hwn yn cynnwys cynaliadwyedd fel elfen bwysig i fyfyrwyr sy’n gwneud cais heddiw, boed yn Mhrydain neu’n fyd-eang.
Mae tablau cynghrair yn ffynhonnell ddefnyddiol o wybodaeth i ddarpar fyfyrwyr, ac mae’n dda bod y tabl cynghrair 20 oed hwn yn newid i adlewyrchu’r hyn sy’n bwysig i’r genhedlaeth bresennol.
Gyda'r canlyniad hwn rydym bellach yn sefydliad 500 uchaf dwbl, gan ein bod hefyd wedi’n rhestru fel aelod o'r grŵp 401-500 yng nghynghrair byd-eang y Times Higher Education.
Mae hyn yn brawf pellach ein bod yn sefydliad sy'n arwain y byd o ran addysg, ymchwil ac effaith gymdeithasol.” Mae metrig dyfyniadau'r tabl, sy'n asesu pa mor aml y dyfynnir papurau ymchwil gwyddoniaeth y brifysgol fel ffynhonnell mewn papurau ymchwil eraill, yn farc o ansawdd ymchwil y brifysgol.
Mae'r mesur hwn yn gosod y brifysgol yn safle 35 yn y Deyrnas Unedig a safle 346 yn y byd.
Dywedodd yr Athro Paul Spencer,  Dirprwy Is-ganghellor (Ymchwil), “Mae ein perfformiad gwell yn y metrig dyfyniadau, yn codi 89 o leoedd, yn dyst pellach i gyrhaeddiad ac effaith ymchwil blaenllaw Bangor.
Mae hefyd yn adlewyrchu canlyniad asesiad ansawdd ymchwil diweddar y DU ( REF-21 ) a welodd y Brifysgol yn gwella ei pherfformiad a chael ei gosod yn 30ain yn y DU ar gyfer effaith ymchwil." Mae tablau’r QS World University Rankings yn fwy nag erioed eleni, gyda 1,500 o brifysgolion ar draws 104 o leoliadau, wedi codi o 1418 y llynedd.
Mae’r canlyniadau’n cyfrif am ddosbarthiad a pherfformiad 17.5 miliwn o bapurau academaidd a gyhoeddwyd rhwng 2017 a 2021 a’r 141.6 miliwn o ddyfyniadau a gafodd y papurau hynny; maent hefyd yn cyfrif am farn arbenigol dros 144,000 o gyfadrannau academaidd a thros 98,000 o gyflogwyr ledled y byd.
Dywedodd Uwch Is-lywydd QS, Ben Sowter, “Mae’r QS World University Rankings 2024 yn gam mawr yn esblygiad yr ymarfer, gan nodi’r arloesedd mwyaf arwyddocaol yn ei baradeim methodolegol ers ei sefydlu dau ddegawd yn ôl.
Mae’n cyd-fynd yn fwy nag erioed â blaenoriaethau Gen Z ac Alpha, gan roi safbwynt unigryw i sefydliadau asesu eu perfformiad mewn meysydd sy’n hollbwysig i lunio dyfodol mwy disglair i genedlaethau i ddod.”

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/newyddion/2023-11-16-system-newydd-prifysgol-bangor-ar-gyfer-gwyliadwriaeth-iechyd-y-cyhoedd-trwy:
Mae Ei Fawrhydi’r Brenin wedi cymeradwyo dyfarnu Gwobrau Pen-blwydd y Frenhines i ddau ar hugain o sefydliadau Addysg Uwch ac Addysg Bellach ledled y Deyrnas Unedig, gan gynnwys Prifysgol Bangor.
Cafodd Prifysgol Bangor ei chydnabod am ei gwaith ar ddatblygu system newydd ar gyfer gwyliadwriaeth iechyd y cyhoedd drwy ddadansoddi pathogenau niweidiol mewn dŵr gwastraff.
Defnyddiwyd y system yn genedlaethol yn ystod pandemig COVID-19 ac mae bellach wedi'i haddasu i fesur ystod eang o ddangosyddion iechyd cyhoeddus.
Cyhoeddwyd enillwyr y Gwobrau mewn derbyniad ym Mhalas St James yn Llundain.
Bydd seremoni Anrhydeddau ffurfiol yn cael ei chynnal y flwyddyn nesaf.
Ychwanegodd yr Athro Paul Spencer, y Dirprwy Is-ganghellor dros Ymchwil: “Llongyfarchiadau i’r tîm dŵr gwastraff ar dderbyn y Wobr fawreddog hon.
Mae’r prosiect yma’n destament gwych i ymagwedd ryngddisgyblaethol Prifysgol Bangor at waith ymchwil, ac mae’n dangos yr effaith bwerus sy’n bosib ei gael ar y byd go iawn trwy gydweithio rhwng ymchwilwyr, diwydiant a’r llywodraeth.”
Meddai Syr Damon Buffini, Cadeirydd y Royal Anniversary Trust:
“Mae Gwobrau Pen-blwydd y Frenhines ar gyfer Addysg Uwch ac Addysg Bellach yn rhan annatod o’r system Anrhydeddau cenedlaethol, sy’n taflu goleuni ar y gwaith arloesol sy’n digwydd mewn prifysgolion a cholegau ledled y DU.
Mae pob un o’r 22 o enillwyr yn dangos rhagoriaeth, arloesedd ac effaith, gyda llawer yn mynd i’r afael â rhai o’r problemau anoddaf rydym ni fel cymdeithas yn eu hwynebu heddiw.
Dylid eu canmol am gyrraedd y pinacl hwn o gyflawniad yn y sector addysg drydyddol.
Llongyfarchiadau!”
Mae Gwobrau Pen-blwydd y Frenhines ar gyfer Addysg Uwch ac Addysg Bellach yn rhan o system Anrhydeddau cenedlaethol y DU, sy’n cydnabod gwaith rhagorol gan brifysgolion a cholegau’r DU sy’n dangos rhagoriaeth, arloesedd a budd i’r byd ehangach.
Dyfarnwyd y Gwobrau am y tro cyntaf ym 1994, a rhoddir y Gwobrau bob dwy flynedd gan y Sofran ar gyngor y Prif Weinidog yn dilyn proses adolygu drylwyr ac annibynnol a gynhelir gan yr Ymddiriedolaeth Pen-blwydd Brenhinol, elusen annibynnol.
Cyhoeddwyd enillwyr y bymthegfed rownd ym Mhalas St James ar 16 Tachwedd, 2023; cyflwynir y Gwobrau mewn seremoni Anrhydeddau ffurfiol yn 2024.
Gellir gweld holl enillwyr y gwobrau ar y wefan www.queensanniversaryprizes.org

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/astudio/israddedig/pam-bangor:
Rydym yn cynnig y safon uchaf o addysgu mewn amgylchedd gefnogol, ac mae ein darlithwyr eisiau eich gweld yn ffynnu.
Gallwch ddewis astudio cyrsiau ar draws y gwyddorau, celfyddydau, busnes, y gyfraith a'r dyniaethau.
Rydym yn cynnig amrywiaeth o dulliau addysgu, yn cynnwys prentisiaethau gradd a graddau sylfaen a gallwch gyfuno eich cariad tuag at ddau bwnc drwy astudio cwrs cyd-anrhydedd.
Mae pob myfyriwr israddedig newydd yn gallu dewis gwneud profiad gwaith fel rhan o'u gradd.
Mae hyn yn gallu amrywio o leoliad am bythefnos i hyd at flwyddyn allan rhwng Blwyddyn 1 a 2 o'ch gradd.
Mae ein myfyrwyr yn datblygu ystod eang o sgiliau, gwybodaeth, a galluoedd sy'n eu paratoi ar gyfer ystod eang o yrfaoedd.
Mae'r sgiliau hyn wedi'u crynhoi yn Nodweddion Graddedigion Bangor.
Mae bywyd cymdeithasol Cymraeg heb ei ail ym Mangor, gyda Undeb Myfyrwyr Cymraeg Bangor yn cynnig amrywiaeth o weithgareddau cymdeithasol i'ch diddannu.
Mae mwy o fyfyrwyr yn astudio trwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg ym Mangor nag yn unrhyw un o’r prifysgolion eraill yng Nghymru felly mae'r iaith yn rhan naturiol o'ch bywyd fel myfyriwr.
Mwy am astudio drwy gyfrwng y Gymraeg
Rydym yn awyddus i gynnig cymaint o help â phosibl i chi tra byddwch yn astudio ym Mangor.
O gefnogaeth academaidd, help gyda gyrfaoedd i wasanaethau lles - mae yna bob amser rywun y gallwch chi droi ato yma.
Gwybodaeth Cymorth i Fyfyrwyr
Yn ogystal â'n hardaloedd dysgu, ystafelloedd TG, labordai a llyfrgelloedd, mae gennym hefyd ardd fotaneg, amgueddfa a llong ymchwil ein hunain.
Ein Cyfleusterau
Bydd ein neuaddau preswyl yn teimlo fel eich cartref newydd ymhen dim.
Mae'r ddau bentref myfyrwyr o fewn pellter cerdded o brif adeiladau'r Brifysgol.
Rydym yn sicrhau llety i holl israddedigion, llawn amser y flwyddyn gyntaf sy’n cychwyn eu cwrs fis medi, yn gwneud cais o fewn yr adegau priodol ac yn nodi Bangor fel eu Dewis Cadarn.
Mae cost y neuaddau hefyd yn cynnwys aelodaeth o Campws Byw a'r gampfa.
Mae lleoliad Bangor – yn agos at y mynyddoedd a’r môr - wedi cael ei ddisgrifio fel ‘y lleoliad prifysgol gorau yn y DU’.
Ond mae Bangor yn fwy na phrydferth, mae'n cynnig cyfle gwych i gymryd rhan mewn ystod eang o weithgareddau awyr agored ym Mharc Cenedlaethol Eryri, yn cynnwys y wifren wib gyflymaf yn Ewrop.
Ein Lleoliad
Mae Clybiau a Chymdeithasau Undeb y Myfyrwyr sydd wedi cael eu gwobrwyo ymysg y gorau yn y DU tros y blynyddoedd, yn gyfle gwych i ddod i adnabod eraill.
Gydag ystod eang o glybiau a chymdeithasau ar gael, rydych yn siŵr o ddod o hyd i glwb sy'n eich siwtio chi, beth bynnag yw eich diddordebau.
Clybiau a Chymdeithasau

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/astudio:
Dewch i ddarganfod y cwrs perffaith i chi
Ymunwch â ni yn ein cymuned glos a chefnogol sydd yn gwneud astudio'n academaidd yn gyffrous a boddhaus.
Dewiswch eich lefel o astudio i ddod i wybod mwy am yr ystod eang o gyrsiau yr ydym yn eu cynnig.
Cyfoethogwch eich dealltwriaeth gan barhau eich siwrne addysg uwch gyda ni.
Mae ein cyrsiau ôl-raddedig trwy ddysgu yn cynnig mynediad i arbenigwyr a chyfleusterau heb eu hail, gan eich helpu chi i ddatblygu sgiliau ac ennill cymwysterau.
Datblychwch eich sgiliau ymchwil ymysg eich cyfoedion a darlithwyr sy'n rhannu eich angerdd am ehangu dealltwriaeth y byd am eich pwnc.
Cewch addysg o'r safon uchaf yma ym Mangor - a'r hyn oll o fewn cymuned gefnogol a chyfeillgar.
Mae ein cyfleusterau yn cynnwys darlithfeydd modern, labordai, ardaloedd dysgu cymdeithasol, ein llong ymchwil ein hunain, fferm a gardd fotanegol.
Gwyliwch y fideo i ddarganfod mwy.
Manteisiwch ar ein ystod eang a thrawiadol o adnoddau, yn cynnwys casgliad cynhwysfawr o lyfrau a chylchgronnau yn ein llyfrgelloedd; dros 1000 o gyfrifiaduron i'w defnyddio mewn ystafelloedd pwrpasol sydd ar agor 24 awr y dydd, gofodau dysgu cymdeithasol, llong ymchwil 'Prince Madog', labordai o'r radd flaenaf a sganiwr fMRI.
Cyfleusterau
Gwnewch y mwyaf o'n cyfleoedd cyflogadwyedd i ddysgu sgiliau newydd a sicrhau dyfodol disglair.
Rydym yn gofalu amdanoch chi o'r diwrnod cyntaf.
Cewch gefnogaeth drwy'r cynllun Arweinwyr Cyfoed, eich Tiwtor Personol a thrwy ein hadran Gwasanaethau Myfyrwyr.
Nawr yw'r amser i ddysgu am y camau nesaf a sut i wneud penderfyniad gwybodus unwaith yr ydych wedi derbyn cynnigion.
Mae meddwl am fynd i'r brifysgol yn gallu creu pryder ond does dim angen poeni, rydym yma i'ch helpu pob cam o'r ffordd.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/newyddion/2025-08-28-ymchwilwyr-prifysgol-bangor-yn-ennill-gwobr-apex-am-broject:
Mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi ennill un o Wobrau APEX eleni, wedi cystadleuaeth frwd.
Cynllun yw’r Gwobrau APEX a gynhelir ar y cyd gan yr Academi Brydeinig, yr Academi Beirianneg Frenhinol, a'r Gymdeithas Frenhinol gyda chefnogaeth hael gan Ymddiriedolaeth Leverhulme.
Ers dechrau’r gystadleuaeth yn 2017, dim ond 59 o brojectau sydd wedi eu hariannu drwy APEX, ac mae'r llwyddiant hwn yn nodi carreg filltir: dyma'r tro cyntaf i broject dan arweiniad prifysgol yng Nghymru dderbyn y wobr.
Mae’r gwobrau’n ariannu ymchwil sy’n annog chwilfrydedd a chreadigrwydd drwy ddod ag arbenigwyr o wahanol feysydd peirianneg ynghyd i ddatrys problemau anodd mewn ffyrdd newydd ac arloesol.
Bydd y wobr yn cefnogi cydweithrediad dwy flynedd rhwng dau ymchwilydd uchel eu parch o Brifysgol Bangor.
Y ddau ymchwilydd hyn yw’r Athro Zengbo Wang o'r Ysgol Cyfrifiadureg a Pheirianneg a Dr Ellie Jameson o'r Ysgol Gwyddorau Amgylcheddol a Naturiol.
Mae eu project, Listen to the Cell Breathe: Investigating Viral Infection in Real-Time with Nano-Vibration Detection and Super-Resolution Imaging , yn cyfuno arbenigedd mewn ffotoneg uwch â firoleg amgylcheddol.
Mae'r Athro Wang yn arbenigwr blaenllaw mewn delweddu uwch a thechnoleg golau.
Mae'n dod â ffyrdd newydd i'r project o edrych ar strwythurau bach a chanfod dirgryniadau bychain iawn.
Mae Dr Jameson yn firolegydd amgylcheddol blaenllaw y mae ei arbenigedd yn cwmpasu ecoleg microbaidd a dynameg heintiau bacterioffagau.
Mae Dr Jameson yn dod â gwybodaeth werthfawr am sut mae'r heintiau firaol hyn yn gweithio gyda phwyslais ar fynd i'r afael â bacteria sy'n gwrthsefyll gwrthfiotigau.
Bydd yr ymchwil yn datblygu ffordd newydd o arsylwi haint firaol gan wylio a gwrando ar gelloedd wrth iddynt gael eu heintio.
Gyda thechnoleg uwch, gall y tîm weld strwythurau sy’n filoedd o weithiau'n llai na lled blewyn gwallt bod dynol.
Gallant hefyd godi'r dirgryniadau gwan, fel 'anadliadau' bach, y mae celloedd yn eu gwneud pan fydd firysau'n ymosod arnyn nhw.
Bydd y dull deuol hwn yn darparu cipolwg digynsail ar sut mae firysau'n rhyngweithio â'u lletywyr, gan ddiogelu eu hyfywedd—gwaith a allai osod y sylfaen ar gyfer datblygiadau yn y dyfodol o ran diagnosio a thrin clefydau.
Mae Gwobr APEX yn rhoi cyfle unigryw inni gyfuno technoleg ddelweddu arloesol â firoleg i agor pennod newydd o ran deall heintiau firaol.
Rydym yn frwdfrydig nid yn unig am yr wybodaeth wyddonol ond hefyd am ddod â rhyfeddod yr ymchwil hon i lygaid y cyhoedd.
“Mae’r cydweithrediad hwn yn dangos grym dod â gwahanol ddisgyblaethau ynghyd i fynd i’r afael â chwestiynau sylfaenol.
Gobeithiwn y bydd y canlyniadau’n ysbrydoli ymchwil bellach a cheisiadau yn y dyfodol er budd iechyd pobl a’r amgylchedd.”
Ochr yn ochr â'r ymchwil wyddonol, bydd tîm ymchwil Bangor yn cynnal gweithgareddau ymgysylltu â'r cyhoedd i rannu eu darganfyddiadau â'r gymuned ehangach.
Bydd y rhain yn cynnwys mynd allan i ysgolion, darlithoedd cyhoeddus, a digwyddiadau rhyngweithiol a gynlluniwyd i ysbrydoli chwilfrydedd ynghylch gwyddoniaeth ac amlygu gwerth ymchwil ryngddisgyblaethol.
Mae’r wobr hon yn pwysleisio ymrwymiad Prifysgol Bangor i feithrin ymchwil drawsddisgyblaethol sy’n cyflawni rhagoriaeth wyddonol ac effaith gymdeithasol.
Drwy ddod ag arbenigedd blaenllaw ynghyd o’n gwahanol ysgolion, rydym ni nid yn unig yn mynd i’r afael â heriau cymhleth ond hefyd yn gosod Bangor ar flaen y gad o ran ymchwil drawsnewidiol, chwilfrydig, sydd ag arwyddocâd gwirioneddol fyd-eang.
Ochr yn ochr â Gwobr APEX ddwy flynedd, bydd y project hefyd yn cael ei gefnogi gan Gronfa Wynne Humphrey Davies, sy’n cael ei weinyddu gan Gronfa Bangor.
Mae’r Gronfa yn cael ei hariannu gan gyfraniadau gan gyn-fyfyrwyr ac yn cael ei gweinyddu gan y Swyddfa Datblygu a Chysylltiadau Cyn-fyfyrwyr.
Mae cefnogaeth Cronfa Wynne Humphrey Davies yn ymestyn yr ysgoloriaeth i fod yn PhD lawn ac yn agor y drws ar gyfer cydweithrediadau ymchwil newydd gyda sefydliadau blaenllaw yn yr Unol Daleithiau, gan gynnwys MIT a Phrifysgol Northeastern, gan wella cyrhaeddiad byd-eang ac effaith hirdymor y project.
Gallwch weld y cyhoeddiad swyddogol yma: Yr Academi Beirianneg Frenhinol – dyfarnu deg gwobr APEX am brojectau ymchwil rhyngddisgyblaethol arloesol a chwilfrydig

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/newyddion/2025-08-22-dechrau-anodd-i-lywodraeth-lafur-y-deyrnas-unedig-ond-mae-amser-yn-dal-ar-eu:
Mae Dr Hefin Gwilym yn Ddarlithydd mewn Polisi Cymdeithasol ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, mae'r blog hwn yn seiliedig ar erthygl ysgrifennwyd ganddo ar gyfer llyfr: Amrywiaeth a Lles gan Dr Hefin Gwilym, Dr Edward Jones a Dr David Beck (Prifysgol Salford).
Darllenwch yr erthygl wreiddiol.
Gwrandewch ar y podlediad yma.
Mae deg mis cyntaf Llywodraeth Lafur wrth y llyw wedi ei lethu gan gamgymeriadau a chyfleoedd a gollwyd.
O gyhoeddiadau dadleuol ar Lwfans Tanwydd y Gaeaf a chyfraniadau Yswiriant Gwladol, i ddiffyg gweledigaeth feiddgar, mae’n deg dweud fod y llywodraeth wedi cael trafferth bodloni disgwyliadau’r cyhoedd sy’n awyddus i weld newid.
Ac eto, fel mae’r erthygl yn dadlau, mae gan Lafur amser o hyd i wella- os yw’n cofleidio diwygio lles yn radical.
Mae gwladwriaeth lles y Deyrnas Unedig mewn argyfwng.
Mae digartrefedd, rhestrau aros y GIG, ac anghydraddoldeb addysgol wedi cyrraedd lefelau nas gwelwyd o’r blaen.
Mae Credyd Cynhwysol, a arferai gael ei hyrwyddo fel modd i symleiddio’r system fudd-daliadau, bellach yn enghraifft o annigonolrwydd model lles neo-ryddfrydol.
Gyda 6.4 miliwn o bobl yn derbyn y credyd- gyda nifer yn gweithio- mae’r system yn methu helpu pobl allan o dlodi.
Mae tlodi plant yn parhau ar gynnydd, ac mae banciau bwyd wedi dod yn ‘’rhwyd ddiogelwch ar gyfer y rhwyd ddiogelwch.
Mae’r mwyafrif sydd gan Lafur yn y Senedd yn cynnig cyfle prin i ail-ddychmygu lles.
Mae’r erthygl yn y ddolen uchod yn galw am symud o brofi modd i gyffredinoliaeth, gan ddechrau gyda gofal plant am ddim a phensiwn gwladol gyffredinol.
Byddai'r polisïau hyn nid yn unig yn lleihau tlodi ond hefyd yn grymuso menywod, yn cefnogi teuluoedd, ac yn gwella canlyniadau cyflogaeth- gan adlewyrchu modelau Nordig llwyddiannus.
Yn ganolog i'r diwygiad arfaethedig mae cyflwyno Incwm Sylfaenol Cyffredinol (UBI) yn raddol.
Mae'r erthygl yn cyflwyno tystiolaeth gymhellol y gallai UBI leddfu tlodi, symleiddio biwrocratiaeth, a gwella lles.
Mae'n dadlau nad yw UBI yn ymarferol yn unig ond hefyd yn fforddiadwy, gyda chost net o ddim ond 2.4% o CMC—llai na chost gyfredol tlodi i wasanaethau cyhoeddus.
Mae ariannu'r diwygiadau hyn yn gofyn am newidiadau treth feiddgar.
Mae ein dadl yn yr erthygl hon yn dadlau dros drethu cyfoeth a gynhyrchir gan awtomeiddio a deallusrwydd artiffisial, codi trothwyon treth incwm, a chyflwyno trethi amgylcheddol ac eiddo cynyddol.
Byddai'r mesurau hyn yn symud y baich o weithwyr i'r cyfoethog, yn enwedig y rhai sy'n elwa o ddatblygiadau technolegol.
Mae agweddau'r cyhoedd yn newid.
Er gwaethaf baich treth uchel, mae cefnogaeth i wariant cynyddol ar y GIG a lles yn tyfu.
Rhaid i Lafur achub ar yr eiliad hon i weithredu'n bendant.
Mae'r erthygl yn rhybuddio na fydd gofal a chynyddrannau yn ddigon yn wyneb heriau cymdeithasol cynyddol ac anghydraddoldeb economaidd.
I gloi, er bod dechrau Llafur wedi bod yn siomedig, mae'r cyfle i ddiwygio lles trawsnewidiol yn parhau.
Drwy gofleidio cyffredinoliaeth, cyflwyno trethiant unfrydol, a gweithredu trethiant blaengar, gall Llafur adeiladu gwladwriaeth les sy'n addas ar gyfer yr 21ain ganrif—un sydd nid yn unig yn mynd i'r afael â thlodi ond sydd hefyd yn gosod esiampl fyd-eang.
Nawr yw'r amser i weithredu.
Mae'r blog hwn yn seiliedig ar erthygl a ysgrifennwyd ar gyfer llyfr: Amrywiaeth a Lles gan Dr Hefin Gwilym, Dr Edward Jones a Dr David Beck (Prifysgol Salford).
Mae'r blog yn rhan o gyfres o flogiau gan Dr Dave Beck (ThatSociologist).
Yn ystod y gyfres fer hon, mae'r cyd-awduron yn bwrw golwg feirniadol ar 12 mis cyntaf Llywodraeth Lafur y Deyrnas Unedig.
Maent yn dadlau, er gwaethaf gobeithion mawr, fod y llywodraeth wedi baglu—yn enwedig ym meysydd polisi cymdeithasol, ac yn ei hymateb i'r bygythiadau cynyddol a achosir gan awtomeiddio a dadleoli swyddi a yrrir gan ddeallusrwydd artiffisial.
Maent hefyd yn archwilio sut y gall Llafur droi pethau o gwmpas.
Eu traethawd canolog yw y gallai polisïau lles cymdeithasol arloesol, fel Incwm Sylfaenol Cyffredinol (UBI), gynnig llwybr beiddgar a thrawsnewidiol ymlaen.
Darllenwch yr erthygl wreiddiol yma.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/newyddion/2025-08-21-diogelu-dilysrwydd-reis-basmati-y-du-yn-gorfodi-safonau-dilysrwydd-reis:
Mae reis basmati yn un o’r math mwyaf poblogaidd o reis yn y DU, mae ei flas tyner yn cyfuno’n berffaith â blasau cryfach fel cyri, pilafs , a kedgerees .
Mae tua 75% o reis basmati yn dod o India, gyda'r DU yn mewnforio tua 3% o'r cyfanswm hwnnw, ynghyd â symiau sylweddol o Bacistan, yr ail gynhyrchydd mwyaf.
Fodd bynnag, mae rhai o'r mathau basmati hyn wedi profi'n israddol i’r hyn a ddisgwylir ar y farchnad, gan golli'r arogl tebyg i bobcorn sy'n gwneud basmati mor werthfawr.
Mae ymgyrch Uned Genedlaethol Troseddau Bwyd (NFCU) yr Asiantaeth Safonau Bwyd (ASB) sy’n ymchwilio i ddosbarthu a gwerthu reis basmati mewn deunydd pecynnu ffug wedi arwain at arestio pedwar o bobl.
Canfu nifer fawr o fagiau 10kg a 20kg o reis cymysg mewn deunydd pecynnu basmati brand premiwm ffug fel rhan o’r ymgyrch.
Mae gan y DU reolwyr llym ar ansawdd a dilysrwydd ar gyfer reis basmati, sydd wedi eu gosod yn 'Cod Ymarfer Basmati', set o safonau sy'n cael eu gorfodi'n gyfreithiol a ddatblygwyd ar y cyd gan yr Asiantaeth Safonau Bwyd a Chymdeithas y Reis, y corff masnach sy'n cynrychioli sector reis y DU.
Dywedodd pennaeth materion technegol a rheoleiddiol y Gymdeithas Reis, Joe Brennan:
“Mae’n dda gweld bod Cod Ymarfer Reis Basmati yn cael eu gorfodi yn barhaus.
Ochr yn ochr ag arolygon rheolaidd y diwydiant mae hyn yn sicrhau pan fydd defnyddwyr y DU yn prynu reis basmati eu bod yn cael cynnyrch dilys.”
Mae'r cod yn nodi gofynion ansawdd ffisegol ac arogl sydd rhaid i reis eu cyrraedd i gael eu hystyried fel reis basmati.
Caiff reis eu profi am ddilysrwydd DNA gan labordai achrededig.
Rhaid tyfu reis Basmati yn India a Phacistan.
Un o amodau’r aelodaeth Gymdeithas Reis yw cynnal safonau'r diwydiant, fel glynu wrth God Ymarfer Basmati.
Cymerir y gofyniad hwn o ddifrif ac ymchwilir i ymholiadau defnyddwyr.
“Os oes gan ddefnyddwyr bryderon nad yw reis basmati yn ddilys neu’n bodloni safonau ansawdd, rydym yn argymell eu bod yn cysylltu â pherchennog y brand neu'r Gymdeithas y Reis” ychwanega Joe.
Mae Dr Katherine Steele, Darllenydd mewn Cynhyrchu Cnydau Cynaliadwy ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, wedi bod yn ddylanwadol wrth greu'r dull presennol o brofi DNA i ddilysu gwahanol amrywiadau o reis, gan gynnwys reis basmati, meddai:
“Mae reis yn gynnyrch pwysig, sydd â chymaint o amrywiaeth fel ei bod hi’n hanfodol cynnal ansawdd cynnyrch premiwm y farchnad.
Mae gan ddulliau DNA rôl bwysig ar gyfer gorfodi safonau.”

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/digwyddiadau/is-capital-punishment-needed-sesiwn-saesneg:
Ymunwch â Ms Lisa Sparkes Cynorthwyydd Addysgu mewn Troseddeg ar gyfer Sesiwn Blasu ar-lein AM DDIM
Mae'r sgwrs hon yn archwilio rheidrwydd, effeithiolrwydd, a goblygiadau moesegol y gosb eithaf mewn systemau cyfiawnder troseddol modern.
Mae’n archwilio’r dadleuon allweddol o blaid ac yn erbyn y gosb eithaf, gan ddadansoddi a yw’n gweithredu fel ataliad effeithiol, yn darparu gwir gyfiawnder, neu’n torri hawliau dynol sylfaenol.
Cewch weld ein Hysbysiadau Preifatrwydd yma .
Trwy gyflwyno'r ffurflen gofrestru rydych yn cytuno â thelerau defnyddio a hysbysiad preifatrwydd y Brifysgol.
Cewch gysylltu â ni ar unrhyw adeg i dynnu'ch cydsyniad yn ôl neu newid eich dewisiadau cydsyniad.
Caiff y sesiwn ei chyflwyno trwy gyfrwng y Saesneg.
Archwiliwch y gyfres Sesiynau Blasu:
DARGANFOD SESIYNAU BLASU

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/digwyddiadau/writing-with-technology-and-ai:
Mae deallusrwydd artiffisial gyda'i fodelau iaith mawr yn dylanwadu ar sut rydym yn ysgrifennu.
Fodd bynnag, nid deallusrwydd artiffisial yw'r dechnoleg gyntaf na'r cyfrwng cyntaf i ddylanwadu ar sut rydym yn ysgrifennu, nac i gynnig ffyrdd i ni astudio sut mae pobl yn ysgrifennu.
Bydd y ddarlith gyhoeddus hon yn ystyried beth sydd ynghlwm wrth ysgrifennu, pa ffactorau sy'n effeithio ar sut rydym yn ysgrifennu a sut mae technoleg yn rhoi cipolwg i ymchwilwyr ar sut rydym yn ysgrifennu.
Bydd y ddarlith yn trafod y meysydd hyn ac yn eu darlunio gyda phrosesau ysgrifennu amrywiaeth o awduron iaith gyntaf ac ail iaith, awduron o wahanol oedrannau ac unigolion ag anghenion dysgu ychwanegol.
Trafodir yn fyr hefyd sut mae awduron yn ymdrin â system dreigladau’r Gymraeg, yn ogystal â sut y gallai’r offer cyfrifiadurol a ddefnyddir i gasglu data ar gyfer ysgrifennu fod yn ddefnyddiol hefyd i astudio pryder gyda mathemateg.
Bydd y ddarlith yn gorffen trwy ofyn sut y gellir defnyddio deallusrwydd artiffisial mewn addysgu i leihau'r defnydd o ddeallusrwydd artiffisial fel rhan o'r broses ysgrifennu.
Graddiodd yr Athro er Anrhydedd Kirk Sullivan ym Mhrifysgol Bangor ym 1986 gyda BA mewn Ieithyddiaeth Gymhwysol.
Ers hynny, mae wedi bod yn astudio a gweithio mewn prifysgolion yn Ewrop a Seland Newydd.
Mae Kirk yn gweithio ym Mhrifysgol Umeå yn Sweden ers 30 mlynedd, lle mae’n athro ieithyddiaeth ac yn arweinydd gwyddonol yr ysgol ôl-radd gwyddor addysg.
Mae'r Athro Sullivan wedi cadw cysylltiad agos â Bangor ac mae'n cydweithio'n aml ag ymchwilwyr Prifysgol Bangor.
Traddodir y ddarlith hon yn Saesneg.
Bydd lluniaeth ar gael cyn y ddarlith.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/digwyddiadau/hyfforddi-heb-gel-chwalu-mythau-a-hyfforddin-gallach-gyda-gwyddor-caffael-sgiliau-0:
Ymunwch â ni ar gyfer gweminar ysgogol sy'n chwalu camsyniadau cyffredin ym maes hyfforddiant ac yn cyflwyno mewnwelediadau sy’n seiliedig ar dystiolaeth i wella eich ymarfer.
Darganfyddwch sut y gall cymhwyso darganfyddiadau diweddaraf gwyddor caffael sgiliau drawsnewid y ffordd rydych chi’n hybu dysgu, datblygu athletwyr, a gwella perfformiad.
P’un a ydych yn dyheu am fod yn hyfforddwr, yn hyfforddwr ymarferol, yn addysgwr neu’n weithiwr proffesiynol ym maes chwaraeon, bydd y sesiwn hon yn rhoi’r offer ymarferol i chi hyfforddi’n gallach, nid yn galetach.
Peidiwch â cholli’r cyfle i herio credoau hen ffasiwn a mireinio’ch dull gyda gwyddoniaeth flaengar.
Bydd y gweminar yn cynnwys taith sydyn drwy’r prif bynciau canlynol:
Peidiwch â cholli allan – ymunwch â ni ar gyfer y sesiwn llawn egni hon!
Mae Dr Vicky Gottwald BSc.
SFHEA yn ymchwilydd ym maes caffael sgiliau ac yn aelod o Sefydliad Seicoleg ar gyfer Perfformiad Elitaidd (IPEP) ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae ei diddordebau ymchwil yn cyd-fynd yn dda â’i hangerdd dros hyfforddi chwaraeon, ac mae ganddi ddiddordeb penodol mewn cyfarwyddiadau hyfforddi.
Yn benodol, mae ganddi ddiddordeb yn y ffordd y gall cyfarwyddiadau llafar gyfeirio sylw athletwr ac, o ganlyniad, naill ai wella neu rwystro dysgu symudol a pherfformiad.
Yn yr un modd, mae gan Vicky ddiddordeb mewn adnabod a datblygu dawn; yn enwedig o ran gwella’r amgylchedd ymarfer ar gyfer perfformiad gorau posibl.
Fel hyfforddwr pêl-fasged Lefel 4 UKCC, mae gan Vicky brofiad helaeth o gymhwyso cysyniadau damcaniaethol sy'n gysylltiedig â chaffael sgiliau yn ymarferol, ac mae wedi hyfforddi ar draws amrywiol gamau o Raglenni Tîm Cenedlaethol Pêl-fasged Cymru.
Bydd y sesiwn hon yn cael ei chyflwyno drwy gyfrwng y Saesneg.
Gellir gweld ein Hysbysiadau Preifatrwydd yma .
Drwy gyflwyno’r ffurflen gofrestru hon, rydych yn cytuno â thelerau defnyddio a hysbysiad preifatrwydd y Brifysgol.
Gallwch gysylltu â ni unrhyw bryd i dynnu eich caniatâd yn ôl neu i newid eich dewisiadau caniatâd.
Uwch Ddarlithydd mewn Gwyddorau Chwaraeon ac Ymarfer Corff

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/quality/uk-quality-assured.php.cy:
Mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi croesawu canfyddiadau Adolygiad Sefydliadol yr Asiantaeth Sicrhau Ansawdd (QAA) sydd wedi canmol y ffordd y mae'r brifysgol yn rheoli ansawdd academaidd.
Cafodd y Brifysgol ganmoliaeth arbennig am sawl gweithgaredd, gan gynnwys y ffordd y mae Bangor yn defnyddio dull sy'n cael ei yrru gan ddata i hysbysu a gwella profiad y myfyrwyr.
Ymhlith y meysydd eraill a gafodd ganmoliaeth arbennig oedd y bartneriaeth ddofn sydd gan y Brifysgol gyda’i myfyrwyr, a'r ffaith bod dwyieithrwydd wedi'i ymgorffori oddi mewn i brofiad y myfyriwr ac yn effeithio'n gadarnhaol ar bob agwedd ohono.
Mae’r Brifysgol wedi ymateb i’r adroddiad QAA hefo eu cynllun gweithredu.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/governance-and-compliance/legalcompliance.php.cy:
Mae Gwenan Hine, Dirprwy Ysgrifennydd / Pennaeth Gwasanaethau Llywodraethu yn goruchwylio materion cydymffurfio cyfreithiol yn y Brifysgol, gyda chymorth Sarah Riley , Pennaeth Gwasanaethau Gyfreithiol, a Lynette Williams , Cynorthwywr Cyfreithiol a Chydymffurfio.
Diogelu Data
Gwasanaethau Cyfreithiol
Rheoli Cofnodion
Rhyddid Gwybodaeth a Rheoliadau Amgylcheddol

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/governance-and-compliance/accessibility-statement.php.cy:
Yn ystod pandemig  Covid-19 mae Prifysgol Bangor yn cydnabod pwysigrwydd parhau i annog arferion  da o ran creu adnoddau hygyrch a darparu dulliau cyfathrebu hygyrch i bawb.
Mae  Prifysgol Bangor yn defnyddio Microsoft Teams er mwyn i’r staff a’r myfyrwyr fedru  cyfathrebu â’i gilydd.
Mae gan Microsoft Teams nodweddion hygyrchedd integredig  gan gynnwys Immersive Reader a gosod penawdau caeedig byw (Saesneg yn unig).
Am  wybodaeth bellach gweler Trosolwg  hygyrchedd Microsoft Teams.
Fe fyddwn hefyd yn  defnyddio Blackboard Collaborate ar gyfer dysgu ar-lein yn ystod y flwyddyn  academaidd 2020/21.
Mae’n bosib (yn ôl yr angen) i uwchlwytho unrhyw sesiwn  Collaborate sydd wedi’i recordio, i Panopto, fydd yn creu is-deitlau’n  awtomatig.
Yn ystod y cyfnod hwn  rydym hefyd yn argymell adnoddau AbilityNet ar gyfer cefnogaeth ac arweiniad pellach.
Mae AbilityNet ar hyn o bryd yn cynnig gweminarau a fydd yn  ddefnyddiol i’r Staff a’r Myfyrwyr.
Mae'r datganiad hygyrchedd hwn yn berthnasol i wefan Prifysgol Bangor ac amgylchedd dysgu rhithiol Blackboard .
Mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi ymrwymo i sicrhau bod ei gwefannau'n hygyrch, yn  unol â Rheoliadau Hygyrchedd Cyrff Sector Cyhoeddus (Gwefannau a Rhaglenni  Symudol) (Rhif 2) 2018.
Prifysgol Bangor sy'n rhedeg y gwefannau hyn.
Rydym eisiau i gynifer o bobl  â phosibl allu defnyddio'r gwefannau hyn.
Er enghraifft, mae hynny'n golygu y  dylech chi allu:
Rydym hefyd wedi gwneud testun y wefan mor syml â phosibl i'w ddeall.
Mae AbilityNet yn cynnig cyngor ar  wneud eich dyfais yn haws i'w defnyddio os ydych yn anabl.
Gwyddom nad yw rhannau o'r wefan hon yn gwbl hygyrch:
Os oes angen gwybodaeth arnoch am y wefan hon mewn fformat gwahanol fel PDF  hygyrch, print bras, hawdd ei ddeall, recordiad sain neu Braille :
Byddwn yn ystyried eich cais ac yn cysylltu yn ôl â chi o fewn 10 diwrnod  gwaith.
Rydym bob amser yn ceisio gwella hygyrchedd y wefan hon.
Os byddwch yn dod  o hyd i unrhyw broblemau nad ydynt wedi'u rhestru ar y dudalen hon neu'n credu  nad ydym yn cwrdd â gofynion hygyrchedd, cysylltwch â Desg Gymorth TG  (Technoleg Gwybodaeth), gweler uchod.
Os  rhoesoch wybod am broblem gyda'r wefan neu os gofynnoch am fformat amgen, ond  nad ydych yn fodlon â'r ymateb a gawsoch, cewch ddefnyddio trefn gwyno'r  Brifysgol i gofrestru eich anhawster; gwnaiff hynny ein helpu i wella ein  systemau.
I wneud cwyn, ysgrifennwch at Swyddfa Llywodraethu a Chydymffurfio'r  Brifysgol yn y lle cyntaf ( info-compliance@bangor.ac.uk ) ac egluro sail eich cwyn.
Mae'r Comisiwn Cydraddoldeb a Hawliau Dynol (EHRC) yn gyfrifol am orfodi  Rheoliadau Hygyrchedd Cyrff Sector Cyhoeddus (Gwefannau a Rhaglenni Symudol)  (Rhif 2) 2018 (y 'rheoliadau hygyrchedd').
Os nad ydych yn hapus â'n hymateb  i'ch cwyn, cysylltwch â'r  Gwasanaeth Cynghori a Chefnogi Cydraddoldeb (EASS) .
Gallwch  gysylltu â ni trwy e-bost.
Oherwydd y pandemig coronafirws cyfredol, os ydych  yn dymuno ymweld yn bersonol, e-bostiwch yn gyntaf;
Mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi ymrwymo i sicrhau bod  ei gwefan yn hygyrch, yn unol â Rheoliadau Hygyrchedd Cyrff y Sector Cyhoeddus  (Gwefannau a Rhaglenni Symudol) (Rhif 2) 2018.
Rydym yn  gweithio at gyflawni a chynnal safonau AA Canllawiau Hygyrchedd Cynnwys y We  (WCAG) 2.1.
Mae'r wefan hon yn cydymffurfio'n rhannol â safon AA fersiwn 2.1  Canllawiau Hygyrchedd Cynnwys y We, yn sgil yr enghreifftiau o beidio â  chydymffurfio a restrir isod.
Nid yw'r cynnwys a restrir isod yn hygyrch am y rhesymau canlynol.
Os ydym wedi methu â nodi rhwystr, mae croeso i chi gysylltu â ni.
Ni allwn gynnig gosod capsiynau yn awtomatig ar gyfer ein fideos Cymraeg  gan nad yw'r dechnoleg i gyflawni'r broses hon ar gael hyd yma.
I osod capsiwn  ar bob fideo Cymraeg byddai'n rhaid i gyfieithydd osod y capsiynau ar bob  fideo'n unigol a byddai hynny'n faich anghymesur ar y gwasanaethau  cyfredol.
Byddwn yn asesu'r sefyllfa hon yn rheolaidd ac yn anelu at ddarparu  capsiynau awtomatig ar gyfer fideos Cymraeg cyn gynted ag y bydd y dechnoleg ar  gael.
Nid yw'r  rheoliadau hygyrchedd yn ei gwneud yn ofynnol  i ni drwsio ffeiliau PDF neu ddogfennau eraill a gyhoeddwyd cyn 23 Medi 2018 os nad ydynt yn  hanfodol i ddarparu ein gwasanaethau.
Bydd unrhyw PDFs neu ddogfennau Word newydd a gyhoeddwn yn cwrdd â'r safonau hygyrchedd.
Ym Mangor rydym yn defnyddio naill ai Teams neu Collaborate ar gyfer ffrydiau fideo byw.
Nid yw Collaborate yn cynnig capsiynau ar  gyfer fideo byw.
Mae fideo byw wedi'i eithrio rhag  cwrdd â'r rheoliadau hygyrchedd .
Dylid llwytho recordiadau a wneir o  sesiynau Collaborate a fydd yn cael eu cadw am fwy na 14 diwrnod i Panopto a fydd yn cymhwyso capsiynau awtomatig.
Er mwyn mynd i’r afael â hen gynnwys ein system Blackboard sydd o  bosib yn anodd ei gyrchu rydym wedi buddsoddi yn y teclyn Ally .
Bydd hynny'n fodd i  gyflwyno cynnwys Blackboard ar sawl fformat hygyrch.
Mae'r Brifysgol wedi ymrwymo i sicrhau bod offer ar gael i gynorthwyo gyda  hygyrchedd digidol.
Rydym yn darparu hyfforddiant i staff ar ddefnyddio offer Microsoft  Office 365 a all wirio dogfennau am safonau hygyrchedd .
Mae gan feddalwedd Office 365 hefyd nodweddion mewnol i gynorthwyo gyda hygyrchedd gan gynnwys rhaglenni  darllen sgrin.
Mae'r dudalen we Microsoft  Accessibility yn darparu cysylltiadau at wybodaeth bellach am offer hygyrchedd Office 365.
Rydym yn tanysgrifio i declyn SensusAccess er mwyn i staff a  myfyrwyr allu trosi dogfennau nad ydynt yn hygyrch ar hyn o bryd i fformatau  hygyrch.
Rydym wedi gosod ein holl fideos sydd wedi'u huwchlwytho i Panopto i  gael eu capsiynu'n awtomatig.
Bydd capsiynau'n cael eu hychwanegu'n awtomatig i  bob recordiad a wnaed ers mis Medi 2017.
Mae trwydded Microsoft y brifysgol hefyd yn caniatáu i'n defnyddwyr  gael mynediad at MS-Stream .
Bydd y gwasanaeth ar-lein hwn yn darparu capsiynau  awtomatig i'r fideos a gaiff eu llwytho iddo.
Bydd Modiwlau Blackboard o fis Medi 2020 ymlaen yn defnyddio gwedd  cwrs Blackboard Ultra .
Mae hynny'n diddymu'r gallu i greu strwythurau  cwrs cymhleth a bydd yn symleiddio trefn cyrsiau i'r myfyrwyr.
Mae'r Brifysgol yn datblygu Strategaeth Technoleg Ddigidol ar hyn o bryd a  “bwriad yr holl nodau yw darparu gwasanaeth sy'n hygyrch i'r gynulleidfa  ehangaf posibl, beth bynnag fo'r dechnoleg neu'u gallu."
Diweddarwyd y datganiad hwn ddiwethaf ar 20 Ionawr 2021 mewn ymgynghoriad  â'r Grŵp Hygyrchedd Digidol gyda rhanddeiliaid o bob rhan o'r Brifysgol.
Rydym  yn diweddaru'r datganiad hwn yn rheolaidd ac rydym yng nghannol y broses o'i adolygu hyn o bryd.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/canolfanbedwyr/polisi_iaith.php.cy:
Mae Prifysgol Bangor wedi datblygu Polisi Iaith Gymraeg cynhwysfawr.
Mae'r polisi'n amlinellu deg egwyddor sy'n ymwneud â'r iaith Gymraeg.
Polisi Iaith Canllaw Cyflym
Mae Polisi Iaith Gymraeg Prifysgol Bangor yn ogystal â'r Cod Ymarfer ar Benodi Staff yn unol â'r Safonau Iaith Gymraeg yn galluogi'r brifysgol i gyflawni ei hamcan strategol o fod yn sefydliad dwyieithog sy'n cyfrannu'n flaengar i ddatblygu'r iaith Gymraeg ac agenda dwyieithog yn y brifysgol, yr ardal gyfagos, ac yn genedlaethol a rhyngwladol.
Mae'r polisi'n galluogi'r brifysgol hefyd i weithredu Safonau’r Iaith Gymraeg sydd wedi'u gosod arnom gan Gomisiynydd yr Iaith Gymraeg.
Mae Safonau'r Iaith Gymraeg a Pholisi Iaith Gymraeg y brifysgol yn disodli ein Cynllun Iaith Gymraeg.
Cysylltwch â ni os gwelwch yn dda os oes gennych unrhyw Sylwadau neu Gwynion yn ymwneud â Pholisi Iaith Gymraeg y brifysgol neu'r ffordd rydym yn gweithredu Safonau'r Iaith Gymraeg.
Mae'r Polisi Iaith Gymraeg yn cyfeirio at waith y brifysgol gyda myfyrwyr, staff, unigolion a sefydliadau y tu allan i'r brifysgol sydd wedi'u lleoli yng Nghymru.
Mae'r polisi'n berthnasol i holl ganolfannau adnoddau / cost ym Mhrifysgol Bangor, yn ogystal ag i unrhyw is-gwmni sy'n eiddo llwyr i'r brifysgol, ac unrhyw gwmni trydydd parti sy'n darparu gwasanaeth ar ran y brifysgol yng nghyd-destun y gwasanaeth hwnnw.
Mae Safonau'r Iaith Gymraeg yn set o 182 o ddatganiadau sy'n nodi sut mae'n rhaid i'r brifysgol weithredu o ran yr iaith Gymraeg.
Mae'r Safonau wedi cael eu rhestru yn yr Hysbysiad Cydymffurfio sydd wedi'i gyflwyno i'r Brifysgol gan Gomisiynydd yr Iaith Gymraeg yn unol â Mesur y Gymraeg (Cymru) 2011.
Dyma'r Rheoliadau sy'n berthnasol i sefydliadau Addysg Uwch ac Addysg Bellach.
Mae'r 182 o ddatganiadau'n disgrifio'r 'safonau' y mae'n rhaid i'r Brifysgol eu cyrraedd wrth ymdrin â'r Gymraeg o ddydd i ddydd.
Mae Comisiynydd yr Iaith Gymraeg yn monitro sut rydym yn cydymffurfio â'r Safonau Iaith Gymraeg.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/amdanom/cwcis:
Mae’r Brifysgol yn Rheolwr Data Cofrestredig fel y diffinnir gan Ddeddf Gwarchod Data 2018.
Bydd unrhyw fanylion personol a gesglir drwy’r wefan hon ac a roddir gennych chi, yn cael eu prosesu yn unol â’r Ddeddf, a byddant yn cael eu defnyddio at y ddiben neu’r dibenion a nodir ar y dudalen berthnasol.
Efallai y byddwch chi hefyd yn dymuno edrych ar ein:
Ar y rhan fwyaf o’r tudalennau ar ein gwefannau swyddogol, rydym yn casglu gwybodaeth log rhyngwyd safonol a manylion patrymau ymddygiad ymwelwyr.
Gwnawn hyn er mwyn dod i wybod nifer yr ymwelwyr â gwahanol rannau o wefannau’r Brifysgol.
Rydym yn casglu’r wybodaeth hon mewn ffordd na ellir adnabod unrhyw un.
Nid ydym yn gwneud unrhyw ymgais i ddarganfod pwy yw’r rhai sy’n ymweld â’n gwefan.
Ni fyddwn yn cysylltu unrhyw ddata a gesglir o’r safle hwn gydag unrhyw wybodaeth bersonol o unrhyw ffynhonnell er mwyn adnabod rhywun.
Os ydym am gasglu gwybodaeth bersonol drwy ein gwefan o’r hyn y gellir adnabod rhywun, byddwn yn dweud wrthych am hyn.
Byddwn yn ei gwneud yn glir pan fyddwn yn casglu gwybodaeth bersonol, ac yn egluro’r hyn y bwriadwn ei wneud gyda hi.
Enghraifft o hyn fyddai lle’r ydym yn defnyddio ffurflen i’ch galluogi i wneud cais am brosbectws neu wybodaeth arall o’r fath.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/clearing-medicine-and-pharmacy:
Important: Medicine is full.
We will not be accepting new applications for Medicine.
On this page, information for:
Please note that Medicine is now full for September 2025.
Clearing places are not available for this course.
The application will soon open for the 2026 entry.
View our Medicine course page .
Please note that Graduate Medicine is now full for September 2025.
View our Graduate Medicine course page .
This form is not for applicants who have been rejected by Bangor University for this course.
There may be a limited number of Pharmacy places available through Clearing.
Register your interest by filling in the form below, and we'll contact you as soon as possible to discuss possible Clearing options.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/clearing/no-ucas-account:
If you haven't already applied, you first need to register and make an application as an individual candidate.
Unlike those applying to University before Clearing, you will only be able to add a University choice after you’ve submitted your application.
UCAS will send you a welcome email with details of how to access UCAS along with your Clearing number.
Register through the UCAS website
Once you have registered and submitted your application, you will need to go to the ‘Your choices’ section of UCAS and click 'Add Clearing choice.’ Only do this when you have spoken to the University and confirmed that you have a place with them through Clearing.
Then enter the details of the course you are applying for.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/clearing/applied:
You’ve made the right choice in holding Bangor as your firm choice – you won’t be disappointed!
We’re delighted that you have accepted Bangor’s conditional offer and we look forward to welcoming you here in September.
Once you have received your results, you can check on-line to see if your place with us has been confirmed via UCAS Hub.
This can save you time, especially if our phone lines are busy.
If your place is confirmed on Track, there is no need to contact us.
However, if a decision is not yet visible on UCAS Hub or you need to talk to us about your conditional offer then we will be running a special Admissions Helpline to deal with any questions you may have.
Congratulations!
If you don't quite meet the conditions of our offer, it may still be possible for you to take up this place or be considered for a similar course
Once you have received your results, you should check UCAS Hub to find out the latest situation about your firm and insurance choices.
You should also look at the UCAS advice about results day and what happens next.
If you do not meet the conditions of your Firm Choice and they have decided not to offer you a place, but you have met our conditions as your Insurance Choice, you will automatically be placed at Bangor as part of the UCAS Admissions process.
However, if a decision is not yet visible on UCAS Hub or you need to talk to us about your conditional offer, then please contact the Bangor Admissions Helpline.
Make sure you have your UCAS application number and exam results to hand when contacting the Helpline.
Once your place at Bangor is confirmed you will receive an email in 24-48 hours inviting you to apply for accommodation.
The email will explain what you need to do next and will give you access to our online application system.
Please see our information for International applicants.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-success:
Many students secure a place to study at Bangor University through Clearing every year.
Here are some of our students' experiences of going through the Clearing process and choosing Bangor as their place to study.
Register your interest in Clearing
[Visual Description] Dafydd sits facing the camera, his head centred in the frame.
A plain white background, and a simple grey jumper.
[Visual Description] Aerial shot over the Menai Strait – the water a bright blue, with the Menai Suspension Bridge in the background.
In the foreground stands the Main Arts Building.
[0:00] I'm a third year student at Bangor University.
[0:05] A couple of weeks before results day, I was unsure, about my first choice on UCAS.
[Visual Description] A view of a laptop screen showing information about the Clearing process.
A hand appears in frame, scrolling carefully through the page.
[0:10] Therefore started to look at other universities and that's how I ended up at Bangor through Clearing.
[Visual Description] A Clearing helpline advisor speaking on the phone with a prospective student on results day.
Clearing posters fill the background.
[Visual Description] A student holding a red sign reading “Hall Tours 3 Teithiau Neuaddau” in front of a bus on an Open Day, welcoming visitors with a smile.
[0:15] After results day I came up to Bangor for an Open Day and whilst looking around the accommodation
[Visual Description] A group of people walking together along a path in the Ffriddoedd Student Village, making their way from the bus towards one of the halls.
[Visual Description] A view through a window – a family wandering through the village on an Open Day.
[Visual Description] A group of students sitting around a kitchen table in a flat in Ffriddoedd – one working, the others chatting and laughing.
In the background, a student is cooking.
[0:19] I was quite impressed and the fact that the accommodation is guaranteed.
[Visual Description] Three students walking along a path in Ffriddoedd; two others sit chatting on a nearby bench.
[0:24] This took the stress away from the Clearing process.
[Visual Description] Dafydd returns to the frame – the white background and grey jumper remain unchanged.
[0:27] Whilst looking around the University I was quite impressed with the laboratories and the research vessel at Menai Bridge.
[Visual Description] A student with bright pink hair, wearing a lab coat, looking into a microscope in one of the university’s modern laboratories.
[Visual Description] Aerial view of the research vessel on the shores of the Menai Strait, with the village of Menai Bridge in the background.
[Visual Description] Students leaning against the wall inside Pontio, while others relax and queue in the café behind them.
[0:33] I was also impressed with Pontio and the 24 hour study spaces, the cafe and the cinema all under one roof.
[Visual Description] A student sits quietly in a Pontio study space, head bowed over their work, fully focused.
[Visual Description] Two students chatting in the Pontio café, a reusable takeaway coffee cups branded with Bangor University’s logo on the table.
[Visual Description] Dafydd appears again, facing the camera – the white background and grey jumper consistent throughout the video.
[Visual Description] A full lecture theatre – a lecturer speaks at the front, the room full of energy and eagerness to learn.
[0:42] Finding a high level of teaching is important for me and I found this at Bangor.
[Visual Description] Water rushes over rocks in the open air of Eryri (Snowdonia) – a breathtaking natural scene.
[0:48] So my favourite things about Bangor is being in the outdoors, especially being this close to the mountains of Eryri and the beaches of Ynys Mon.
[Visual Description] A clip of Llyn(lake) Idwal in Cwm Idwal – the orange hues of autumn visible in the landscape.
[Visual Description] Three students stand at the lake’s edge, gazing across the water – aware of the beauty around them.
[Visual Description] A student walks across a beach on Anglesey, wearing a yellow T-shirt and sunglasses reflecting the sea and sand.
[Visual Description] Aerial shot of Llyn Padarn in Llanberis – a group of Bangor students paddleboarding peacefully across the lake.
In the distance, Dolbadarn Castle and the base of Yr Wyddfa (Snowdon) complete the view.
[0:56] I also love spending time with my friends and the club and society opportunities here have been amazing.
[Visual Description] A student plays lacrosse, running towards the camera, stick held firmly with the ball clearly visible.
[Visual Description] Two students fist-bump while taking part in an indoor climbing activity.
[Visual Description] Dafydd returns to the frame once more – the white background and grey jumper unchanged.
[1:02] In my opinion, the best thing you can do during Clearing is come to Bangor and see the University, see the town and have a feel of the place.
[Visual Description] A student walks up College Road, passing the Music Building.
The red brick and early blossoms on nearby trees add warmth to the shot.
[Visual Description] A new angle – the same student has been joined by two others, walking together up the street.
[Visual Description] Dafydd sits once again, bringing the video to a close just as it began.
[1:11] Going through the Clearing system was very easy.
[Visual Description] The Bangor University logo appears, following two red, yellow, and white stripes crossing the screen.
[0:00] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Victoria speaking sat at a table with books and artwork behind her.
[0:05] Hi, my name is Victoria.
I'm in my fourth year.
I'm from near Liverpool and I'm studying law with Italian.
[0:13] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A student sat on a wall typing on a laptop with a coffee and the sea behind them.
[0:13] I unfortunately did not get the results I was expecting on the day but everything worked out fine.
[0:21] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Victoria is sat on a plush yellow sofa with decorative pillows and art work behind her.
[0:21] I knew I definitely wanted to study law with Italian,
[0:24] so the first thing I did was look at other universities who study who allowed law in Italian
[0:25] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A student on the stand in the University Moot Court in a Court grown.
[0:31] and Bangor was one of these places.
[0:34] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Aerial shot of the Menai Straits and Menai Bridge.
[0:34] Going through clearing at Bangor was such a relieving experience.
[0:38] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A member of University staff sitting by a computer speaking on the Clearing Helpline.
[0:40] All the anxiety I had was taken away through clearing with Bangor.
[0:42] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A second member of University staff sitting by a computer speaking on the Clearing Helpline.
[0:47] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Victoria is sat on a plush yellow sofa with decorative pillows and art work behind her.
[0:47] I did speak to someone on the phone on the helpline.
[0:50] I phoned up the number on the website and it was very quick to get through to them and they were very helpful.
[0:57] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Three students sat on brown leather sofas, chatting at Barlow's café and Bar.
[0:57] I did not feel apprehensive coming to Bangor being a clearing student, I felt completely welcomed.
[1:02] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A group of students walking together outside University Accommodation.
[1:03] I felt like I deserved to be there.
Everyone was so lovely and fitting in was not a problem.
[1:06] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A group of students sat chatting together within the University's Student Union.
[1:10] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Victoria is sat on a plush yellow sofa with decorative pillows and art work behind her.
[1:10] It's so nice to be in nature as opposed to in a big city, which can be very intimidating
[1:17] For your first time away from home.
[1:19] You have a very supportive community around you.
The teachers are super supportive.
[1:19] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Three students sat on a brown leather sofa in a local café looking and laughing at a smartphone.
[1:23] You make amazing friends through the societies.
[1:25] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Four students sat out on the terrace near the Main University Building overlooking Bangor.
[1:28] There's so many societies to join
[1:30] so you always can make friends so easily and you always have a great time.
[1:34] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Victoria is sat on a plush yellow sofa with decorative pillows and art work behind her.
[1:34] I have joined quite a few societies in my time at Bangor, including dance, athletics, trampolining,
[1:38] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Students in a studio, dancing.
[1:41] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Aerial shot of Treborth athletics track, the Menai Straits and Menai Bridge.
[1:43] just a few to choose from, but there's so many more and they're all amazing.
[1:44] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] 6 students in a gym hall with trampolines.
[1:47] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Victoria is sat on a plush yellow sofa with decorative pillows and art work behind her.
[1:47] Bangor was definitely the right choice for me.
[1:50] Everything happens for a reason and obviously I didn't get into my first choice of university
[1:56] but I don't regret my choice at all.
I feel so happy here and I've had the best time.
[1:58] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A group of students sharing pizza and chatting in a local pizzeria.
[2:03] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Victoria is sat on a plush yellow sofa with decorative pillows and art work behind her.
[2:03] Anyone awaiting their results and worried about going through clearing should not worry at all.
[2:08] It's something completely out of your hands.
You don't know what's going to happen on the day,
[2:10] but I can assure you that should you go through clearing and you call up Bangor,
[2:19] You'll feel so much at ease and so happy.
[0:00] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Clip of Max sat on a picnic bench with his phone.
[0:05] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Aerial shot of the Main Arts Building and surrounding buildings.
[0:06] My name is Max Robinson.
I'm a second year accounting and finance student, and I come from West Yorkshire.
[0:09] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A student and professor in a computer room looking at a computer screen.
[0:12] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Max sat on a bright green sofa with art work and a shelf in the background.
[0:12] I definitely have heard about clearing, uh, before receiving my results.
[0:17] I heard people talking about it almost like it was a looming threat, but I really don't think it was that bad.
[0:23] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A person in a café on their laptop looking at the Bangor University Clearing webpage.
[0:23] When I realised I didn't get the results I wanted, I immediately thought about clearing.
I knew what it was, but I didn't know much else.
[0:29] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Max sat on a bright green sofa with art work and a shelf in the background.
[0:31] So it was very much an intense hour of googling and researching and trying to figure out what, what I could possibly be doing next.
[0:40] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Two students walking down the stairs in Pontio and chatting.
[0:40] When I was phoning Bangor University, the person on the other end of the phone was extremely helpful
[0:44] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A shot of the Main Arts Building.
[0:44] by telling me exactly what I needed to do,
[0:48] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A member of staff sat on the computer speaking on the Clearing Helpline.
[0:48] because I had no idea where I was going for clearing, and I didn't exactly know the process.
[0:52] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A member of staff sat on the computer speaking on the Clearing Helpline.
[0:52] And they managed to explain it all to me extremely quickly and help me with my course choosing as well.
[0:56] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A group of students in a room having a meeting, sat on tables with their laptops.
[0:56] Bangor University stood out to me because it was
[1:01] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A group of students sat on the desk on the Pontio balcony with their laptops.
[1:01] very public about how inclusive it was with its students in all aspects of its education
[1:06] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Two students walking through the iron gates outside Main Arts, chatting.
[1:08] and compared to other places I'd been looking at, they seemed very cut off and very separated from the student population,
[1:11] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A student standing in the Student Union reception area, speaking to a member of the Student Union Staff.
[1:14] and it was quite refreshing to see somebody that was willing to hear the voice
[1:17] [VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Max sat on a bright green sofa with art work and a shelf in the background.
[1:18] And I was very eager to talk.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-life/socialmedia:
Keep up to date with our latest news, events, photos, stories and videos!

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/accounting-banking-and-finance:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our Accounting, Banking and Finance programmes here at Bangor Business School.
To help you get familiar with us before you begin in September, we've compiled some resources to address common questions and provide valuable information.
Our courses are taught by world-leading academics who are passionate about their subjects.
You will learn from experts who are at the forefront of their fields, and you will have access to a wealth of resources to support your studies.
Our dedicated team of academics are not just knowledgeable but also have a diverse range of expertise and passions.
We are committed to providing a supportive and inclusive environment for all of our students.
We have a dedicated team of staff who are here to help you with your studies and to make sure that you have a positive experience at Bangor.
Here at the Business School we have access to some of the best databases in the world including Bloomberg.
You can access the Bloomberg database along with others in our brand new Trading Floor where you can hone your skills and prepare for a career in industry.
Hello and congratulations on your offer to study at Bangor University.
My name is Doctor Lawrence Jones, and I'm a lecturer in Finance.
We're excited to welcome all our new starters to our Business School, where we provide a warm and collegiate atmosphere to help you get the best of your studies, studying things like financial risk management and investment strategy that will help you succeed in the workplace, in whichever career it is you go on to study.
We are offering our new and exciting state of the art trading room, which has the latest and greatest machines, screens and financial databases to let you behave and trade like a real financial trader.
We are also excited to offer you the opportunity to go and study with our partner institutions and with our external firms and partners, to give you those real world employability skills to be able to succeed in the workplace.
We're excited to see you when you start, and we look forward to meeting you all.
Thu, 28 August at 14:00
Join us at this special event focused on Welcome, Registration and Student Support at Bangor.
This live Question and Answer session is your opportunity to ask staff and current students any questions you have about starting at university, the registration process and what support is available to you as a student at Bangor University.
Be sure to login at 2pm on Thursday, 28 August to take part.
Join Event
Thu, 4 Sep at 10:00
Join us at this special event focused on Accommodation at Bangor.
This live Question and Answer session is your opportunity to ask staff and current students any questions you have about moving into and living in Bangor University Accommodation.
Be sure to login at 10am on Thursday, 4 September to take part.
Join other applicants and be part of our Bangor student community even before arriving!
Register for our Campus Connect app where you can ask questions, chat with current students and make friends with other applicants on your course and in your chosen accommodation.
Check your emails for your Bangor University reference number, you'll need this when you register.
Dynamic - analytical - transformative
The most interesting aspect of Investment and Portfolio Management is understanding how risk and return interact to drive investment decisions, from valuing assets like equities and bonds to crafting diversified portfolios that align with investor objectives.
My favourite part about teaching at Bangor University is its inclusive and supportive environment.
Bangor fosters a diverse learning community where students from all backgrounds feel valued and encouraged to thrive.
Finance captivated me because of its powerful impact on individuals, businesses, and economies.
The idea that well-informed financial decisions could create wealth, spur innovation, and drive economic stability intrigued me.
I was particularly drawn to the dynamic nature of investment and portfolio management, where the blend of quantitative analysis and human psychology creates a fascinating challenge.
Make the most of Bangor’s inclusive and resource-rich environment by actively engaging in opportunities beyond the classroom, for instance joining societies, participating in workshops, and connecting with peers from diverse backgrounds.
Enhancing social inclusive and personal financial status.
Support students to achieve their personal goals by transferring my research and practical experience in finance.
Improving social benefit by optimizing investment decisions.
Learning by doing.
Bangor is also well connected by road and rail.
You’ll be given as much help and support as you need.
From managing finances, to mental health advice, there is a team of staff dedicated to making sure you thrive.
Whether it’s a lifetime passion of yours, or a sport or activity that you have always wanted to try, there is plenty to keep you busy in your spare time.
Whether you're on a tight budget or ready to explore life's luxuries, Bangor University ensures you have the freedom to choose.
Visit our Applicant Hub for where you'll find everything you need to know about your application and how to prepare for university.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/biology:
Congratulations on being accepted to study at Bangor University!
We're thrilled to welcome you to our community.
Stay connected with us on social media for the latest news, and events.
0:01 Hello, I'm Professor Christian Dunn from the School of Environmental and Natural Sciences here at Bangor University, and I wanted to congratulate you on your offer.
Well done.
0:11 And I also wanted to give you three things that makes Bangor so special.
And the first is the additional teaching facilities that we have.
So, we have all the nice shiny labs and the lecture theatres, the and expect from our university of our standing.
0:26 But we also have a research farming research centre.
We have our own botanic gardens and we have our own natural history museum, which you will use when you're here studying with us at Bangor.
0:38 The second thing is all your lecturers to a certain degree are research active, which means that they are doing the research which they are then teaching you.
And so when you come on to do your third year project, you'll be doing it with an active research group.
0:54 And the third thing is, well, our location.
We are in the best natural laboratory you could hope for, right there.
We have the sea and just over there we have the mountains and we have every habitat you can imagine in between.
It is a great place to live and to study if you are interested in the natural world.
So, I'm looking forward to seeing you in September.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/business-management-and-human-resource-management:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our Business, Management and HRM programmes here at Bangor Business School.
From national competitions such as The Pitch and Universities Business Challenge Worldwide to work placement and guest talks there is ample opportunities as a student to enhance your employability and gain valuable skills for your future.
Congratulations on your offer here with us at Bangor University.
My name is Dr Clair Doloriert, and I'm a Senior Lecturer in Human Resource Management at Bangor Business School.
At Bangor Business School we teach cutting edge, innovative topics including how to manage people, strategic management and of course, sustainability, which is hugely important in terms of managing people and workplaces in today's global workplace.
So we look forward to welcoming you at Bangor University when you join.
In a typical week, you will attend 12 hours of classes.
Wednesday afternoons are kept free for student sports and society activities.
There are also lots of extracurricular activities that you can get involved in within the Business School and in the Wider university.
You will have 12 hours of in-person teaching each week.
These consist of a combination of lectures, workshops and tutorials.
The remainder of the time should be spent on self-directed/independent learning i.e.
reading the relevant Management textbook chapter for a particular module, conducting research on a company for an upcoming assignment, participating in a virtual discussion or reading a case study in preparation for an upcoming tutorial.
Whether you want to be entrepreneurial and set up your own business, or work with international companies, start-ups, not-for-profits or work for public sector organisations, this programme will give you the ability and expertise to accelerate your career.
For example this degree will equip you with the skills to think strategically and creatively when solving problems and managing change.
You will benefit from a range of guest speakers, including real-life successful entrepreneurs and you will have the opportunity to engage with businesses, undertake work placements, internships and participate in business competitions, all of which will boost your employability.
You’ll study topics such as management practice, organisation theory and the global business environment, as well as many other aspects of business, like leadership, sustainability, innovation, marketing, operations, human resource management, strategy, new venture creation, finance, adapting to change and e-business.
You’ll study real organisations in order to gain strong business acumen and knowledge of management processes.
Our assessments reflect real-life business situations and environments.
We use a wide variety of assessment methods to ensure that you will master wide-ranging industrial skills and develop these as you progress in your degree.
These include written, communication, networking, and decision-making skills, including essays, reports, presentations, blogs, exams, portfolios and group projects.
We also provide you with work-based learning opportunities, enabling you to undertake live projects in your final year.
Dynamic - because no two days in tourism are ever the same.
Innovative - as it constantly adapts to global trends and challenges.
Impactful - because it connects cultures and, if properly managed, helps communities grow.
Many people assume that a degree in tourism only leads to jobs in the hospitality or travel agency sectors.
This couldn't be further from the truth.
Tourism, combined with strong foundations in management, marketing, and sustainability, opens doors to an array of careers.
Graduates can work in roles such as destination management professionals, tourism attraction managers, sustainability managers, or marketing strategists.
Others may pursue entrepreneurial ventures.
Over nearly two decades of teaching tourism at the university level, I’ve seen countless success stories—graduates managing ski resorts in the Alps, running sustainable tourism initiatives, becoming event managers, opening a tourism business along a cycling route, or even joining academia and becoming a colleague.
I have always been, and continue to be, passionate about the world.
I wanted to immerse myself in different cultures, climates, and geographical conditions.
I felt that studying tourism would provide an incredible opportunity to understand how continents, nations, and regions can leverage their unique characteristics to create memorable experiences for visitors while fostering economic development within local communities.
The emerging trends.
Tourism is an open system influenced by various factors, including technological, environmental, demographic, and political shifts, to name just a few.
Every year brings new trends that shape this dynamic industry.
My lectures constantly evolve as I introduce and explore these fresh developments with students.
Tourism is full of disruptive innovations—low-cost airlines, Airbnb, dynamic pricing models.
Researching and sharing these advancements keeps my job exciting.
Understanding people in the workplace and how work can be a happy and satisfying experience.
Many of us will spend around 44 years in/ at work, this equates to around 690,000 working hours.
Work needs to be something that helps us thrive and gives us a sense of meaning and contributes to positive personal wellbeing.
I started my career having had a negative experience with a manager.
This drove a desire in me to understand why bosses and leaders can behave in such negative ways, and what good leadership looks like, and how staff can be managed and supported when they experience difficulties in work.
Think of your time at Bangor as a supportive environment to grow and develop your communication, networking, and employability skills.
Grab every opportunity you can to enrich your CV; business games, societies, volunteering, travel!
I absolutely love hill walking or half an hour power walk with a podcast - and I really love podcasts and the power of learning away from screen time!
Aside from this, I've been known to binge a few series on Netflix and love a good board game with my family!
Be forward thinking, what you do now will have profound impact on your future.
A chance to meet people and connect with students who have interests in making changes in today's society.
Learning to understand how the labour market transition has an impact on disabled people who are marginalised in their society.
To teach students how to improve their critical thinking skills and reflect on their career plan.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/childhood-and-youth-studies:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our Childhood and Youth programmes here at Bangor University.
Stay connected with us on social media for the latest updates, news, and events.
Our courses are taught by world-leading academics and practitioners who are passionate about their subjects.
Congratulations on being offered a place to study here at Bangor University.
I'm Rhian Tomas and I'm a lecturer in Childhood and Youth Studies here at the School of Education in Bangor University.
And I look forward to to meeting you and to teaching you on my modules so that you can develop an understanding and develop your employability to have a successful career working with Children and Young People.
So I look forward to meeting you very, very soon.
During your first year you’ll typically have 8-10 contact hours, including lectures, seminars and tutorials.
During the rest of the week students are expected to undertake some personal study and spend time reading, researching and preparing for assignments.
Yes, there are placement opportunities in Year 1 and Year 2.
You will have the opportunity to meet people who work with children in all kinds of settings to find out their experiences.
We offer two courses here at Bangor University.
One English medium course and another Welsh medium.
You do not need to learn Welsh if you opt for the English medium course although it can be beneficial if you wish to work in Wales.
If you are opting to study our Welsh medium degree then you will be expected to be able to read and write through the medium of Welsh.
There are financial rewards available through the Coleg Cymraeg scholarship and the Universities Welsh medium bursary when studying at least 40 credits through the medium of Welsh.
The University does offer Welsh courses to all students whilst studying with us, further information can be found here .
During your studies you will look at all aspects of a child’s development, their rights, language acquisition, additional learning needs to name a few.
The degree will prepare you to work with children in all kinds of settings, from early years through to adolescent.
Some of our graduates go on to pressure a PGCE to become a Primary or Secondary teacher (subject to meeting the entry requirements) .
No, all assessments are coursework.
It's more than childcare.
Childhood Studies draws on psychology, sociology, education, politics, geography, philosophy - anything that will help us to really understand what it is to be a Child today and how we can improve children's experience.
It's an in depth, interdisciplinary field for anyone who wants to work with and/or on behalf of children!
It gives an understanding of the foundations of human experience and isn't bound by one discipline or perspective!
It's endlessly fascinating and transferable to all sorts of work, including (but not limited to) childcare.
My favourite thing about teaching in Childhood and Youth Studies is questioning the things we take for granted.
So much of what we think about children and childhood is tied up in the story adults tell based on what they remember.
I love getting to ask questions that make us think again about whether childhood is really the best time of our lives?
Was life really easier when we were younger?
Can a child grow-up too fast?
Are parents really to blame for everything?
It can be challenging to take a new perspective on things we hold as true but I really enjoy how interesting the discussions with students become when we start looking into ideas like this.
I remember arriving in Bangor for the first time when I was 17 years old and looking up at the College on the Hill and it just felt right.
I remember thinking I could see myself studying in that building, that the town felt like home.
That was a while ago but my favourite part about teaching in Bangor now is still walking through that building and thinking about all the thousands of people who have walked those corridors before me and feeling connected to them all because of our shared experience.
That being good academically is just about practice.
It's not something you're born with, it's something you learn and so there are no limits to what you can be good at if you're interested in the subject and have the right people to support you.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/computer-science:
0:01 Congratulations on the offer.
I really hope you picked Bangor for your choice for university.
My name is Llyr ap Cennydd, I'm a lecturer here in the School of Computer Science and Engineering.
I'm also the admissions tutor here.
So, there's a lot of really good teaching and research that goes on in Bangor University.
0:16 We really punch above our weight in both.
Teaching, the classes are quite small, so the lecturers get to know you.
You're not just a number here.
In terms of research, well, I research in virtual reality and AI and things like that.
But, there's also data science, there's engineering, electronics, physics as well, nuclear.
0:36 So there's a lot going on here.
Bangor itself is a relatively small city but quite compact.
We're called the City of Learning, pretty much everything is within walking distance.
0:45 So it's a really nice, relaxed atmosphere for learning as well.
We're right between the mountains and the sea so there's lots to see and do there as well.
A lot of people come on holiday here for that reason.
0:55 So yeah, I hope you pick Bangor for your choice for university.
If you haven't already done so, you can head over to the UCAS website and firmly pick Bangor, and I hope to see you all in September.
Cheers.
[Visual Description: A human eye opens
Catty Langford Bangor University PhD Student
Images of a man with a Virtual Reality headset on]
Dr Llyr Ap Cenydd from Bangor University speaks:
"The age of AI is upon us, and industries have been revolutionised with more exciting opportunities than ever before.
At Bangor University, our courses will prepare you for an exciting and future proofed career in the technology sector.
So at Bangor, we practice research led teaching.
Computer science is no different.
So the people that are lecturing you are experts in their field.
So I teach game design, game development, AI, and these are very much things I do for research and also for development as well."
Catty langfornd speaks:
"My undergraduate degree at Bangor University showed me my love of computer science.
We got to cover so many different aspects of the fields, which showed me what I loved the most and led to my PhD in operational research,
where I'm looking at electric vehicle rooting for middle mile deliveries."
Steph Parry speaks:
"The thing I enjoy most about Bangor University that I think sets it apart from other universities is the community,
the lecturers, they're very passionate and the support is great.
Like, I walk down the corridor and every lecturer will say, hi."
Catty Langford speaks:
"Bangor's open so many doors to me.
Soon I'll be travelling to Montreal, Canada to work with Professor Michelle Gendreau, who is the top researcher in the field that I'm studying.
It's such an exciting opportunity and I can't wait to go."
"This semester we are going to spark, and we get to work with local businesses and do a project based on their proposals."
[Visual Description:
Image of the Airbus Factory
Image of aircraft technicians in a cockpit running checks
An aeroplane flies overhead
Stock imagery of a man in a VR headset]
Dr Mosab Bazargani speaks:
"In this school, we base your final year project based on our industrial collaboration with global companies such as Airbus and Air France-KLM.
This will give you a hands on industrial experience on real world problems.
I'm working with the biggest tech companies in the world.
I'm really working right on cutting edge and pioneering over it.
Sometimes, unless the kind of thing you can do as a student here as well."
Dr Llyr ap Cennydd speaks:
"For your third year project, for example, you can be teamed up with somebody like me.
If you have interest in virtual reality or game design and development, you can start that process for yourself and work on something that's really passionate to you."
"My advice for anyone who's thinking of coming to Bangor would be to immerse yourself in the amazing community we have here.
Everyone is so welcoming, the lecturers are so supportive and you'll make friends straight away."
[Visual Description: Drone shot of Bangor University buildings in Bangor.]
"Join us in shaping the future."
Welcome to the 2025 Computer Science and Engineering Expo.
I love the expo.
It's that time of year.
We can see the lights at the end of the tunnel.
This is a showcase of what students have been working on for their final year projects, so we can actually see the results in public.
They can show their friends, show colleagues, show academics, and also show businesses.
There's also businesses here today giving short talks, and often they will have jobs available.
Or they might want to interview a few of the students.
And there's no better way of making a first impression than the poster showing probably the biggest project they've worked on so far.
My name is Pranav Rookie SPG.
I'm a third year Electronic Engineering student here at Bangor.
my project is on making biodegradable electronics, specifically our tree cellulose.
So at the moment most of the electronics that we have goes well until the end of life cycles made out of petroleum based things.
It's really toxic to the environment.
So this essentially out there, the end of life cycle can go and be turned into compost.
So the whole thing is biodegradable.
When you make electronics, your body produces like 100,000 skin cells every second.
So even one of those can contaminate a sample.
So I work in a clean room, which basically covers my whole body.
So I have to work in a room where 81,000 particles exist any second.
We've got some companies here today.
There's talks going on throughout the day as well.
Some of the students have got some CVS with them,
so it's an opportunity for them to see not just what's out there but what's out there locally as well.
So all the companies that with us today are local.
My name is Brad Newman and I work for the TV and aerial filming specialist company Aerial Works,
where we specialise in aerial footage for television and film, and we also do R&D as well.
So we wanted to see what the latest and greatest minds coming out of Bangor University are.
And what they could potentially offer us in terms of the R&D side of things.
Plus it also gives them a little bit of an insight into seeing what sort of industries that are to offer,
you know, not just the stereotypical sort of industries.
There's always people looking for stuff in the drone world as well.
My project is exploring VR interaction for history education.
So basically you're set in the Roman times.
and you've got a table in front of you with artefacts where the player picks them up and interacts with them.
The support from the lecturers is really good.
Um, they have an open door policy where you can go in and ask them anything.
So they've worked with me very well.
with the community.
It's just a lovely place to be here.
Over the last three years I've had a variety of different modules.
I've had app focussed modules, UI focussed modules, game focussed modules,
and I wanted to combine them into one final project which was creating a UI that people could use to track their progress.
and all my lectures that I've had have also helped me.
I've spoken to them individually about the projects as well, so I've had a lot of help from them.
Can you tell me why this expo is such a good opportunity for students like yourself?
Yeah.
Well, first of all, hence the name, um, Expo is a good way to expose my products to other people.
Also, it's a good opportunity to see other people what they'd be working on at.
It's it's great just to come together, isn't it, to share everything really.
Well, that's the end of 2025 Expo for Computer Science.
I've really enjoyed looking around today, seeing what the students should be doing, and good luck to everybody in the future.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/criminology-and-criminal-justice:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our Criminology and Criminal Justice programmes here at Bangor University.
Some of our teaching staff are ex-police officers and bring first hand experiences to the classroom.
As well as North Wales Police we have close connections with many crime organisations across the UK and regularly organise for our students to have guest speakers or go and visit these agencies.
Congratulations on receiving an offer to come to Bangor University.
My name is Dr Tim Holmes.
I am a Senior Lecturer in Criminology and Policing here at Bangor.
And when you come to Bangor, we'll introduce you to Criminology and Criminal Justice.
During the course of your first year, we'll take you through an introduction to Criminology with Criminal Behaviour.
We'll look at the theories to explain criminal behaviour, and we'll move on to look at the criminal justice system in a lot of detail.
We'll talk about the Police.
We'll talk about what the Police do.
We'll look at the courts.
We'll look at the punishment process and how that works.
We'll also combine into year one a study of victims, how we support them, how we identify them, and what support they need when they're going through the criminal justice system.
Will combine all of this with a more general discussion of the Social Sciences so you get a well-rounded opportunity in year one to look at a range of different topics, feel supported, feel ready to go forwards in your degree in Criminology and Criminal Justice.
I look forward to seeing you, thanks for listening.
As well as lecturers and personal learning time you can further develop your skills through study skills sessions and extracurricular activities.
You may want to join various clubs and societies through the students' union, with Wednesday afternoons being reserved specifically for you to take part in sports and club activities.
Throughout the year we organise various school events such as quiz nights giving you the chance to meet and mingle with other students and the wider academic community.
Your typical week will generally include 9 to 12 hours of contact time, which may consist of lectures, seminars, or workshops.
Additionally, you are encouraged to gain extra experience through opportunities like prison visits, training days with industry professionals, and other discipline-related events where students can volunteer to participate.
You’d also be expected to undertake self-study outside of class time.
Yes, you will have opportunities to undertake a work placement either through our work placement module or through our work placement year options.
There are many careers you can pursue with a criminology degree.
Studying criminology and criminal justice offers students the chance to understand criminals and their offending behaviour, and this can lead to rewarding careers that can make a positive change in society.
For example, you could go on to work in one of the criminal justice agencies such as the police, prison and probation services.
Graduates also pursue careers working to address crime and anti-social behaviour in local communities, such as youth offending and victim support services, with roles in local authorities such as the emergency services, health authorities, housing associations organisations.
I have always had an interest in Crime, and it all started because my father is a retired police officer.
I decided when I was 34 that I wanted to learn more about the subject and that is how is all began, well, academically.
There are so many different areas that you can focus on, be it the Criminal Justice System itself, the various agencies, the different types of crimes and criminals, the theories behind why someone becomes a criminal.
The list is endless...
I have to say that for me personally, it would be my own research, which is Female Gangs in the United Kingdom.
But also, a number of other lecturers within Bangor have focussed on so many areas that interest me, such as Police Culture and Rural Crimes!
This will be a fantastic experience that you will never forget.
You will make life long friends and have the opportunity to try so many new things.
Make sure you join clubs and societies, and get involved, there are so many to chose from.
And remember to reach out to your personal tutor and your lecturers when you need help.
Criminal Law and Criminology are both really interesting subjects.
I love exploring the theories about why people commit crime (Criminology) and then examining what happens to them when they are apprehended (Criminal Law and Criminal Justice)!
I love when students get really interested in the subject area!
I really enjoy reading my student essays on their chosen 'criminal' and the theory they would apply to explain.
Focus on what genuinely excited or intrigues you, and don't be afraid to embrace unexpected opportunities along the way.
The first successful use of the insanity defence came after an attempt to assassinate the British Prime Minister, Robert Peel, in 1843.The assassin, Daniel M’Naghten, believed he was being persecuted by government agents and attempted to kill Prime Minister Peel, but accidentally shot and killed Peel's secretary, Edward Drummond, instead.
During the trial, M’Naghten’s defence argued he was suffering from a delusion due to mental illness, and he was found not guilty by reason of insanity.
This case led to the creation of the M’Naghten Rule, a legal standard for insanity that asks whether the defendant could distinguish right from wrong at the time of the crime.
The case sparked huge public outrage, with Queen Victoria herself demanding stricter laws.
Yet, the M’Naghten Rule became a cornerstone of the insanity defence in criminal law, influencing systems worldwide, and is still referenced in courtrooms today.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/dental-hygiene:
Congratulations on being accepted into our Dental Hygiene programme!
Our Dental Hygiene course is taught by world-leading academics who are passionate about their subjects.
The programme is led by dedicated dental hygiene tutors within the School of Health Sciences.
You will have access to a state-of-the-art phantom head facility, lecture theatres and IT infrastructure.
Hi, I'm Tom Graham.
I'm the Director of Student Engagement for the School of Health Sciences here at Bangor University.
Massive congratulations to you all for receiving an offer to come and study with us in September.
You can see that I'm actually standing in one of our clinical skills suites, which is a facility that has been invested in to aid your learning and to help you succeed here at Bangor.
You have enrolled on a professional course, and we are going to get you to that professional standard, backed by a team of academics who have strong clinical experience.
We have facilities here at Bangor as well as in Wrexham.
They are both equally well supported by those academics.
Massive congratulations again and we look forward to seeing you in Welcome Week in September.
Dental Hygiene
I’m Bev, the Course Director for Dental Hygiene and Dental Therapy and Professional Lead for all dental programmes at Bangor University.
With 30 years of experience in dentistry, I’m passionate about advancing the development of Dental Care Professionals.
I specialise in dental radiography, serving as Lead for Dental Radiography at Bangor, and I’ve been teaching CPD courses to the dental team for over 20 years.
I’m Mari, a North Wales local from the Llyn Peninsula, fluent in Welsh and English.
I qualified as a Dental Therapist from Cardiff University in 2016 and have worked across Wales throughout my career.
I’m passionate about advancing the roles of Dental Hygienists and Therapists, and I work with the British Association of Dental Therapists and Y Gymdeithas Ddeintyddol.
I’ll be leading your Clinical Practice 1 and 2 modules.
Welsh is very much a language for everyone at Bangor.
From fluent speakers to those who are learning a few words and phrases or just enjoying hearing and seeing a different language to their own, we all benefit from this rich linguistic and cultural community.
Click here for more information and to learn a few Welsh phrases!
Croeso!
Welcome to Bangor!
Here at Bangor the Welsh and the English language are both used, and we're extremely proud to be one of the world's most bilingual universities.
Of course, there's no expectation for you to be able to speak or understand Welsh, but here is and idea of what you can expect while living in a bilingual environment.
Bangor is located in Gwynedd, which is the county with the highest percentage of Welsh speakers in Wales.
And Bangor University is proud to use and support the language.
In the university itself, around 1 in 5 of our students speak Welsh, and many staff members are able to help and support them in both languages.
Around the city, you'll notice that Welsh and English are both used naturally as day to day languages.
And you may notice that many of your peers choose to study and complete assignments through the medium of Welsh.
If you're interested in learning Welsh, you can take a module or an online course during your time at university.
Or you can pick up a few simple phrases, such as "Shw'mae", "Bore Da"and "Diolch".
Whichever way you choose to live your university life, we hope you'll enjoy being a part of a truly bilingual community.
A community that everyone's welcome to be a part of.
An exciting new chapter awaits you here at Bangor University.
Accept your offer on UCAS now - we can't wait to meet you.
Meet your future classmates and tutors, and learn more about your chosen course and explore campus at one of our popular Offer Holder Days.
There is financial support available to help pay for your university study, accommodation and living costs - be sure to apply in plenty of time.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/economics:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our Economics programmes here at Bangor Business School.
Congratulations on your offer to come and study Economics here in Bangor.
It's a beautiful day here today.
I hope you're excited about coming to join us.
I'm very excited about the prospect of being able to work with you over your three years here in this beautiful city.
I'm a Dr Rhys ap Gwilym Lecturer in Economics, I teach Economics to the first years, so I look forward to meeting you when you arrive in the near future.
I also teach in the third year so one of the things I love seeing is how people's understanding of the subject develops over their time here with us in Bangor.
I hope you're as excited as I am and congratulations once again.
I look forward to seeing you when you arrive here.
After completing my A-levels, I initially went on to study medicine, but realised that it wasn't for me.
I got a place at Bangor Business School through clearing, and after my very first economics lecture I knew that was the subject for me because it provided valuable tools for understanding the world and how it functions.
When I ask people what is economics all about?, the overwhelming majority of people relate it to what I call "headline economics" (things that we often hear about in the news such as economic growth, inflation, unemployment).
Whilst these issues are certainly economic issues, economics is much more than that as a subject area.
The core concepts of economics are based on understanding how individuals, businesses and governments make decisions, how they interact with each other and their natural surroundings and how these decisions and interactions change over time.
Economics can help us to answer a lot of interesting questions such as why do the likes of Cristiano Ronaldo, Lionel Messi and Kylian Mbappe make so much money?
What impact will AI have on the world as we know it?
And where does stuff e.g.
the food on your plate, the clothes you wear come from?
How does stuff end up in the right place at the right time?
to name just a few!
Make sure you have a well-rounded experience during your time at Bangor!
Whilst you're ultimately here to study, Bangor also has a lot more to offer including a wide range of societies, sports clubs and activities.
The best piece of advice I received when I started University was to not be shy or scared to ask the lecturers questions and to ask for help!
Now, as a lecturer, my mantra is "The only silly question is the one you don't ask me"
Bangor Business School is a friendly place with approachable and supportive staff.
The opportunity to learn from my colleagues (and students!) and an environment that encourages the creation of new knowledge that is applicable to the real world.
My favourite thing about economics is that it is always in the news and impacts every aspects of our lives.
This allows me to have a great discussion with my students about how the theory we learn in the class relates to current events.
I'm currently working on a project for Senedd Cymru to look at alternative economic targets.
This is a fascinating study as it allows me to explore the possibility of using alternative metrics beyond GDP to measure the performance of the economy.
I've always been interested in markets.
When I was a child I would go to the local livestock market with my father and I would be fascinated by how prices were determined by supply and demand.
I then became interested in other type of markets (e.g.
stocks, bonds) and studying economics was a natural subject for me to study.
That there continues to be different views on how best to grow the economy and ensure it benefits everyone.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/engineering:
0:00 I'm Doctor Daniel Roberts, and I'm the program lead for electronic Engineering.
I'm currently standing in our electronic engineering laboratory.
Where you'll be spending a lot of your time.
0:08 Our courses are very practical, we've got some cool robots available to play with and you'll doing a lot of experiments in here, with me teaching you as well.
So I look forward to seeing you in September.
0:00 Congratulations on your clearing offer.
My name is doctor Mark open, and I teach on the engineering course here at Bangor University.
0:11 Hopefully we will see you in September.
And I will get to teach you on Engineering Materials one.
Well, we'll start to look at, fracture and deformation in materials.
0:23 Hopefully, whilst you're here at Bangor University, you'll get to explore the wonderful realm of materials and their application in aeronautics, mechanics and even nuclear.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/english-language-and-linguistics:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our English Language and Linguistics programmes here at Bangor University.
Congratulations on being given an offer to study with us here at Bangor University.
My name is Dr Peredur Webb-Davies and I lecture in Linguistics and in our department we all study and research Linguistics the English Language or Bilingualism, and we're part of a larger school where everybody studies and researches the arts, the humanities and culture and language.
As a student with us.
you will be studying, at least in your first year, things about how language works, language variation, language origins, the nitty gritty of language, things like the sounds, the structure, and the words of language.
Bangor is a wonderful place to study.
It's in a friendly, tightly knit rural community, and it's incredibly bilingual, with the Welsh language and culture being really a primary in the community, and we are also a very international community.
So we look forward to meeting you again very soon.
Thank you.
Goodbye.
In a typical week, you’ll have a balance of structured and flexible learning, with 8–12 contact hours in years 1 and 2, alongside additional time for independent study.
In addition to scheduled sessions, you will be able to meet with fellow students with similar interests (such as the Bangor Linguistics Society), as well as with members of staff in their office hours.
Contact hours per week can vary depending on your specific course, year of study, and the mix of lectures, seminars, tutorials, and practical sessions.
For a typical English Language and Linguistics degree, students usually have around 8–12 contact hours each week in their first and second years.
No, fluency in a second language isn’t usually required, but it can be beneficial, especially for TEFL programs.
Many linguistics programs include introductory language courses or modules that can help students better understand different linguistic structures.
Graduates can pursue careers in many different areas, including translation, linguistics research, publishing, speech therapy, lexicography, content writing, communications, media, teaching (TEFL, TESOL), and tech companies specializing in natural language processing (NLP).
The degree will equip you with a wide range of skills that are required across many different career paths – well beyond those that directly relate to English Language and Linguistics.
An English Language and Linguistics degree is centred on the study of language itself, focusing on research, analysis, and understanding how language is constructed and used in various contexts.
That there is such a thing as 'speaking correctly'.
As long as someone can be understood, then however they speak - no matter how standardly or formally, or the opposite - then they are speaking correctly.
But a lot of people (outside of linguistics, naturally!) believe that there is something better about using standard grammar, for example; the truth is that this is only one form of language, suitable for some situations but not for all.
I love opening people's eyes to variation in language and all the different ways that people use a language like English or Welsh.
Finding out about and discussing the reasons why people speak differently is really interesting too.
Make sure you keep a balance between your work (i.e.
your course) and your spare time.
I grew up in a bookstore.
I studied literature in College and it was the culture of books that drew me in.
Everyone has their own story to tell about their experiences reading and sharing books.
I enjoy bringing those stories together to understand how books engage with our culture.
This is a very personal university.
I can know all my students by name and I will say hello when I see you in cafes or passing in the hallways.
You don't always know where you are going until you get there.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/english-literature-and-creative-writing:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our English Literature and Creative Writing programmes here at Bangor University.
Hello, I'm Doctor Tristan Burke, lecturer in English literature at Bangor.
Congratulations on your offer to study English Literature or Creative Writing.
When you join us, you'll be studying across, different literary periods and genres.
If you're doing Creative Writing, you'll be looking at the basics of prose and poetry, fiction and non-fiction.
If you're studying English Literature, you'll be at the basics of literary criticism and topics like the gothic comedy and medieval literature.
We're looking forward to seeing you.
During your first year you’ll attend lectures each week that offer stimulating introductions to the novels, poems, short stories, plays, and films studied.
You’ll attend literature seminars, where you’ll enjoy guided discussion and tailored activities that enhance your understanding of these texts and relevant contexts.
Make sure to allocate time every day for reading - the beautiful Shankland library or one of Bangor's lovely coffee shops provide a perfect backdrop.
In first year, you will typically have 9-12 weekly contact hours.
Each English literature module includes lectures and seminar.
Creative Writing modules are taught through workshops.
In addition, every tutor and lecturer will have a weekly office hour, which gives another opportunity for feedback and contact.
Some modules also include regular timetabled study groups, in which you can informally discuss texts with fellow students.
While there is a strong emphasis on independent reading and study, seminars and lectures are designed to guide your studies and prepare you for assessments.
Assessments come in many shapes and forms on our modules, but they are always designed to help develop your skills, boost your employability, and allow you to engage with course material in intellectually stimulating ways.
While you can expect to research and write essays and give presentations, you will also have opportunities to showcase your ideas and research in alternative ways, for instance, by producing creative responses to the texts we study.
Sometimes, you will be able to choose between a more traditional essay-style assignment and an alternative assessment.
A small number of modules feature exams or class tests.
While the exact volume of reading depends on your classes, English Literature modules typically cover a longer text (such as a novel, a play, or a short story), a film, or a selection of poems every week.
Sometimes, you will be asked to read a critical essay or theoretical piece to prepare for seminars.
We carefully design modules to help you manage the reading load, by alternating longer and shorter texts, but planning is key!
We always encourage students to plan their reading well in advance and offer guidance on how to tackle the reading load for specific modules.
Yes, you will be encouraged to share your work with your tutor and your peers in the workshop setting.
It's important to say that no one is ever forced to do this!
However, most students find workshops, not only a lot of fun, but also most beneficial in terms of moving through the editing process.
Workshops are friendly, supportive, safe, and most importantly, push you to make your writing the best it can be.
Over time, students tend to find their confidence soars in this space and many go on to enjoy sharing their work in progress at our open mic night, Versify.
Yes!
There are many opportunities to engage with writing outside the classroom.
Bangor University has an active Writers' Guild which meets twice a week.
Here you are invited to workshop, chat, discuss or simply crack on with your own writing.
Y Llechan (The Slate) is our visiting writer programme which runs in both semesters.
Y Llechan offers the opportunity to hear renowned and emerging writers reading their work and to engage in conversation with them in Q&A sessions.
Versify is the name of our monthly open mic night at a local tap room.
Attended by staff and students alike, this well-loved evening offers you the chance to share your work or simply sit back and enjoy the spoken word.
Lots of people think that the only career you can get with an English Literature degree is teaching.
In fact, English Literature graduates are highly employable.
The communication and collaboration skills that English Literature teaches are highly sought after by employers in all sorts of sectors!
I love the sense of community at Bangor University.
As a smaller university we get to know our students and work closely with them all the way through their degrees.
It's inspiring and rewarding to see students develop as thinkers and writers over that time.
Get to know the area beyond the university.
North-west Wales is a unique and friendly place and there's so much to discover here: amazing communities, a thriving arts scene, beautiful landscapes and historical places.
The great poet and painter William Blake.
He is one of the most original, imaginative and exciting artists to ever have lived and has influenced how I experience and understand in countless ways!
I'd like to tell him how important he is to me.
To ditch the perfectionism!
A terrible first draft is better than a blank page - and a finished essay (or article, or book) is better than a perfect one that exists only in my dreams.
I think this is also very important advice for students.
I get to explore some of the most exciting, challenging, thought-provoking, and beautiful literature written in the past and present with students who always amaze and surprise me with their ideas and perspectives.
To be working in a bilingual environment has been wonderful, in ways that I could never have expected before I started the job and began to learn Welsh.
Teaching here has given me a whole new perspective on the texts and authors that I teach and research!
Creative, challenging, critical.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/environmental-science:
Congratulations on your offer to study at Bangor University.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/film-media-journalism-and-drama:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our Film, Media, Journalism and Drama programmes here at Bangor University.
Congratulations on being offered a place to come and study with us here at Bangor University.
My name is Nathan Abrahams, and I'm a Professor in Film Studies in the School of Arts, Culture and Language.
I look forward to meeting you soon and teaching you on your modules that will take you through developing a core foundation in the subjects, right through your degree and into your future careers.
We're all very excited that you're going to be joining us to be part of this vibrant community, and look forward to welcoming you to Bangor soon.
A typical week will include a variety of lectures, seminars, workshops, rehearsals, cinema screenings and filming shoots with your fellow students and lecturers.
Sometimes you will be given tasks to prepare before sessions, you'll need to work independently and as part of a group which will require meetings to share and prepare ideas.
You'll have the opportunity to take part in extra-curricular activities, such as being involved with the Film Society, Bangor Musical Theatre Society, Bangor University's newspaper and a broad variety of music ensemble-based practice, such as choirs and a University orchestra.
You will typically study three modules in each semester which would mean around 9-12 contact hours per week.
You will be expected to conduct some independent study and complete weekly readings, watch live performances or/and films.
There will be opportunities to meet up with your fellow students outside of class time to prepare group work for example.
From time to time there will be additional opportunities during the term to take part in additional master classes, training and networking events with industry professionals.
We have lots of subject specific facilities to prepare for your career in film, media, journalism or drama with quality film, recording and editing equipment as well as excellent performance venues on campus.
We have Blackmagic cameras, Adobe Creative Suite and DaVinci Resolve editing software available for you to use.
You'll have access to our on campus radio and podcasting suite, and in our Arts and Innovation Centre, Pontio, we have a large 450 seat theatre, a 150 seat black box studio theatre and a cinema!
The cinema is where we sometimes showcase students films and creative projects.
Pontio also shows the latest arthouse and blockbuster films, and contemporary dance and theatre productions that you can enjoy outside of teaching time.
Wales is home to a buzzing film, television and theatre industry and we work in partnership with top names in Welsh film and television, including:
You won’t need to travel far to learn the ropes!
We visit the set of 'Rownd a Rownd', a popular Welsh drama and offer you the chance to see a working TV set.
Through the Wales Screen Academy, professional freelance crews hold workshops and masterclasses at the university.
We also bring in industry experts to run skill sessions to boost your employability.
Through making connections, graduates have achieved success at the BAFTA Cymru Awards in the past.
Eryri (Snowdonia) provides an out-of-this-world backdrop for blockbusters and the latest binge-worthy series.
Our spectacular beaches and mountains feature in Tomb Raider, Clash of the Titans, House of Dragons and The Crown.
When you study in Bangor, you’ll get the chance to film in the same stunning spots as the major Hollywood studios.
Build a memorable portfolio and showreel to show off to the film industry after graduating.
I get to teach my hobby and show new films every year.
I have enjoyed learning about the life and work of the legendary director Stanley Kubrick.
Stanley Kubrick!
I have been teaching and researching him since 2007.
I have a lot of questions!
We are always watching media and we give you the critical skills to analyse and understand it as well as create it.
Finding out what students are interested in - last year in my first year Visual Cultures class were super excited for our graffiti week, and many wrote essays on graffiti in Wales, England and the USA.
And so, I took their excitement and developed the module further to do research on graffiti.
So this spring semester, we will we documenting graffiti in the local area and developing our understanding on how graffiti communicate a sense of place and belonging.
Graduation and the End of Year Showcase where final year students in The School of Arts, Culture, and Language showcase their research and creative practice work - it is fantastic to see our students be so proud of their accomplishments and also see their beaming parents.
I love working with students on research.
Just last year, one of our students was successful in a paid internship to create a podcast series emerging out of my book 'The Ghost Reader: Recovering Women's Contributions to Media Studies' (Goldsmiths Press, 2024) - it was a great experience.
Read, and use 'The Elements of Style' by Strunk and White - it's a tiny book about writing well.
I now recommend it to every student - when you learn the rules of writing well, you break them effectively and with intent for maximum impact.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/health-and-social-care:
Congratulations on receiving your offer to study Health and Social Care with us!
We are excited to have you join our community.
To help you get to know us better before you start in September, we have put together these resources to answer some common questions and provide useful information.
Our Health and Social Care course is taught by world-leading academics who are passionate about their subjects.
Our Health and Social Care degree offers a comprehensive curriculum that covers a broad range of topics, from public health to social policy.
You will gain a deep understanding of the complexities of the health and social care sector, learning through a combination of lectures, practical sessions, and real-world placements.
Our interdisciplinary approach ensures you are well-equipped to tackle contemporary challenges in health and social care.
Public Health & Health Promotion I focus on developing knowledge and skills across diverse teams and contexts.
My teaching covers health promotion, community development, and public health strategy and leadership.
With experience across the NHS, local government, and international settings, I’ve worked in countries such as Ukraine, Kenya, and Kosovo.
I also completed a PhD using realist research methods to explore community health development.
Meet your future classmates and tutors, and learn more about your chosen course and explore campus at one of our popular Applicant Days.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/history-archaeology-and-heritage:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our History, Heritage and Archaeology programmes here at Bangor University.
In the School we frequently have pizza nights, quizzes and trips including a recent trip to the Christmas markets in Manchester so you'll have the opportunity to meet and socialise with staff and students from different disciplines within the school.
Hi, I'm Dr Marc Collinson from the School of History, Law and Social Sciences here at Bangor University.
Speaking in particular about History, Heritage and Archaeology.
So congratulations.
Here at Bangor we study a vast variety of different parts of the past.
We start all the way from pre-history and work all the way through to the 1990s.
Colleagues looking at things like dictatorship, nationalism, the land of the state, the Reformation, the Tudors, the Medieval Period, anything from 1066, all the way to now.
We're really interested in our students and making sure our students enjoy how they study the past, try to sort of teach them to understand what the past should look like, how they can understand it for themselves, make them into the Historians of the future, but also just to sort of ensure that they enjoy a period of study.
We're really keen for anyone to join us, and we're also really keen thinking about what people want to go going forward.
We are, of course, in a UNESCO World Heritage site.
Well, in fact, two World Heritage sites with the castles and the slate quarries, this is the perfect place to study History.
It's got everything you could want anything to fill your extra time alongside all the other things are activities you can do about being a university student.
Firstly, every week will give you a variety of classes and experiences.
You'll be attending lectures with our historians and archaeologists and participating in seminars.
Our seminars are always geared around discussion of an engaging topic in a small group environment.
You will similarly encounter workshops: these are practical classes to equip you with skills, such as piloting a drone.
Your week is also likely to involve field trips and museum visits, exploring our stunning historical landscape in north Wales.
In between, you’ll be undertaking guided reading and preparation, with plenty of opportunities for one-to-one meetings with our lecturers.
Typically, in the first year of an undergraduate degree with us you’ll have timetabled classes for around 10-14 hours per week.
This will vary slightly depending on which modules you choose, and for our Archaeology and Heritage options in particular the contact hours will be higher in some weeks if a site visit or trip is planned.
Additionally to this, you can arrange meetings with your lecturers to give further advice about your modules and assessments, and you’ll also have a Personal Tutor who is there to help support you throughout your studies.
Studying a subject that gives you joy makes your university experience more pleasant and successful.
Our History degrees encourage crucial critical thinking and provide you with independent research and communication skills, explaining why so many of our graduates go on to work in the media, civil service and in business.
We pride ourselves on small classes with expert lecturers, which gives a fantastic student experience, helping to cultivate confidence as you enter the graduate job market.
The world is your oyster with a History degree!
Please don’t worry!
We don’t expect you to have any academic experiences of studying Archaeology and Heritage as they are not generally offered in schools.
All our first-year modules are geared around introducing you to the basics, familiarising you with key techniques, and, crucially, taking you out to examine the treasure trove of archaeological sites around us in north Wales.
These include burial mounds, hill forts and the UNESCO-designated castles and slate quarrying landscape.
We will also give you vital digital humanities training, such as deploying Virtual Reality technology in the heritage industry.
History is completely relevant to understanding the troubled world we see on the news and in our social media feeds during the 21st century.
For example, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and 'fake news' are causing quite a moral dilemma at the moment, and looking back through History at other examples of technology changing society helps to put it all in context e.g.
the invention of the printing press in the Early Modern Period, the arrival of television during the 1950s etc.
'I like the fact that there are so many different ways of looking at History, and that these keep changing.
For some years I have been very interested in subjects such as the history of food, the history of animals and even the history of tattoos.
When I was doing my A Levels I would never have imagined studying these, and I am so grateful for how being a historian enables me to keep learning new things!
History, and related fields such as Archaeology and Heritage, are full of inspiring stories.
As a small child I remember seeing on TV the Berlin Wall coming down in 1989, and I wanted to know why there was a wall in the first place, and why people were celebrating that it was being demolished.
From then on modern history was one of my main interests, and when I had the opportunity a few years ago to teach seminars about the Berlin Wall I was delighted, especially as I was able to borrow a piece of The Wall that was in the possession of one of my colleagues to show my students!
I would have liked to have had dinner with the clothing designer Laura Ashley during the late 1970s, when her flowery, chintzy prints were at the height of their popularity on dresses and home accessories.
Laura Ashley came from a Welsh background, and established a factory in Carno in mid Wales as her business grew.
I would have enjoyed chatting with her about the contrast between running a world-renowned company and doing so from a rural, relatively remote area of Wales.
I would also have asked her about what it was like to be a woman in the business world in the 1970s.
Laura Ashley died in an accident at her home in 1985, but it's interesting that many of her patterns are now trending on TikTok and Instagram under the hashtag #cottagecore.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/law:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our Law programmes here at Bangor University.
Hello and congratulations on gaining a place to study law with us at Bangor University.
This is a really exciting time in your lives, and we're delighted to have you join us.
My name is Tasha and I will teach you throughout your undergraduate studies.
We have designed a curriculum to be both academically and practically relevant.
You'll gain various skills here, including transferable ones, so it doesn't matter which career pathway you go down.
You'll have these skills as a foundation for you.
We also have developed a law clinic, which is a really exciting opportunity for you to put your theory into practice.
You'll work underneath a qualified legal professional and receive the best guidance possible here.
So congratulations once again on gaining your place at Bangor University.
We look forward to welcoming you on campus.
A typical week on campus will involve a combination of large-group lectures, smaller discussion-based seminars, and personalised tutorials.
You can expect to complement your in-class studies through self-study, where you will work towards completing assignments, preparing for classes, and undertaking recommended/further reading.
You can expect a timetable of 12-15 on-campus contact hours.
This will consist of scheduled lectures, seminars, and/or tutorials.
You will be expected to prepare for these sessions through completing the recommended reading and undertaking any other tasks that have been set.
There is no pre-reading required before you join us in September however you may be interested in watching some television programmes, listening to audiobooks and podcast that covers different areas of Law.
The first year of a law degree typically introduces you to the fundamental legal concepts and principles.
You will study subjects like Law, Justice, and Procedure (an introduction to the Welsh and English Legal System), Contract Law, Criminal Law, Legal Skills, and Public Law.
These courses will provide a solid foundation for your subsequent years of study.
To prepare prior to starting your Law Degree, you can read widely by exploring legal news, opinion pieces, and classic texts.
You can also practice critical thinking by engaging in debates, discussions, and analytical exercises.
Reading surrounding your area of interest would be beneficial, as you will gain a deeper knowledge and understanding of the topic prior to your studies.
At Bangor University Law we've had a busy year from courtroom simulations to global legal insights, here’s a small snapshot of what’s been happening recently at Bangor Law.
The Bangor University Legal Advice Clinic won the inaugural Pro Bono Award in the Legal News Wales Awards 2025.
Our legal advice clinic provides free legal advice to members of the public, offering students practical legal experience under the supervision of qualified staff.
Law and Medical students collaborated with the Senior Coroner for North Wales and professional actors to stage a simulated inquest.
Students analysed medical evidence, prepared legal arguments, and represented both the family and the health board in a fully immersive courtroom setting.
This year, our Clinic students have supported 208 clients across areas such as housing, family, employment, consumer rights, and personal injury – making a real difference to the local community while developing practical legal skills.
Recent events included a talk from Marie O’Leary, Counsel at the International Criminal Court, on her work in international law and defence.
Students also attended a roundtable on post-conflict Africa, featuring ambassadors and UN peacekeepers discussing justice, human rights, and reconciliation.
Recently Bangor University students were able to experience a live mock employment tribunal held by Aaron & Partners Solicitors on campus.
The aim of the Mock Employment Tribunal was to familiarise local employers with the tribunal experience.
The proceedings were judged by an experienced employment law judge, with students performing as witnesses and acting out scenarios.
Bangor University is a perfect option because the lecturers are incredibly passionate about their subject areas.
I chose Bangor University because of the option to study through the medium of Welsh, and the small, friendly tutorial groups here.
It was an incredible experience where I was able to meet with other students from Germany and Poland.
I was given an insight into matters such as homelessness and how they were dealt with by different countries.
During the trip I had the opportunity to conduct a presentation about homelessness and our policies here in the United Kingdom.
I also visited some local schools to see what they did to make a difference which was very interesting.
The Legal Advice Clinic was an incredible practical opportunity to help people in real-life situations.
I am determined to have a career in Law as I have thoroughly enjoyed my experience.
I am currently working with ‘Menter Môn’ which has been a valuable experience for me.
One of my A Level Lecturers believed in me and encouraged me to go to University and qualify as a solicitor.
I was a first generation University attender so this was a big step for me.
Running the legal advice clinic we deal with most areas of law and really provide a difference to the local community.
Clinic has been hugely supported by the local community which is great to see.
Of course the access to beautiful beaches and mountains is also a bonus.
Think about work experience from day one.
Don't leave it until your final year.
One of the highlights is definitely meeting Lady Hale at one of the LawWorks events.
The students loved it too.
A truly inspirational woman.
Law is a very challenging and stimulating subject due to it's ever-evolving nature.
This keeps the subject interesting beyond university study as you are able to witness it's evolution in everyday life!
The smaller teaching groups allow lecturers to develop a strong working relationship with the students.
This results in lecturers getting to know the individual learning styles and needs of students.
Don't be afraid to take on challenging tasks and learn from your mistakes.
The power and flexibility of joint honour degree programmes!
Through studying this way, you are still able to progress into a legal career, whilst also broadening your career prospects!

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/marine-biology:
0:00 Hi there, my name is Doctor Martin Kurr and I'm a Marine Biologist here at the School of Ocean Sciences in Bangor.
I'm one of the admissions tutors for the school, and I'm joined today by Mattias Green.
0:10 I'm a Professor in Physical Oceanography and the other Admissions Tutor.
And we would like to congratulate you on your offer to study here at School of Ocean Sciences Bangor University.
0:20 We are a dedicated school of Ocean Sciences.
We have all the disciplines under one roof and it's a great place to be.
That's just one of the reasons to come here., another couple are the wonderful habitats that you can see immediately behind us.
0:32 It's an incredibly diverse area in terms of the ecology, the habitats that we have are absolutely fantastic.
It's a wonderful place to be.
Personally, but also professionally, the advantages for teaching and research are really, really obvious.
0:44 We're also an incredibly friendly bunch, and we offer a really personable service to all of our students.
I promise that you'll feel very much like you belong here from day one.
We look forward to welcoming you in September.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/marketing:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our Marketing programmes here at Bangor Business School.
We're thrilled to welcome you into our community, below are some of the things you can expect as a student here at Bangor University.
Our Marketing courses are taught by world-leading academics who are passionate about their subjects.
From national competitions such as The Pitch and Universities Business Challenge Worldwide to work placement and guest talks there is ample opportunities as a marketing student to enhance your employability and gain valuable skills for your future.
0:00 Well.
Firstly, congratulations on being offered a place to come and study with us here at Bangor University.
0:06 My name is Steffan Thomas and I'm a senior lecturer in the Marketing Department at Bangor Business School.
0:12 I look forward to meeting you soon and teaching you on your modules
0:15 that will take you through developing a core foundation in the subjects, right through your degree and into your future careers.
0:22 I very much look forward to meeting you soon.
reading the relevant Marketing textbook chapter for a particular module, conducting research on a brand for an upcoming assignment, participating in a virtual discussion or reading a case study in preparation for an upcoming tutorial.
Studying on our Marketing degree at Bangor will allow you to develop into an outstanding marketing professional.
Our BSc Marketing programme is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), enabling you to receive automatic exemptions from a range of professional qualifications (e.g.
Certificate/Diploma in Professional Marketing and Digital Marketing).
You will also get the opportunity to enter nationwide Marketing competitions such as CIM 'The Pitch' and you will gain valuable practical skills which employers expect, such as developing a website.
You will also benefit from a range of guest speakers from the world of Marketing.
The topics covered on the Marketing degree include Digital Marketing, Social Media Marketing, Consumer Behaviour, Brand and Retail Management, Marketing and Society, International Marketing and Marketing Analytics.
All module materials are continuously updated to reflect current trends, up-to-date research and industry practices.
Our assessments reflect real-life marketing situations and environments.
We use a wide variety of assessment methods to ensure that you will master wide-ranging business skills and develop these as you progress in your degree.
These include written, communication, networking, and decision-making skills including essays, market reports, presentations, blogs, exams, portfolios and group projects.
We also use industry-leading simulation games to bring marketing challenges as close to reality as possible as well as providing you with work-based learning opportunities, and enabling you to undertake live projects in your final year.
The most expensive advertisement ever was created by Chanel in 2004 featuring Nicole Kidman and directed by Baz Luhrmann.
It cost $33 million to put together!
Marketing is not always about pursuing profits, and can be used to influence people's behaviours for the greater good e.g.
by raising awareness about the risks of excessive alcohol consumption.
I enjoy teaching using lots of examples of good and bad Marketing practices, and focusing on the skills that students will need to pursue a career in Marketing such as communication, creativity, teamwork and critical thinking.
Taylor Swift.
Not only is she a great musician, I also think she is a Marketing genius!
She is a master in understanding and catering to her audience: the “Swifties.”
I have always considered Marketing to be an exciting and fast-paced subject which offers opportunities to be both strategic and creative.
Importantly, Marketing is underpinned by understanding people (or 'consumers') and their behaviours, which is what I find interesting.
My biggest frustration is the perception that social media presents an opportunity for businesses to market for free.
This undermines the value of understanding the data, the algorithms, and the consumer profiles.
Marketing is an exciting and dynamic subject requiring detailed planning and application.
I am lucky to work with several businesses offering advice on digital marketing and consumer engagement.
Therefore, I am regularly disseminating information and able to witness how it translates into commercial success.
Say yes to opportunities and you can always learn more.
A degree is a brilliant stepping stone to your future career, and the more time and effort you invest into it now, the more you'll get out of it later in life.
Riding my motorbike or flying my plane.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/medical-sciences:
Welcome to our Biomedical Science and Medical Sciences offer holder hub.
We've created these pages to share more in depth information on what makes studying at Bangor unique and to help you make the important decision of where you're going to study.
If you've accepted your offer we're very excited to hope to welcome you to Bangor in September and wish you luck with any exams and coursework you're studying for.
If you're still considering your options make sure to have a look at all of our content on this page to help you decide if Bangor is the place for you and feel free to get in touch if you have any questions.
As Medical Sciences, Biomedical Science and Pharmacology have a common first year you have the flexibility to change courses from second year onwards.
It can be hard to know before you've started what areas of medical sciences you'll find most interesting so this means you have the chance to figure it out during year one.
Our IBMS-accreditation for our Biomedical Science programme helps prepare you for the fast paced and interesting work of a modern day pathology laboratory with disciplines ranging from organising blood transfusions to detecting viral infections in patients.
Our Medical Sciences degree is a pathway to our Graduate Entry Medicine programme for those who graduate with at least a 2:1.
Please note that additional entry requirements  also apply.
Practical training builds your skills in areas like genetics, microbiology, and disease mechanisms, preparing you for diverse career paths.
Hello and congratulations on having been offered a place here at Bangor University.
I'm Dr Dylan Wyn Jones and I run the biomedical science degree here at Bangor, as well as teach on pretty much everything else we do as a school.
I'm looking forward to welcoming you all to the start of the course in the end of September, where we'll have an opportunity to get together all to meet and have a bit of a chat to officially welcome you to Bangor.
When you're on your course, you will have opportunities to spend time with your fellow students.
You'll have time to spend with the staff.
As we're fortunate, we've got quite small teaching groups.
There's a really good opportunity for us all to get to know each other really, really well.
So if you are having any issues, if you just want to come and have a chat, you'll find that all the staff are very happy to talk with and very, very welcoming.
Thank you very much for considering Bangor.
Congratulations again on your offer.
I very much look forward to seeing you within a few weeks.
Best of luck.
If you choose to study with us at Bangor you'll be taught by people who are passionate about their subjects.
Below you can get to know some of the key lecturers who will be a part of the first few years of your degree.
What’s your favourite part of your job?
Seeing students on their graduation day is incredibly special.
It’s the culmination of all their hard work, dedication, and perseverance—and knowing I’ve been a part of their journey is deeply rewarding.
What’s a fun fact about you that students might not know?
I have a dog named Dippy, who’s often a popular feature in my sessions!
I love sharing photos of her to brighten up my lecturers.
What’s one thing you think every student should experience at Bangor?
Immerse yourself in the local area.
Bangor is very student-friendly and inclusive, with lots to explore.
Plus, the Bangor catering brownies are delicious!
What’s the best piece of advice you ever received?
Believe in your abilities and ensure you always ask the staff for support (too many students sit in silences struggling with their studies), reaching out for support is the most important aspect of  being a successful student.
I am a ex-international Lacrosse player, I am related to Kylie Minogue, and am an avid Warhammer 40k player (and currently am the 40k officer for Deeside Defender Gaming Club).
What do you love most about teaching?
There are many aspects, some examples include having engaging discussions with students on new scientific discoveries and seeing students develop their understanding over the years of study.
Getting to talk about pharmacology all day!
I fell completely in love with the subject within a couple of months of starting my own undergraduate degree in pharmacology many years ago, and I decided then that I wanted to spend my life teaching other people about it, and I feel very lucky that I can.
Being able to support the students through what can sometimes be a difficult time as they adapt to life at Uni.
I get a huge amount of satisfaction from seeing students grow, gain confidence, and realise their potential.
I have pet cockroaches!
I love connecting with students and seeing them grow from first-year nerves to confident thinkers.
There’s something incredibly rewarding about witnessing those “aha!” moments when challenging concepts suddenly make sense, and I’m honoured to be both a guide and cheerleader on their academic journeys.
Watching students build confidence, ask deeper questions, and make connections they hadn’t considered is priceless.
I'm easily distracted by animals—if there's a furry, feathered, or even scaly creature nearby, you’ve probably lost me!
If I weren’t a scientist, I’d be a veterinarian, a farmer, or a zookeeper!
I love seeing students develop both academically and personally during their time with us.
Watching them make connections between complex concepts and real-world applications, particularly in biomedical science, is incredibly rewarding.
How would you describe Bangor in three words?
Historic, welcoming, inspiring.
Outside of academia, I love to brew mead!
What’s one book or resource you always recommend to students?
The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks by Rebecca Skloot.
It’s an essential read for understanding the human stories behind scientific discoveries and the ethical complexities in biomedical research.
We understand you may have lots of questions about becoming a student of Medical Sciences of Biomedical Science at Bangor so we've compiled the answers to the most frequently asked questions below.
You will receive your timetable during Welcome Week.
Welcome week for 2025 starts on the 22nd of September.
The full list of term dates can be found on the University website .
New students will be sent lots of information about Welcome Week and the arrival process before the beginning of term.
During Welcome Week there will be plenty of people - staff and students -  to guide you.
These include Peer Guides , current students who volunteer to help new students to help during the settling-in process.
Peer Guides are familiar, friendly faces in the early stages of university life.
Every student at Bangor University is also assigned a Personal Tutor , an Academic Staff member who provides personalised academic support and guidance.
Your Personal Tutor will meet with you throughout the year to review your grades, discuss employability, and direct you to appropriate student services when needed.
They are also responsible for providing academic references for you.
Personal Tutors are dedicated to helping you succeed academically and personally.
They can assist with a wide range of issues, from academic challenges to career planning.
In addition to regular meetings, you can reach out to your tutor whenever you need extra support or advice.
We place a high priority on caring and supporting our students and are well placed to do so due to the smaller teaching groups.
As well as the support you will receive from your academic team, the university’s student services department offers a range of assistance to ensure that you thrive during your time with us.
There are lots of arranged activities during Welcome Week that provide opportunities for you to meet and get to know other students on your course.
These include events led by the course leads, such as quizzes.
At Bangor University we also have a wide range of student societies and clubs helping you meet new people and explore new and existing interests.
Our MedSciSoc student society organises events and socials and are active on Instagram and Facebook .
Medical Sciences : you’ll consider human health and disease at a micro and macro level.
Biomedical Science : you’ll study a wide range of subjects that underpin the scientific investigation of human health and disease.
Foundation Year students following Medical Sciences, Biomedical Science and Pharmacology will take the same modules.
During Year 01 Medical Sciences, Biomedical Science and Pharmacology students will take the same modules.
Over Year 02 and the Final Year students will follow modules aligned to their respective programme disciplines - concentrating on the knowledge and skills specific to Medical Sciences, Biomedical Science or Pharmacology.
In the final year all students will complete a dissertation research project under the supervision of teaching staff.
For more information about modules and course structures please visit the linked course pages.
The Foundation Year is designed to prepare students for all of our undergraduate degree programmes.
It is an ideal course if you do not currently have the necessary scientific background to enter our undergraduate programmes.
It provides the basic, but essential understanding of biological and chemical principles that underpin the field.
Welsh-speaking students can complete parts of their degree through the medium of Welsh .
Several modules across in each include Welsh-language options.
Additionally, any assignment submitted can be written in either English or Welsh, and bursaries are available for students who choose to study part of their degree in Welsh.
Students learning in Welsh benefit from smaller class sizes, excellent peer support, and a Welsh-speaking Personal Tutor.
There is also a hall of residence specifically for Welsh speakers and learners, providing a natural Welsh-speaking environment outside of class.
During Welcome Week we’ll have introductory sessions to get everyone together and help them settle in at Bangor.
At the beginning of your first week at Bangor University, a staff member will be assigned as your personal tutor to ensure your welfare is maintained and to provide pastoral check-ins at least three times a year (once per semester).
If your first language is Welsh, we will strive to pair you with a Welsh-speaking personal tutor to facilitate comfortable communication in your native language.
We’ll have Peer Guides to help you in Welcome Week who are current students who have volunteered and have been trained to help new students settle in.
They’ll help you make friends through various social events, show you around the town and the University, and give you information and tips about student life.
When your last decision comes in, UCAS will send you an email to update let you know all your decisions have been received and you can now reply to any offers you've been given.
You will need to sign in to your UCAS account to choose your Firm and Insurance choices and decline your remaining offers.
You’re in good company.
Lots of students join us this way each year and go on to have an amazing experience.
Clearing might happen quickly, but that doesn’t mean you’re behind.
You’ve still got plenty of time to get everything sorted, from booking accommodation to making friends and even visiting the campus.
Although our applicant days were in the Spring there's still an opportunity for you to come and visit us at Bangor to see if it feels like the right fit for you.
We have an open day on Sunday the 17th of August where late applicants are welcome to visit among visitors for the next cycle.
Just make sure you let our staff know you're applying for this September so they can give you the most relevant information.
Register for the Open Day
Once you've received your offer in UCAS you can join other applicants and be part of our Bangor student community even before arriving!
Register for Campus Connect
When you’ve selected Bangor University as your Clearing choice on UCAS, and we have processed and formally confirmed your place via UCAS, you will be sent an e-mail with details of how to make an application for a place in University halls of residence.
Read more about our accommodation
Have more specific questions or want to chat to our current students?
Ask them anything about the course, campus life, or settling in.
They’ve been in your shoes and are happy to help on Unibuddy .
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled into life at university as a Medical Sciences student.
If you have any questions about the course, our lecturers are on hand to help.
Follow us on social media for a glimpse into life at Bangor—student stories, campus events, and everything that makes studying here in the North Wales Medical School unique!
"My favourite thing about Medical Sciences at Bangor is the breadth of learning.
I like to think of us as broadly educated generalists – we have practical laboratory skills, molecular biology and biochemistry skills, clinical physiology and anatomy, diagnostic skills… It is wonderful to have the opportunity to learn so many different disciplines within the medical field.
Because of the huge range of learning on the course, the diversity in the plans and career aspirations of my peers is so inspiring and I am always finding new things to research and look into."

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/medicine:
Welcome to our Medicine offer holder hub.
We've created these pages to share more in depth information on what makes studying Medicine at Bangor unique and to help you make the important decision of where you're going to start your journey into Medicine.
Check out the FAQs on this page for more information about joining us.
If you're still considering your options make sure to watch our video featuring our current students talking about why they love studying at Bangor and find out more about the unique experience of studying with the North Wales Medical School.
In Year 2 and Year 5 you’ll take Student Selected Components (SSCs).
SSCs provide the opportunity for you to choose areas you study and acquire knowledge through your own effort.
In the past students have undertaken projects related to Mountain Medicine...
For Welsh-speaking students you’ll be able to study some modules through the medium of Welsh and use your language on placements.
But if you don’t speak Welsh don’t panic!
All content is available in English and we will provide you with the opportunity to learn basic language skills in order to help you communicate with Welsh patients on placement and develop transferable communication skills that you can use across the world.
You’ll learn through Case Based learning (CBL) which helps you to make sense of your new knowledge and skills.
Working in small groups on a case study or scenario, you will develop solutions under the guidance of your facilitator.
With each case you will look at the anatomy, physiology and social aspects, develop practical skills and get relevant clinical experience through short placements.
This process will allow you to understand how each relates to the other, giving you an overall perspective
(Megan R) Hi, I'm Megan.
Hopefully you've come to one of our applicant days, but if not, here's some reasons why you should choose Bangor.
(Llinos) The reasons I think you should come to Bangor, there's a really great community amongst the staff and the student body.
We have peer guides assigned to you to help you get settled in.
We have personal tutors to help you not just academically, but with your university experience.
And we've also got Bangor MedSoc, which is a specific society for the medical students and anybody interested in the clinical side of things.
(Megan R) I chose Bangor because of the Welsh language, so I enjoy being part of like, a Welsh community during the course but also as part of Bangor itself.
(Dewisiais Bangor oherwydd yr iaith Cymraeg, felly dwi'n mwynhau bod yn rhan o, fel, cymuned Cymraeg yn ystod y cwrs ond  hefyd fel rhan o Bangor ei hun.)
(Llinos) On top of that, the bilingualism at the department is great because we're living in North Wales where Welsh and English are both used.
It gives you a really good experience to get used to treating patients that maybe don't have the same first language as you.
(Megan R) So, with 'CBL', with case based learning, I like doing it in Welsh but also doing the community.
So going out to placement and being able to use the Welsh language.
(Llinos) And then one of the other things that really stands out as a department is the Rural Medicine day that we have for the year two students, where we pull in different emergency services from the area to simulate maybe something that could come across more often, in this kind of area, and the students get to experience that for themselves.
(Megan B) For me, the best thing about Bangor is the surrounding area.
I love, like, the mountains and the beaches, such as Newborough beach.
And there's loads of societies you can join, like mountaineering and paddleboarding.
So we really look forward to you choosing Bangor as your firm choice.
During second year students take part in the Rural Health Day, a day of learning and taking part in simulated rural emergencies.
Real emergency service crews attend the day and share their knowledge and skills with students who then work through simulations with both mannikins and real actors who act as patients.
Today we are providing rural health training for Medicine students in their second year.
We have been very lucky that several emergency services have agreed to take part in this.
We have got today the Mountain Rescue Service, the Welsh Ambulance Service, the Fire and Rescue Service, and the pre-hospital doctor service.
This is part of the Medical Curriculum and this is the first day that the students have performed a simulation.
The students will go round the different scenarios, each one will get about an hour with the services as well as the simulated patients that we have got today.
It's real life experience education where they get the experience on how to assess people but not within a clinical setting, what sort of resources will they have and how will they do this in a safe way.
My name is Sahla Siji.
I'm a second year medical student.
Today we've been doing a simulation day, so we were asked to be in different situations.
For example a car accident, and we were sort of being trained and seeing how we act in an acute medicine setting.
I think one of the main things that I've learned is learning to use minimal resources to get the best sort of patient outcome, and always prioritising the patient in any setting you're in and having this day was very useful for that because, we're not always going to get all the resources like we would in a hospital.
So having not limited resources, but enough was very useful to have that adaptability skill.
It's quite a unique thing that we do in Bangor, which rarely happens anywhere else in the UK where they actually get hands on experience on a 1 to 1 basis with emergency services.
That's quite an attractive thing for the students because they enjoy the day, but they also have these learning outcomes that they have to achieve, which goes from knowing what the injury looks like, understanding how the human body works, and and gaining knowledge of how to assess and manage them, but also then knowing how the team work happens and other emergency services work.
I spent the morning, started it with mountain rescue.
We were learning how to prepare people for transfer, how to warm people from hypothermia, and I've just finished an intubation session.
So we got to practice securing airways and intubated mannequins, which was really cool and interesting.
Having these hands on experiences are very useful early on, especially because I'm only a second year medical student now.
So anything we learn from a young age I think is beneficial later on, only because the more you experience, the better.
It's a very wholesome experience for them.
It goes through the whole day.
And yeah, we've had very positive feedback in the past and so I'm quite enthused.
And the medical services enjoy themselves as well.
We understand you may have lots of questions about becoming a medical student at Bangor so we've compiled the answers to the most frequently asked questions below.
Once your offer has been confirmed we’ll contact you to advise you of the next steps to take.
You will need to get a DBS check which is arranged through us and a health check.
Your health check can be arranged with your local healthcare provider, you won’t need to come to Bangor to do this, we’ll contact you to advise you how to make the arrangements.
If you have any concerns, please email medicineadmissions@bangor.ac.uk .
Students on Medicine and Graduate-Entry Medicine Students (GEMS) are guaranteed a place in our university owned accommodation (halls)*.
Once Bangor becomes your Firm Choice you will be sent an email inviting you to apply for a room in university accommodation.
For more information on accommodation and private accommodation please visit our student accommodation webpages .
*Subject to terms and conditions.
All BMBS A101 Graduate Entry Medicine students will need to undertake a three weeklong Summer School prior to commencing Phase 1 of this programme.
This will include clinical skills and an introduction to case-based learning.
This will take place in August and early September, beginning on Tuesday the 26th of August 2025, before the start of the academic year.
All successful Graduate Entry Applicants will receive information with their offer.
Year one students on the A100 programme will receive their timetable during Welcome Week which starts on the 22nd of September 2025
As GEM students start earlier with a summer school, they will receive their timetables the Tuesday after the August bank holiday.
In Year one you’ll have your first placement experience after Christmas with a day at a GP practice or another health discipline location.
During year two you’ll have more regular placements.
These placements don't start immediately.
After an initial re-introduction period at the start of term you'll complete one day a week of placement.
Long term placements start during year 3 with the Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship (LIC) located at a partner GP practice.
You will have the opportunity to undertake placements in a variety of settings including coastal and seasonal holiday destinations, small towns and rural villages, suburban areas, vibrant cities, areas of deprivation, post-industrial communities, and hospitals across North Wales.
As your placements will be based in a range of locations across North Wales, your home campus of study may change from Bangor to Wrexham from your second year onwards to facilitate easier travel to your place of study.
This will be communicated to you in line with your placement allocation.
All placement settings are agreed in advance with the North Wales Medical School.
Our assessment methods follow a non-modular structure, where you learn to apply knowledge rather than just learning facts.
For example, instead of learning about anatomy then sitting an exam on anatomy; then learning about pain and sitting an exam on pain - you will learn about anatomy and pain and how they relate to each other in real life.
Both will be tested in the same exam, possibly in the same question.
You will be assessed throughout using reflective writing, essays, regular contact with doctors and academics, completion of logs of clinical skills and written exams.
For all of these you will receive extensive feedback.
In Years 2 and 3 you will also sit progress tests.
These are written exams, held three times a year which serve as important milestones to assess your knowledge and monitor your learning progress over time.
We’ll have Peer Guides who are current students who have volunteered and have been trained to help new students settle in.
In the Medical School we also have medic families where you are given Medic ‘parents’ who are in the year above who can give you guidance.
Preparation work prior to commencing studies is not required.
If you’re keen to do some preparation work you can read the GMC’s Outcomes for Graduates information.
There is limited on-site parking available.
If you bring your car with you will need a Student Parking Permit to use University parking facilities.
You can find out more about parking arrangements and make an application on our website .
When your last decision comes in, UCAS will send you an email to let you know all your decisions have been received and you can now reply to any offers you've been given.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/midwifery:
Congratulations on being accepted into our Midwifery programme!
Our Midwifery course is taught by world-leading academics who are passionate about their subjects.
Bangor University's Midwifery program boasts state-of-the-art facilities, including advanced simulation labs, cutting-edge birthing suites, and comprehensive clinical training environments, providing students with exceptional hands-on experience and preparation for professional practice.
Midwifery
I’m Sian, a Midwifery lecturer at Bangor University since 2022, with prior experience as an NHS Community Midwife.
I also work as a Bank Midwife, so students may see me in clinical practice.
As a first-language Welsh speaker, I support Welsh-medium students.
I’m passionate about midwifery and feel privileged to help students on their journey to becoming midwives.
I qualified as a nurse in 1999, working in both community and acute surgical settings before beginning midwifery training in 2002.
After qualifying in 2004, I worked in various clinical midwifery roles, including community care, with Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board.
In 2014, I became a Midwifery Lecturer, and I currently serve as the Lead Midwife for Education at Bangor.
I’m Julie Roberts, a qualified midwife since 2010 with years of clinical experience in antenatal, intrapartum, and postnatal care.
I began supporting student learning as a Practice Facilitator before becoming a midwifery lecturer in 2017 and Year 1 Module Lead.
Currently, I’m the Course Director for the Undergraduate programme, with a focus on narrative pedagogy and concept-based learning in midwifery education.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/modern-languages:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our Modern Languages programmes here at Bangor University.
Congratulations on getting an offer to study here at Bangor University.
I'm Johnson Irvine, one of the lecturers in Modern Languages.
We are a friendly and welcoming department, and in first year you get an opportunity to do things like learn about contemporary aspects of the languages that you're studying, with authentic to take up to date materials.
Get to know your fellow students and staff in an exciting environment.
We look forward to welcoming you here and hope to see you soon.
When you study languages, you have language classes that concentrate on skills such as speaking, writing and translating.
Also, many of our students study cultural modules about the cinema, literature and history of countries where the relevant languages are spoken.
Outside the classroom, there are opportunities to take part in exciting activities that are connected to languages and give you an opportunity to get to know other students.
Normally, students of modern languages have about 9-12 hours of lessons each week.
There are lectures and seminars and we do the majority of our teaching in small groups.
This helps to create dialogue between students and staff and gives you an opportunity to ask questions and get feedback.
On language modules, often there is a written exam at the end of the semester as well as other assignments during the semester (presentations, grammar tests, homework assignments).
On cultural modules, normally there are essays, presentations and other assignments during the semester.
Most of our modern languages courses last for four years, and include a year abroad in the third year.
During the year abroad, students study in a universities with whom we have links, teach English in schools, or do work experience.
Often, they have unforgettable experiences that look great on their CV.
We are a community here at Bangor, and we live it every day.
Students and staff know each other well.
We teach in small groups (particularly true for language classes) which allows us to really get to know each student, listen to their learning preferences and adapt our teaching to it.
We also have a very creative approach to learning at Bangor, and there are lots of opportunities to engage in creative activities (e.g.
curating an exhibition).
Outside the classroom, we organise fun and inclusive social events, that allow us to get to know each other even better.
Enabling people to connect with people all over the world, enriching their experience and prospects by learning how they can shape their own future by speaking multiple languages and seeing the true diversity of cultures.
Studying a modern language and cultures somehow means diving into a subculture, you learn about people, histories, arts and even economics.
With this knowledge and all the skills for empowerment you gain with a degree in Modern Languages and Cultures, you equip yourself to pursue a unique and extraordinary life.
My life is multi-lingual, every single day.
I use German, English and Welsh throughout the day in various situation, at work or outside work.
I try to speak the language that the person I am talking to prefers to use.
How I perceive the world has been shaped by my access to different cultures and world views, I keep an open mind when meeting new people and learn about their values and life choices.
This enabled me to encounter new perspectives and opportunities, again and again, making me a happier person.
I was passionate about languages and really keen to learn more about cinema annd politics in France.
I wanted to be able to communicate well in France and explore the country, which I was able to do during time I spent there teaching English at primary, secondary and university level.
A lot of people think that do a language degree is just about communication skills such as writing and speaking.
These are important parts of learning a language, but a big part of learning a language is about learning about another culture or cultures.
You'll gain fascinating insights into places where a language is spoken and the people who speak it.
I've really enjoyed studying humour, and in particular stand-up comedy, in France.
It's been amazing to see the range of different ways people use humour and the ways it can be both a source of controversy and something that has the potential to bring people together.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/music-0:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our Music programmes here at Bangor University.
Hello and many congratulations on receiving an offer to study Music with us here at Bangor University.
My name is John Cunningham I'm the head of Music, Drama and Performance.
Here at Bangor we're very much a community of staff and students working together to fulfil our potential and to become the best musicians that we can be.
As musicologists, performers, composers, we work collaboratively with each discipline feeding into each other.
We're all very excited that you're going to be joining us to be part of this vibrant community, and look forward to welcome you to Bangor soon.
A typical week will include a variety of lectures, seminars and workshops with your fellow students and your lecturers.
Sometimes, you will be given tasks to prepare, texts to read and/or music to listen to before sessions.
There will also be the opportunity to have individual meetings with your personal tutor when needed, as well as individual or group tutorials to discuss the progress of your work.
You can also join societies and take part in extracurricular activities which support your studies, such as choirs, orchestras and a broad variety of musical ensembles.
You will typically be studying three 20-credit modules per semester.
In every module, you are likely to have up to 3 hours of contact time (workshops, lectures, instrumental lessons, seminars, tutorials etc) per week.
Between sessions, students will be expected to do independent preparatory work, attend group tutorials with other students and engage in relevant musical activities such as attend public concerts and rehearsals.
You will have access to state-of-the-art facilities including our Electronic Music Studios..
In the Music building, our main lecture hall is equipped with a new Steinway grand piano and is an ideal location for recitals and rehearsals.
We also have two other professionally equipped concert halls for you to practice and perform in.
Pontio, the heart of creative arts here in Bangor University hosts a lively series of concerts and performances.
The Arts and Innovation centre houses two theatres and a cinema all double up as teaching spaces.
Making music with others is an integral part of the experience of a degree in music.
You can choose to study solo performance on your main instrument or voice, but there are also options to perform in ensembles as part of your course.
Outside the classroom there is a wide range of opportunities to perform, you may wish to join one of the university-run ensembles, Bangor University Symphony Orchestra, University Chorus or the Chamber Choir.
There are also lots of societies to join, including the Music Society Orchestra and Choir, the Concert Band, the Brass Band, the Jazz Band and the String Orchestra.
Confidence-building - emotional - amazing
I wanted to learn everything about music - how to play it, how to analyse it, how to understand it.
I can't get enough of it!
It's a never-ending journey that I can only describe as magical and inspirational.
I work with a wide range of students of all music performance abilities to explore many different genres from the classical, musical theatre, world, jazz, and pop repertory.
The students not only perform to each other, but they analyse and discuss the music to get a real understanding of the 'nuts and bolts' of each piece.
Interacting with students in the workshop environment.
Listening to them perform as soloists and in chamber groups, hearing them discuss each other's work, and helping them deepen their knowledge and understanding of the music they perform.
Never give up.
Being able to perform, read about, discuss and experience music is the best best feeling in the world.
Working with our students, from across the world.
Our class sizes mean that we get to know our students and learn about them and their experiences, which helps to shape how we teach.
I teach across a wide range of topics, mostly thinking about how music works in culture - either today or in the past.
I enjoy opening up students to new experiences and ways of thinking about music and the role it plays in wider culture.
There's only 12 notes (at least in the western system) but from that some of our culture's greatest monuments have been created.
One of the most fascinating research projects I've worked on was a project about Welsh opera, where we worked with a group of primary school children on what it meant to be Welsh today.
Over a period of two months, meeting for only 45 mins a week, they wrote a miniature opera of about 10 mins.
It was incredible to see the creative process and their creativity, and to learn more about how they perceived themselves and wanted to be perceived.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/nursing:
Congratulations on being accepted into our Nursing programme!
Our Nursing courses are taught by world-class academics, passionate about their subjects.
You will learn from experts at the forefront of their fields, and you will have access to a wealth of resources to support your studies.
Bangor University's Nursing programme features newly refurbished clinical skills facilities, including a two-bed high-fidelity suite, a seven-bay ward, and additional flexible clinical skills areas, providing a simulated environment that thoroughly prepares students for clinical placements.
Adult Nursing With over 20 years of teaching experience, I currently serve as Deputy Head of the School of Health Sciences.
My expertise includes healthcare law, ethics, end-of-life care, and reflective practice.
I’m also a Nursing and Midwifery Council registrant reviewer, with research interests in professional standards and a strong background in curriculum development and quality assurance.
Learning Disability Nursing As a learning disability nurse and lecturer, I teach across healthcare programmes, driven by a passion for social justice, human rights, and equitable health outcomes.
With experience in community, in-patient, and residential settings across Wales, Australia, and Argentina, I also volunteer in Ukraine.
My work focuses on quality improvement, public health, and policy development, which I bring into the classroom.
Adult Nursing As Director of Teaching and Learning and Programme Lead for Adult Nursing, I bring extensive experience in coronary care and a Doctorate in Healthcare.
I support students across all areas of the curriculum and during clinical placements at Ysbyty Gwynedd.
I love Bangor’s friendly environment and enjoy contributing to interprofessional learning.
Outside of work, I explore Anglesey’s stunning coastlines.
Children's Nursing I am a Child field lecturer supporting students across the whole health curriculum.
I support students who wish to undertake part of their studies through the medium of welsh.
My background includes adult nursing before moving into child filed where I have worked within the hospital and community setting.
Mental Health Nursing
I qualified as a mental health nurse in 1992 and have worked in various areas, including acute care, community, rehabilitation, and challenging behavior.
Before joining the University in 2020, I spent over 20 years in substance misuse services, managing two teams for ten years and serving as senior nurse for adult safeguarding.
I hold a BSc in Mental Health, two postgrad diplomas, and plan to start my taught doctorate next year.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/ocean-sciences:
Hi, I'm Martin Roberts.
I'm a Biological Oceanographer here at the School of Ocean Sciences.
And today we're in the laboratory practical for the OSX2007 Ship-based Field Course, which makes use of the the Prince Madog to go to sea and to sample variables in space and time.
Today we're splitting into three groups.
We're doing different activities.
We've got sediment grain size analysis going on downstairs where we're looking at, grain size distributions so that we can make inferences about current conditions and sediment transport.
We've got suspended sediment analysis.
We've got a group working upstairs that are doing post-processing of samples that were taken at sea.
We've got chlorophyll fluorescence measurements going on as well, so that we can understand the productivity of our of our sea here in the Menai Strait
And we've also got plankton analysis as well.
So identification of different plankton groups and counting of those plankton groups in, in samples that we collected at sea on the Prince Madog in November.
Hello everybody.
My name is April Bishop.
I am a second year student here at Bangor University, and I'm doing Marine Biology and Oceanography.
One of the best things I like about here at Bangor, because you get the opportunities to go into the landscapes that we are in here today.
We are focusing on one of our ship based modules.
Which you will have the joys to go on the ship at one point in your second year?
And today we have been focusing on different stuff that we're going to do that we did on the ship.
And what I like more about the practical, is that the Labs here is just such a big space for you to work in, and you've got such a big opportunity in as well, many lectures as well as demonstrators who help you to help you understand and help you learn more about things that you have an interest in.
One of my main, main things I really love being here is the opportunities that you do get here.
As myself, I do peer guided, on an occasional basis.
as well I have been involved with Marine Master's research in my foundation here, and I have had work experience at a tidal renewable company called Minesto.
Yeah thats basically it.
Take a look at the recommended reading list and core texts for undergraduate students following a degree at the School of Ocean Sciences at Bangor University.
Reading List and Core Texts

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/pharmacy-and-pharmacology:
Welcome to our Pharmacy and Pharmacology offer holder hub.
From new drug discoveries to patient care, you'll be studying what’s current and impactful in the field to ensure you graduate with knowledge of the latest developments in the field.
Their support and mentorship will help you navigate your studies and prepare for your career in pharmacy or pharmacology.
This environment helps bring classroom learning to life and develops skills you can use in your future career.
Hi, I'm Dr Joanna Edwards I'm the course lead for pharmacology here at Bangor University.
And I'm Stephen Doughty and I'm the course lead for pharmacy here at Bangor University.
And we'd just like to say congratulations on receiving your offer.
We hope that you'll be able to come and visit us to see exactly what Bangor University can offer you for pharmacology and pharmacy.
We get to know our students really well.
We provide an amazing level of support, both in terms of academic growth and personal development.
And the location of the university is fantastic.
We've got mountains,we've got sea.
There's so much for students to do.
As well as that we have a number of different societies that you can join and it is really an amazing environment.
So we look forward to you joining us here at Bangor University.
I write cryptic crosswords and thoroughly enjoy solving published crosswords!
Watching students develop as individuals and grow in confidence as they progress in their Pharmacy degree.
Even better is meeting them again once they’re practising pharmacists and listening to stories of how their careers have developed.
What’s a common question students ask you?
“Is that going to be in the exam?” … and they get the same answer: “It might be!”
If I weren’t
We understand you may have lots of questions about becoming a student of Pharmacy or Pharmacology at Bangor so we've compiled the answers to the most frequently asked questions below.
The Foundation Year (Pharmacology) or Preparatory Year (Pharmacy) is designed to prepare students for all of our undergraduate degree programmes.
"I chose to study pharmacology at Bangor university as the course just looked incredible.
The lecturers at the North Wales Medical School are experts with phenomenal backgrounds and passion for their individual subjects.
The facilities at Bangor Uni are a some of the best and it has been a privilege to have access to these and work within the North West Cancer Research centre."

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/philosophy-and-religion:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our Philosophy, Ethics and Religion programmes here at Bangor University.
Hello, my name is Dr Joshua Andrews, and I want to congratulate you on receiving an offer to study Philosophy, Ethics and Religion with us at Bangor University.
As you may well know by now, we offer a bespoke course that allows you to tailor your degree around your interests.
Specialising in different areas such as continental philosophy, analytical philosophy, normative ethics, applied ethics or a whole host of different world religions Christianity,
Judaism, Buddhism, Hinduism, Sikhism, Paganism, Jedi the list goes on and on.
I look forward to seeing you in September.
What happens to morality when God is no longer the foundation of truth?
This session explores Nietzsche’s bold proclamation of the “death of God” and its impact on ethics.
We’ll examine his critique of traditional morality and consider whether we can create new values in a godless world.
How do we know what is real?
What makes a just society?
This session explores Plato’s key ideas, from his Theory of Forms to his vision of the ideal state.
Discover how his philosophy continues to shape our thinking about knowledge, ethics, and the nature of reality.
Do exorcisms reveal a supernatural reality, or are they psychological phenomena?
This session explores the history, rituals, and philosophy behind exorcisms across different cultures.
We’ll examine theological perspectives, sceptical critiques, and what exorcism tells us about belief, evil, and the human mind.
Is cannibalism always wrong, or can it ever be justified?
This session explores the ethical dilemmas surrounding cannibalism, from survival scenarios to cultural practices.
Examining moral philosophy, legal debates, and real-life cases, we’ll question what makes an act truly immoral—and why some taboos are stronger than others.
In a typical week, our Philosophy, Ethics, and Religion students attend lectures and seminars addressing real-world issues through each discipline.
Philosophy sessions tackle questions on freedom, personal identity, and justice; ethics classes explore topics like environmental responsibility, human rights, and medical ethics, including end-of-life care; and religion lectures examine how various faiths approach social justice, conflict resolution, and community welfare.
From the ethics of artificial intelligence to religious perspectives on peacebuilding, you'll gain skills to thoughtfully engage with complex global challenges and the roles these disciplines play in shaping the world.
Each academic year is divided into two semesters, with students typically taking three modules per semester.
You’ll attend two lectures and one seminar per module each week.
This will typically be around 8-12 contact hours.
Lectures cover key topics such as ethical dilemmas, philosophical theories, and religious perspectives.
Seminars offer a chance to debate ideas, analyse real-world issues, and engage in group discussions.
Additionally, you can arrange extra tutorials and supervision meetings for personalised support or to explore topics in more depth, helping you apply theories to current events and refine your critical thinking skills.
Graduates of Philosophy, Ethics, and Religion pursue a variety of exciting and diverse careers.
Many become educators, teaching at schools or universities, while others work in law, human rights, or the public sector, advocating for social change.
Careers in healthcare, where they provide ethical guidance, are also common, as well as roles in media, publishing, and journalism, where they communicate complex ideas.
Some graduates work in business, government, or counselling, applying their critical thinking and ethical skills to influence policy, support individuals, and address societal challenges.
A Philosophy, Ethics, and Religion degree helps develop a broad range of transferable skills.
You can enhance your critical thinking, learning to analyse complex arguments and assess different viewpoints.
You can improve your communication skills, both written and verbal, through essays, presentations, and discussions.
The degree also fosters problem-solving abilities, as you consider ethical dilemmas and philosophical questions.
Research skills are honed through independent study and academic enquiry.
Additionally, you can gain skills in empathy, cultural awareness, and ethical decision-making, all of which are valuable in diverse careers across sectors.
Our Philosophy, Ethics, and Religion degree offers unique flexibility, allowing you to specialise in Philosophy, Ethics, or Religion, or maintain a mix of all three.
The programme features distinctive topics like Serial Killers, where you can explore ethical and philosophical theories through real-life cases.
When looking at Applied Ethics, you'll set up think tanks to tackle contemporary issues such as bioethics and social justice.
We look at Exorcisms delving into the religious, psychological, and ethical aspects of the practice.
Assessment is based on varied assignments rather than exams, helping you develop transferable skills in critical thinking and communication.
Transformative, diverse, enlightening.
One of the most fascinating studies I've come across is the exploration of ethics through the lens of comic book characters, particularly Batman and the Joker.
This study is intriguing because it not only reveals how complex ethical frameworks can be, but also how they manifest in popular culture.
Batman and the Joker represent two opposing moral philosophies, yet they both grapple with deep existential questions.
I was drawn to Philosophy, Ethics, and Religion because of its ability to tackle life’s biggest questions while remaining deeply connected to real-world issues.
From a young age, I found myself fascinated by the "why" behind human beliefs, values, and actions.
I wanted to understand not just what people do, but the reasoning and motivations that underpin their decisions.
Philosophy offered a framework for this, allowing me to explore complex ideas about morality, existence, and meaning.
Ethics, in particular, stood out to me as both intellectually stimulating and profoundly practical.
It’s a discipline that asks us to grapple with difficult questions—what is the right thing to do?
How should we live?—and demands we apply those answers to the challenges of modern life.
Religion added another layer of depth, revealing how diverse traditions and worldviews shape the way people approach these ethical and philosophical dilemmas.
What solidified my interest was the realisation that these subjects aren’t just about abstract thought; they’re tools for understanding humanity and addressing pressing global issues.
Studying Philosophy, Ethics, and Religion felt like an invitation to explore ideas that could genuinely impact the world, and that sense of purpose continues to drive my passion today.
What I love most about teaching Philosophy, Ethics, and Religion is exploring how abstract ethical theories influence real-world decisions and actions.
Philosophy often suffers from the misconception that it’s purely theoretical or detached from everyday concerns, but applied ethics challenges that view entirely.
Another aspect I value is the ever-evolving nature of applied ethics.
As society changes, new ethical questions emerge, ensuring the material remains dynamic and relevant.
Incorporating current events into our discussions keeps the classroom lively and helps students connect philosophical ideas to the world around them.
Philosophy, Ethics and Religion are integral to human experiences in different ways, and I am very interested in how philosophical ideas, ethical tenets, and religious beliefs can affect people's behaviour and the nature of society.
There are always new things to learn.
Whether lecturing about Plato or on the Bible or environmental ethics, there are always new ideas arising, and different ways of interpretation, understanding, and taking action.
There is no 'sell-by-date' on Philosophy, Ethics and Religion!
It's hard to say exactly what the 'most interesting thing' is because there are so many interesting and varied topics.
I truly consider it an immense privilege to be able to lecture on such diverse areas, from Paganism to Medieval Philosophy, from behavioural ethics to religion, conflict and peace, to environmentalism, Jesus in popular culture, and Humanism.
In the case of philosophy, one question that arises frequently is, 'what is philosophy?' And that, in all seriousness, is a philosophical question.
Philosophy is essential to everything in the world - wherever a question, or a new idea, or a challenge arises, philosophy is at work - and it underpins every other field: medicine requires assessment, analysis and testing hypotheses; business requires taking stock, developing methods of action; the arts require the impact of presenting ideas in specific ways on audiences, to name just three areas.
In the case of religion, studying the religions of the world is so important - the major religions and those that have lasted a long time and the smaller religions, along with those that are currently growing.
Doing so is important in order to understand cultural and viewpoint diversity in society, and develop a more tolerant approach.
When studying religion, there are numerous jobs available, including in religious orders, the world of education, charity work, human resources, business, marketing, economics, the arts, politics, journalism, and many others.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/policing:
Congratulations on your offer to study Policing here at Bangor University.
Our courses are taught by world-leading academics who are passionate about their subjects and former police officers.
Congratulations on receiving an offer to study at Bangor University.
I'm Dewi Roberts, one of the lecturers on the course.
During the first year, you'll get the opportunity to learn the background on the policies and actions required to become an operational police officer.
We also get guest speakers from various agencies, including North Wales Police.
So well done and I look forward to seeing you in the next academic year.
The Professional Policing Degree is delivered at Bangor University with classroom delivery and off site visits and guest speakers.
In Year 1 you will typically have 12 hours of face to face contact time that could be through lectures or tutorials for example.
Completing the Professional Policing Degree does not guarantee you can join the Police Services as you will have to complete the application process.
Throughout the course we will support you with your application should you want to join the Police after graduation.
You could apply to join any Police force in England or Wales once you graduate.
You can join the Special Constabulary and you will be supported with this process should you choose to do so.
There are other career opportunities within agencies such as the Probation Services and there will be career input from various agencies during your degree to allow you to explore other work options outside the Police.
I enjoy engaging with student and discussing Policing operations and explaining why the Police carry out certain functions.
I worked for the Police for 31 years and studied as part of continuous improvement within my area of expertise, Serious and Organised Crime.
I was taught by some excellent colleagues and I want to pass on my experiences to new students.
Influencing students critical views on engaging with the Public and their Policing operational approach.
The environment, the professionalism and energy of my colleagues, imparting my experience and knowledge to help students develop and achieve.
I still work within Police Investigations and I am able to continually improve my teaching approach and keep up-to-date with Legislation and Operational changes.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/politics:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our Politics programmes here at Bangor University.
Congratulations.
Dr Mark Collinson, lecturer in Political History and programme leader of the BA Politics programme here at Bangor.
Really like welcoming new students and people passionate about politics in the way we understand our world.
Here we study politics in a variety of different ways.
We try to treat it as a synthesis of study of History, Sociology, Philosophy, Media Studies and various other subjects, including Law, have modules which lend to our programme.
It's a really great opportunity for you to start to understand how to understand the world in which you live.
How that can help you for careers in the future, and how it will help you understand your place as a citizen.
A typical week will include attending the lectures and seminars for each of the 3 modules you study in each semester.
Lectures will introduce topics while seminars give students the chance to discuss set reading and research activities.
You will also spend time in the library or study spaces, preparing for class or working on assignments.
Around 6-10 hours a week depending on the module you choose.
Some are structured differently so may have classes on a weekly basis.
You will shape your degree through the modules that you select.
It is possible to focus on political history, political philosophy, and ideas, or take closer interest in social policy issues.
You will also develop a number of skills through the modules you study.
You will develop skills of research and critical analysis of sources, alongside written and oral communication through submission of assessments and engagement in classroom activities.
Most importantly, you will develop your knowledge and awareness of political issues and critically evaluate how government and other institutions operate.
Several students have secured work experience with local authorities, such as Bangor City Council, and local MPs.
They often undertook these placements while studying through the School's Work Placement module.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/product-design:
0:01 Hello, my name is Peredur Williams and I'm one of the lecturers on the Product Design course here at Bangor University.
First, I would like to congratulate you on receiving an offer from us to come and study with us in September.
0:14 I'd like to outline three key things that I think that you should really know about the Product Design course here at Bangor University to help you with your decision making.
0:25 Point number one is this - that we take an approach to our curriculum that is based on individualised learning.
What that means is that you will be starting your design career straight from year one.
We will coach you and we will help you to get the best out of yourselves.
0:40 There will be opportunities when you can select and choose your own modules and projects, or specific technical skills that you would like to develop.
Secondly, most of our projects are live briefs.That means they come directly from companies.
That means that you will be working collaboratively with industry, either individually or as a group on projects that have true meaning and true commercial potential.
1:09 My last point, my third point is this that we are the only course in the UK where our students go out on work placements and they go out every year for a period of six weeks.
Now the advantage of this is quite clear.
1:22 You get to work within a company, with their designers, with their makers, with the marketing, with all the people involved as a commercial designer and that again makes you a stronger designer once you venture out into the world of work
1:36 and it's one of the main reasons why most of our designers that graduate are highly employable graduates.
Other things you will be working within small groups, there's a really good staff to student ratio on our courses,
1:52 the practical element is really strong.
I'm in the workshop now, and this is where you'll be spending lots of your time.So if you have any questions, please get in touch.
But we hope to see you in September.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/psychology:
As you consider your options, explore what makes Bangor special—from cutting-edge research and practical learning opportunities to a vibrant community passionate about psychology.
Take a look at our resources to see what awaits you here in September!
Our Psychology courses are taught by world-class academics, passionate about their subjects.
Psychology students can access various laboratory equipment during their studies at Bangor.
These psychology facilities are invaluable for helping us better understand human behaviour.
Our facilities include:
In the Psychology department, you will benefit from excellent student support.
A tutor is available every working day to deal with pastoral care issues and you will also benefit from guidance from a dedicated academic personal tutor.
The academic support available to ensure you maximise your potential includes skills sessions and statistics sessions,  And as psychologists, we have used our skills to incorporate a mental health skills programme into our courses.
Congratulations on your offer to study Psychology with us – we’re thrilled to have you on board!
If you’ve applied a little later than others, don’t worry – you’re not behind .
We’ve designed our support and onboarding process to make sure every student feels prepared and part of the community from day one.
Late applicants often worry they’ve missed out, but we want to reassure you:
We’ll make sure you:
The first year of the Psychology programme is designed with the assumption that students have no prior academic or practical experience in Psychology.
However, if you want to get a head start and familiarise yourself with some basic concepts, there are several free online resources you can explore:
You can also check out our YouTube playlist , which includes a variety of videos featuring sample lectures, module information, and other content designed to answer your questions about studying Psychology at Bangor.
Taking advantage of these resources can help you feel more prepared and confident as you begin your studies in Psychology.
However, rest assured that the programme is structured to bring everyone up to speed, regardless of their prior experience.
For the first two years of your degree, students across different degree programmes complete similar modules.
You will begin selecting modules for your third year in the second semester of your second year.
At this point, you will also choose your third-year project.
If you find yourself interested in another psychology course by then, you can request to switch.
While spaces aren’t guaranteed, we have typically been able to accommodate such requests in the past.
During Welcome Week there will be plenty of people, staff and students, to guide you around.
These include Peer Guides, who are current students who volunteer to help new students to help during the settling-in process.
Every student at Bangor University is assigned a Personal Tutor , an Academic Staff member who provides personalised academic support and guidance.
The Department of Psychology at Bangor University is housed across several buildings, each offering state-of-the-art facilities to support your studies and research.
Most of the Psychology staff can be found in the Brigantia Building, making it the place to go for drop-in sessions, or to speak with your personal tutor or dissertation supervisor.
Brigantia has several research labs, including one of our most prized facilities, the MRI scanner in the basement, which allows us to conduct cutting-edge brain research right on campus.
Our MRI scanner simulator -  which helps participants get accustomed to the experience and sounds of being in the scanner before undergoing actual scans – is also located in Brigantia, as a TMS lab and EEG labs.
The Wheldon Building is where many seminar sessions and workshops take place.
It also houses a computer lab used for statistics classes as well as counselling training rooms for students enrolled in the counselling programme to practise their skills.
Another key facility for Psychology students is the Lloyd Building which contains several advanced research labs, including: EEG labs, eye-tracking labs, a motion-capture lab, and audio booths.
You’ll likely visit this building if participating in research studies or collecting data for your final-year project.
On average, you will have about 10-12 contact hours per week.
Contact hours include a mix of lectures, seminars, practical workshops, and more.
Lectures are delivered in large lecture halls in the Pontio and Main Arts buildings, while workshops and seminar sessions take place across campus.
Seminar sessions are usually smaller groups (of approx.
15-25 students), often supported by graduate instructors or student mentors.
Each module also offers drop-in sessions where you can simply turn up.
Our lecturers are always helpful and willing to assist with any questions you have about the content.
As well as these contact hours you will spend time on private study, reading, consolidating your notes and preparing for assessments.
This approach ensures you have plenty of opportunity to deepen your understanding of the material covered during classroom activities.
Having free time within the working week also allows you to balance work-life commitments and provides flexibility to manage personal responsibilities and enjoy extracurricular activities.
We use a mix of assessment methods to fairly evaluate your skills.
You'll get to create posters, give presentations, write essays, blog posts and science magazine articles, and of course, take exams.
Most modules will require you to complete at least two pieces of assessment.
Our diverse assessment approach has been praised by external examiners and the British Psychological Society for effectively measuring student achievement.
In your third year, you’ll have the opportunity to work on a research project for your dissertation.
Here are some examples of projects that have been offered in the past:
During your second year, you will receive detailed descriptions of available projects.
You’ll then have the opportunity to select up to five projects that interest you and five that don’t.
If you are enrolled in a straight Psychology stream, you can choose projects from any stream.
However, if you are enrolled in a specialised stream ( e.g ., Psychology with Forensic Psychology), you will need to select your preferred projects from that specific stream.
You will then be allocated to a project and a supervisor who will guide you through the process in your final year.
The dissertation project will allow you to explore areas that align with your interests and career goals, whilst also applying the knowledge you’ve gained throughout your studies
You will receive your timetable during Welcome Week .
Each students personalised timetable is finalised during the enrolment and registration period.
Welsh-speaking students can complete parts of their Psychology degree through the medium of Welsh .
Hi, I'm Doctor Simone Calabrich.
I'm one of the lecturers here in the School of Psychology and Sport Science at Bangor University, and I would like to congratulate you on receiving an offer to study psychology here with us.
Now, you might be wondering why choose Bangor?
Our psychology department is one of the largest and most prestigious in the UK, with a world-leading reputation in research.
This research directly informs our teaching, so you'll be learning from academics at the very top of their game.
We have several state-of-the-art facilities here, including an MRI scanner, EEG labs, eye-tracking labs, and motion capture technology.
Plus, in your very first year, you will have the unforgettable experience of holding a real human brain in one of our anatomy labs.
And to make sure you're getting the highest quality education, our degrees are accredited by the British Psychological Society.
This means that our courses meet rigorous standards, so you can be confident that you're getting the best possible education.
We take pride not only in our excellent teaching, but also in the supportive environment that we offer.
There is always someone available, whether you need academic guidance or personal support.
We're here to help you succeed and to ensure you feel supported throughout your studies.
As a Bangor student, you'll also have the opportunity to attend career fairs, which are fantastic for exploring jobs and volunteering opportunities here in this beautiful region.
And speaking of the area, Bangor is surrounded by stunning natural beauty with mountains, lakes, and beaches nearby, which is perfect for relaxing and finding inspiration outside of class.
Congratulations once again on your offer, and if you're ready to join us, simply log into your UCAS account to accept.
We hope to welcome you to Bangor soon.
We are pleased you have applied to study at Bangor University.
Bangor offers a truly exceptional student experience in an unrivalled location.
You are at a very important point in your academic career – perhaps you are about to undertake final examinations, or you are finishing a year out.
Maybe it’s been a while since you have studied formally, and you are rediscovering your love of learning.
Whatever your background, we are ready to help you in your next steps towards your future career.
Our British Psychological Society accredited degrees provide a broad basis for graduate pathways in psychology and cover fundamental cognitive neuroscience including neuroanatomy and brain imaging techniques using our own MRI scanner, through to psychological and therapeutic care through counselling and mindfulness.
In your free time, you can try a wide range of activities from photography to amateur dramatics, from baking to sea-kayaking, by joining our student-led clubs and societies.
Our sector-leading pastoral support also means you will be welcomed and looked after whilst you are here.
We hope to welcome you here in September.
Professor Paul Downing Interim Head of Psychology
You never know how or where the information you learn in your Psychology modules will come in handy.
Alumnus Jess Howard completed her degree in Psychology in 2017 and as part of that, undertook the Born to Run: Achieve your Goals module.
In this class, students learn theories of positive and motivational Psychology and apply those lessons to the challenge of training for and running a marathon.
Jess’ confidence grew through this process, and she developed a sense of self-belief that she says led to her landing her dream graduate job in global marketing.
Jess has carried on with running and has now run six marathons including New York, London and Berlin and has also qualified as a running coach, inspiring and supporting others to ‘achieve their goals’ Jess says: “My experience has not only changed my life but has had a positive impact on those around me”.
From Couch Potato to Marathon Runner: Jess's Bangor University Story Hear from Jess, a Bangor University student whose life was transformed by the "Born to Run" module.
"Hi, I'm Jess, and I completed the 'Born to Run' module in 2017.
I just wanted to kind of talk through my experience with the module, my running achievements after the module and even, you know, how this whole, the whole experience really changed my life and who I am today as a person."
Starting from Zero: Jess's Journey Begins
"So I was in actually the first 'Born to Run' cohort.
Before I set out to do the module, I didn't run, I didn't move.
I was a couch potato.
And every time we went out training, I was at the back.
I was always last, and there's absolutely nothing wrong with that, but I didn't have a lot of confidence.
I didn't feel like I would be able to do it."
From Last to Finishing Line: A Transformation at Bangor University
"But 16 weeks later in May 2017, I ran my first marathon across the Liverpool Rock and Roll finishing line, hand in hand with who is now one of my best friends, another person from the course.
So on this module, I even met friends for life and, yeah, it was just an absolutely amazing experience."
More Than Just Running: A Life-Changing Impact
"I feel like the module really changed who I am as a person, I'm a lot more confident than I was going into it and also, I'm also a lot more positive.
And this positivity doesn't just come through with my running.
It really changed my whole life and my whole attitude.
So even when it came to things like getting a job, a lot of my friends thought I was being a little bit ambitious when I was applying for roles, but I was like, no, I can do this.
And I did, and I landed myself a brilliant job that I absolutely love, that I get to travel the world with and I really don't think I would have even applied for it if I hadn't embarked on this whole experience and learned everything that I learned.
So, yeah, I could say it had a pretty life-changing impact on who I am as a person."
Running the World: Jess's Marathon Adventures
"In terms of running, since that first marathon, I will have ran five, in three weeks time.
I've got the Manchester Marathon.
I've ran in a New York City Marathon, which was absolutely unbelievable.
A brilliant experience!
I've run in the London marathon, I did the Hamburg Marathon last year.
I had the Berlin Marathon in September.
So my goal now is, I set myself another goal of doing the World Series.
So, there's five marathons.
There's London and New York, which I've done.
Berlin, Tokyo, Chicago, sorry, there six!
And Boston."
Want a sneak peek into student life, events, and all things Psychology?
Follow us on social media to see what we’re up to and stay connected with our community!
Curious about who’ll be teaching you?
Come and meet the friendly faces behind the lectures.
Learn about their research interests, teaching approach, and what makes our department so dynamic.
Thinking about joining us?
Our psychology students are ready to chat!
They’ve been in your shoes and are happy to help.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled into life at university as a Psychology student.
@psychbangor A day in the life of a psychology student at Bangor University!
#BangorUniversity #Psychology #StudentLife #UCAS #alevels #university ♬ FEEL THE GROOVE - Queens Road, Fabian Graetz
Hi, I'm Dr.
Awel Vaughan-Evans, the Director of Undergraduate Psychology Programmes here at Bangor.
You'll soon be joining us, so I wanted to give you a quick sense of what to expect at Bangor.
You'll be studying psychology in a research-led environment, learning about a range of theories and how they apply in everyday life.
Right from the start, you'll benefit from small group sessions alongside your lectures, and there’s plenty of support to help you develop your academic and study skills.
You'll also have time for independent learning between your classes, with access to computer labs and study spaces across campus.
Explore the fascinating world of psychology with our exclusive free webinar series , brought to you by one of the UK’s leading psychology departments.
Whether you're interested in a single topic or want to join them all, our webinars are tailored to fit your interests.
Plus, you’ll get an opportunity to interact directly with our world-class academics during live Q&A sessions!

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/radiography:
Congratulations on being accepted into our Radiography programme!
Our Radiography course is taught by world-leading academics who are passionate about their subjects.
Students in the Radiography programme at Bangor University will have access to state-of-the-art technology, including modern simulation equipment and the first immersive VR practical skills system in the UK, ensuring they receive cutting-edge training and experience.
We have a dedicated team of staff who are here to help you with your studies and to make sure that you have a positive experience at Bangor University.
Helo, Tom Graham ydw i a fi ydy'r Cyfarwyddwr Ymgysylltu â Myfyrwyr i'r Ysgol Gwyddorau Iechyd yma ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Faswn i'n licio ymestyn llongyfarchiadau mawr i chi gyd am gael cynnig i astudio gyda ni yma ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae gennym gyfleusterau hynod o dda yn y Brifysgol.
Rydw i'n sefyll rŵan yn un o'n cyfleusterau clinigol ni, i helpu chi yn eich siwrnai i fod yn broffesiynol tuag at y diwedd.
Rydyn ni'n edrych ymlaen at weithio gyda chi fel myfyrwyr.
Mae gennym dîm academaidd yma sydd â llwyth o brofiad clinigol i helpu chi yn eich siwrnai fel myfyrwyr i fod yn broffesiynol.
Felly, llongyfarchiadau mawr eto i chi am gael cynnig i ddod i astudio gyda ni yn y Brifysgol.
Rydym yn edrych ymlaen at weld chi ym mis Medi.
Diolch yn fawr.
Diagnostic Radiography I qualified as a diagnostic radiographer from Bangor University in 2012 and worked in x-ray and nuclear medicine at Ysbyty Gwynedd.
After completing an MSc in Nuclear Medicine at the University of Salford (2015-2019), I joined Bangor University in 2020 as a Lecturer in Health Sciences – Radiography.
I’m currently the Programme Lead for the BSc Diagnostic Radiography (Hons) course.
Diagnostic Radiography Hi, I’m Tom, an interprofessional lecturer in healthcare sciences.
I lead the Year 2 evidence-informed practice module and serve as the Director of Student Engagement for the School of Health Sciences.
With a background in Radiography, specialising in CT scanning, I’m excited to meet and work with you all as the module progresses.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/sociology-and-social-policy:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our Sociology and Social Policy programmes here at Bangor University.
Congratulations on being accepted to come to Bangor University.
My name is Dr Cynog Prys.
I am a Sociology and Social Policy lecturer here at the university, and we can't wait to welcome you, to the university where you can study such an important, topic, such an important subject area where we try to make sense of our society, of the changes, that are taking place.
So, yes, we're counting down the days until you get here to join us.
At Bangor, all the best, and we'll see you soon.
Sociology informs all aspects of my like - it enables me to understand people as individuals, it informs what I do, what I eat, what my priorities are, how I vote, how I engage with nature, culture and people form all walks of life.
It's current and exciting to understand issues in society today.
Sociology expands your imagination and your ability to empathise.
Everything - it gets you to explore any issue with a enquiring and critical lens.
Get involved with students clubs and get out into the beautiful countryside - embrace all of the student life that Bangor University has to offer.
Sociology and Social Policy has never been more relevant.
How we address things such as the housing crisis and the challenges in the NHS are major concerns and Social Policy can offer solutions to these and many other problems.
I've always been interested in how society is governed and what policies make the greater differences to things like poverty and inequality.
Social Policy examines these areas and offers solutions to some of society's major problems in areas such as housing and welfare.
I enjoy teaching about topical and current issues in tackling poverty and inequality in UK society and beyond.
I have students from all over the world in my classes and I enjoy hearing their stories and experiences regarding social policies in areas such as health and education.
I enjoy interacting with the students and learning from their experiences of welfare states world-wide.
It is great to engage students in class discussions especially after I've delivered a presentation on a topical area.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/sport-and-exercise-sciences:
As you consider your options, explore what makes Bangor special—from cutting-edge research and practical learning opportunities to a vibrant community passionate about Sport Science.
Our Sport Science courses are taught by world-leading academics who are passionate about their subjects.
Our dedicated team of academics is not just knowledgeable but also a diverse tapestry of expertise and passion.
From seasoned researchers to industry professionals, each lecturer brings a unique perspective to the table, enriching your academic experience.
So, get ready to be inspired, challenged, and guided by a group of individuals who are not just educators, but mentors invested in your success.
We have a range of state-of-the-art facilities that you will be able to use during your studies, including our human performance laboratory, environmental chamber, and altitude chamber.
These facilities will give you the opportunity to gain practical experience of the latest sport science techniques.
Congratulations on your offer to study Sport and Exercise Science with us – we’re thrilled to have you on board!
A semester is one academic session.
There are two semesters in an academic year.
Semester 1 generally runs from late September to the end of January and Semester 2 generally runs from early February to early June.
Each semester has 12 weeks of lectures and 3 weeks of revision and assessment.
The Christmas and Easter vacations are each of three weeks duration.
A module is a unit of the degree; it is a topic-based course of 12 weeks duration.
Performance on each module will generally be assessed by coursework and by means of an examination (but there are some exceptions—you will be notified of these at the start of the year).
Around 16 hours per week in lectures, seminars, tutorials, and practical groups but successful undergraduates will work at least twice that much each week - treat it like a full time job!
You will be assessed in a range of ways, including multiple choice exams to essays and lab reports.
Assessment methods can vary depending on which module you are following.
The majority of modules have assignments throughout the semester and an exam at end of the year, which together go towards final module mark.
Many modules have two assignments.
Did you know?
Students must pass Year 1 to progress to Year 2, but your Year 1 marks do not count towards your final degree marks.
We know that not everyone prefers exams and we think that having a variety of assessments gives you a chance to 'shine'!
For sport science students,  activity is focussed in the George Building that's situated on the banks of the Menai Straits, on the Normal Site, which is off Holyhead Road.
In addition, we have plenty of computing facilities, including some that are open 24 hours during term time.
Have a look at this link for the Uni wide facilities and check out the Sport Science facilities too.
If you're looking for academic staff, they are also located in the George Building.
To help you find your way around, a campus map can be found here.
There are many options for students to study through the medium of Welsh .
As part of Sport Science degrees the elements of Year 1 modules are available through the medium of Welsh, as well as some modules in Years 2 & 3.
If you would like to take advantage of the Welsh-medium study opportunities, there will be lots more information available during Welcome Week.
You will be able to discuss option with Welsh medium members of teaching staff.
Fore more information about Welsh medium study at Bangor, please see this page .
We recognise that over half of the students attending university work part time.
You are welcome to get a part time job during your studies, but we encourage students to ensure that they prioritise their studies and manage their workload accordingly.
Unfortunately, we cannot change the timetabled academic sessions to your individual work requirements.
Many students choose to work out of term time to ensure their work does not clash with their scheduled timetable.
Our most engaged students also choose to get work experience, which is sometimes paid, in one of the many outdoor centres located in the surrounding area.
Others work further afield, for example at Camp America
Hello, I'm Dr Aamer Sandoo, one of the senior lecturers here in Sport and Exercise Science.
I'd like to congratulate you on getting an offer to study a sport and exercise science degree at Bangor University.
I can guarantee if you come here, you will have the three best years of your life.
Located on the banks of the Menai Straits, the Department of Sport and Exercise Science is ranked in the top five for sport and exercise science in the UK.
I'm going to take the next 30 seconds to explain why you should accept your offer to come and study here.
This is one of the department's modern teaching facilities, where you get to learn really cool techniques like ultrasound, body composition analysis, spirometry, and fitness testing.
We also have a dedicated altitude chamber, which we actually get our students to learn and understand how to use.
The altitude chamber is designed to actually mimic the altitude that might be seen at Mount Everest or even higher, and understand the physiological effects on the body and the psychological effects on the mind.
This information can then actually be used to help people that are going out into expedition, people that live at altitude and people that work at altitude too.
So we also have a dedicated environmental chamber where we can actually simulate really hot or very cold temperatures, and we can actually use, or we can actually get our students to learn and then use these chambers to understand more about what athletes undergo when they're competing in extreme environments.
But also when we think about occupations like firefighters, mountain rescue, then we need to learn more sport scientists about what goes on in the body under those circumstances.
So right from year one, you will actually be involved in working and operating a chamber like this, which will help you in your future employability prospects.
So hopefully you've got a flavour of the facilities that we have here in the Department of Sport and Exercise Science.
But that's not all.
The university also offers guaranteed accommodation, and one of the amazing things that I personally think is great is membership, which is free if you're in the accommodation, to Canolfan Brailsford, which is the university's weight training and fitness suite, and actually the weightlifting gym for Platform 81 is one of the best in the UK, is the home to the Wales weightlifting team.
So it's a facility that you definitely have really good fun training at.
So what are you waiting for?
Accept your offer.
Come to this lecture theatre and I look forward to teaching you in the new academic year.
Whatever the case, we are looking forward to supporting your journey towards your future career.
Our suite of sport and exercise science programmes include aspects of clinical and social science and engages elite and recreational performers athletes, and the wider community in fundamental science, applied practice and positive behaviour change.
Our innovative approach to teaching, and commitment to smaller class sizes, enables us to offer regular practical sessions in our state-of-the-art teaching and sports facilities, all from the beginning of your degree.
In your free time, you can try a range of outdoor activities from sea-kayaking to mountain climbing by joining one of our many student-led clubs and societies.
Our sector-leading pastoral support means you will be fully supported whilst you are here.
We really hope to welcome you here in September.
Professor James Hardy
Interim Head of Sport and Exercise Science
Our Sport Science academics can’t wait to welcome you and share their passion for the subject.
Our Sport Science students are ready to chat!
They’ve been in your shoes and are happy to help!
Our academics are also available to answer any questions you may have.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university as a Sport and Exercise Sciences student.
Hi, my name is Dr.
Julian Owen, and I teach on the Sport and Exercise Science programme here at Bangor University.
It's not too long now before you start your studies with us, and we're getting ready to offer you a fantastic, research-driven course where you'll learn about, interact with, and act upon all kinds of theories within sport and exercise science.
Right from the start, you'll be supported in your studies through small group teaching and seminars, as well as hands-on laboratory experiences and practicals to supplement your lectures.
You'll be able to access study spaces and computer labs during breaks from your lectures, and we provide plenty of support for academic and study skills if you need it.
If you'd like to get involved in playing sport while you're here, don't forget to check out our fantastic clubs and societies during Welcome Week.
@sportscibangor Still undecided about your University journey?
Check out our Sport Science courses at Bangor University.
Full details in link in bio.
#SportSciBangor Dal heb benderfynu am eich taith yn y Brifysgol?
Edrychwch ar ein cyrsiau Gwyddor Chwaraeon ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Manylion llawn yn y ddolen yn y bio.
#GwyddorChwaraeoniBangor ♬ Legends Are Made - Sam Tinnesz
Mimi White is a Bangor University, BSc Sport and Exercise Psychology graduate.
"My climbing journey began six years ago.
I became immersed in the sport, training four times a week.
I learned fast while working at a climbing wall, surrounded by supportive climbers.
I soon realised the profound influence of my mental state on my climbing performance.
I had never thought of myself as a performance psychologist.
When I overcame my fear of falling and self-doubt, I became interested in psychology.
I learned how important it is to have a positive mindset while tackling climbs ranging from 9 to 35 meters.
I am grateful for the challenges and the moments of success.
It has been amazing to share my journey online, from my early days of climbing to where I am now, starting "Climbing Calm," and encouraging others to join this sport I love.''
Read more on next slide
"The pandemic changed my life, like it did for everyone else, making me rethink my goals.
I decided to learn about performance psychology.
I chose Bangor University for its reputation in and its location near some of the UK's best rock climbing spots.
Even though I had doubts at first, my time at the university has been amazing and has changed me for the better.
My climbing journey has shown me the importance of physical strength and mental toughness.
Despite facing challenges and setbacks, I've found joy and purpose in my personal accomplishments and academic studies.
This has shaped who I am as a climber and someone who wants to become a performance psychologist."
Explore the fascinating world of Sport and Exercise science with our exclusive free webinar series , brought to you by Bangor University Sport and Exercise Science department.
Listen to our Sport Science podcast exploring topics related to health, performance and well-being.
We will discuss latest research ideas and how these can inform practice and decision making for a range of professionals involved in this area including:
Each episode also has an accompanying video on the Bangor Sport Science YouTube channel so that you can see the host and the guests!

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/teaching:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our Teaching programmes here at Bangor University.
Congratulations on being offered a place to come and study here at Bangor University in the School of Education.
My name is Kate Jones and I'm a Lecturer in Education.
We're really looking forward to welcoming you to start you and your journey to becoming teachers of the future.
You will expect in your first year to have lectures with your your lectures at university before you head out onto placement, at local network schools to learn the skills required to be a teacher.
We're looking forward to welcoming you and meeting you, and we'll see you soon.
I was a teacher for almost twenty years, and loved my job.
I felt that I could transfer some of my passion and enthusiasm for teaching to future teachers.
My favourite thing about what we teach is the research we use and create to support our teachers in training in their future career.
Learning how to help children to learn in the best possible way, to feel that they belong and that they are important, are some of the most important things a new teacher can learn.
Every day is different in education.
A mixture of lectures, days at network schools, teaching experience and seminars all combine to create a varied and exciting course.
A career in education is one of the most rewarding careers you can have.
Although it may seem challenging and daunting, the best things usually are, and it's definitely worth it for a job where no two days are the same.
I have a passion for science but realised during my degree that this might well lead me to spending much of my time in isolation working on a screen and I realised that I also have a passion for people and learning and interaction so teaching seemed to combine these.
I love the fact that my subject allows me to be as creative as I want.
Teaching is a subject where the more inventive you can be the more you will engage your students.
Science for me is the very foundations of our world.
it is a subject where we are constantly pushing back the boundaries of what we know and with the right explanation any student can understand where we are at the forefront of our knowledge.
The most fascinating study I have worked on was the F1 in schools project we currently do with our PGCE course.
it combines programming, software, physics, design, marketing.
It is so broad that we literally can't fit it all in!

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/offer-holders-hub/welsh:
Congratulations on your offer to study one of our Welsh programmes here at Bangor University.
Congratulations on receiving an offer to study here at Bangor University.
My name is Dr Elis Dafydd, I am a lecturer at the Department of Welsh and Celtic Studies.
Coming here to study Welsh would be an excellent choice.
First of all, Bangor is located in an area where Welsh is living and a thriving language, and there's no better place to immerse yourself in the language and in the culture.
Secondly, the range of modules we offer is very extensive, and you'll have every chance to follow your interests and be inspired by new things.
Last but not least, we are small friendly department where you'll always feel welcome and looked after, and we look forward to seeing you soon.
I love reading and studying literature, as well as creative writing.
Creative writing is a process of discovery and seeing things in a new light, so the work is never boring or monotonous.
It's always an adventure.
Being in the company of the students teaching and talking and creating.
There is a great community of students of all kinds in Bangor and the Welsh language is a central part of the entire life of the University and the surrounding area.
I believe that everyone has the ability to write creatively.
It's about going for it.
It is a process of discovery.
As an American, discovering American Welsh literature was an eye opener for me: it was amazing to learn that so much Welsh literature was published in the United States during the 19th century.
People - especially outside Wales - sometimes think that the Welsh language is a 'small' field as the Welsh language is a minority language.
It must explained by stating that you could spend your life studying one century in the history of Welsh literature as there is so much interesting literature in the language!
Studying literature and analysing language provides you with great skills that are useful in many everyday contexts - when solving problems or when thinking creatively about anything.
Take full advantage of all the resources - academic and social - available at the University.
You need to make sure you know about all the things that are available to you here in Bangor.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentservices/peer-guides:
Bangor is well known for the warm welcome it extends to its students.
A really important part of that is the Peer Guides who are on hand to help our new students settle in.
Coming to university for the first time can be scary and daunting.
That’s why here at Bangor, we make sure you get the best start by introducing you to our Peer Guides who are there to answer your questions, show you around, make sure you meet new people and have a great time.
If you are a new student, a current student or just beginning to think about applying to Bangor you can find out more about our Peer Guide Scheme.
To see our policies please look at the following documents:
For more general information please follow the links below.
If you have questions please look at our list of contacts and email the appropriate person
New and prospective students
Meet some Peer Guides
Current students: Want to be a Peer Guide?

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-services:
Providing support to students and helping you make the most of your time at university.
Student Services & Administration provides support to students on a range of matters concerned with life as a student.
From managing your finances to finding a graduate job, our services are there to help you make the most of your time at university.
Our services are available online so you can access information and advice where ever you are located.
We are also able to offer some in-person appointments within social distancing protocols.
Details of what each service provides is provided in the individual service pages below.
Our aim is to enable you, our students, to successfully make the transition to HE, to fulfill your academic potential and to develop the skills and knowledge to be successful in your chosen career.
Advice here.
Take a look at our Student-Led Mental Health and Wellbeing Strategy booklet.
A range of useful mental health resources.
Browse our list of service publications and leaflets.
Student Services, Neuadd Rathbone, College Road, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DF, UK.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentservices/disability/index:
Disability Services are now online so wherever you are you can access our services - whether your preference is face-to-face, email, speak on the phone or video call.
Our Advisory Teams are  offering pre-booked face-to-face and online appointments.
Staff will be working normal office hours and are looking forward to hearing from you.
See our FAQs and What we do for students for more information.
The University’s declared aim is to take all possible steps to remove unnecessary barriers and enable full participation by disabled students in all aspects of University life.
For further information on policy and procedure, see the University’s Code of Practice on the Provision for Disabled Students and Strategic Equality Plan .
We are pleased to say that the number of disabled students studying at the University has increased over the last few years and our team has grown to meet the demand.
We have gained excellent feedback from students and we offer a friendly and professional service.
If you have any questions, you can e-mail disabilityservices@bangor.ac.uk or phone us on 01248 382032.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/personal-tutor:
Your personal tutor is there to advise and support you with all sorts of academic and non-academic problems.
You’ll be able to talk to your tutor about things like
You should feel free to turn to them at any time for advice and help.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/clearing/visit-day:
If you have been offered a place through Clearing on an undergraduate course starting this September, you can join us for a Clearing Visit Day.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/find-your-perfect-room-undergraduate-students:
We offer a variety of accommodation types to suit every undergraduate student.
Whether you're looking for a room with an en-suite bathroom or accommodation with a private kitchen, browse our selection below to find the perfect space.
Find your Room
LIMITED AVAILABILITY FOR SEPTEMBER 2O25
SOLD OUT FOR SEPTEMBER 2O25

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/find-your-perfect-room-postgraduate-students:
We offer a variety of accommodation types to suit every postgraduate student.
*one free wash and dry per week of contract length, exclusive offer for 2025/26!
LIMITED AVAILABILITY FOR SEPTEMBER 2O25

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/returners:
FIND YOUR Room

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/ffriddoedd/en-suite-classic:
En-suite (8.9m²-10.07m²) Classic rooms offer a vibrant and convenient living experience at Ffriddoedd Village.
They are comfortable single bedrooms with en-suite bathroom.
All rooms are fully furnished and include essential amenities.
Book your room - new undergraduate students Book your room - new postgraduate students Book your room - returning students
Explore this room from the comfort of your sofa.
For a truly immersive experience, use your VR headset and view in full screen.
Use the directional arrows to look around and zoom in to get more detail.
The home icon takes you back to the starting point.
If the tour has a guided walkthrough, use the play button to get started.
It's never too early to start budgeting.
Outlined below are the rental costs, contract length and optional additional costs for this type of accommodation.
Please note that International Students (for fees purposes) are expected to arrive in Bangor on Wednesday the 17 September for an International Students’ Orientation period.
Therefore, Residence Agreements for International Students will run from 17 September with a corresponding small increase in fees.
Your total hall fees will show on your Residence Agreement.
Essential information
Please note that International Students (for fees purposes) are expected to arrive in Bangor on Wednesday the 18 September for an International Students’ Orientation period.
Therefore, Residence Agreements for International Students will run from 18 September with a corresponding small increase in fees.
The Campus Life team is here to ensure your time in the halls is filled with fun, friendship, and unforgettable memories.
When you have been made an offer to study here, you'll be invited by email to join our CampusConnect app.
This is a great way to connect with future course mates and flatmates, make new friends and get brilliant, first-hand advice on university living before you even set foot on campus.
Ffriddoedd is situated 0.8 miles from Main Arts and is within easy walking distance of most of the University buildings and the town.
On site, there is Bar Uno, the University's main sport centre and a convenience shop.
0.6 miles from Main Arts
13 minute walking to Main Arts
6 minute cycling to Main Arts
0.3 miles to the closest supermarket
The information presented on this page regarding university accommodation options, including descriptions, photos, floor plans, and amenities, is intended as a general guide and may be subject to change.
While every effort is made to ensure the accuracy of the information, the university does not guarantee its completeness or currency.
Accommodation availability, specific features, and rental rates are subject to change without notice.
Prospective residents are encouraged to contact the Halls Office directly to confirm specific details and availability before making any decisions.
The university reserves the right to amend or withdraw accommodation options at its discretion.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/wrexham/en-suite:
En-suite (10m²) rooms at Wrexham offer a convenient living experience.
They are comfortable single bedrooms with a private en-suite bathroom.
Book your room - new undergraduate students
Snowdon Hall, Wrexham

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/halls/ffriddoedd/john-morris-jones:
Rooms suitable for: Welsh-speaking and Welsh-learning Undergraduate Students.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/ffriddoedd-village:
Ffriddoedd is our largest accommodation village and is in Upper Bangor.
It's about 10 minutes’ walk from the train station and the Main University Building.
The city centre is 10-15 minutes’ walk away.
Ffriddoedd village has launderettes and common rooms.
This is where you will find Bar Uno café bar and the main sport centre - Canolfan Brailsford.
There is on-site security 24 hours a day and a team of mentors to help you during your time here.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing in the middle of Ffriddoedd Village.
They are standing on the path with fencing, greenery, and accommodation buildings in the background.
There is a sign behind them that reads ‘Ffriddoedd: Bar Uno Café Bar, Shop, Halls Office, Mail Room, Security’.
[AVA] Hello.
Welcome to Ffriddoedd Village.
My name is Ava, and I'm going to show you what it's like to live here.
[ VISUAL DESCRIPTION] There are three clips on the screen at the same time.
The first clip shows two students playing pool in the JMJ Common Room, the second clip shows a student walking the paths through Ffriddoedd, and the third clip shows the same student inside one of the accommodation rooms.
[AVA] So I guess the first thing you need to know is that some people call it Ffridd.
[ VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The scene changes back to the student standing in the middle of Ffriddoedd village with fencing, greenery, and signage in the background.
The student is walking the paths through Ffriddoedd Village with benches, fencing, greenery, and a Campus Life poster attached to the fencing in the background.
[AVA] Ffridd is in a great location in Upper Bangor.
[ VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Two students are standing in Upper Bangor in front of a restaurant/bar.
Multi-coloured decorations are hanging from the roof of the entrance.
One student is pointing towards the decorations while the other student looks up.
[AVA] It's a really popular student area.
Ffridd is only three minutes away from the first teaching building.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A sign is shown on the screen that reads ‘The Vintage Shop’.
The two students are looking through the window of ‘The Vintage Shop’.
One student is looking through the window and pointing at an item in the window, whilst the second student is looking at the same item.
In the background, there are other shops, people, and traffic.
[AVA] This one is for healthcare science, and medical subjects.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing outside, leaning against a wall with buildings, cars, and greenery in the background, as well as a sign that reads ‘Fron Heulog’.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Students seeing to a medical dummy in the University Ward simulation room.
[AVA] but don’t worry, the others aren't that far.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Two students walking through Ffriddoedd Village chatting to each other.
[AVA] Only a minute away from Fron Heulog is the closest supermarket.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing on the pavement close to a roundabout.
The student points to a ‘Morrisons’ sign across the road.
[AVA] This is the famous Glanrafon Hill, often referred to by its nickname, which we can't really say on camera.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing on the top of a road.
To the left, is Morrisons, and to the right is a contractor van and flats.
[AVA] At the bottom, only a 10-minute walk away, is Pontio and Academi, which is one of the student nightclubs.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Two students walking down the stairs in Pontio surrounded by modern white walls and artwork.
Academi Bangor snapchat QR code on the wall in Academi.
Students dancing and partying in Academi nightclub.
[AVA] So many pubs within a 10-minute walk.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] DJ wearing bright green headphones DJ'ing at Academi.
The student is standing outside a local pub called ‘Y Glôb’.
They are pointing up at the sign that reads ‘Tafarn y Glôb’.
[AVA] We're a 15-minute walk to the Main Arts Building on College Road.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing in the ‘Outer Quad’ near the Main Arts Building on campus.
They stretch their arms out to their side.
[AVA] There are plenty of living options here at Ffridd.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is walking another path in an area of Ffriddoedd Village and is surrounded by accommodation buildings grass and trees.
[AVA] All rooms are en-suites, even the budget ones.
You've got the modern halls which all have a lift to each floor.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is sitting outside one accommodation building on a bench.
[AVA] These are the classic halls.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing outside an accessible flat door in the ‘Cefn-y-Coed’ building.
They knock on the door and are let into the flat by the resident.
They walk into the flat and to the left into the resident’s bedroom.
[AVA] Unfortunately, there are no lifts and they're also considered as budget halls.
This is Bar Uno, it's a bar, coffee shop and cafe and every weekday a bargain meal is served here which is fantastic.
It's also a great place to meet your friends or socialise or hang out.
This is the shop.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing outside the village shop that is situated at the centre of the student village.
They raise their hands to show the shop sign.
The student stands outside one of the village Launderettes.
[AVA] There's a laundrette here and here.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The clip changes to a second launderette on site.
The student is standing outside of the building, they show the sign to the building, walk to the entrance, and enter the building using their student card.
The student is standing outside the village common room which is next to the village shop.
The sign that is attached to the brick building wall reads ‘common room’ and the door to the left is clear with a ‘Campus Life’ sticker attached.
[AVA] Here's the common room.
It's a great place to work as well as meet your friends.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Inside the common room, the two students are playing foosball.
In the background, there is a piano, tables, study tables, chairs, and sofas.
[AVA] This is Canolfan Brailsford gym and sports centre.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing outside ‘Brailsford Gym and Sports Hall’.
There are signs above the doors that read ‘Sport Bangor’ and to the left that include the opening times.
[AVA] Here you'll find a weightlifting area, squash court, sports Dome, climbing wall, sports hall, and large gym.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A clip of people in Platform 81, which is part of the gym, working out and lifting weights.
A clip of a person using the climbing wall.
The student is standing outside ‘Brailsford Gym and Sports Hall’.
A sweeping scene of two modern halls in Ffriddoedd Village.
[AVA] Your card gets you into your building, flat and room.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing outside a light brown wooden flat door.
The sign on the door reads ‘D001 – D008’.
The student uses their student card to enter the flat.
[AVA] This is a standard kitchen in Ffriddoedd with plenty of space to cook, eat and socialise.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Once inside the flat, the student is standing in the kitchen.
The dining table is dressed with dishes, and apples in a bowl as a centerpiece in the background, and there are storage pots, an oven, a wok, and windows.
There is also a poster on the wall from ‘Campus Life’ that is a calendar of all the available events.
5 students socialising around the dining table at a standard Kitchen in Ffriddoedd, with one student cooking behind them.
Student is standing in the middle of the kitchen.
[AVA] Each kitchen is equipped with a cooker, fridge-freezer, toaster, microwave, kettle, Hoover, and ironing board.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is kneeling next to a kitchen cupboard.
They grab the handle and open the cupboard.
[AVA] Each person gets a cupboard, shelf in the fridge and a shelf in the freezer.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student stands to the left of two fridge-freezers.
They put their hand on top of one of the fridge freezers.
[AVA] Students are responsible for cleaning their own room and you need to keep the shared areas tidy.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Students sit on the comfy sofas in the kitchen, chatting to each other.
[AVA] Cleaners come in once a week, but they won't wash your dishes, they'll clean the sinks and surfaces and they'll mop the floors.vYour rubbish and recycling bins will be emptied once a week.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Remaining in the flat, the student is standing inside one of the bedrooms.
In the scene, there is a bed, desk, desk chair, shelving, and wardrobe.
[AVA] Whether you're in a room this size
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Within the same flat, the student shows a larger bedroom available in some flats.
They stand in the middle of the room and stretch out their arms to show the size of the room.
There is a bed, desk, desk chair, shelving, and a wardrobe in the room.
[AVA] or this size, you will get a single bed, internet connection, a desk and a chair, a bookshelf, a waste bin, wardrobe, and storage under the bed.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student remains in the larger room and is sitting on the bed as they speak.
The student sits on a desk chair by the desk with a laptop and Campus Life reusable coffee cup.
The camera zooms into shelving and then to a bin in the rooms, and the student’s hand is pointing to both.The student is standing to the left of the wardrobe and opens the door, then moves on to the under-bed storage.
The student pulls out the drawers from under the bed.
Moving to the en-suite, the student stands to the left of the door with their hand on the handle.
They open the door to show the inside.
In the background, there is a sink, toilet, shower curtain, and some toiletries on the shelving on the wall.
[AVA] This is the en-suite.
You'll have to buy a TV license if you intend on watching live TV, but you can bring a games console.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is sitting on the bed with a laptop on their lap.
The student is standing next to a notice board that is fixed to the wall above the desk and under the shelving.
The student points to the notice board and the posters secured to it.
The shelving above the notice board has some home décor accessories, and there is a poster on the wall in the background.
[AVA] Remember to bring your own bedding.
You can put posters up here to make it feel nice and homely but remember to check the website to see what you can't bring.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is stood in front of accommodation buildings specifically for healthcare students.
There are buildings, parked cars, greenery, and trees in the background.
[AVA] These are specially allocated halls for healthcare students as they run on different schedules to most students and they're also budget halls.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is stood outside a blue door and knocks on the door.
Another student opens the door and they both walk through the corridor and into a bedroom.
[AVA] There are lots of accessible rooms here in Ffriddoedd.
Let's go and have a look in Abi's room.
[ABI] Hello
[AVA] Hi
[AVA] So Abi, how did you go about securing an accessible room?
[ABI] Well it was quite easy to be honest.
Once I got my original offer through from the University on results day, they stated ‘do you need an accessible room?’
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student and the resident are in the bedroom.
The student is leaning against a desk near a window, that has plans and stuffed animals.
The resident stands to the student’s right next to language posters and a computer.
[ABI] Because on UCAS I stated I have a disability and from there, halls got in touch with me and gave me all the steps.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A sweeping clip of the room from left to right.
In the room there is a bed, a bedside table with a photo and a water bottle, then there is a large worktop under the window with stuffed animals and the student and resident are standing to the right of the room.
To the right of the room, there is a desk with a laptop and tablet, shelving and photos, lights, and posters hanging on the wall.
A clip of the resident sitting at their desk.
They are sitting on a desk chair, with their hands on the keyboard looking at the laptop screen.
They are surrounded by personal photos, trinkets, lights, and posters.
[ABI] I've been in this room for three years now, so halls have been very accommodating for me, letting me keep all my equipment over the summer holidays.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The scene returns to the student and resident, leaning against the workspace in front of the window.
The laptop screen and posters on the wall can be seen to the right of the resident.
[ABI] So yeah, they’ve been really accommodating.
[AVA] The bathroom is also accessible.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing next to a door within the room.
They put their hand on the handle and open the door to show the accessible en-suite.
[AVA] This button allows you to call security 24/7.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The clip is zoomed into an alarm on the wall of the accessible room with the student’s hand pointing to a red button that reads ‘CALL’ and a green button that reads ‘RESET’.
The student stands behind a sign that reads ‘Neuadd John Morris-Jones’.
In the background, parked cars can be seen outside two accommodation buildings.
[AVA] This is Neuadd John Morris Jones.
These are dedicated to Welsh speakers and learners.
Each bedroom is en-suite.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing outside a light blue flat door.
The student knocks on the door and is let into the flat by a resident of the flat.
[AVA] There are shared kitchens, a lift to each floor, and there's a very sociable common room.
Let's take a look inside.
[SIRIOL] Hiya, Croeso, come in.
[AVA] So why do people choose to live in JMJ?
[SIRIOL] To be a part of a Welsh community.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student and the resident are sat around a dining table in the flat’s kitchen.
In the background, there are kitchen cupboards, a microwave, and a large window to the right.
[SIRIOL] Also it's like a home away from home.
[AVA] Is that your favourite thing about living here?
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] hand re-arranging red and yellow pool balls in a triangle on a pool table.
Two students are in the JMJ Common Room playing pool.
Student 1 is taking a shot with the pool cue whilst Student 2 is standing in the background holding the pool cue and watching Student 1.
[SIRIOL] I'd say for me it would be the Welsh Union.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] From a different angle, the two students continue to play pool.
In the background, there is a dart board, chairs, and writing on the wall that reads ‘Cofiwch Dryweryn’ and writing on a board near the window that reads ‘Y Glôb’.
The camera zooms into a red UMCB t-shirt that reads ‘Eisteddfod Ryng-Golegol Bangor 2017’.
[SIRIOL] We do a lot together, trips and nights out and sober events as well.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The camera zooms into a second red UMCB t-shirt that reads ‘Eisteddfod Ryng-Golegol Bangor 2022’.
The scene changes back to the two students sitting in the kitchen of the flat in JMJ.
They are looking at each other while talking.
[SIRIOL] It's just nice to have that sort of family.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing in the kitchen.
In the background, there are kitchen cupboards, appliances, an oven, a sink, and some dishes.
[AVA] So this is a typical budget flat, and you get what you find in a normal student kitchen.
Let's take a look at a typical budget room.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing in front of a green door with a sign that reads ‘Z716’.
They have their hand on the handle, and they enter the room.
Once in the room, the students spread their arms to their sides to show the room.
There is a desk, desk chair, bed, and shelving in the room.
[AVA] Sounds good so far, here's a little bit more information.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] An aerial clip of the Ffriddoedd Student Village.
Bangor can be seen in the background, as well as the Menai Straits and the pier.
Another aerial clip of the student village from a different angle.
The astroturf can be seen.
[AVA] The contract is approximately 42 weeks for undergraduates and approximately 51 weeks for postgraduates.
Your fees pay for your room, your basic contents insurance, all utility bills, Wi-Fi, gym, and the Campus Life membership.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A clip of the two students in the JMJ flat kitchen.
They are sitting on the dining table holding mugs, facing each other.
To the left, there are recycling bins and a large window with a lovely view of the Menai Straits and Anglesey, and to the right, there are appliances, cupboards, and an oven.
From a different angle, the two students are sat on the kitchen dining table looking out the window at the lovely view of the Menai Straits and Anglesey.
A clip of the student and a Campus Crew member sitting next to each other on a red sofa, they are talking and laughing.
[AVA] Christie is one of the Campus Crew members.
[AVA] And can you tell us a bit more about what Campus Life does?
[CHRISTIE] Yeah, we put on free events for students so that they can have fun, meet people, and destress.
So for example, we put on quiz nights and things in the common room.
[AVA] This is the Hall's office where you can collect your post and report any maintenance issues.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] From inside the Halls office, the student is standing in front of the reception where a student has their back to the host student speaking to the staff member.
[AVA] You can't keep your bike in your room.
Luckily there are bike sheds dotted all around site and it only costs £20 for a year and you can even buy this key before you arrive at Uni.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student stands in front of a bike shed.
The bike shed is a metal, green shed with weatherproof plastic and has a lock on the gate.
There are also bikes inside.
[AVA] I've always found Ffriddoedd to feel really safe.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student stands outside of the security building to the right of a sign that reads ‘Security’.
[AVA] They have 24-hour security and they have an office right in the middle of the site.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A close-up of the student as they speak.
There are foliage, greenery, and buildings in the background.
[AVA] There are also mentors that live in halls.
These are non-first year students that can help with any problems you may have from noisy neighbours to messy flatmates.
If you do bring a car, you'll need to apply for a parking permit.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A closer aerial clip of the Student Village.
[AVA] There are a limited number of spaces at our accommodation sites, but the best thing about Bangor is that everything's within walking distance.
Really hope you've enjoyed the tour today.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is sitting on a bench in the centre of the student village.
In the background, there are two outdoor table tennis tables, trees, and Bar Uno.
[AVA] If there's anything that we haven't answered, please check out the Bangor Uni FAQ page or e-mail halls@bangor.ac.uk.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Bangor University Logo.
Explore this Ffriddoedd Village from the comfort of your sofa.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/st-marys-village:
St Mary's is smaller than Ffriddoedd and is located in an elevated position overlooking the city.
It's about 5 minutes' walk from the city centre and 10-15 minutes' walk from the train station and the Main University Building.
The halls in this village have been designed to maximise opportunities to make friends and socialise.
Here you will find a range of accommodation options including en-suite bedrooms, budget rooms, studio apartments and townhouses.
St Mary's Village has a café/shop, launderette and common rooms.
There is on-site security 24-hours a day and a team of mentors to help you during your time here.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Student standing at the entrance of St Mary’s Village.
The townhouses, reception/halls office, and car park are in the background.
[SHAILZA] Welcome, I'm Shailza and I'm going to show you around St Mary's Village today.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] There are three clips on the screen at the same time.
The first clip shows a student standing outside Barlows pointing to the sign.
The second shows a student in a standard bedroom in St Mary's and the third shows two members of the Campus Crew in their bright Orange hoodies.
A student walks a path between two St Mary’s Village halls of residence surrounded by greenery.
[SHAILZA] There are 600 rooms in St Mary's Village.
The majority of them are en-suite rooms with private bathrooms.
There are some studio apartments as well.
There are townhouses and budget accommodations with shared bathrooms.
All the bedrooms in St Mary's Village, except the budget accommodation, have a small double bed.
This village is located on top of Lôn Popty, so walking up and down the
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Student speaking on the pavement near the exit of St Mary’s Village located on top of Lôn Popty.
She is surrounded by trees, autumn foliage and parked cars.
[SHAILZA] hill is definitely going to be keeping you fit, but the views at the top are totally worth it.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Student standing in front of an interior window of one of the halls of residence.
The bird's eye view of Bangor can be seen in the background.
With a view of St Mary’s townhouses in the background, the student walks down the village car park towards the exit, surrounded by greenery.
[SHAILZA] We're only 5 minutes away from the High Street.
We've got Spoons,
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Students standing in front of the entrance of a local pub that is situated in the town centre and near the student village.
A student stands in front of a local takeaway shop, Kebaby, in the town centre.
[SHAILZA] we've got ‘Kebaby,’ Baby.
Another pub.
We've got two shops,
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A Student stands in front of a different pub’s signage.
It reads ‘The Harp Inn.
Good food.
Real Ales.
Free House.’ The student points up towards the signage.
Student stands on the pavement near traffic lights with a Lidl supermarket in the background.
A student stands on a footpath with an Asda supermarket in the background.
[SHAILZA] both within a 10-minute walk from St Mary's, and an amazing pizza place.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A student is stood in front of a local restaurant.
The student raises their hands towards the signage on the side of the restaurant that reads ‘Wood Fired Shack’.
A view of the Pontio building with students walking down the stairs just outside Pontio.
The Main Arts Building can be seen behind Pontio.
[SHAILZA] Pontio and Main Arts are just 15 minutes away.
This is a townhouse.
Let's go have a look.
Come on in.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A student stands in front of a townhouse's front door with the number ‘07’ written on the glass.
The student knocks on the door, and another student opens the door to let the first student into the building.
[DANIEL] So I'm gonna show you the kitchen first and then we'll move around.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Two students are standing outside the kitchen door of a townhouse in St Mary’s Village.
They both enter the kitchen.
[SHAILZA] So Daniel, how's it like living in the townhouse?
[DANIEL] "It's pretty much a very private
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Two students sit side by side on a green sofa in the townhouse kitchen while chatting.
[DANIEL] environment.
You know, you mind your business and go about life, your life, very normal.
It's very quiet and very decent.
And yeah, like I say, a lot of privacy here, and the facilities are also state-of-the-art, so we feel very comfortable."
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A sweeping clip of a townhouse kitchen showing the facilities available.
Two students can be seen in the background, they are chatting while sitting on a green sofa in the kitchen.
[SHAILZA] This kitchen is usually shared between 8 to 12 people.
This is a typical bed of townhouse.
It's nice and spacious,
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A typical room in a townhouse, consists of a wardrobe, small double bed, a green wall behind the bed, a desk, desk chair and a window dressed with green curtains.
[SHAILZA] and it's got a small double bed.
The bathroom is shared between two people.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A student is standing inside the shared bathroom of the townhouse.
The shower is in the background with a towel hanging over the top.
The student is sitting next to a sign that is situated outside of the halls of residence.
The sign reads ‘Bryn Eithin’.
[SHAILZA] This is Bryn Eithin.
This is where I live.
This is St Mary's budget option.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A typical budget kitchen in Bryn Eithin, consists of 1 oven, 2 hobs, 2 sinks and various cooking equipment.
[SHAILZA] This is the kitchen.
It's great for socialising.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Two students are sitting at a table in a kitchen in the ‘Bryn Eithin’ building.
The camera zooms closer to the first student, and they speak to the camera.
A view of trees can be seen in the background.
A bedroom door with a sign that reads ‘K14’ opens, revealing the student and her bedroom in ‘Bryn Eithin’.
There is a basin next to the door on the inside, and a desk, shelving, and window can be seen in the background.
[SHAILZA] So this is my room.
As this is a budget accommodation, the bathrooms over here are shared,
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is sitting on a desk chair with their back to the desk.
A laptop is on the desk and the screen reads ‘study now, be proud later’ and a phone, water bottle, and art are placed on the desk in the background.
[SHAILZA] although I chose this one because of the huge kitchen which accommodates my cooking hobbies.
Everything you need is in the Village.
There's Barlows, which has a shop, a coffee shop,
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing outside Barlows.
They are standing under the signage that reads ‘Caffi a Siop Barlows Café and Shop’ and to the left of the main entrance.
They raise their hands towards the signage.
The student is standing inside the show that is situated within Barlows.
In the background, there are two industrial fridges filled with drinks and to the right of the student, there are shelves filled with pastries, cakes, eggs, etc.
The student is sitting in the Barlows Common Room.
There are four copper-coloured chairs and a coffee table in the middle.
The student is sitting in one of the chairs with a book in hand.
There is tall shelving in the background with books, plants, and an audio system.
[SHAILZA] a common room
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is in the laundrette situated in Barlows.
They are initially behind the door of a tumble dryer; they then close the door revealing their face while they speak to the camera.
[SHAILZA] a laundry room, a meeting room, a quiet room, a computer room, and a bookable kitchen.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing outside a meeting room.
The sign on the door reads ‘Ystafell gyfarfod 1 / Meeting room 1’.
The student is standing outside the quiet room in Barlows.
The sign on the door reads ‘Ystafell dawel / Quiet room’.
The student is sitting in the Barlows Computer Room.
They’re sitting on the desk in front of a desktop computer, with another desktop computer in the background.
The student stands outside the door to a bookable kitchen in Barlows.
The sign on the door reads ‘Cegin 2 / Kitchen 2’.
A sweeping clip of the bookable kitchen and its appliances.
The student is joined by two Campus Crew students inside Acapela.
There are two Campus Life posters in the background.
[SHAILZA] This is Acapela.
This is where a lot of the Campus Life events happen.
[CAMPUS CREW MEMBER] We host free events for students living in halls.
[CAMPUS CREW MEMBER] It's a good opportunity for students to meet new people, try new things, and have some fun whilst de-stressing from uni.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Students using the weightlifting equipment in Platform 81, Canolfan Brailsford.
[SHAILZA] You'll get a free membership to the main gym and the sports centre.
But if you want a quick workout, there's always a small on-site gym.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is sitting on the shoulder press machine in the on-site gym at St Mary’s.
The student is standing in front of a green door with a sign that reads ‘120L – 120R’.
They use their student card to enter the flat door and enter.
[SHAILZA] The rooms are really secure.
Your card will get you into your flat and your room.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is sitting in the kitchen of the flat in St Mary’s.
In the background are the kitchen cupboards, sink, toaster, and mug.
[SHAILZA] This is a typical St Mary's kitchen.
There's plenty of space to cook, eat, and socialise.
There's a big dining table and comfy chairs for socialising.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing in the kitchen pointing out the different amenities that are available in the kitchen.
The kitchen, appliances, dining table, and chairs are in the background.
The camera pans to the green sofa in the kitchen.
[SHAILZA] People bring in their own cooking utensils, pots, pans, crockery, cutlery, etc.
All kitchens are equipped with a cooker, microwave,
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing in the kitchen, leaning against a kitchen worktop with the cupboards, kettle, and toaster in the background.
[SHAILZA] toaster, kettle, fridge, freezer, ironing board, and a vacuum cleaner.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student walks around the kitchen showing the appliances etc.
First, they open the cupboard, secondly, they walk to the fridge freezer and open the fridge and then the freezer door.
[SHAILZA] You'll get a cupboard, a shelf in the fridge, and a shelf in the freezer.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing in a bedroom with a desk, desk chair, drawers, pinboard, bed, and window in the background.
[SHAILZA] This is the typical bedroom on St Mary's.
In the rooms, you get a four-foot bed,
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is sitting on the bed and in the background is a bedside table, succulent, mug, and phone.
[SHAILZA] which is a small double.
There's a desk, chair with Wi-Fi included.
You've got a wardrobe, bookshelf,
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is sitting on a green desk chair by the desk using a laptop and there is lamp that is on in the background.
The student gives a short tour of the available storage in the bedroom.
First, they are stood to the left of the wardrobe and open the door to show the inside.
Secondly, they show a bookshelf under the desk and a bin, then they show the storage under the bed, and finally the notice board on the wall.
[SHAILZA] and waste bin, storage under the bed.
You need to bring your own bedding, and you can put up your posters to make it look more homely.
And this is the en-suite.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student stands to the left of the en-suite door.
They grab the handle and open the door and the camera pans showing the inside.
The student is back sitting on the bed with the laptop on their lap.
[SHAILZA] If you want to watch TV, you need to get a TV license, and you're more than welcome to bring your own gaming consoles.
There's a list of things you can't bring, and you can check that list on the University website.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing in the hallway of a flat outside the bedrooms, with the entrance to the flat in the background.
[SHAILZA] Students are responsible for cleaning their own rooms, en suites, and their communal kitchens.
Cleaners do come in weekly.
They'll clean your surfaces, sinks, and mop your floor, but they won't do your dishes.
Your rubbish and your recycling bins will be cleaned out once a week as well.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is back in the flat kitchen to the right of the bins and recycling with the window in the background.
[SHAILZA] If you opt for a studio, things are a little bit different.
There are four types of studios,
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing outside a studio flat which has a purple door, They knock on the door and the resident opens the door and lets the student in.
[SHAILZA] and I'm gonna show you a deluxe studio right now.
Hi.
[STUDENT LIVING IN A STUDIO] Hi.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] A sweeping clip of a studio flat.
It shows the kitchen, appliances, TV, a sofa where the two students are sitting and chatting, a desk, and a bed.
[SHAILZA] What's your experience like living over here?
[STUDENT LIVING IN A STUDIO] "I really love living in St Mary's because of the Campus Life stuff.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student living in the studio flat is sitting on a purple sofa speaking to the camera with photos, the window, and plants in the background.
Two members of the Campus Crew playing table tennis in Acapela.
[STUDENT LIVING IN A STUDIO] There’s stuff almost every night.
You get to go out and meet all the other
[STUDENT LIVING IN A STUDIO] people living in St Mary's.
The Campus Life team are just amazing like that."
[SHAILZA] So why did you choose a studio apartment?
[STUDENT LIVING IN A STUDIO] "So for me, it was definitely about having my own kitchen.
I really love to bake, I really love to cook, and I like being in control of the space.
While I do that, I can't really be sharing it with other people."
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing in the studio kitchen leaning against the kitchen worktop.
The kitchen sink, microwave, kettle, and purple sofa are in the background.
[SHAILZA] The private kitchenette is equipped with the same items as the other kitchens.
The main difference is that the cleaners don't come in, so you are responsible for cleaning your stuff.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing to the left of the studio’s en-suite door.
Their hand is on the door handle, and they open the door and the camera pans into the en-suite showing the inside of the en-suite.
[SHAILZA] All studios come with an en suite.
At St Mary's, there's an approximately 42-week contract for undergraduates
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is sitting on a red armchair in the St Mary’s Halls Office.
In the background are the reception and staff.
[SHAILZA] and an approximately 51-week contract for postgraduates.
Your fees pay for your room,
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing on top of an outdoor staircase that leads to the townhouses.
In the background are the townhouses and railings with a Campus Life poster attached.
[SHAILZA] basic contents insurance, all utility bills, and gym and Campus Life membership.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing outside a bike shed on the site.
Behind them is the bike shed, bikes, and townhouses.
[SHAILZA] You can keep your bike here, and it will only cost you 20 quid for the whole year.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing in the St Mary’s Halls Office, leaning against the reception.
The sign in reception reads ‘Croeso / Welcome’.
In the background, there are parcels, greeting cards, and computers.
[SHAILZA] This is the Hall's office.
This is where you collect your post or report any maintenance issues.
You'll feel really safe here because there's 24-hour security at the University.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing outside the security office.
Behind the student is the security glass, and the camera pans over to a waving security guard.
The stickers on the security glass read ‘Diogelwch / Security’.
The student is sitting on a red and grey sofa with a blank wall behind them.
[SHAILZA] If you have any problems, there are mentors who can help you.
There are a limited number of parking spaces on the accommodation sites.
However,
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is sitting in a sky-blue car in the St Mary’s car park with the driver's side window down.
There are cars, greenery, and a no-entry sign in the background.
[SHAILZA] if you want to park here, you can just apply for a permit.
Although the good thing is, everything is walkable in Bangor.
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] The student is standing at the entrance to the St Mary’s car park.
There are cars in the car park in the background, as well as both older and more modern buildings.
[SHAILZA] I hope you've enjoyed the tour.
If there's anything we haven't answered, you can check out the FAQ section on Bangor University's website or email halls@bangor.ac.uk
[VISUAL DESCRIPTION] Bangor University Logo
St Mary’s Quad - Bangor University
Explore this St Mary's Village from the comfort of your sofa.
For a truly immersive experience, use your VR headset and view in full screen.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/halls/paying:
Undergraduate and postgraduate students may choose to pay the rest of their accommodation fees in full on arrival or at registration.
They may also choose to pay via instalments by credit/debit card.
Full details are available on the Finance Office website .
This sets out the procedure to be followed in relation to managing residential student debt.
The University’s policy is to minimise all levels of debts while ensuring students are given appropriate support to pay fees owed in a timely fashion.
The procedure relates to all hall fees and additional residential charges payable to the University.
The Halls of Residence Credit Control Policy and Procedure has been developed to enable the University to run an efficient and effective method of debt management.
In applying the procedure, the University will always, seek to be sympathetic and understanding of a student’s financial circumstances.
In order for the University to apply the procedure sympathetically, students must communicate promptly with the University if they are experiencing financial difficulties.
Students having trouble paying their accommodation fees and charges should seek help at the earliest opportunity by contacting:
Additional advice and assistance are also available from:
The University provides a range of accommodation for its students.
Prior to moving into accommodation, all students are required to agree and sign the terms of a residence agreement.
The agreement clearly outlines payment terms for accommodation.
Students may pay for their hall fees in advance in full, or by selecting one of the available payment plans by recurring card instalments.
Students receiving a monthly bursary are eligible to pay by a monthly manual payment plan; this can be done by visiting the Halls Office.
The fees for University Halls’ of Residences are set by the Senior Management Team and approved at the Accommodation Planning Group and the University Executive each spring, for the following academic session.
Students living in *Bangor halls of residence receive Campus Life and gym membership included in the price of their halls.
*We regret that this does not apply to students living on the Wrexham Campus and hall fees in Wrexham are adjusted accordingly.
There are two options for paying hall fees:
1.
PAYMENT BY RECURRING DEBIT/CREDIT CARD.
2.
PAYMENT IN ADVANCE FOR THE WHOLE YEAR
Account Name: Bangor University
Bank Name: Santander UK Plc Task Group
Account sort code: 09-02-22
Account number: 10364019
UWB IBAN NO: GB46ABBY09022210364019
UWB SWIFT NO: ABBYGB2L
Please quote your full name and student number when making the transfer, please also email remittance@bangor.ac.uk (to advise the transfer amount, date, and student number).
Exchange students who are here for 1 semester should pay in full on arrival, or as instructed on the separate payment schedule sent to them with their offer.
Healthcare students do not need to complete a recurring card instalment plan, they are eligible to pay hall fees monthly by manual payment plan, to coincide with their bursary payments.
Any healthcare student who does not make the appropriate arrangements will be expected to pay by recurring card payment, or in full for the whole year.
We operate on the standard principle of payment received is applied to the oldest debt first.
Students who encounter financial difficulties should contact the Halls Office or the University Finance Office as soon as they become aware that there is likely to be a problem.
Making early contact could save the University having to issue a reminder – which may save a late payment fee.
The longer the payment is delayed the larger the debt will become, so it is important that students do not ignore their payment obligations.
If any student falls into arrears with any hall fees, the University will take from step 3 onwards to recover the debt.
Notification email sent 5 days prior to payment date.
Success/failure email sent on the payment date.
3.
If the 1st payment fails, it is tried again in 5 days.
4.
If it fails again, a £30 late payment fee is charged, and the plan is inactivated.
However, if the student pays within 10 days of the 1st try, the £30 fee is removed and plan is reactivated.
5.
The list of failed payments is shared with Halls & Money Support.
6.
An email is sent with final reminder to pay within 5 working days.
7.
Should the student fail to pay within 5 working days, another email & hand delivered letter is sent inviting the student for interview to be held within 7 days.
8.
Should the student be subjected to a delay with their student finance loan, another collection will be taken one month after the 1st instalment was due.
If the 1st payment fails, it is tried again in 5 days
However, if the student pays within 10 days of the 1st try, the £30 fee is removed and plan is reactivated
List of failed payments shared with Halls & Money Support.
However, if the student pays within 10 days of the 1st collection attempt, the £30 fee is removed and the plan is reactivated.
The list of failed payments is sent to Halls & Money Support.
An email reminder is sent 3-5 days before each payment is due informing the student that payment is not taken automatically and that they need to make the payment on, or before, the agreed date.
If unpaid, an email is sent on the next working day giving the student 5 days to make payment.
Should the student fail to pay within 5 days, an email & hand delivered letter is sent inviting the student for interview and a £30 late payment charge is applied to their account .
Email sent within 1 week of a student moving into Halls reminding them to make arrangements for paying their Hall Fees within 2 weeks.
Failure to resolve their Hall Fees will result in an email being sent requesting that they attend a meeting within 7 days to discuss further.
a.
Any decision other than setting up an agreeable payment plan will be confirmed in an email.
Failure to attend the meeting or adhere to any agreement will result in an email and hand delivered letter sent inviting the student for interview, to be held within 7 days.
A £30 admin fee is added to the account.
The same process will apply in January for late arrivals or those students experiencing continued financial difficulties.
Students are invited for an interview at the Halls Office with Finance & Money Support at a specific time and date.
The invitation is issued by hand delivered letter under their room door; a copy is also sent via email.
Should the student fail to attend the interview, they will be sent an email requesting payment by the following day.
If the student fails to get in touch or make payment after this time, Halls Sanctions will be implemented.
After 14 days of the above sanctions with no subsequent engagement, the student will be asked to attend a Welfare Support Meeting with the Residential Support Manager or their nominee.
If, during the meeting, it is identified that additional support is required, the student will receive a follow-up email outlining the necessary actions, with a deadline of 7 days to complete them.
Failure to attend the Welfare Support Meeting, to make an adequate payment or payment plan, or to complete the agreed action will result in a final outcome email confirming that a Notice of Possession will be served.
This allows the student 14 days to find alternative accommodation and pay the balance in full up until the date of departure.
Should the student pay the balance in full (based on the original occupation contract date of departure) at this stage, the occupation contract would be reinstated.
However, should the student fail to vacate the premises on or before the given date of departure the University may, in addition or as an alternative to taking court action to recover the debt, apply to the court for a possession order.
The student will be liable to pay the University’s proper and reasonable costs (including but not limited to legal costs, court fees, expenses and VAT and the costs of management time) associated with such proceedings.
Where the University successfully takes court action to recover the debt, the judgment will  be entered on the county court records.
Credit reference agencies search these records, and any student whose name appears on the register of county court judgments may find it difficult to rent accommodation elsewhere, or get a credit card, store card or mobile phone contract or, in years to come, a mortgage.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/halls/mentors:
Each of our residential locations has a Residential Support Team who are responsible for your welfare and for disciplinary matters within University Accommodation.
We are all either students or staff members of the University living amongst you and are available to support you at any time during your time in Halls.
We are here to ensure students' welfare within Halls, which means we are here to help resolve any issues that may jeopardise that.
This might mean a noisy neighbour, messy flatmates, if you are homesick or not happy with your course, food thieves… or any other unexpected "surprise" throughout the year.
Anything you tell your mentor will be treated in the strictest confidence, so please don't be afraid to approach us.
Now you have left home and are living independently, we consider you to be young adults and therefore to behave as such.
We would always encourage you to try and resolve a problem amongst yourselves first.
You may want to speak to your Mentor for advice on how to do this - in our experience, the simplest and quickest way to resolve any issues is by talking to your flatmates.
If you've tried this and it hasn't worked again you may wish to approach any one of us for advice and we will help mediate a discussion to establish the problem and agree a solution.
If it is an issue concerning your whole flat, we may call a flat meeting; otherwise we can arrange a smaller meeting between those involved.
We will monitor the situation until things improve.
If things still don't work out, the Senior Wardens have the authority to pursue disciplinary measures against any resident who is putting the welfare or safety of other residents at risk; generally this would start with a warning but when appropriate the Senior Warden may issue fines and in more serious cases remove the student from University accommodation.
Ideally, we would prefer for issues to be resolved before reaching this stage and, when handled properly, they usually can be.
As members of a community we all have communal responsibilities.
The Residential Support Team hopes that you enjoy your time in Halls and will help you live in a happy and safe community.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/disability:
We’re keen to ensure you are offered suitable accommodation.
If you require an adapted room (see below) or have any other disability-related accommodation needs, please get in touch with Disability Services .
They can also discuss things such as fridges for medication, our vibrating pager system for the fire alarms, room proximity to the laundrettes, ground floor / lift access etc.
It’s best to discuss your needs before you apply for your Halls room so that we can offer appropriate accommodation.
Please do this as early as possible.
You can contact Disability Service Tel.
44 (0)1248 382032 or email disabilityservice@bangor.ac.uk .
These larger en-suite rooms are wheelchair accessible, with larger shower rooms fitted with handrails, shower seats and emergency pull cords.
The kitchens also contain adaptations for wheelchair users.
You may view a typical accessible room here.
If you require a live-in carer, it is essential that you include this information in your application.
We can also arrange access for carers to visit your Halls room.
It is important to note that students must make their own arrangements for personal care support.
More information can be found here: Personal Care Support .
If your disability-related needs affect your room choice, please mention this in your application.
This will help us provide an appropriate room or explore suitable alternatives if your first choice isn’t available.
Additionally, please ensure you discuss your needs with the Disability Service.
It’s also important to mention anything that may impact your Health and Safety or the Health and Safety of those around you.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/shortstay:
We have single-occupancy short-term stay rooms available for students, these are located at our Ffriddoedd Village.
This is the pricing structure for these rooms from 1 September 2024 until 31 August 2025:
From 1 September 2025:
Please note that we have limited availability for the serviced flat.
Services are carried out once a week for stays longer than seven nights.
Servicing for extended stays include a bedding and towel change, bedroom bins emptied and light clean of the bedroom and bathroom areas.
Non-serviced rooms are standard en-suite student rooms, and residents are expected to provide their own bedding, towels, toiletries and cooking equipment.
Excellent Wifi is available at no extra cost.
There are also self-service laundry facilities available on site, which are chargeable.
Check-in is from 2pm and check-out is 10am.
If you are travelling late or arriving early, we will do our best to accommodate you, please just ask.
All rooms have single beds, en-suite bathroom and a desk area with wardrobe and drawers.
All kitchens are equipped with an oven, hob, kettle, toaster and fridge freezer and ironing board and iron.
We do not accept cash payments, therefore all bookings must be made in advance and paid for online or over the phone.
To check availability and to receive a quote and link to make an online payment prior to your arrival, please complete this enquiry form
halls@bangor.ac.uk
Tel: 01248 382667
You must be a full-time registered student at Bangor university to stay in this short-term accommodation.
You must not have any outstanding debt owing to the university.
You will have access to shared kitchen facilities, which contain a fridge, freezer, hob, oven, microwave, toaster, kettle, iron and ironing board.
Please note, we do not provide any kitchen utensils, crockery or cutlery.
The kitchen bins & recycling will be emptied 3 times a week on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
The kitchen will be given a light clean once a week.
You are responsible for cleaning your bedroom and en-suite bathroom.
You will have access to shared kitchen facilities, which contain a fridge, freezer, hob, oven, microwave, toaster, kettle, iron, and ironing board.
We do not provide any kitchen utensils, crockery, or cutlery.
The kitchen bins & recycling will be emptied 3 times a week on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.
There are two laundrettes for guest use, one near Halls Reception, the other opposite the Security Lodge.
Students can either use the pay-as-you-go system or create an account of credit with the Circuit app for washing/drying.
Please contact the Halls Office if you have specific accessibility requirements.
Vehicles parked on university premises must display a valid parking permit.
Please note that Students may not park in the Canolfan Brailsford car park.
Further information can be found here: https://my.bangor.ac.uk/property-and-campus-services/student-permits.php.en
Please collect your room key from the Halls Office after 2pm on your arrival day.
Our address is Halls Office, Idwal, Bangor LL57 2GP.
If you are arriving after 5pm, you can collect your key from the Ffriddoedd Village Security Lodge, which is open 24hrs a day, 7 days a week.
Please let us know if you are going to arrive on a different date to your booked arrival date.
10.00am.
Your keys must be returned to the Halls Reception by 10.00am on the day of your departure.
If you would like to extend your stay, this must be done before 4pm on the working day before your departure date.
Payment must be made in advance online or over the phone.
We cannot accept cash payments.
Any bookings made within 24 hours of the arrival date will require payment made by telephoning the Halls Office before 4.00pm Mon-Fri (excluding bank holidays/college days).
Wi-Fi is available free of charge by connecting to Eduroam.
Rooms are fitted with extra efficient ‘on request’ heating system.
All the buildings are well insulated and are heated to an ambient background temperature 24 hours a day.
Please check the heater socket is ‘ON’ before reporting heating problems.
In addition, never cover electric heaters or dry items on or near them as they could burn, and this constitutes a fire hazard.
Please note the rooms are not equipped with air conditioning.
If you have booked a stay for longer than 7 days, it will be possible to collect mail from the mail room.
Parcels will be delivered to the on-site parcel lockers, situated next to the Brailsford Dome.
You will receive an email notification from the mail room if you have a parcel to collect.
The University prohibits smoking and electric smoking devices in and within 5 metres of any University buildings.
The rooms are for single use only, overnight guests are not permitted.
Pets are not allowed.
The minimum age for check-in is 18.
Children cannot be accommodated at the property.
Do not use aerosols close to smoke detectors.
Fire alarms are tested weekly in the afternoon, ringing for a short interval only.
If you hear the fire alarm at any other time, or it is continuous please evacuate as detailed in the IN AN EMERGENCY / FIRE EVACUATION section below.
Please familiarise yourself with the Fire Evacuation Procedure displayed in your room and keep fire routes and Fire Exits clear at all times.
In addition, do not burn candles, incense or similar and
NEVER cover smoke detectors.
Residents covering detectors will be asked to leave immediately.
Please keep the shower room door closed as steam from hot water can activate the fire detection.
Guests may only use standard electrical equipment such as hair dryers, shavers, laptops and phone chargers.
Please remember to switch off appliances after use and never leave them unattended e.g.
hair dryers, mobile phone chargers and laptops.
If you have a problem with university electrical equipment please call the Halls Office, Monday to Friday, 9am – 5pm.
Outside of these hours please contact Security.
Always secure your bedroom and flat door.
Do not leave valuables in open view and call Security immediately if you have concerns or see anything suspicious.
Please do not leave personal items in the corridors or kitchen.
Although we make every effort to reunite guests with left property, items not reclaimed within 3 months will be disposed of.
In an emergency (e.g.
First Aid) call Security on 2795 if using the building’s foyer phone or the above 01248 numbers if using a mobile.
333 also links to Security and is our equivalent of 999.
If you discover a fire:
If the fire alarm sounds:
There is no refund for any period of absence or for early check-out.
Cancellations must be received 2 weeks before the first night of your scheduled stay to be eligible for a refund.
Any cancellations received prior to this will be refunded in full and will take 21 days to be processed.
Please note that you are bound by the University General regulations & Student Code of Conduct https://www.bangor.ac.uk/regulations/regulations/documents/BUReg13-2019v1.4.pdf

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/campus-life:
Bangor University Campus Life events programme is a community run by the Head of Residential Life, Residential Life Coordinator, and Campus Life Crew and supported by the Mentor Team for all residents of University Halls.
The Campus Life programme is committed to supporting interaction between students of all halls, encouraging tolerance and understanding and fostering a close residential community through a calendar of inclusive events.
We have a calendar of events to overcome barriers for the non-sporting population, which typically might be most of our residents!
Like us on Facebook
Keep up to date with the latest Campus Life events by liking us on Facebook, Instagram or TikTok.
We hold all kinds of events monthly and always look for new ideas.
The Campus Life calendar of events is known for its friendly coming together of halls, so we want you to get involved, regardless of your skills, abilities or know-how and enhance the community spirit.
So if you're into pizza parties, want to learn to cook, fancy singing your heart out at karaoke, are excited by mountain walking, or enjoy quizzes and film nights - this is the place for you.
The great news is, it's all included!
(Except for some of our coach trips).
We know how difficult being away from home can be, so we've come up with sessions to help with that transition.
Our varied "How To..." sessions will share top tips on how to live with your new flat mates, manage your finances, deal with the changes in your life and even meditate.
Our "How to...
Cook" evenings are designed to help you create a meal from the cheapest and simplest ingredients, all with the support of our Campus Crew!
Weekends are dedicated to being social and relaxing.
So it's time to chill with your flat mates at our weekly Yoga session, or perhaps bag yourself a FREE Sunday roast, listen to some live music, watch a film or get into a lip-sync battle!
No self-respecting campus events programme would be complete without the obligatory film night, karaoke sing-alongs, sporting events and trips off campus, to name a few of the activities.
Our events allow you to take a break from your studies and the lecture theatre, meet new people and participate in activities you already enjoy, or perhaps try your hand at something new!
We're passionate about creating accessible activities for all our students.
Recent research has shown that students involved with campus life are more likely to complete their degrees and perform better academically.
The added benefits to physical and mental health are significant as you venture away from your support network, perhaps for the first time.
Click on the book here link to book a room for any activity or meeting.
Book here
Job Description
Apply Here!
Residential Life Coordinator Tel: +44 (0)1248 382555 Email: l.basterfield@bangor.ac.uk
Head of Residential Life Tel: +44 (0)1248 388496 Email: d.mcintyre@bangor.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/residential-life-team:
We're looking for dedicated go-getters who want to make a positive contribution to the Halls' community.
If you think you have what it takes… then apply now!

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/essentials:
The Halls staff and Mentors are here to help you get the best experience from living in your Hall Of Residence.
On your arrival your room will be clean and ready for you to settle in.
We have Security staff and Mentors on duty round the clock to help provide you with a safe and caring environment.
We will respect your privacy and ensure that you get the best opportunity to study and enjoy the social life that living in Halls can present.
We promise to provide all the services specified in the Occupancy Contract/Licence Agreement and if for any reason there is a problem with any of those services we will do our utmost to solve them as soon as possible and let you know what is happening.
In non urgent cases we will give you as much notice as possible of any work required to solve the problem with at least 24 hours notice.
The University subscribes to the Universities UK Student Accommodation Code which has been designed to protect your rights to safe, good quality accommodation, wherever you are studying and to make sure you get the best out of your time living in University or college residences.
Occupancy Contract PDF file
Licence to Occupy for Under 18’s PDF file
Please click on the links below for more information about halls and to download the Halls information booklet:
Your Residence Agreement to live in University Accommodation is legally binding.
Once the Student has accepted their Offer, the Student is contractually bound to pay the Rent for the full Period of Residence.
There is no 'cooling off' period or right to cancel.
If you withdraw from the University please read our summary regarding leaving Halls.
The following pages about living in halls of residence could also be of interest to you:

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/mission:
To afford students the best experience in their Halls of residence by keeping them safe and supported and by promoting their participation and ownership of an equal and responsible communal society.
Students' experience in their Halls of Residence are often the most important experiences of their educational life.
Creating a suitable environment for study, social opportunities and communal living supported by good pastoral care is crucial.
Residents' Charter

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/halls-at-bangor:
More Than Just a Room
The Campus Connect app lets you chat with your future flatmates before moving in.
This means you can start forming friendships and get useful insights before starting Uni, helping you feel more confident about the transition.
All your bills, including Wi-Fi, utilities, and room contents insurance, are included in the rent.
Budgeting might be new for you, so this helps remove the stress of unexpected costs, making it easier to manage your finances.
Bangor’s halls meet the highest standards and offer 24/7 support and repairs.
You can then focus on University life without worrying about the safety or quality of your living space, making it easier to settle in.
24/7 security, wardens and mentors are available in both student villages.
Knowing there’s always someone there for help and advice gives peace of mind, especially when you’re away from home for the first time.
Free access to loads of fun social events, from pizza nights to lip-sync battles.
Campus Life is the perfect way to meet new people and have fun outside of lectures, making it easier to build friendships and settle into student life.
You can book your own room, so get your friend to book theirs at the same time to make sure you’re close to each other.
If you’re nervous about moving away, having the comfort a mate nearby can make moving away feel much easier.
If you prefer, you can choose to live in a quiet hall, an alcohol-free flat or a female-only flat.
You have the freedom to pick accommodation that matches your personal preferences and makes you feel comfortable, so you’ll feel more at home.
Every student in halls gets free access to the gym.
Staying healthy and active has never been easier (or cheaper), and it’s a great way to relieve stress during your studies.
If you’re unhappy in your current room or hall, you can request a move.
Moving to University can feel overwhelming, but if things don’t feel right, you have the flexibility to switch, ensuring you’re in the best possible environment.
You can book a place in our limited returner-only halls for your second, third, or fourth year.
If you appreciate the convenience and social atmosphere, it’s an ideal way to stay settled and focus on your studies.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/halls/ffriddoedd/borth:
Rooms suitable for: Undergraduate / Nursing / Midwifery / Postgraduate / Returning Nursing and Midwifery Students

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/halls/ffriddoedd/elidir:
Rooms suitable for: Returning Students

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/accommodation-application:
Are you a new undergraduate student?
Read our guide to find out when and how to apply for your room in Halls.
Our booking system opens on 28th January 2026.
This is so that everyone has a fair chance to book their preferred accommodation.
In order to access the booking system, you need to have chosen Bangor University as your firm choice in UCAS.
We will then send you an email with the link to the booking system.
But there are some things you can do before then – check out our step-by-step guide below
It’s always important to read the small print.
Find out what we expect from you, what you can expect from us as well as contracts, insurance and how to pay – our essential information page covers all this and more.
We understand that this is all new to most of you, so we also have a really useful FAQs page .
Don't settle for just any room.
Bangor University offers a wide variety of rooms to suit every student.
Browse our selection now and find the perfect space to call your own , whether you're looking for en-suite facilities, a shared bathroom, or a quiet study environment.
We have something for everyone.
If you have any disability related accommodation needs or require adaptations, please get in touch with our Disability Services .
It’s best to discuss your needs before you apply for your room in Halls as this might affect the type of room you need.
You are welcome to contact us with any general questions.
And remember, the Disability Services team is here to help disabled applicants and students with all aspects of student life, not just accommodation.
Once you have read all our essential information and chosen your preferred room type, you will be ready to apply.
Our booking systems open on 28 th January 2026.
You do not need to pay when you book your room.
Remember to apply early so that you have a better chance of securing your perfect room.
We guarantee accommodation in Halls to all our first year students but you must apply before the 31st of July.
If you are an international applicant, the guarantee will be dependent on you holding a Firm offer to study at Bangor University.
Step-by Step Guide
You can go back to view your account and revisit your Accommodation Offer at any time.
Please note, that at this stage, you will not be able to click on the link to 'Your Room'.
This link will only be activated when you move in.
In the August before you move into Halls, we will email you with information about your online accommodation induction which you will need to complete before moving in.
In the meantime, check out Campus Life and get ready for Student Life at Bangor by learning more about the area, clubs and societies and the Students’ Union .

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/new-postgraduate-students-book-your-room:
Are you a new postgraduate student?
In order to access the booking system, you need to have chosen Bangor University as your firm choice.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/application-process-returning-students:
Our booking system is open for returning students.
Read our guide on how to apply for a room in Halls.
* If you already live in Halls you can jump to Number 6.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/what-parents-and-guardians-need-to-know-about-living-in-university-accommodation:
As a parent or guardian, you may have concerns about your child living away from home for the first time.
Here are our top 10 benefits to living in Bangor University Halls.
Rest assured knowing that our accommodation meets rigorous quality standards of The Universities UK Code of Practice for University Managed Student Accommodation .
With 24/7 maintenance support, you won't need to worry about their living conditions while they're away from home.
Forget worrying about your young person managing multiple bills.
All utilities, Wi-Fi, and living costs are wrapped into one simple payment, making financial planning straightforward for the whole family.
The safety of our students is our priority.
With 24/7 security, resident wardens, and student mentors available in both St Mary's and Ffriddoedd student villages, there's always someone looking out for their wellbeing.
Through our Campus Connect app, students can connect with their future flatmates and course mates before term starts.
This early interaction helps reduce anxiety about moving away and ensures they have friendly faces to greet them on arrival.
Students living in our Halls get automatic access to regular social events through Campus Life membership.
This programme of social activities and events helps students settle into university life and build meaningful friendships from the moment they arrive.
If they want to live in halls near a friend from home, we can accommodate this, as long as they both book at the same time to ensure they’re placed near each other.
This familiar support system can make the transition to university life smoother and more comfortable.
Whether it's a quiet area, alcohol-free environment, or female-only accommodation, we have options to suit their personal needs.
Complimentary gym membership ensures residents of University Halls can maintain a healthy lifestyle without additional cost.
Physical wellbeing is crucial for academic success and mental health.
If the initial room placement isn't working out, we offer the flexibility to change rooms.
This safety net ensures your loved one can find their perfect living environment without stress.
Students can choose to stay in our limited returner-only halls beyond their first year if they wish.
This continuity can provide stability during their university journey and peace of mind for you as a parent.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international/exchanges/incoming/accommodation:
Full Year Study: Independent fee-paying Study Abroad*and Exchange students studying at Bangor for a full academic year (2 x semesters) are offered a room in University Halls of Residence, subject to availability.
*This applies to all Study Abroad student paying their own tuition and/or accommodation fees only.
Semester Only Study: International Study Abroad and Exchange students studying at Bangor for one semester only will be offered University Halls accommodation on a first come first served basis.
If the Halls Office is unable to offer accommodation students will be directed to Bangor University’s Student Housing Office where help and support in finding accommodation in the private sector will be provided.
Please scroll down to the bottom of this page.
Where possible International Exchange students will be offered a room of their choice in modern University Halls of Residence located in one of our two student villages.
All rooms are for single occupancy only and have en-suite shower rooms.
All are offered on a self-catered basis with access to a kitchen and dining area.
A small number of studios (rooms with en-suite shower room and a kitchen area) and standard rooms (shared bathroom facilities) are also available on request.
All bills are included within your Hall fees including water, electricity, heating, insurance, wi-fi, Brailsford gym membership and Campus Life membership.
Although bedding, towels and cooking utensils are not provided, these items can be ordered in advance and delivered to your room ready for your arrival.
Both student villages have 24 hour security and a residential support team who are responsible for your welfare and for disciplinary matters within Halls.
Arrangements can be made where possible to accommodate individual requests from students which are disability related.
We currently have adapted rooms - you can view a typical accessible room here.
Students will receive the link to the Accommodation Application Form after receiving their Acceptance and Offer letter.
If a student wishes to take up the offer of a room in University Halls complete the online form and submit it Deadlines:
Please DO NOT apply for University halls accommodation directly to the Halls Office.
Instead use the online Study Abroad/Exchanges Accommodation Application Form only.
You will receive notification that we have received your application and room allocation and contracts for your room in the month before your arrival.
If we don't receive your accommodation request form by the deadline we will assume that you don't wish to take up the offer of a room in University Halls.
Contract University halls accommodation is allocated for a set period of time, you will be asked to accept the room by signing the University's Residence agreement (contract) whereby you will agree to pay for your room for the whole period stated on your residence agreement.
Please note the end date of your contract may extend beyond the end of the semester.
Arriving early or later Please inform the Study Abroad or International Exchange Office if you plan to arrive earlier or later than the expected arrival date studyabroad@bangor.ac.uk or exchanges-incoming@bangor.ac.uk
If Bangor is unable to offer student University Halls Accommodation or you prefer to live in private housing please contact the Student Housing Office in Bangor’s Student Services department.
Student housing maintains details of private rented accommodation in Bangor and the surrounding area.
Student Services & Administration & Administration will assist you in finding appropriate accommodation, however they are unable to enter into agreement or contracts on behalf of students.
You will be required to make contact with private accommodation landlords directly.
For more information click here .

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/st-marys/budget-single:
Budget Single (9.92m²-10.67m²) rooms offer a vibrant and convenient living experience at St Mary's Village.
They are comfortable single bedrooms with a bathroom shared by 4.
Bryn Eithin Car Park This is the car park for Bryn Eithin, which is based at St Mary’s Village.
There is a barbeque area and picnic bench on the lawned area.
Entrance to Flats This is the entrance foyer and each flat has 2 entrance doors.
There is a stairwell that takes you up to the other 3 floors.
Please note there is no elevator.
There’s a notice board with important information and details about your hall Mentors.
Each flat consists of 8 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms and a kitchen diner.
Bryn Eithin Kitchen This is the kitchen diner; it has a table and bench seating enough for 8 people and 2 sofas’.
There are 2 fridge freezers, an oven and 2 hobs.
It also has a microwave, toaster and kettle.
There are 2 sinks and enough storage for all 8 residents in the fitted kitchen cupboards.
There is a vacuum cleaner, ironing board, mop & bucket a broom and dustpan & brush for your use.
There is a notice board with important health & safety information.
The large window has views of the car park, higher floors will have views over Bangor.
Bedroom 1 The bedroom has a single bed, wardrobe, drawers and a desk and chair with overhead shelving.
There is also a washbasin the bedroom with a mirror above it and a notice board with important and general information.
Bedroom 2 It has a single bed, wardrobe, drawers and a desk and chair with overhead shelving.
On the desk there is a desk lamp.
This bedroom that has dual aspect windows and a bit more floor space
Bathroom There are 2 bathrooms in each flat, they have a washbasin and mirror above it, a toilet and shower.
There are hooks on the wall for your towel etc.
St Mary's is within easy walking distance of most of the University buildings and the town.
On site, there is Barlows café, a fitness room and a convenience shop.
0.7 miles from Main Arts
17 minute walking to Main Arts
9 minute cycling to Main Arts
0.5 miles to the closest supermarket

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/st-marys/large-budget-single:
Large Budget Single (12.88m²-13m²) rooms offer a vibrant and convenient living experience at St Mary's Village.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/ffriddoedd/en-suite-classic-welsh:
En-suite (9.94m²) Classic rooms, exclusively for Welsh-speakers and learners, offer a vibrant and convenient living experience at Ffriddoedd Village.
Book your room - new undergraduate students Book your room - returning students

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/st-marys/single:
Single (10.9m²-13m²) rooms offer students a vibrant and convenient living experience at St Mary's Village.
They are comfortable single bedrooms with a bathroom shared between two people.
Book your room - new postgraduate students Book your room - returning students

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/ffriddoedd/en-suite-modern:
En-suite (9.15m²–10.17m²) Modern rooms offer a vibrant and convenient living experience at Ffriddoedd Village.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/st-marys/en-suite:
En-suite (12.5m²-14m²) rooms offer a vibrant and convenient living experience at St Mary's Village.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/st-marys/en-suite-premium:
En-suite Premium (14.5m²-15m²) rooms offer a vibrant and convenient living experience at St Mary's Village.
Book your room - new undergraduate students Book your room - new postgraduate students

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/ffriddoedd/en-suite-large-modern:
En-suite Large (12.78m²-16.76m²) Modern rooms offer a vibrant and convenient living experience at Ffriddoedd Village.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/st-marys/en-suite-premium-plus:
En-suite Premium Plus (16m²-18.5m²) rooms offer a vibrant and convenient living experience at St Mary's Village.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/st-marys/en-suite-deluxe:
En-suite Deluxe (19m²-21.5m²) rooms offer a vibrant and convenient living experience at St Mary's Village.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/st-marys/studio:
Studio (16.5m²-18.5m²) offers a vibrant and convenient living experience at St Mary's Village.
These comfortable studios have a double bed, en-suite shower room/toilet, and private kitchenette.
All studios are fully furnished with essential amenities.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/st-marys/studio-premium:
A Premium Studio (19m²-23m²) offers a vibrant and convenient living experience at St Mary's Village.
These comfortable studios include a double bed, en-suite bathroom and a private kitchenette.
All studios are fully furnished and include essential amenities.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/st-marys/studio-premium-plus:
A Premium Plus Studio (21.5m²-23.5m²) offers a vibrant and convenient living experience at St Mary's Village.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/accommodation/rooms/st-marys/studio-deluxe:
A Deluxe Studio (23m²-25m²) offers a vibrant and convenient living experience at St Mary's Village.
They are comfortable studios that can be for one or two persons with a private en-suite bathroom and private kitchenette.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/about/teaching:
The University’s academic schools are grouped into three colleges:

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/governance-and-compliance/index.php.en:
Legal and Compliance Services is part of the Vice-Chancellor’s Office and is overseen by the University Secretary.
Legal and Compliance Service provides leadership, management and guidance for the University in the areas of legal compliance;  general complaints (student complaints are managed by the Student Services and Administration function); records management; freedom of information; data protection; legal services; contracts; emergency management; ethics / research ethics and research governance; the Prevent Duty; and various other governance and compliance issues.
Please click on “Contact us” at the bottom of the page to find the most appropriate member of staff for your enquiry.
Governance and Compliance, Penbre, College Road, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG, UK.
Please view the staff list below to find the most appropriate email address for your enquiry.
Staff List

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/about/honorary-degrees:
To celebrate the 125th anniversary of its foundation, the University awarded honorary doctorates to four individuals of world renown whose contributions over a long period were considered to be of major international significance.
The special ceremony to award the Honorary Doctorates took place on 10 June 2009,  those honoured were:
Sir David Attenborough, OM, CH, broadcaster and naturalist received one of Bangor University's first Honorary Degrees in June 2009 to mark the University's 125th anniversary.
Sir David's father studied at Coleg Normal in Bangor, and the family spent many family holidays in the area.
Of his Honour, he said: "I'm delighted and truly honoured to receive the Honorary Degree.
I spent many happy holidays on the island (of Anglesey) studying birds and the marvellous fossils on the beach at Penmon.
"I'm thrilled too, because this University has a superb reputation in the study of environmental and marine science.
The world needs people skilled in the expertise and research needed to play a crucial part in solving the world's problems.
There is no kind of honour I value more highly than that bestowed by a university.
"I think universities are the most important institutions in our society.
They are the one place where truth has no reference to commerce or politics, and such kinds of institutions are rare and should be cherished.
If one of them gives you an honour it should be an honour to be treasured."
Former First Minister Rhodri Morgan, also received an Honorary Degree from Bangor University.
On receiving his award in 2009, he said, "The National Assembly enjoys a close relationship with Wales' universities.
It's an opportunity to recall the sacrifices made by the quarrymen and others to establish this university and other national institutions in Wales that were the fore runners to the National Assembly.
I accepted the degree as it's an enormous honour to receive the first degree awarded by Bangor University and I feel honoured to be considered among the people receiving awards today.".
Professor Sir John Meurig Thomas, FRS, Honorary Professor of Solid State Chemistry, University of Cambridge, and former Master of Peterhouse, Cambridge, received an Honorary Degree from Bangor University in June 2009.
Sir John Meurig Thomas began his academic career at Bangor in the late 1950s.
"I'm immensely pleased to receive this honour.
I started my academic career here and this is a joy that will remain with me forever.
Here I had the first opportunity to teach and research at the School of Chemistry, at the age of 25.
I had total intellectual freedom and a lot of good students and good colleagues.
It was a very small college, 800 students and 90 members of staff," said Sir John.
One of the world's most revered public figures, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, received one of Bangor University's first Honorary Degrees in June 2009 to mark the University's 125th anniversary.
Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Archbishop Emeritus of Cape Town, a winner of the Nobel Peace Prize and former Chair of the Truth & Reconciliation Commission in South Africa, joined three other individuals to receive Honorary Doctorates at a special ceremony in the University.
On receiving his Honorary Degree he said:
"I've always had a soft spot for Wales .......
We owe a great deal to yourselves, when we won the spectacular victory over apartheid, the victory would have been totally impossible without support of the many international communities and you in Wales were among our most committed supporters...."

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/resources-hub:
Reaching Wider North and Mid Wales partnership is funded by the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales with the aim of raising the aspirations and Further and Higher Education awareness of young people who are currently underrepresented in Higher Education.
The University works closely with regional Further Education and has a strategic relationship with both Grŵp Llandrillo Menai (GLlM) and Coleg Cambria.
Making the move from school or college to university is both exciting and challenging.
We’re here to help make that transition as smooth as possible.
Almost half of all students studying a degree through the medium of Welsh now do so at Bangor University.
In addition, the largest number of lecturers teaching through the medium of Welsh is at Bangor University.
Bangor University offers support and resources for practitioners across a range of courses and programmes.
Bangor University supports the learning experiences of school aged children with information and activities across the six Areas of Learning and Experience within the Curriculum for Wales.
Bangor University offers a range of activities for schools and colleges, with the aim of encouraging young people to consider the Higher Education opportunities available to them.
Researchers at Bangor University conduct curriculum-related research and, during the pandemic, have researched the impact of Covid on the education system and how education can be delivered and supported effectively through home and distance learning.
Student engagement underlies of our relationship with students and our decision making.
Many publications discuss engagement, but relatively few interventions have good evidence of success.
Bangor University provides support and resources for students, teachers and advisers to help learners get the most from studying the Advanced Skills Baccalaureate Wales qualification.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/canolfanbedwyr/index.php.en:
Bangor University's Centre for Welsh Language Services, Research and Technology.
Find out more about our services and expertise at Canolfan Bedwyr
Read about our work in promoting and facilitating the use of Welsh, and our work in developing software solutions, terminology and bespoke language courses.
Canolfan Bedwyr provides a number of language skills courses to help you become more confident when using Welsh.
Whether you are a member of staff, a student or work in an external organisation, Bangor University’s Welsh Language Training progamme is there to support you to learn and use Welsh in various situations, both at work and socially.
Cymraeg Clir Training Courses
Welsh Courses for Staff
Language Support for Students
Professional Development Courses
Language training for education sector staff
Terminology Portal
Cysgliad
Cysgliad tutorials
Bangor Dictionary
Ap Geiriaduron
@canolfanbedwyr
General queries should be directed to the General Office.
Should you know who you want to talk to, contact details for specific members of staff can be found on the staff list.
Canolfan Bedwyr, Neuadd Dyfrdwy, College Road, Bangor, Gwynedd.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/commercial-services/index.php.en:
Food and drink, delivered catering, conferences and events and more.
Bangor University's Commercial Services department is responsible for all the University's food and drink outlets, Pontio food and drink, delivered catering, out of term accommodation, campus shops, branded merchandise, conference and event organisation.
Keep up-to-date with the latest news from Commercial Services.
For all our latest news.
Subscribe for all the latest news, events and offers from the commercial services department.
Commercial Services, Reichel Hall, Ffriddoedd Site, Ffriddoedd Road, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2TR, UK
See our contacts

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cy/pam-dewis-astudio-yng-ngogledd-cymru:
O'n prif gampws bywiog ym Mangor i'n Hysgol Gwyddorau Eigion ar Ynys Môn, a'n cyrsiau Radiograffeg arbenigol yn Wrecsam, mae Prifysgol Bangor yn cysylltu cymunedau ar draws Gogledd Cymru - yn ein gwneud yn wirioneddol y brifysgol i'r rhanbarth.
Cafodd Prifysgol Bangor ddyfarniad rhagorol yn dilyn ein Hadolygiad Gwella Ansawdd Sefydliadol (QER) diweddar.
Cewch eich addysgu gan arbenigwyr sy'n arwain y byd ac sy'n rhan o amrywiaeth o brojectau ymchwil, gan ddefnyddio cyfleusterau o'r radd flaenaf ym Mhrifysgol Bangor.
Mae arbenigedd y staff yn cael ei ymgorffori yn ein gweithgareddau addysgu, gan roi mynediad uniongyrchol i chi at y datblygiadau diweddaraf yn eich maes astudio.
Mae Neuadd John Morris Jones, sef ein llety i siaradwyr a dysgwyr Cymraeg yn cynnig cymuned glòs a chyfeillgar i fyfyrwyr o bob cwr o Gymru.
Boed ar draethau eang arfordir Gogledd Cymru neu glan moroedd prydferth Ynys Môn, gallwch astudio'n llythrennol gyda'ch traed yn y tywod neu fynd am sesiwn syrffio tra mae’r haul yn machlud ar ôl eich darlithoedd.
Gyda threfi hanesyddol fel Biwmares, Conwy a Chaernarfon a phentrefi golygfaol fel Beddgelert a Betws-y-Coed yn gymdogion, mae yma ddigonedd o safleoedd o ddiddordeb hanesyddol i chi ymweld â hwy.
Mae trefi fel Bangor a Wrecsam yn cynnig yr holl egni cosmopolitan rydych chi'n ei ddyheu amdano - siopau coffi annibynnol, bwytai amrywiol, lleoliadau cerddoriaeth fyw, a golygfeydd myfyrwyr bywiog - ond wedi'u hamgylchynu gan fynyddoedd a thraethau.
Dringo creigiau, beicio mynydd, cerdded, canŵio, syrffio, zip-leinio - mae Gogledd Cymru yn llythrennol brifddinas antur y DU.
Un peth sy'n sicr, mae hyn i gyd ar garreg eich drws yn bendant yn ychwanegu dimensiwn gwahanol at fywyd myfyriwr.
O'r weiren wib gyflymaf yn y byd i drampolinau tanddaearol mewn hen fwyngloddiau, o reilffyrdd stêm i'r tŷ lleiaf ym Mhrydain - mae Gogledd Cymru'n pacio llawer o brofiadau unigryw fesul milltir sgwâr felly mae digon i'w wneud yn eich amser rhydd.
Cewch heddwch a thawelwch ardal hardd, ond mae’r mae priffyrdd mawr fel yr A55 a chysylltiadau rheilffordd ardderchog yn mynd â chi i Gaer, Manceinion neu Lerpwl yn ddi-drafferth os ydych chi'n ffansïo newid cyflymder am ddiwrnod o siopau neu noson allan gyda ffrindiau.
Mae byw yng Ngogledd Cymru yn sylweddol rhatach na'r rhan fwyaf o ddinasoedd prifysgol mawr.
Mae costau byw is yn golygu ansawdd bywyd uwch.
Mwy o arian ar gyfer profiadau, llai ar gyfer rhent.
Mae hynny'n golygu mwy o gigs, mwy o deithiau, a mwy o hwyl.
Mae Gogledd Cymru'n profi dadeni coginio.
Byddwch yn profi bwytai sy'n defnyddio cynhwysion Cymreig lleol, cynhyrchwyr bwyd crefft, marchnadoedd ffermwyr, a thafarndai traddodiadol.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/news/2025-02-28-bangor-university-receives-outstanding-outcome-in-quality-enhancement-review:
Bangor University is pleased to announce that it has received an outstanding outcome with six commendations following its recent Institutional Quality Enhancement Review (QER).
QERs occur approximately every five years in Welsh Universities and is a method by which the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education (QAA) reviews Welsh Higher Education providers as part of the Quality Assessment Framework for Wales.
The review is conducted on behalf of Medr.
After consideration of the University’s self-analysis submission and a visit in December, the Quality Enhancement Review has confirmed that Bangor University provides high-quality education, supports its students effectively, and has robust systems in place to maintain and enhance standards.
This positive judgement reflects the University's robust arrangements for securing academic standards, managing academic quality, and enhancing the student experience.
It confirms the University’s commitment to delivering high-quality education while meeting both European and Welsh national benchmarks for academic standards, student support, and continuous improvement.
The Quality Enhancement Review highlights Bangor University’s success in this rigorous evaluation, reaffirming its position as a leader in delivering outstanding education and an exceptional student experience, with enhancement at its core.
The QER identified six commendations for Bangor University, which are:
Professor Edmund Burke, Vice-Chancellor, said: “ This outstanding outcome is a testament to Bangor University's unwavering commitment to academic excellence and student success.
It reaffirms that our teaching, student support and quality assurance processes meet both national and European standards, with our six commendations indicative of Bangor University going beyond a provision that meets standards to one of excellence.
We are proud to see our dedication to continuous improvement and the student experience recognised in such a significant way through this QER outcome.”
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education & Student Experience) Professor Nichola Callow added: “Bangor University is the first University in Wales to be assessed under the new QER methodology and we are thrilled that we have received a number of commendations in key areas, The outcome of this review reaffirms our academic quality, and it a testament to our staff for their outstanding efforts over the years in maintaining such high standards.
I would like to thank staff for these efforts, and to all staff, the Students’ Union and students who were involved in our QER submission and the visit in December.”
This positive judgement reinforces Bangor University's reputation for excellence and its ongoing commitment to providing an enriching and supportive environment for all students.
The Quality Enhancement Review report can be viewed here.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/health-sciences/wrexham/index.php.en:
Studying at our Wrexham Campus is like being part of a family.
It is dedicated to Health Science subjects and we run our BSc Radiography course here.
Our Wrexham Health Science campus has a dedicated library with helpful subject specific staff on site.
Our students get the opportunity to connect with all of the academic staff at this smaller campus that has an excellent student to staff ratio.
Radiography is one of the professions allied to medicine.
Diagnostic radiography is an invaluable aid in the diagnosis of disease and a designated lab is also equipment to practice with the variety of imaging and reporting.
We also have a well-equipped skills lab and learning incorporates:
Placements for Radiography students take place in North Wales and in the surrounding NHS Trusts.
These are critical aspects of the learning experience, building on theoretical knowledge and its application in real life settings.
This experience equips students to enter the profession with appropriate Radiography skills, and ready to contribute their expertise in a variety of clinical settings.
Applications are accepted throughout the year.
Places on the BSc Radiography course fill up quickly and you are encouraged to apply as early as possible.
Bangor’s Wrexham campus and is a ten-minute walk to Wrexham town centre and is an ideal choice for students wishing to experience the best of modern living in a welcoming town, with several parks, galleries and museums.
Within twenty minutes travel you can lose yourself in the Welsh hills, be fascinated by the Roman remains in Chester or view the rich historical past within Wrexham County Borough.
You can find out more about Wrexham, North East Wales’ biggest town on these useful sites:
This is Wrexham
Visit Wales - Wrexham
Welcome to Wrexham
School of Medical and Health Sciences, Wrexham Technology Park, Croesnewydd Road, Wrexham, LL13 7YP
Wrexham is 70 miles from Bangor, in North East Wales, with easy access to the North Wales coast and the beautiful scenery of Snowdonia.
Chester is only 13 miles away and Liverpool and Manchester are also within easy reach by road or rail.
This puts it within easy commuting distance of large parts of North West England and the Midlands as well as North East Wales.
The Wrexham campus is situated adjacent to the Maelor Hospital on the Wrexham Technology Park.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-life/location:
On the North Wales coast and surrounded by an amazing landscape, Bangor is a small city with a lot to offer.
Bangor is located in a breathtaking landscape with panoramic views.
The location is probably one of the most beautiful university settings in the whole of the UK - situated between the Snowdonia Mountains and the Menai Strait.
The majority of our University buildings are located in the city centre and Upper Bangor.
Our accommodation villages are conveniently located for your lectures, train station and city centre.
Ffriddoedd is in Upper Bangor and St Mary's is around 5 minutes' walk from the city centre.
View our map of the campus.
We're far easier to get to than you might think - there are good road links to Bangor along the north Wales coast from the M56 and M6.
See these external websites for timetables:
Both Manchester Airport and Liverpool John Lennon Airport are around two hours from Bangor, by train.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-life/youtube:
Our YouTube channels are packed full of videos to help you get to know Bangor.
We have two channels, covering all sorts of topics
This is where you'll find videos about courses, facilities, student support, our location, student profiles and more.
Our Get Ready for University channel has lots of useful tips and advice.
Watch videos and vlogs and follow our students in their 'day in the life' videos to see what student life is really like.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentservices/counselling/index.php.en:
Anyone, at any time, can have thoughts and emotions that may feel overwhelming.
The Counselling Service is here to help you explore how you think, behave and feel about an issue and help you find appropriate ways to make changes in your life.
We are a confidential, inclusive service with qualified therapists trained in a range of evidence-based psychological therapies.
Our service provides a supportive pathway with a stepped care model; this means that you can access us quickly and get the most effective help for your needs.
The purpose of counselling is to gain insights and work towards making changes in your life.
This is not a quick or easy process and can, quite often be challenging.
You will be expected to fully engage and work hard.
Counselling is suitable where there is time to reflect on current difficulties but is not necessarily appropriate when an emergency response is needed in a crisis.
You will find contat details on the Student Wellbeing Services homepage for other services which might help in a crisis.
The Wellbeing Service is here to support you through your studies, but if you need immediate support in an emergency, please contact your GP for an urgent appointment or if you don’t feel that you can keep yourself safe, please call 999 or attend your local A&E department.
Bangor University Healthcare Students based in the Wrexham area:
If you would like to access our service, please complete this form and we will contact you to arrange an appointment and help you to register with us.
Alternatively, contact wellbeingservices@bangor.ac.uk or call:  01248 388520
You will be offered an initial Wellbeing Appointment to explore how we can help and support you.
A Wellbeing Appointment is a 45 minute triage session where we can assess how best to support you, sign post you to resources and workshops as well as explore your suitability for the wellbeing support we offer through counselling, Art Therapy and mental health advisory support.
We are a member of the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP) and adhere to its policies on confidentiality and data protection.
For staff, we offer consultations for those who are concerned about a students mental health via the duty counsellor system and training/support to develop understanding of mental health issues and responses to students with difficulties.
To enable us to develop and provide the best possible service now and in the future any feedback is welcome.
Please contact the following with your comments:

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentservices/moneyadvice/index.php.en:
The Money Support Unit is part of the Student Support Team, and the experienced members of staff can provide advice, information and guidance on all aspects of student funding.
We want your time at university to be enjoyable and rewarding, and so Bangor University provides its students with the information and support that will enable you to get the best out of your university experience.
In particular, it is important that your time here should not be spoiled by unnecessary financial worries.
Worried about the cost of living as a student?
Visit our Cost of Living and Money Support for advice and guidance on keeping your costs down while living as a student.
If you’re worried about money, then the Money Support Unit are here to help.
Our advisers can help you
We have a number of support mechanisms in place to help you with money problems including:
Whatever your financial worries, our Money Advisers are here to help.
To add to the support that already exists, we’ve launched a Pantri - a resource providing long-life food, snacks, easy-to-prepare meals, cleaning products, and personal hygiene items if you're facing financial hardship.
How to access Pantri:
You’ll find us on the 2nd Floor, Neuadd Rathbone , College Road, Bangor, LL57 2DF.
Drop-in times for the Money Support Team: Monday–Friday, 10am–12pm & 2pm– 4pm.
No matter where you study you can access the same support from the Money Support Unit.
Just call or email the Unit the first instance and the Advisers will arrange what’s best for you.
We welcome your feedback.
If you have any feedback, please contact one of the following:

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentservices/wellbeing/index.php.en:
The Wellbeing Service is part of the Student Support and Wellbeing Service based within Student Services.
We have professionally qualified counsellors, mental health professionals and  information specialists that are experienced in helping students to deal with all kinds of practical and emotional issues such as study related matters, trauma, relationships, emotional regulation, mental health disability related issues, accessibility, harassment, inclusion and much more.
Alternatively, contact wellbeingservices@bangor.ac.uk or call: 01248 388520.
You will then be offered an initial Wellbeing Appointment to explore how we can help and support you
NHS 111 and press option 2 will take you through to a 24 hour 7 days a week NHS mental health support line for anyone struggling with their mental health or anyone who is wanting advice about supporting someone.
Counselling
Mental Health Practitioners
Sexual Violence and Harassment Support
Inclusive Community
Help and Support
Student-Led Mental Health and Wellbeing Strategy

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/inclusive-community:
Help and support on a wide range of issues is available on our related ‘Student Services’ site .
If you have any comments or questions, please contact us at inclusive@bangor.ac.uk
With students coming from all over the world and from very different backgrounds, Bangor University aims to create an environment for you to live and study that ensures you can be yourself, take advantage of every opportunity and reach your full potential.
At Bangor, you will meet people from every imaginable community.
Your fellow students will be interesting, creative and thought provoking.
They will have different opinions to you and may challenge how you see the world.
Through the shared experiences of university life, we seek to ensure that all students can embrace their diverse community and learn as much as possible during their time at Bangor.
Our commitment to equality and inclusivity is more than just policy.
We make our commitment an everyday practice to ensure that you feel welcome, respected and valued and have equal access to support services.
This website provides information about the ways in which we maintain and enhance Bangor’s inclusive community including signposts to support and advice, information on how we promote equality and details about how we maintain a safe campus.
Located within the Wellbeing Service in Student Services, the Student Equality and Diversity Officer focuses on implementing best practice across the university in the prevention of and support for all forms of student harassment and is a central specialised contact of support for students.
Student Equality and Diversity Officer - Helen Munro
Rathbone, College Road, Bangor, LL57 2DG
Email: h.munro@bangor.ac.uk
Tel: 01248 388021

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/student-life/work-experience:
Work experience is a critical factor in gaining future employment after you graduate.
To boost your employability, you can choose to do a placement as part of almost all undergraduate degrees we offer at Bangor.
Placements can be a year in length (taken between Years 2 and 3), three months or two weeks.
You can take a Placement Year, where you work for 1 additional year, whilst studying on most of our undergraduate courses.
When you graduate, you will have ‘with Placement Year’ added to your degree title.
You will have the opportunity to fully consider if this option is for you and make an application after you have started your degree at Bangor.
A Placement Year provides you with a fantastic opportunity to broaden your horizons and develop new skills.
During the placement, you’ll be working with a self-sourced organisation, relevant to your degree subject and will be fully supported throughout by a dedicated member of staff at your academic School and the University’s Skills and Employability Services.
You’ll gain a different perspective on your subject and will make valuable connections in the world of work.
When you've completed the placement, you're sure to return to your studies more motivated, independent, and confident.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/accounting-banking-and-finance:
Accounting, Banking and Finance at Bangor is known for its research impact.
Our diverse student body and global outlook provides a unique student experience whilst our courses equip you with the knowledge and transferable skills needed for a successful career.
Degrees in Accounting, Banking and Finance equip students with an ability to interpret and communicate financial information and to make sound financial decisions.
Studying Accounting, Banking, and Finance gives students a range of specialist skills which are in high demand with top employers.
These skills are highly valued and can be applied in any business industry or non-profit setting (e.g., public sector or charities).
Financial expertise is highly regarded in today’s job market and is practical for careers in many different industries.
Employability lies at the heart of our programmes.
In several modules, students are provided with the opportunity to develop soft skills and practice real-life recruitment and selection techniques.
Past graduates of Accounting, Banking and Finance at Bangor have gone on to pressure financially rewarding careers in a wide range of industries.
Our degrees equip you with a solid theoretical understanding and how to apply it practically, using real-world examples, scenario-based assessment, and software.
You will gain an in-depth understanding of how money and finance work and how financial information is communicated and applied.
You will develop your own financial literacy with a firm foundation for your own future economic prosperity.
As well as quantitative modules, the Business School offers you the opportunity to study more qualitative aspects of banking and finance, for example, financial ethics, personal finance, financial regulation, and elements of sustainable banking and finance.
The knowledge and skills you will develop studying our Accounting, Banking and Finance degrees can also help you better manage your investment portfolio.
You can learn how to interpret financial information and become a savvy and knowledgeable investor.
We like to give students the opportunity for real-world experiences here at Bangor.
With our very own trading lab, we can offer just this.
In the trading lab, we use specialist stock market trading simulation software designed to give students hands-on experience in personal savings and investment simulation.
We’re proud of our diverse student body here at Bangor University.
While studying at Bangor Business School, you will meet students from all over the world.
Brought together by their shared interest in accounting, banking, and finance, our international student body can offer students a taste of what global trading might feel like right here in North Wales.
Many of our students pursue careers in a common field within accounting, banking, and finance.
Meeting so many like-minded students allows you to build a strong network that can help create opportunities later in your career.
We encourage our students to connect via LinkedIn and start building their professional networks from the moment they arrive.
Bangor Business School has strong links with professional bodies such as the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) , the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales (ICAEW) , the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) , the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investments and the Chartered Banker Institute .
These professional qualifications help differentiate you in a competitive job market.
Our courses provide a solid foundation for pursuing a subsequent professional qualification and provide exemptions ; from many professional exams, reducing the time it will take to become qualified.
in the UK for Academic Support in Accounting with questions that ask if staff were easy to contact, and how well they supported students’ learning (NSS 2025)
in the UK for the subject area of Accounting and Finance Guardian University Guide 2024
and #44 in the UK The Times & The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024
and #54 overall in the UK The Guardian University Ranking 2024
university in the UK in the 2022/23 People and Planet University League
university in the World for Responsible Consumption and Production in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings
university in the World in the overall Times Higher Education Impact Rankings
university in the World in the Times Higher World University Rankings and the QS World University Rankings
We are thrilled to announce a landmark donation of £10.5 million from The Albert Gubay Charitable Foundation to establish the ‘Albert Gubay Business School’ at Bangor University.
The donation will allow the University’s Business School to move into a dynamic, modern facility.
The new Albert Gubay Business School will foster innovative programs that will prepare students to thrive in the rapidly evolving global economy.
Feature cutting-edge learning spaces and collaborative hubs designed to encourage creativity, critical thinking, and entrepreneurship.
Bangor Business School is where tradition meets Innovation with state-of-the-art facilities like our Bloomberg terminals just a short walk from the Shankland reading room.
The growth and development of the business school is no accident we're one of the longest established providers of banking and finance teaching in the world.
Our focus on employability and future skills is key today we're working with businesses government and charities locally in Wales throughout the United Kingdom them and across the world.
To improve the quality and scope of our research but also to provide an excellent education through field trips and exposure to diverse industry expertise providing the skills that employers actually want.
Our current students talk about their experience of Bangor Business School so far and share advice on why you should consider studying accounting, banking and finance at Bangor University.
0:00 Name is Fatima Abubakar.
I'm from Nigeria and I'm studying business.
0:06 I'd like to say it's been magical and it's been better than I have expected.
0:11 I've learnt a lot, whether that's finance, accounting, marketing, e-marketing, brand management.
0:26 I think what I enjoy about it the most is the fact that it's broad.
0:30 So I can decide to specialised any way I want to basically.
0:35 It's going to help me achieve my dreams and basically just do everything I've ever wanted to.
I think
0:43 it has helped me gain more confidence in myself because I think I've been worried about graduating.
0:49 I think the university has a lot to offer, especially with the business school, probably because that's the only thing I know.
0:57 They have like a wider range of business courses that you could just go for and study with.
1:05 Go for it.
Don't even think twice about it.
Go for it on.
I promise Bangor
1:10 university would welcome you with open arms.
0:00 Hi, I'm Khalid a third year Bangor Business School student studying accounting and finance.
0:05 I knew I wanted to go to a business school and I was looking for a prestigious, reputable, collaborative
0:12 place and I think Bangor Business School ticks all the boxes for me I've learned a lot of things
0:18 especially practical stuff when it comes to the auditing field the finance field
0:25 studying some accounting software's for example Zoho.
I studied courses such as What courses did you study
0:32 Corporate Finance which is very integrated with like stocks, bonds and how the financial
0:37 market works and how financial intermediaries works.
I've been loving the support that I've
0:45 been getting from my lectures, from my tutors, from my professors, I feel very heard I feel
0:53 like there's someone that I could talk to at any time at any moment and I believe
0:59 like whoever you are whatever you do there is a place here for you in Bangor Business School.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university as an Accounting, Banking and Finance student.
Graduation is a special time of year here at the Business School.
Staff and students come together to celebrate their success, reflect on the journey so far and look ahead to what might be next in their personal and professional life.
0:06 Well the staff are so friendly and accessible  I knew I could go to them with any issues I
0:11 had or any questions about assignments it was  a really relaxed atmosphere and relationship
0:16 that I had with them and I knew that they  cared about what I was interested in as well.
0:21 I made the most out of the societies because when  you come to University for the first time it was
0:26 nice to know that there was just so many different  opportunities available there was a running
0:30 club, we would run around Bangor sometimes in  Treborth and that just offered the opportunity
0:36 to get out and about meet people again.
I'm  making friends now that I've made for life.
0:42 We do offer personal one-to-one tutee's and it's  just a really colligative atmosphere to work in
0:48 and I do sincerely believe the students benefit from that  as well.
When students are actually engaging
0:53 with you which is fantastic and you know that  you're making a difference that's really rewarding.
1:00 They were always happy to  help any time you send an email they'd answer
1:03 so as soon as they could.
Just that total support  there all the time only an email away and all
1:04 the new friends I've made and all the communities  in Bangor it's great.
1:17 So I lived up at
1:18 the St Mary's Halls which is quite a nice little  tight-knit community it was really good and really
1:23 refreshing as well to have people both from my  course in my flat but also from other courses.
1:31 Bangor is such a beautiful area you've got Snowdon or the Wyddfa so close by and just
1:36 being able to climb that venture around to  different parts of North Wales is brilliant.
Every year we see hundreds of students graduate from Bangor Business School in the Summer and Winter.
Here is a look at what at some had to say as they reflect back on their time at Bangor University during Winter Graduation.
Riaz Anwar, Lecturer in Accounting also shares her thoughts as she receives her University Teaching Fellowship.
"When students are engaging with you it's fantastic because you know that you're making a difference, that's really rewarding." - Riaz Anwar
Join our community of graduates on LinkedIn
I am certain I would not be where I am today if I had not studied at Bangor University.
Without the dedicated support and encouragement from my lecturers, I would not have pushed myself to apply for a master’s and would most likely have settled for a job I wasn’t satisfied with.
Instead, I completed my MSc and started a position I am incredibly passionate about straight out of university.
I choose Bangor due to the ranking of the Financial Economics course, the syllabus, and the location of the University.
I grew up in the centre of Athens and thus wanted to move to a more remote and smaller town.
Bangor's located in one of the most beautiful parts of the UK, that coupled with the university’s student satisfaction statistics made me take the plunge and I must say I never regretted it!
The nurturing nature and unwavering support I received from my lecturers in Bangor Business School during my amazing three year experience has instilled into me a level of confidence that I have since encompassed into all aspects of my life.
Bangor University was the foundation to my professional career.
I learnt a lot about Banking and Finance and developed a discipline which was very helpful in my career.
Participating in course-related activities and competitions gave me an excellent opportunity to improve my skills and differentiate myself from others when applying for jobs.
My experience at BBS continues to shape my life on many levels.
I have come to understand more about the academic culture, diversity, and most importantly having a sense of purpose in life, and this is on-going and shall only be improved in the years to come.
Explore the range of course options available within this subject area.
Employability is key in everything we do here at the Business School.
From helping you with your CV to developing skills to interview outside your course there are plenty of extracurricular activities to make sure you prepared for the world of work.
0:00 Hi I'm Natalia Ehenulo, I'm from Reading.
A lot of the exams obviously written and
0:06 you know for me particularly we're doing either equations
0:09 or we're doing essays but the lecturers also take the time to really go through
0:14 software systems that you will do eventually when you come out even if we don't do it in the
0:19 exam for example stator and Excel we can't do those in the exams but they think about the long
0:24 term, the longevity of our skills as well and they make sure we do that we've done it in assignments
0:30 I know for credit risk analytics we have to use a Excel to calibrate the Merton model I know
0:37 for research methods and financial econometrics we've also had to use Stata and these are really
0:42 employable skills.
I know when I was looking for jobs outside of University that a lot of companies
0:49 ask us to have proficiency in Excel or python r or some sort of data software and having those skills
0:56 already enabled in us really makes it easier to fill out those applications and meet the skill
1:02 requirements that employers are looking for.
It definitely did help and it's definitely something
1:08 that I'm glad that I've had the opportunity to do whilst being here.
1:11 [Music]
Meet Dr Laurence Jones Lecturer in Finance here at Bangor Business School.
Laurence has lots of experience working in industry having worked as Head of Data and Analytics for a Fin-Tech startup dealing with stock recommendations, as a data scientist and as a mathematician/statistician.
Meet Ian Roberts a Lecturer in Sustainable and Ethical Banking here at Bangor Business School.
Having worked in industry for many years Ian has a lot of knowledge and experience that he bring to his teaching.
Ian has interests in a range of areas including Financial Crime and Financial Ethics and Regulation and is currently teaching both Undergraduate and Postgraduate students.
Meet Dr Shee Yee Khoo Lecturer in Finance here at Bangor Business School.
Shee-Yee has particular research interest in credit ratings, corporate finance and behavioural finance and is currently teaching both Undergraduate and Postgraduate classes.
Dr Danial Hemmings is a Lecturer in Finance here at Bangor Business School.
Danial has broad teaching experience in the areas of Corporate Finance, Behavioural Finance, Financial Markets, Financial Management, Accounting and Accounting Communication and is currently teaching a range of modules at both Undergraduate and Postgraduate levels.
Here is Natalia Ehenulo a Masters student from Reading talking about her experience of student support at Bangor Business School.
Natalia is currently in her 4th year here at Bangor after completing her Undergraduate degree in Business Economic she's continued her studies with the Business School and is currently studying an MSc in Finance.
0:00 Hi I'm Natalia Ehenulo, I'm from Reading and I'm currently studying
0:06 MSc Finance at Bangor University.
I've been here now for four years I did my undergraduate here
0:13 studying Business Economics which I graduated from in July 2022.
My experience at Bangor
0:21 Business School has been great so far, I've really really enjoyed the interaction with the lecturers.
0
:26 I think at the beginning of uni you're very new to so many subjects, I mean if you have happened
0:31 to study a similar subject at A-level you have a bit of knowledge on it but obviously you're
0:36 doing a vast array of modules you just don't know everything yet and I think that can be quite
0:41 daunting coming into the subject and I really like how the lectures take time with you to go
0:46 over certain things.
I know I constantly emailed many lecturers you know asking for feedback on
0:52 my work what exactly does the assignment question
0:55 mean or what can I do better on my next assignment if I'm not as happy with my grade
1:00 and they really take the time to sit down with you go over certain things, why that wasn't good.
1:05 I also think at the beginning of uni when you're in your first year or you're just starting your Masters
1:11 as well they go completely from scratch even things like referencing, every school within Bangor
1:16 has a different reference, so it could be Harvard, it could be APA, and they really take the time
1:21 okay this is how you don't plagiarise this is exactly what you need to do in order for them to
1:27 give you the best marks because they are on your side they do really really want you to do well
1:32 and I really appreciate that.
1:33 [Music]
You may also be interested in these related subject areas.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/biology:
You will be taught by world-leading experts and award-winning lecturers who are involved in a variety of biology-related research, making use of the top-class facilities at Bangor University.
Our research is changing the world in Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences, we're ranked 1st in the UK for the impact of our research in the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021).
Throughout all our courses, we make extensive use of the exceptional range of local terrestrial and aquatic habitats during field courses and practical classes.
You will develop your interests in plant and animal science and receive a thorough grounding in cell and molecular biology.
We offer a wide range of degrees in the Biological Sciences encompassing traditional programmes such as Zoology and Biology, along with the newer discipline of Biology with Biotechnology.
Our staff make sure they’re available to help you throughout your studies and they will encourage you to get involved with ongoing projects.
Our students enjoy being here and we pride ourselves on the quality of teaching and pastoral care we offer.
A Biology degree from Bangor University will equip you with all the practical and problem-solving skills you’ll need to excel in a huge range of careers.
for Research Impact in Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences Research Excellence Framework 2021
in the UK for the quality of teaching in Animal Science NSS 2024
in the UK for Biology The Guardian University Ranking 2024
and #44 university in the UK The Times & The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024
university in the UK in the 2023/24 People and Planet University League
university in the World for Responsible Consumption and Production in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2024
university in the World in the overall Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2024
Our students are taught by passionate leaders in their field who are deeply committed to the learning experience.
I don't have many regrets, but not studying at Bangor is one of them.
[0:04] And I'm incredibly lucky that very early in life I realised that I had this one thing that could always make me feel better.
[0:08] Didn't matter how low I was plunging, that I had somewhere that I could take myself, where I could reset,
[0:16] where I could remind myself of where I come from and what is special to me and the things I'm passionate about.
[0:22] And it doesn't matter if it's up in the mountain or in a in a lake or in the sea.
[0:28] Those are the things that just reset me.
[0:32] And so I would say that, you know, you see yourself getting getting down, take advantage of all of the absolute wonders that we have here.
[0:40] The people, you know, in the nation will travel hundreds of miles to come and see.
[0:45] You have them right on your doorstep.
You might only be here for three years or four years.
[0:49] Take take advantage of them because it is so, so special.
[0:55] And, you know, there is nothing that can compare to being up on the Glyderau or the, you know, the Carneddau as the sun is just starting to rise.
[1:04] Standing on top of Tryfan and looking at all those mountains and just knowing that this right now is
[1:10] your home and your place - embrace it.
You've all made the best decision of your lives in coming here.
[1:15] And I just want you all to make the most of it, treasure it, use it as best as you possibly can, you know, on your doorstep.
[1:22] You have natural wonders that almost nobody else at university in this nation has.
[1:26] So please, please use them to their full extent.
And I promise I'll be back and see you sometime soon while you're here.
[0:03] So, so excited!
It's so great to meet Steve!
It's just such a great opportunity, to even see the
[0:09] Menai Strait in a different way as well.
[0:12] One of the reasons why I chose Bangor initially, was to be in such an area as this
[0:16] There's no better way to spend the afternoon really!
[0:23] We're heading out into the Menai Strait and off to Puffin Island with a group of students of the natural sciences.
[0:28] To get a flavour of the very finest of this area has to offer.
[0:47] Well, so far we've seen kind of all the very best of the wildlife from this part of the world, particularly when it comes to the birds.
[0:53] The ledges are thick, almost every single centimetre is covered with guillemots, a gull...
[0:59] and we've seen gannets and of course puffins as well.
[01:02] I guess this is why I decided to build a relationship with Bangor.
[01:06] What you can see right here.
You know, any institution can invest in its infrastructure.
[01:11] Any institution can get bigger buildings or get more teaching.
[01:14] But there's no amount of investing that can get this.
[01:18] Having this on your doorstep is why Bangor is the best place to study natural sciences in the nation.
[01:30] It is fantastic.
You know, obviously not just the company with having Steve there, it's seeing the wildlife that we saw the kittiwakes
[01:37] there cormorants the seals and that sort of stuff.
Absolutely phenomenal, like once in a lifetime.
[01:41] Steve is such a genuine lovely guy.
Yes, absolutely amazing.
There's no better place to be.
[01:46] It's been a pretty amazing afternoon.
I feel a little bit buffeted and and chilled.
[01:51] But to be able to head out from you know, you can see the University from here.
[01:56] You can see the halls of residence from here.
To be a student here and think that you could finish studying,
[02:01] come down and get on a paddleboard or a kayak and head out into the Menai Strait and have this is your way of relieving exam stress.
[02:08] I mean, that just absolutely blows my mind.
“Bangor University has a superb reputation in the study of environmental science.
The world needs people skilled in the expertise needed to play a crucial part in solving the world’s problems.”
Take a look what it is like to study Biological Sciences at Bangor including a glimpse of our own Natural History Museum and lab spaces.
Our student talks about studying, field-trips and her aspirations after graduating.
“Studying Zoology with Animal Behaviour has been an incredible experience, with inspiring lecturers delving into many diverse topics, while surrounded by the amazing biodiversity in North Wales."
"Zoology with Herpetology provides a wide range of diversity within modules, all of which are really engaging and facilitating."
"The best thing about studying Biology so far has been the opportunity to go abroad for field trips in Year 2.
This massively improved my confidence in talking to staff about work...
which has helped considerably this year when working on my dissertation."
We have excellent facilities for the study of both flora and fauna – all of which are constantly used for teaching and research.
As part of your degree, you may make use of some of our excellent facilities, which include:
We support a vigorous research base in Biological Sciences, including molecular ecology , Biogeochemistry and Plant Science , Animal physiology , behaviour and conservation , Microbiology, parasitology and biotechnology , fisheries genetics, ancient DNA, evolutionary and conservation biology, biogeochemistry, biohydrometallurgy, plant product biochemistry and (plant) stress physiology, wetland biogeochemistry, neurophysiology of crustaceans, animal responses to stress and applied microbiology.
We receive substantial financial support from Research Councils, charities, government departments, the European Commission, and British and overseas industry.
Our postdoctoral base is strengthened by individually-sponsored Fellowships from the NERC and the EC (e.g.
Marie-Curie).
Our diverse interests facilitate a wide exchange of interdisciplinary ideas and techniques and promote collaborations here at Bangor and with colleagues in other institutions and industry, in the UK and overseas.
Experience the best of both worlds when you study at Bangor.
As a scenic city in north Wales with breathtaking views, it is perfect for those looking to explore the outdoors.
Yet it is also a city rich in history with a vibrant sense of community, with easy access to major cities, making it an ideal destination for students and the perfect university location.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/business-management:
Studying Business and Management at Bangor University will give you a strong business acumen and knowledge of management processes and practice.
Our courses provide students with opportunities to boost their employability and we’re passionate about teaching tomorrow’s future leaders.
We achieved 100% Overall Satisfaction for Management Studies in the 2025 National Student Survey.
Do you want to stand out in the crowd?
Our degree programmes are designed to equip you with the theoretical knowledge, practical understanding, and diverse skillset to do just that.
Our research-informed courses provide a wealth of insight into the trends and challenges impacting business, management, and marketing today.
You will learn how to effectively apply your knowledge to real-world business scenarios and gain practical experience of addressing real business problems, which are skills of high value to employers.
Our programmes will help you develop critical strategic and people management skills and encourage creative, innovative and entrepreneurial thinking, which are crucial for tomorrow's leaders.
Our stimulating learning environment and varied assessment methods support you in effectively building fundamental skills that will underpin your career.
We offer many opportunities to personalize your course and skill development to suit your interests and career goals.
We offer talks from business professionals and a range of workshops to enhance your employability, such as on enterprise, self-employment, networking, CV writing, and interview techniques.
Our students can also gain recognition for building transferable skills by completing the Bangor Employability Award.
These opportunities enable our graduates to enter a diverse range of career paths.
The Enactus programme supports students in engaging in social action and social enterprise, allowing you to work on an existing idea or to develop one of your own with support from our employability experts.
We offer students various exciting opportunities to gain hands-on, business-related experience.
Our students can participate in national competitions such as the IBM Business Challenge and 'The Pitch, a UK-wide Business Plan and Marketing challenge.
We encourage entrepreneurship, and in your third year, you can develop your business plan with your personal tutor's support.
There are opportunities for incubation hubs to grow your business through our partner Menai Science Park.
We also offer a range of workshops, mentorships, and graduate opportunities if you are interested in starting your own business.
On most courses, you can choose to undertake a Work Placement module where you will work in industry, applying the skills you've learnt in the classroom.
Most of our courses also offer the opportunity to undertake a Work Placement Year, offering you a fantastic opportunity to broaden your horizons and develop valuable skills and contacts.
A degree in Business and Management will give you a strong business acumen and knowledge of management processes and practice, organisation theory and the global business environment.
You can learn skills in leadership, communication, innovation, marketing, operations, HR management, strategy, new venture creation, financial and risk management, adapting to change and e-business.
During your studies, you will get to know our friendly and accessible lecturers well.
Lecturers provide ample opportunities for personalised support, both in class and out.
All our lecturers operate an ‘open door’ policy where students can book a meeting with academic staff where needed and run regular drop-in sessions for students to come along and ask questions.
You will receive regular pastoral support from your dedicated personal tutor when studying with us.
Your personal tutor will help you make the most of your time at university by guiding on academic and personal matters, such as creating a study plan, making friends, and accessing our wide range of support services.
When you arrive in Bangor, you will also be allocated a Peer Guide to help you settle in and make friends.
Overall Satisfaction for Management Studies (NSS 2025)
Overall Satisfaction for Business Studies (NSS 2025)
in the UK for Academic Support in Business Studies with questions that ask if staff were easy to contact, and how well they supported students’ learning (NSS 2025)
in the UK for Academic Support in Management Studies with questions that ask if staff were easy to contact, and how well they supported students’ learning (NSS 2025)
of students satisfied with teaching in the subject area of Business and Management Guardian University Guide 2024
in the subject area of Marketing Complete University Guide 2024
in the UK for the subject area of Business, Management and Marketing The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024
Liam studies Business Management here with us at Bangor Business School, here is what he had to say about his experience so far.
My name's Liam Stone.
I'm currently doing Business Management, and I'm in my second year.
I'm a local student, so, it was very easy for me to choose Bangor because it's nice and easy and convenient, and many of my family have come to this university as well, so I thought I'd carry on the legacy.
All the people that I've met, I've met some fantastic people in the business world now, that have opened my eyes to the world of business now.
I enjoy, the complexity.
So having that wide range of business that we don't really see, and that bit's really interested to me.
My favourite thing about Bangor.
Oh, it's a good question.
I'd have to say probably the closeness of everyone.
When when you come to uni, everyone knows everyone around here, which is really nice to see.
And the history, I'm a massive history fan, so having a history of Bangor is really cool.
Clubs here are fantastic.
They helped me get involved in the university as much as I can.
So any of the sports clubs, societies, they're fantastic.
Just take your time.
Don't feel like you have to do what everyone else is trying to do.
Just be your own person and trust you'll fit in just fine.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university as a Business, Management and Marketing student.
Georgina undertook the with 'Work Placement' year on her course where she joined CMware as a Commercial Sales Intern.
Georgia looks back at her time with CMware and reflects on her work experience and skills she learnt whilst on placement.
"I was able to move to London and meet so many new people which has opened up so many opportunities for me and my future career which I am incredibly grateful for."
The world is changing in unpredictable ways and it can be hard for people to understand how they can ever make a real difference.
At Bangor Business school it's our core belief that with the right education and the right skill set you can drive positive change across the globe.
We're confident of this because our research staff and our graduates are making an impact wherever they go taking real world business challenges into their own hands...
...whether that's using data analytics to drive the efficiency of a local High Street, developing concrete sustainable policies for the tourism industry...
...investigating the relationships between brand and littering, analyzing consumer behavior...
...and helping people to make decisions that are better for their health and the environment.
This is the place to make a real difference and it's also a beautiful place to do it.
Bangor is just a fantastic place to be.
The scenery is amazing, and the University itself looks incredible.
I’d heard great things about the student experience in Bangor, so I knew it would be a place I would enjoy.
There were some really great lecturers that genuinely cared about students success.
It’s more than just a job to them.
And a lot of them stay in touch after as well!
Not only has my experience at the school given me the knowledge as a base for my career, but it has sparked a confidence in me that I never thought I had.
I now know I have what it takes to be a successful marketeer and have already started climbing my professional ladder.
Bangor Business School has helped me build confidence and believe in myself and allowed me to find my passion which is now my career.
Thanks to the guidance and support that was given to me by my lecturers, I left with a first class honours degree and now hold the position of International CRM Executive at Castore.
The course helped me understand the mechanics behind how consumers engage with products and brands and how organisations can learn to monitor those behaviours and deliver superior value back to their consumers.
Attending Bangor University has significantly influenced my career.
The reason I began to work with Real Ice is because of the network I built whilst at the university.
This in-turn means that I have connected with significant figures in both politics and media.
My experiences at the University allowed me to grow and gain confidence, which means that I am comfortable talking to and working with senior stakeholders, something I would only have dreamt of before attending Bangor University.
I choose to study at Bangor Business School because the post-graduate Business and Marketing programme meant that I would graduate with a dual award of a Master of Arts and a Level 7 Diploma in Strategic Management and Leadership.
This stood me in good stead to be able to progress in my career with good theoretical underpinning to support my professional studies and commercial experience.
I would not have the career I pursued without studying at Bangor Business School.
I acquired knowledge beyond the degree.
By learning from lecturers with industry experience, I gained an understanding of the practical application of academic studies.
It helped me tackle genuine business problems facing clients in my industry.
Studying Business and finance as my undergraduate degree paved the way to providing me with a strong baseline to join reputable organisation within the financial industry.
The knowledge I acquired at university has been the building blocks to some of the tools I still use today.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/childhood-and-youth-studies:
Studying Childhood and Youth Studies gives you the tools to work and make an impact on children and young peoples lives.
We're passionate about our teaching here at Bangor University and this shows in our students satisfaction scores, Childhood and Youth Studies recently achieved 96% overall satisfaction in the recent 2025 National Student Survey.
Studying Childhood and Youth Studies allows you to become an advocate for the rights and wellbeing of children and young people.
You'll learn how to ensure they receive the necessary care, support, and opportunities to thrive.
This involves understanding their needs, recognising potential issues, and implementing strategies to enhance their quality of life.
Underpinning our program is a commitment to equality, inclusion, social justice, and the human rights of all children and young people.
By listening to and learning from children, you’ll gain a profound understanding of their world, preparing you to work alongside them in supportive ways.
Gain the expertise needed to understand policies that directly impact children and young people whilst studying childhood and youth studies.
At Bangor University we give you an unique opportunity to work with children, assisting and organising child and youth summits on current issues such as climate change and mental health.
Our professional and academic expertise spans children's rights, digital childhoods, bilingualism, education, social care, and mental health, providing a rich learning environment to study from multiple perspectives.
A degree in childhood and youth studies provides a comprehensive look into the various stages of child development, including;
You’ll study key areas such as communication, language acquisition, early literacy, additional learning needs, and inclusion.
The unique structure of our courses enables you to examine issues from sociological, educational, and psychological perspectives, starting with foundational modules.
Our community centred approach includes valuable opportunities such as work placements, educational visits, and engaging with a diverse range of guest speakers.
As you degree progresses, you can refine your interests and specialise in the areas that you are most passionate about.
A degree in childhood and youth studies enhances your employability by providing you with both theoretical knowledge and practical skills essential for addressing contemporary societal challenges.
You'll have opportunities to focus on careers working with or on behalf of children and young people.
Linking with the local children’s workforce, you can gain valuable work experience and networking opportunities.
Graduates of our program go on to pursue diverse careers including within education, social work, youth counselling, children’s advocacy, policy development, and non- profit organisations
You’ll have the opportunity to gain international experience and broaden your cultural understanding by choosing to study a year abroad.
A year in another country exposes students to different educational systems, childcare practices, and youth policies.
It’s a chance to develop global competencies, improve language skills, and build a diverse professional network.
This unique experience not only enhances your academic and personal growth but also makes you a more competitive candidate in the global job market.
Overall Satisfaction for the Astudiaethau Plentyndod ac Ieuenctid (Welsh-medium course) programme (NSS 2025)
Overall Satisfaction for Childhood & Youth Studies (NSS 2025)
"I was certain that I wanted to work with children as I had already enjoyed spending time working with children and young people during my job at a riding yard.
I choose to study Childhood and Youth Studies because it would give me a solid knowledge base and help me be able to decide which area of working with children I would enjoy most."
I'd highly recommend an exchange year, for several reasons:
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled into life at university as a Childhood and Youth student.
You'll come across many of our staff during your studies.
Take a look at their profiles to find out more.
At the School of Educational Sciences, you will be taught by individuals who are recognised internationally for their expertise and who are invited regularly to speak at various high-profile events world-wide.
Research feeds directly into the modules that you’ll study, giving you contemporary views on topical issues and ensuring that you graduate with an excellent understanding of a wide range of issues.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/chinese:
By studying Chinese, you'll gain a unique and valuable skillset that will make you a highly competitive candidate in the global job market.
Chinese is the most widely spoken language in the world, making it an asset in today's interconnected global marketplace.
Expertise in modern languages is highly sought after by employers across various industries.
At Bangor University, you'll gain advanced skills in Mandarin and a deep understanding of Chinese culture, society, and history.
We offer a range of course options to cater to your individual interests.
Choose from our 2-language degrees combining Chinese with another language or explore our 3-language programmes.
You can also combine Chinese with other subject areas to create a tailored learning experience.
All our 4-year language degrees include a year abroad, providing a unique opportunity to immerse yourself in Chinese culture and further develop your language skills.
Spend your third year working or studying abroad before returning to Bangor for your final year.
Our courses focus on developing your oral, aural, and written skills in Mandarin.
You'll also gain valuable insights into cultural awareness, which is essential for your year abroad and future career.
Our dedicated Modern Languages centre and translation equipment provide a supportive learning environment.
At Bangor University, you'll feel right at home in our welcoming and supportive community.
Our small class sizes, allowing you to build strong relationships with both staff and fellow students.
Additionally, we offer beginner-level Chinese options for many of our degrees, making it accessible to students of all levels.
At Bangor University you can combine your study of Chinese with another one or two language on our main modern languages programmes.
Here are the other languages we offer at the University.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university as a Modern Languages student.
Modern Languages on Facebook Modern Languages on Instagram Modern Languages on X/Twitter

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/computer-science:
In the top 10% of the most sustainable universities worldwide (QS World Rankings: Sustainability 2024).
We are fully committed to producing Computer Science graduates who are ready, willing, and able to build the next generation smart societies.
You will be taught by world-leading experts who are involved in a variety of computer science-related research, making use of the top-class facilities at Bangor University.
Our expertise is incorporated into our teaching activities, giving you direct access to the latest Computer Science research.
You’ll be taught by lecturers who want to see you thrive.
We see all our students as individuals and understand their strengths.
Our office doors are always open to all our students, whether they want to discuss their academic work, research theories, or just have a chat about life.
Anyone who chooses to study Computing with us at Bangor University gets help every step of the way.
We are a lively community with well-equipped laboratories, networked computers using industry-standard software and our own library.
We have a large networking laboratory – designed to provide the opportunity to design and administer networks and to support the delivery of computer architecture modules.
Our research and other interactions with industry ensure that our courses reflect recent developments.
Staff are practising professionals, who work on joint projects and act as consultants to industry.
Final-year projects are often carried out in collaboration with a local company - providing you with advantages when seeking employment.
All our courses offer a placement year.
A degree in the field of Computer Science will equip you with all the practical and problem-solving skills you’ll need to excel in a huge range of careers.
Computer Science will open a world of interesting and creative career options.
It encompasses a wide range of careers for creative people who want to problem solve, innovate, and change the world.
Read the transcript for the Computer Science at Bangor video
in the UK for teaching quality in Computer Science NSS 2024
"The best thing about the course is that we get to experiment with different technologies.
We get to know about creating and programming games."
My lecturers are very friendly and generous; we get a lot of help from them, from both the academic and non-academic side.
There are also so many clubs and societies at Bangor and joining them for socials is amazing.
"Computer Science is an amazing topic to study because it relates to so much of the modern world.
Having a good understanding of the fundamentals of computing  will be useful, regardless of what you end up doing later on in life."
"The flexibility of the course modules and projects allowed me to discover an interest in UX design that would lead me to my first job in the industry.
I met my current employer through my third year project."
As a student here, you will benefit from the latest facilities including:
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university as a Computer Science student.
Our research specialties include computer graphics, visualization, knowledge discovery, and communications.
Expertise from these areas are incorporated into our teaching activities, giving students direct access to the latest Computer Science research.
Our research has performed exceptionally well, which is evidence in the latest Research Excellence Framework (REF).
Our research activities are organised in three research groups, which can overlap to maximise synergies and resources.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/conservation:
Ranked 1st in the UK for Research impact (REF 2021) and in the top 10% of the most sustainable universities worldwide (QS World Rankings: Sustainability 2024).
You will be taught by world-leading experts who are involved in a variety of conservation-related research, making use of the top-class facilities at Bangor University.
Our research is changing the world in Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences, we're ranked 1st in the UK for the impact of our research in the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021) .
Conservation at Bangor spans the breadth of the discipline from the ecology of threatened species to the institutional and economic aspects of conservation.
We work globally: from the forests of Madagascar to the savannahs of Africa, from the mountains of Snowdonia to the primeval woodlands of Poland.
Our location, between the Snowdonia National Park and the sea, means that you will benefit from being close to an exceptional range of terrestrial, marine and freshwater habitats where fieldwork, which is an integral part of our conservation degrees, is conducted.
Conserving biodiversity and avoiding the mass extinction of species as a result of human expansion is one of the biggest challenges we face.
We are interested in evidence-based solutions to the diverse threats facing ecosystems worldwide.
Conservation scientists use their skills and scientific knowledge to tackle these issues by exploring new approaches to conserving our natural world.
in the UK for Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences research impact.
and #44 in the UK The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024
university in the UK in the Unifresher's Alternative League Table 2023
Gabe Hibberd is studying Conservation with Forestry.
During his degree he has undertaken a work placement as a country park warden on the Great Orme in Llandudno, gaining real life experience alongside his studies.
"The international opportunities the course has provided has also been a highlight.
I have recently returned from a third-year tropical conservation field course in Uganda, and I also took part in the international study abroad scheme in Canada between my 1st and 2nd year."
Conservation student Owen Eaton went to Kenya for his placement.
Take a look through his amazing photos on the right.
"Coming to Kenya for my 8-month placement has given me a great opportunity to take part in, and lead, real-world animal behavioural studies with citizen scientists.
Honing skills in data collection and leadership, while mitigating human-animal conflict.
Of course, always keeping my camera at my side."
We have excellent facilities for the study of conservation – all of which are constantly used for teaching and research.
in the UK for Research impact
Our research is highly interdisciplinary, including insights, expertise and methods from biology, ecology, psychology, economics, sociology, geography, land systems science, and policy amongst others.
We work globally, from the mountains of Snowdonia to the coral reefs of the Caribbean, from rainforests to savannahs and beyond.
We undertake applied research which addresses the diverse threats facing species and ecosystems worldwide.
More about our research

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/creative-writing:
Our Creative Writing degree is an innovative, practical programme that encourages you to work across a variety of disciplinary pathways.
You will learn to hone your ideas and inspiration and learn to express yourself and communicate to a wider audience.
Our degrees in Creative Writing and Professional Writing provide a strong foundation of subject-specific knowledge and skills in the first year, preparing you to choose from an exciting range of module options as you progress.
You’ll develop and pursue new interests and have the chance to undertake an independent writing final-year project.
Our diverse module range allows you to explore innovative approaches to Creative Writing, encouraging you to reflect on the enduring importance of historic literatures as well as contemporary literature’s impact on society and specific communities.
You will explore and be encouraged to read and write in many different forms, such as:
These forms span the traditional through to the experimental and enable encounters with important themes, including:
Our degrees are designed to invite you to think creatively, critically, and openly – giving you the supportive and friendly space in which your creative voice can rise, change, and develop over three years.
Our seminars and workshops are places in which you’ll find intellectual stimulation and rigour but also warm support and camaraderie.
The creative act is often fuelled and developed by encounters with other writers and so, your peers and teachers will be your creative writing community while studying at Bangor.
Our workshops and classrooms are spaces in which your unique voice will be nurtured with care and commitment.
It’s also a space in which you will learn to confidently critique and help develop the work of your peers.
Many of our modules provide opportunities to choose innovative, creative assessments, which focus on preparing you for the job market and a broad range of fulfilling careers.
As a creative writing graduate, you will be in possession of some of the most in-demand skills required by this fast-paced modern job market.
As an expert creator, communicator, and critical thinker, you will see how these skills are highly valued in, and transferable to, both traditional and rapidly emerging job markets.
As part of your undergraduate experience, we’re proud to offer regular visits and workshops from expert industry insiders.
These sessions provide valuable insight and practical tips about how to transfer your creative talents into fulfilling careers that make best use of your unique skills.
We’ve welcomed experts from careers as diverse as publishing and editing through to recently graduated writers working collaboratively with AI to create content for world leading brands.
Your creative future is full of possibility and your undergraduate years are the chance to explore where this could lead.
At Bangor, you’ll be part of a lively and caring community with excellent pastoral support.
You’ll have opportunities to immerse yourself in writing and reading but also go on theatre visits and field trips, listen and talk to visiting writers, attend research seminars, explore Bangor’s special collections and archives, and to get involved in vibrant student societies and reading groups.
You’ll be taught by world-leading subject specialists from day one, and your lecturers and tutors will get to know you and support your through your degree.
Alongside lectures, you’ll benefit from small seminar groups, one-to-one project supervision, workshops, and regular drop-in sessions.
As a Creative Writing student, you’ll be actively looking both backwards and forwards in literary time.
You’ll have the opportunity to study a range of genres and forms, from classic texts through to contemporary writing.
You’ll learn how to navigate and appreciate what has come before, what’s happening now and consider how your writing might respond, deviate, sit in conversation with, or sometimes challenge the texts you will explore.
How will your voice respond?
in the UK for Academic Support in Creative Writing with questions that ask if staff were easy to contact, and how well they supported students’ learning (NSS 2025)
Overall Satisfaction for Creative Writing (NSS 2025)
Student Satisfaction in teaching (Creative Writing) Guardian University Guide 2024
1st in the UK for the quality of teaching in Creative Writing with questions including how well teaching staff explain things and how often it challenges students to achieve their best work (NSS 2025)
in the subject area Creative Writing Complete University Guide 2024
in the UK for Creative Writing The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024
university in the World in the Times Higher World University Rankings and the QS World University Rankings 2024
There are plenty of transferable skills you'll learn whilst studying English Literature, our graduates graduate with skills that are highly sought after in todays job market.
Alongside the ability to write and to speak well, and to synthesise information effectively, our degrees provide you with;
These skills you learn whilst studying English Literature can lead you into a range of different career paths.
Some career paths you might want to consider include:
The expertise of Creative Writing staff lies in the craft of language and storytelling within the broad context of professional practice.
Our staff work across disciplines, including poetry, short story, the novel, social media fiction, digital fiction, journalism, screenwriting, and publishing.
Staff are internationally recognised experts in their chosen field, bringing knowledge and enthusiasm to their teaching.
The department has an active community of research students and offers research supervision in a range of specialist areas, including Poetry, Short story writing, Creative Translation, Bookselling, The space of the book, Digital publishing, Experimental writing, Ecopolitics, Welsh writing in English, Concept development, Screenwriting, Nationalism in Wales, Welsh or Welsh language media, Digital media in minority languages, Political Journalism.
Find out about the range of course options in this subject area.
Bangor English Literature on Instagram Bangor English Literature on Facebook Bangor English Literature on X

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/criminology-and-criminal-justice:
Studying Criminology and Criminal Justice can lead to a range of career paths.
At Bangor, our cross-discipline degrees allow you to gain a clear focus on criminology and learn theories from several academic disciplines.
On our criminology degrees, you’ll gain a theoretical understanding of crime and crime control and will learn how these theories play out in the real world.
You’ll learn about current issues and debates in crime control and will develop the ability to apply your knowledge of criminology to the criminal justice system.
You’ll gain an insight into the cause of crime and learn what we, as a society, should do to respond to this behaviour.
You’ll gain academic research skills that will allow you to investigate contemporary issues in crime and crime control.
A degree in criminology will open a world of interesting and rewarding career options.
With a focus on crime control and understanding the causes of crime, typical career paths lead into the criminal justice system e.g., the police, probation service, prison service and border agency.
As a criminology graduate, other options include working for local government and national government agencies such as the Home Office or Ministry of Justice.
Criminology is a cross-discipline topic, drawing on issues in sociology, history, philosophy, psychology, and law.
To understand the causes of crime and how to rehabilitate offenders, we must consider different topics such as the role of education, mental health, and social class.
During your degree you’ll gain a clear focus on criminology and learn theories from several academic disciplines.
Through work placement modules, you’ll gain work experience, choosing from a range of different industries and areas associated with criminology and criminal justice.
This will be a great addition to your CV and will boost your employability.
You’ll also have the choice to take a Work Placement Year, taken between your second and third year, working in industry.
We are a close-knit group who foster a vibrant learning environment.
We’re ranked highly for our pastoral care and student support in the National Student Survey and have an open-door policy meaning that we’ll be accessible to you throughout your studies.
Our mixed group of academics strive to bring you the best possible learning experience.
Satisfaction for the Quality of Teaching on the Criminology & Criminal Justice programme (NSS 2025)
student satisfaction with teaching (Criminology) Guardian University Guide 2024
I am studying Criminology and Criminal Justice and I am in the third year of my degree.
I chose Bangor University because it was close to home, as one of my options is was really fitting.
The course that I've chosen, when I looked at all the other courses that were of a similar kind within different universities, Bangor seemed the most fitting because of the module content that they were offering.
It was something that a lot of the other universities didn't seem to include.
The coolest thing about my course a couple of weeks ago, I got to do VR training, for controlling and coercive behaviour, which is a part of the domestic violence section of my course.
Yeah it is, there's been a lot of cool factors within the course.
I think what I enjoy the most about the subject is the variety of the things that we learn.
I think it's also comes down to like the the people that you meet on the course.
it's people you would probably never come across within your life.
But because you're studying something, you have a fascination in and your meeting people of the same mind, people that you're going to be friends with for the rest of your life because they enjoy the same things that you do.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university as a Criminology and Criminal Justice student.
0:00 My name is Dr Tim Holmes, I'm a senior lecturer in criminology and policing and subject lead for
0:05 criminology and policing at Bangor University.
I teach on the criminology program around cyber
0:11 crime and organized crime and in relation to policing I teach around the theory of criminal
0:18 behavior and digital policing.
The main things that are interesting in the areas of criminology
0:24 I teach is the real diversity of topics that we get to cover when we look at cyber crime,
0:30 we're looking at all those different areas of the internet and how people can exploit people
0:34 through fraud through deception through online hacking and then when we come to the discussion
0:40 of terrorism and organized crime we're really looking at those distinct groups of people
0:45 who have organize their criminality to exploit people around the world and in many different
0:50 ways.
The important thing with criminology is that it offers us an insight into the real fundamental questions
0:56 of right and wrong but also whilst acknowledge in the complex world that we live in.
1:01 A criminology student is really a jack of many trades we have to understand all of
1:07 these different issues education, health, mental health, poverty, international relations and
1:15 we filter this all through the lens of crime and Crime Control.
Through this we have a real
1:20 distinct focus in our degree whilst opening you up to a lot of different areas for discussion and debate.
1:24 The great thing about being a Bangor is the people, I've taught a Bangor for a while
1:30 and there's a saying that if you're the smartest person in the room you're in the wrong room and
1:35 I'm really lucky at Bangor that I'm always in the right room.
I'm surrounded by great
1:39 colleagues with real expertise in a very diverse range of areas of criminology.
I've got expertise
1:44 in undercover policing, in crime and media, in the probation service, in the Police Service, all these
1:50 different experts bringing their work to bear in helping us teach students around really diverse
1:56 topics within criminology.
The reason I teach at Bangor it's a really nice environment to learn in.
[0:00]
My name is Lisa Suzanne Sparkes.
I'm a lecturer in Criminology and Criminal Justice here at Bangor University.
[0:06]
So at the moment I'm involved in the introduction to criminology, where we look at the theoretical elements around defending.
We also look at the sociological elements of offending and the influences of our community and society.
[0:12]
Then I move on to the more interesting stuff for me, which is where I start to talk about things like torture.
[0:18]
Can we justify torture in the use of finding that information to stop criminality?
[0:24]
I also look at the re-offending rehabilitation and then we move on to punishment.
[0:30]
And we do have that discussion around the death penalty.
[0:36]
And that's where we pull the international arguments in.
Does death penalty act as a deterrent to criminality?
[0:39]
Criminology and criminal justice isn't just around crime and the criminal justice system.
[0:46]
This is a very broad topic where you get to learn about different things.
[0:51]
So one of the things that I'm really interested in is female gangs in the UK.
[0:56]
One of the other topics that I really found interesting in my first year as a student was police culture and the effects of policing on society.
[1:00]
So it isn't a one size fits all.
[1:09]
It is a very broad area, and various topics are pulled in using different authors and different researchers within Bangor University.
[1:11]
It is a very beautiful building.
The architecture history behind this building within the School of History, Law and Social Sciences,
[1:20]
we have a very strong community feel and that is develop through events, social events, employability events.
[1:28]
We have murder days, various things that fit within criminal justice, but we also look at what happens after you graduate.
[1:36]
So it's all about that community and all the organisations that we can pull in to make your experience that little bit better.
[1:43]
However, outside the university, you have the mountains on one side, the sea on the other.
[1:50]
Whether you like paddleboarding, kayaking, water sports, coasteering all the different things that you can do.
[1:55]
But if you're a bit like me and just like to relax, you can take a really nice picnic up to campus and just watch the world go by.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/dental-hygiene:
Dental hygienists are registered dental professionals who help patients maintain their oral health by preventing and treating periodontal disease and promoting good oral health practice.
Dental hygienists can undertake a wide range of activities within their scope of practice, including scaling and polishing, care delivery planning, oral health promotion and application of topical fluoride and fissure sealants.
Dental hygienists often work autonomously within the wider dental team.
Hygienists are expected to have excellent clinical, organisational, and interpersonal skills, to work effectively in a busy dental setting.
Teamwork is an essential element of providing dental care and hygienists are expected to work closely with dentists, therapists and nurses on a daily basis.
Hygienists typically work in primary care dental practices, community dental services, or secondary care services.
Student hygienists at Bangor University experience excellence in dental hygiene education as the programme is regulated by the General Dental Council.
Early applications are strongly encouraged as Bangor can't guarantee to consider any applications submitted after the initial UCAS closing date.
Our close partnership working with placement providers ensures that our dental hygiene programme at Bangor University will prepare you to be a hygienist able to provide exemplary dental care.
Delivering a high-quality student learning experience and research excellence, you’ll be educated by expert dental hygiene educators in an interdisciplinary environment.
Student satisfaction for the Dental Hygiene programme (NSS 2025)
Satisfaction with Quality of Teaching on the Dental Hygiene course (NSS 2025)
university in the UK in the 2023/24 People and Plant University League
Dental Hygienists provide and essential service in across a range of dental care environments.
Graduates may expect to work in a general dental services or community dental services clinical workplace.
Within these environments dental hygienists work as part of the broader dental team, managing their own patients, and supplementing the care provided by other dental registrants.
It is expected that dental hygienists will play an increasing role in NHS dental service delivery in Wales as policy changes continue to emphasise the utilisation of Hygienists.
Dental Hygienists can focus on specific elements of care or work in specific care environments, including teaching hospitals, dental schools, armed forces, prisons, or residential care facilities.
Unique career pathways are available through continued professional development and lifelong learning opportunities.
Some dental hygienists become dental educators, regulators, and academics.
Dental hygiene is also a platform to progress between roles within dentistry.
Progression from dental hygiene to dental therapy is common.
Our research groups are all part of the Bangor Institute for Health and Medical Research (BIHMR).
We are building on BIHMR’s success in REF 2014 to sustain and grow excellence in health, medical and social care research.
We conduct research of the highest standard, with UK and international impact that contributes to improvements in local health and healthcare, as well as making an impact across Wales, the United Kingdom and internationally.
Below are some examples of recent research projects linked the dental hygiene and care professionals from Bangor University:
Summary of research projects

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/drama:
Our staff understands what it’s like to be involved in the creative arts, and they have years of experience working with drama and theatre.
Our courses in drama are designed to harness your creativity.
Our courses include workshops, master classes, and production opportunities.
These activities are essential for developing and refining your skills.
You can develop your acting skills, practice writing for screen and stage, improve your directing skills, or express your creative vision through performance.
We will support your creative development throughout.
You can improve your professional skills through various creative outputs including theatre, short films, creative writing, radio, and recitals.
Our staff understands what it’s like to be involved in the creative arts, with years of experience working with drama and theatre.
Having performed themselves they bring their practical knowledge to the classroom.
Small class sizes allow us to know our students personally.
We can provide academic and wellbeing support throughout their studies.
When students arrive at Bangor University, they are assigned a personal tutor.
This tutor is an academic staff member who can assist with course-related inquiries and personal challenges.
We also have an open-door policy which means you can pop in for advice, support, or a general chat any time our office doors are open.
There are dedicated creative arts societies here at Bangor University.
BMTS our musical theatre society is perfect for those interested in performance.
ROSTRA and BEDS produce and stage plays throughout the year.
Our student societies often practice and perform in our John Philips Hall as well as our arts and innovation centre Pontio.
Pontio Arts and Innovation Centre is the heart of drama here at Bangor University.
There is an annual pantomime, and regular shows across the year from circus performances to cabaret and daily cinema showings.
Pontio also serves as a space for gaining practical experience.
Students produce a regular ticketed show where they can develop acting, dancing, directing, writing, composing, conducting, and marketing skills.
Within Pontio we have a theatre, studio theatre, and a cinema all double up as teaching spaces.
Our Music building includes two professional performing halls, a recital hall and multiple practice spaces.
We work closely with the professional industry and the local community here at Bangor University.
We are committed to ensuring our students gain real-life insights into the arts and creative industries.
We encourage ‘learning through doing’ and offering practical experiences.
Employability is a key part of our curriculum, and we want to give students as many opportunities as possible to gain practical and relevant skills.
Many team members maintain industry relationships to help you gain work experience.
We’ve recently grown a partnership with Aria Film Studios, Rondo Media’s new studios in Anglesey.
Our partnership means we can give students more exposure to the industry through regular visits and work experience opportunities.
Rondo Media’s in Llangefni, Anglesey Aria Film Studios offer Bangor University students more opportunities for career development in the creative industries.
The studios feature two outstanding acoustic stages and are home to popular Welsh productions such as Rownd a Rownd and Bariau.
Below is a virtual tour of the film studios.
Welcome to the Aria Film Studios in Llangefni.
Here’s the reception with the stunning mural of the exterior of the building and the mountains in the background.
Here we are in Studio 2 which is home to some of ‘Rownd a Rownd’s characters.
As you can see, the sets are backed up to maximise the space.
We are now in Dani’s house, one of the series’ most popular and longest-serving characters.
Here is a kitchen and lounge area.
Notice that Dani has only half a hallway – as we or the camera cannot see around corners, there was no need to continue the build.
The actual front door is located on the street in Menai Bridge.
Here’s the hallway in Sian’s house.
Notice that the stairs do not lead anywhere, as there is no upstairs on the set.
This is an exact replica of a private house in Llandegfan.
The kitchen set had to be recreated exactly like the real house because it was not possible to film on location after the pandemic.
This is Jason’s flat, and in the story, it is located above the Tŷ Pizza set, which is on the main set in Menai Bridge.
This is the biggest set in the studio.
Once again, the exterior of the shop i sown by the Menai Straits in Menai Bridge.
The interior was recreated here to facilitate the filming due to the huge amount of set dressing and pops required to fill the shop.
As we make our way to Arthur’s house the rest of the sets can be seen clearly.
A wall has been taken out here in order to create space for the film crew to work as the set itself is relatively small.
From the hallway you can see how close the sets are in relation to each other.
Ken and Kay live here.
The actual house is on the ‘Rownd a Rownd‘ lot in Menai Bridge, but after COVID, more space was needed, so this set was built slightly bigger than the original house, even though you would not notice this on screen.
From the hallway, we can see into the kitchen.
This is definitely ‘Rownd a Rownd’s’ grandest set – Dylan and Sophie’s luxurious house.
The Art Department had fun designing this set.
And here’s the hallway with the staircase leading nowhere and the entrance to the lounge area.
In the corner of the studio the gallery area is situated.
Here the director and the rest of the technical crew sit during the filming.
They watch the action on the monitors and go back and forth to the individual sets as required.
The costume department is located behind the studio and here all the character’s costumes are stored, sorted and washed.
It’s here that the actors come each day and change into their costumes.
After changing into their costumes, the actors come here for their makeup.
The make-up department is also responsible for hair styling and cutting, as well as creating special effects like cuts and bruises.
Chat to our students
Drama on Facebook Drama on Instagram Drama on X/Twitter

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/economics:
Studying Economics at Bangor allows you to develop an understanding of current issues affecting the economy.
Our real-world curriculum is based on academic research and prepares you for a successful career.
Studying Economics helps you to think strategically and make informed decisions.
A degree in Economics helps students better understand the world around them through developing skills such as analytical skills which will help you in everyday life.
Economics graduates are highly employable as you’ll learn transferable skills to take into a range of different industries.
Graduates are especially sought after for roles in the banking and financial sector.
Students graduating with a degree in economics are among some of the highest paid in the UK.
Our courses focus on producing quality employees and our graduates have gone on to work in a range of different sectors from portfolio management to economist.
One of our notable Graduates, George Buckley, now works as the Chief European and UK Economist at Nomura.
Our economics syllabus in Bangor is based on giving you a deep understanding of real-world economics and developing your skills so that you can solve real world economic problems.
We look at issues affecting the world today such as Brexit or the cost-of-living crisis and how these issues affect the economy.
Our academic team are active researchers and a lot of the modules we teach are driven by current research making the courses relevant and interesting.
In your first year in Bangor, your studies will be based around the CORE economics syllabus, a free online text used by many of the best universities around the world.
We’re committed to quality teaching and providing student support here at Bangor.
We’re currently ranked 2nd in the UK for Academic Support (NSS 2022) in Economics.
Studying Economics in Bangor means you’ll have access to staff from the Business School and from our friendly student support team.
We assign each student a personal tutor when they arrive at Bangor University giving you access to a member of academic staff throughout your studies.
Bangor is a unique student experience with students coming from across the globe to study with us.
By studying Economics here at Bangor Business School you’ll be part of a diverse, international group of students, all of whom bring their own experiences of global economies.
Having so many different viewpoints allow for a richer experience of studying Economics.
By using examples and learning more about how different countries’ economies work ,you’ll gain a greater understanding of global economics and international trade.
As part of our Economics degree programmes you can choose to undertake a year in industry through our ‘ with work placement year ’ option or study abroad for a year with our ‘ with international experience ’ option.
Both are great ways to improve your employability when graduating.
Here is Will's story.
of students satisfied with teaching in the subject area of Economics Guardian University Guide 2024
student satisfaction (Bangor Business School) NSS 2023
Our current students talk about their experience of Bangor Business School so far and share advice on why you should consider studying Economics at Bangor University.
Through my course I am guided into topics such as Analytics, Econometrics, FinTech, Applied Economics where I can apply my research skills in conjunction to my interest in Data Analytics.
My experiences of interacting in class and with lecturers has grown my interest.
The interactive nature of the classes has allowed me to excel and grasp a greater understanding of the topics and test my abilities whilst comprehending my real-world role if I was to continue with this career path.
The world is changing in unpredictable ways and it can be hard for people to understand how they can ever make a real difference at Bangor Business School.
It's our core belief that with the right education and the right skill set you can drive positive change across the globe.
We're confident of this because our research, staff and our graduates are making an impact wherever they go.
Taking real world business challenges into their own hands, whether that's using data analytics to drive the efficiency of a local High Street, developing concrete sustainable policies for the tourism industry, investigating the relationships between brand and littering, analysing consumer behavior and helping people to make decisions that are better for their health and the environment.
This is the place to make a real difference, and it's also a beautiful place to do it.
Bangor Business School is where tradition meets innovation, with state-of-the-art facilities like our Bloomberg terminals, just a short walk from the Shankland reading room.
The growth and development of the business school is no accident, we're one of the longest established providers of banking and finance teaching in the world.
Our focus on employability and future skills is key.
Today we're working with businesses, government and charities, locally in Wales throughout the United Kingdom and across the world.
To improve the quality and scope of our research, but also to provide an excellent education through field trips and exposure to diverse industry experts providing the skills that employers actually want.
Bangor Business School is more than just a place to study it's a place where future leaders are made, where innovation thrives and where global challenges are addressed head on.
We are the school that means business, and we would like you to join us in shaping the future.
Above is the Bangor Business School's Trading Floor.
Within the space we have Bloomberg Terminals which students can access.
Meet some of our alumni and find out what they are up to now and how they found their experiences of studying at Bangor Business School.
The support, care, and encouragement from my lecturers gave me the confidence I needed to succeed in finding employment.
Not only do lecturers care about how you perform inside the classroom, but they also care about how you’ll succeed later down the line.
The career fairs and employment support on offer at BBS certainly helped me to connect with people in the same area of study and branch out my network in order to secure a job after graduation.
In fact, if I hadn’t attended a Bangor University careers fair, I wouldn’t have met the employer I’m still with today!
The course itself was great and delivered by knowledgeable and caring lecturers, and the modules were set up in a way where the things you learnt were applicable to the real world.
I think content plus applicability really helped bring the course to life and opened doors for me to pursue a job in the field and industry that I am interested in.
0.2 Hello my name is George Buckley and i was a Bangor University student many moons ago now back in the early 1990s
0.7 and I want to tell you a bit about my career progression and perhaps give you some advice about your time at university and beyond.
0.17 Now i did a degree in Economics at Bangor and I loved Bangor.
0.21 I thought it was a great place to study you have the beautiful backdrop of the Menai Straits on one side and of course the Snowdonia national park on the other
0.29 super place to study and I then went on to Bristol to do a master's degree in economics and finance and completed a PhD at Bristol
0.38 as well thereafter and after that I went to went to the city and became the Chief UK Economist at Deutsche bank
0.46 and since then as you can see, I'm now the Chief European and UK Economist at Nomura.
0.53 So what advice can I give you?
Well one thing I would say is that the time that you spend at university
0.59 I certainly found went by so quickly, so you need to make the most of it make sure that you get a good degree but also make sure that you leave university with more strings to your bow than just that
1.01 Make sure you foster some good friendships, make sure that you join clubs, get extracurricular activities under your belt
1.19 and importantly if you want to do something like I have it's really important these days that you get some good work experience
1.37 So if you get the chance to do any work placements make sure you take them but above all, enjoy your time at Bangor.
George did a degree in Economics at Bangor Business School and loved his experience.
In this video he talks about how to make the most out of your time at university and why taking up extracurricular activities or joining a club or society at University can enhance your experience.
George now works as the Chief European and UK Economist at Nomura and reflects on his memories of studying at Bangor Business School.
Dr Rhys Ap Gwilym is a Senior Lecturer in Economics here at Bangor Business School.
Alongside his teaching Rhys also is also heavily involved in research at the School and is currently our Director of Research, Impact and Engagement.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/english:
Explore our Undergraduate English Courses
Find a Course Book an Open Day
English at Bangor University encompasses English Language, English Literature and Linguistics.
Studying English Language will introduce you to the tools and methods used to explore and describe the most widely understood language spoken in the world today.
You will learn about the grammatical structure of English (e.g., how words and sentences are formed), how meaning is made, interpreted and extended across whole discourses, how sounds are formed, produced, and understood, and how language use varies across speakers and groups and how it changes over time.
You will also explore the history of English, the development and emergence English dialects and World Englishes, how English is used in society and the role of English in society, in education and as a global lingua franca.
Studying English Literature provides the chance to develop a thorough knowledge of literary texts, theory, history and criticism.
More than that, we offer students the chance to study a broad range of English Literature -  encompassing a variety of genres and periods -  introducing you to a wide range of cultures and intellectual traditions.
Our courses have been devised and are delivered by staff committed to helping you develop your subject-specific knowledge, whilst giving you the freedom to discover and explore your own interests.
Linguistics , like all the sciences, involves the systematic study of the patterns and regularities found in data.
In the case of Linguistics, the data involves speech and language, something all humans possess and something that is central to our identity and existence.
For the past 150 years or so, a large body of knowledge has been built up about what exactly language is, how language works, how languages are acquired and how they change.
Our BA in Linguistics will introduce you to this and to the tools and methods that will allow you to undertake your own investigations into English as well as other languages spoken around the world.
in the UK for the quality of teaching in English Language with questions including how well teaching staff explain things and how often it challenges students to achieve their best work (NSS 2025)
Overall Satisfaction for the English Literature programme (NSS 2025)
in the UK for Assessment and Feedback in Linguistics with questions such as how clear the marking criteria was and how often does feedback help students improve their work (NSS 2025)
Satisfaction for the Quality of Teaching in English Language (NSS 2025)
Overall Satisfaction for Literature in English (NSS 2025)
Our courses will give you the opportunity to study a wide range of subjects and allow you to explore and develop your interests and specialisations.
Our English Language introductory and advanced modules will give you a strong foundational background and important scientific insight into the nature, structure and use of language, as well as into the history of English and sociolinguistics (the relationship between language and society).
Our English Literature students are taught by internationally renowned researchers and you will spend time reading creative and critical work in preparation for seminars, working with fellow students to develop and express ideas.
Our close links with local theatres, poetry groups and vibrant student societies will give you plenty of opportunities to get involved in arts and culture.
Our Linguistics curriculum has been designed to introduce students to the core / foundation areas (e.g.
phonetics, phonology  morphology, syntax, semantics, pragmatics and sociolinguistics).
You will benefit from a state-of-the-art learning facility which includes a professional grade sound / recording studio (our Speech laboratory), an eye tracking laboratory, and an event-related potential (ERP) laboratory and a corpus-linguistics resource facility.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university as an English Language student.
We place a high priority on caring for and supporting our students here at Bangor University.
Our active and diverse staff have a wide range of internationally recognised specialisations and research profiles in English Language and Linguistics .
Our research informs our teaching provision at all levels, with our students benefitting from enthusiastic staff at the cutting-edge of academic enquiry and developments.
The world-class quality of our research in English Literature , including research in medieval and early modern literature; the history of the book and publishing; Welsh Writing in English; Romantic and modern literature, is well-recognised, ranking us in the Top 10 universities for English Literature in the country for research intensity .
English on X/Twitter

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/english-language:
Studying English Language and Literature uncovers the fascinating and amazing ways in which language is and has been used over time, including its different contexts, forms, meaning, influences, and inspiration.
Studying Linguistics and the English Language, provides you with the comprehensive and integrated content needed to understand the origins and nature of language(s).
You’ll learn how languages develop, how they change, how they are expressed, and how they vary between people, within communities, between cities, within countries and around the world.
Over the course of their degree, students will acquire a range of valuable employability skills such as data handling and analysis, analytical and critical thinking, project and time management, plus the ability to work independently, with a supervisor and as part of a team.
Our modules are taught by experts in a range of fields and, depending on your projects and interests, can make use of our four state-of-the art research laboratories.
Our labs hold eye tracking, ERP (neurophysiological / brain wave measuring), professional grade ¬audio recording, corpora, and advanced video / motion capture equipment.
Your 3rd year project will allow you to research an area of your choice.
Whatever your ambitions and goals after graduation the project is a great way to improve your employability and start focusing on your interest area.
Follow us on Instagram Follow us on X/Twitter Get involved with our Research projects on Facebook

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/english-literature:
Studying English Literature at Bangor allows you to gain the valuable skillsets needed in the modern job market.
Our degrees allow you to explore innovative approaches to 1000 years of literary history and discover genres – such as the Gothic, Comedy, and Children’s Fiction.
Are you ready to unlock the secrets of English Literature?
Our programme offers a strong foundation of knowledge in your first year, preparing you for an exciting range of module options!
At Bangor, we invite students to develop new interests as they progress, with an opportunity for independent research on any topic they choose.
From exploring innovative approaches, 1000-year-old literature or reflecting upon how contemporary literature impacts on our community, there is something sure to spark curiosity here.
Unlock the world of English Literature at Bangor University!
From Gothic to Comedy and Children's Fiction - you'll explore current relevant topics such as gender & sexuality, climate change and political injustice as well as gain unique insights into economic inequality and globalisation.
Our degrees are exciting and intellectually stimulating, inviting you to think creatively and imaginatively about topical issues, whilst also helping you to build effective communication skills.
Ongoing conversations between students and lecturers inside and outside of the classroom will enable you to develop confidence in your own voice and in your ability to express complex ideas clearly.
Many of our modules within English Literature provide opportunities to choose innovative, creative assessments, which focus on preparing you for the job market and a broad range of fulfilling careers.
Alongside offering a chance for you to embrace your love for reading, our degrees equip you with transferable skills that can lead to a range of different careers.
A degree in English Literature is highly respected in today’s job market as graduates are often thought to have the ability to read for detail, to read with nuance and accuracy in mind, and to build persuasive arguments based on thorough research.
All of these are increasingly valuable skillsets in the modern job market, and this is exactly what we offer when you study English Literature at Bangor University.
At Bangor, you will be part of a lively and caring community with excellent pastoral support.
You will be taught by world-leading subject specialists from day one, and your lecturers and tutors will get to know you and support your through your degree.
Our student to staff ratios means that we can offer a more personalised approach to teaching here at Bangor University.
Alongside lectures, you will benefit from small seminar groups, one-to-one project supervision, workshops, and regular drop-in sessions.
Our English Literature community is lively with students having plenty of opportunities to engage in extracurricular activities.
You will have chances to immerse yourself in reading but also go on theatre visits and field trips, to listen and talk to visiting writers, to attend research seminars, to explore Bangor’s special collections and archives, and to get involved in vibrant student societies and reading groups.
While you will have the opportunity to study the classics, from Chaucer to Austen, from Shakespeare to the Brontës, from Wordsworth to Plath, our degree emphasises that English Literature does not only mean literature from England.
We offer students the opportunity to explore postcolonial, decolonial, and four nations literatures and perspectives.
We have strong expertise in Welsh Writing in English and our teaching also highlights the European contexts of British literature.
in the UK for Academic Support in Literature in English with questions that ask if staff were easy to contact, and how well they supported students’ learning (NSS 2025)
I spent four years studying at Bangor University and loved every second.
The welcome I received from the English Literature team right from the very first Open Day I attended made me sure that Bangor was the place for me.
I was always encouraged and supported to think and write both critically and creatively,  and pay attention to detail.
This has been extremely important – especially working within a marketing and communications department where attention to detail is crucial.
Ask our students a question
Our teaching and supervision are based on world-leading research and creative practice.
We have research strengths in medieval and early modern literature; the history of the book and publishing; and Welsh Writing in English.
Our research reaches an international audience while engaging closely with our local environment and collections, including the university’s outstanding archives.
In the most recent REF, our research was ranked 14th in the UK for world-leading publications.
English Literature on X/Twitter

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/film-media-and-journalism:
Our teaching staff have real-life industry experience and will fuel your enthusiasm for learning.
Prepare for your career in journalism, film or media with quality film, recording and editing equipment.
Our media facilities include:
Pontio Arts and Innovation Centre is the place to showcase your films and creative projects.
You can view the latest arthouse and blockbuster films, and contemporary dance and theatre productions.
Wales is home to a buzzing film and television industry.
We work in partnership with top names in Welsh film and television, including:
You won’t need to travel far to learn the ropes.
Guided tours of 'Rownd a Rownd' TV sets will be available.
Through the Wales Screen Academy, professional freelance crews will hold workshops and masterclasses at the university.
Through making connections, graduates have achieved success at the BAFTA Cymru Awards.
Build a memorable portfolio and show reel to show off to the film industry after graduating.
You won’t feel lost in a huge department here.
Small class sizes allow you to build close relationships with staff and collaborate effectively in groups.
You’re not just a number at Bangor: our staff genuinely care about supporting you.
Whether you’re into podcasting, journalism or making documentaries, our team will help you reach your potential.
Whatever your chosen subject, creativity runs through everything we do.
It's not all lectures and essays: practical experiences will prepare you for work in the creative industries.
Our teaching staff have real-life, industry experience and will fuel your enthusiasm for learning.
You will meet like-minded students in film, music, drama and radio societies.
Budding journalists can also join the student newspaper, Seren.
Make the most of the opportunities to make connections and develop your skills.
in the UK for Academic Support in Media Studies with questions that ask if staff were easy to contact, and how well they supported students’ learning (NSS 2025)
and top 50 in the UK Daily Mail University Guide 2024
Aria Film Studios is the new studios opened by Rondo Media in Anglesey.
Some of our students were invited to attend the launch night where they met actors, writers, directors, production staff and many others who work in the creative industries.
A group of Music students were also invited to perform on the night.
The studios will offer Bangor University students more opportunities for career development in the creative industries as Aria aims to become a hub for talent and skills development here in North Wales.
Aria is looking to host film and television drama projects in addition to entertainment productions and musical events at the studios giving our students ample opportunity to interact with the creative arts whilst studying with us.
0:01 [Music]
0:12 So far I've absolutely loved it it's been an amazing experience I'm quite blown away I'm
0:17 a little bit like speechless from it all because it's my first time ever being somewhere like this.
0:28 I found the looking around all the different sets are very interesting um just seeing how sort
0:35 of detailed they are and how specific you know down to the smallest thing it's like very lived
0:42 in they all feel like very real rooms until you walk out and then you're in the middle of a studio.
0:50 Yeah coming to something like this is very helpful to see how see the behind the scenes and how
0:57 things are made and just to see you know the very specific jobs that everybody has and how it all
1:03 comes together to make a very unique experience I'm in my final year at Bangor University and
1:09 this has kind of inspired me even more to work closer to my dream job being here today.
1:18 I want to be a writer I want to write scripts and stuff like that for TV shows
1:22 and movies it helps visualise some things that I could work towards definitely.
Osian Williams graduated with a 1st Class Honours degree in Communications and Media and an MA Distinction in Filmmaking.
Whilst he was a student Osian won a BAFTA Cymru award for a short film he produced, 'Can i Emrys.' He also founded a media production company, SSP Media which is now based in Cardiff.
"I had a wonderful time at Bangor University, it started off a little bit wobbly, moving so far away from home but when I joined a couple of societies my experience completely changed.
The course offered was so different to what else was on offer, it didn’t limit me to one vocation.
When I came for an open day, I was stunned by the environment and knew it was the right place for me."
The University's Careers and Employability Service provides a wide range of resources to help you achieve your graduate ambitions.
Developing your personal skills and enhancing your employability while at university is becoming increasingly important in today's job market.
Employability is a key part of our curriculum here at Bangor University.
We put focus on producing highly employable graduates who are ready for the workforce.
There are lots of opportunities within your course and through our Employability team to get involved.
You can get help developing your CV, guidance when preparing for interviews and get business start-up advice and support.
Our team can help you prepare for a wide range of careers.
Our Career and Employability fair is one great way for you to interact with global and national recruiters.
At the fair you’ll have the opportunity to ask a wide range of companies advice about career opportunities, find work placements and graduate jobs.
This year’s fair saw representation from HSBC, BBC, NHS, the police, and many others.
"We provide workshop for students ahead of career fairs so that they can get the most out of the fair, we try and help them with their networking skills and feeling confident about approaching potential employers and what kind of questions that they should be asking.
We want to focus on producing confidence, aspiring and resilient students that can effectively compete in the labour market." Dr Siwan Mitchelmore College Lead for Employability
0:00 [Music]
0:06 I think this is the absolutely perfect opportunity for our students to
0:10 start and to build their confidence, to develop techniques for liaising or
0:18 or for speaking with employers and it's in a safe environment because it's actually on
0:22 campus.
Something for everybody.
Be brave make sure that you actually talk to some employers
0:29 and if you ever go to an event like this before make sure that you find out who's going to be
0:34 here and do a little bit of homework so that you can use your time really wisely.
0:39 [Music]
0:42 We were lucky enough to have fairs of this nature but I think I personally went from
0:47 University to the Anglesey council at first just as an administrative role and I would never have got
0:53 that without my degree so it's just a combination of everything.
We're looking for graduates who are
0:59 graduating in the summer and there may be openings then to become trainees with us.
1:04 [Music]
1:06 We provide workshop for students ahead of career fairs so that they can get the most out of the
1:12 fair, we try and help them with their networking skills and feeling confident about approaching
1:18 potential employers and what kind of questions that they should be asking.
They're very well
1:23 aware that at the end of their academic careers with us that they're going to be competing in a
1:29 labour market with thousands of other students so we want to focus on producing confidence, aspiring
1:35 and resilient students that can effectively compete in the labour market.
I think we've
1:39 got a very good mix of employers across many different disciplines that would appeal to a range
1:46 of students that we have within the college and the feedback that we're getting is very positive
1:51 [Music]
1:54 Ask as many questions and actually it's okay to have a different Viewpoint of stuff
1:58 that's what we're trying to promote be curious and find out a different solution
2:02 to problems.
I think Bangor University is a place close to my heart I'm an ex-student
2:06 here having graduated 26 years ago, I'm thrilled to be able to come and talk
2:11 to people like myself who 26 years ago needed that help and guidance.
2:16 [Music]
0:07 It's really nice after covid to come back and be in one place and meet potential employers face to face and really
0:14 see what's out there.
It's hard to ignore all the opportunities that are ahead of me when they're
0:20 literally in the room in front of you and it's so nice to be out and about networking and meeting
0:25 people who have never done it before.
Know what you want coming in filter out what you don't want
0:30 look for what you do want.
Come prepared and ready to sort of present yourself as an opportunity
0:36 rather than just being given an opportunity, you know have confidence in yourself too.
See yourself
0:41 as an asset and sell yourself to these potential employers.
0:48 So at this point, this event is really really crucial for me because I'm in my final year now so I am already looking for a
0:54 graduate job and obviously I've spoken to so many employers to generate leads so when I graduate and
0:59 I've got a pipeline where I'm going to go and I've got a job planned already.
1:04 So my best advice for future students would be to would be literally just get involved take part especially
1:10 in Bangor University.
Bangor University has so much to offer, this is going to help
1:14 you build not your academic skills but your interpersonal skills which are really really
1:18 crucial in this competitive job market these days you don't only need academic skill you need
1:23 interpersonal skills as well these activities are a really important part of your studies.
1:28 [Music]
1:32 It's really done well and I would like students to come in and you know like see this fair this festival
1:38 especially I would like to like request all the advice all the you know International
1:43 students to come and see that yes there are more like opportunities than you think there is.
1: 49 [Music]
1:51 So we've been developing like CV work right now so I've had a look at my CV and what sort of things I want to do
1:56 so that's really helped me for future career advice and things like that.
It helps students explore different places they can go
2:02 ask questions that tutors or professors may not be able to ask.
Come prepared
2:07 that's a massive thing do your research and even if it's just a five minute search into the
2:11 business do it.
Don't be worried about asking silly questions because ask any question that you want
2:16 to ask they'll answer anything.
Know what you're looking for it's a massive help if you go in there
2:20 with you don't really know what you're going to do your anxiety about this sort of thing
2:24 will go up massively know what you're going to do and you're going to be perfectly fine.
2:27 [Music]
We are inter-disciplinary, collaborative, creative and critical.
Our key strengths are the work of our staff in digital culture , media and persuasive communication and creative theory and practice (practice-as-research) .
We have particularly strong relationships within the media and creative industries sector in Wales, and also engage with the creative economy more generally, within the UK and beyond.
This informs several aspects of our research activities, as well as helping to promote our work.
At a community level, we regularly participate in projects and developments that not only give valuable opportunities to our students, but also help in terms of overall impact and awareness of our activities.
We have a thriving and friendly research culture.
Our weekly research series features Bangor colleagues, postgraduate students, and researchers and practitioners from across the UK and beyond in a supportive, if critical, environment.
We also invite special guests, visiting scholars, and others to present on their research and practice.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/forestry:
Ranked 2nd in the UK for Agriculture and Forestry (The Times & The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024) and in the top 10% of the most sustainable universities worldwide (QS World Rankings: Sustainability 2024).
You will be taught by world-leading experts who are involved in a variety of forestry-related research, making use of the top-class facilities at Bangor University.
Our research is changing the world in Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences - we're ranked 1st in the UK for the impact of our research in the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021) .
Our teaching extensively utilises our unique location by combining traditional lectures with field trips that demonstrate real forestry practicalities and current environmental issues.
The University owns 82 ha of woodland, many of them semi-natural, which we use for teaching.
Forestry at Bangor University is at the forefront of international forestry research.
We have excellent links with forestry organisations in the UK and overseas, and these are used in our teaching programmes.
Our degrees will prepare you for the challenge of managing forests for the many benefits they provide, at a time of global environmental change.
Many of our courses are accredited by the Institute of Chartered Foresters and gives partial fulfilment of Professional Membership Entry.
There are opportunities to study abroad in the second year and to spend up to 12 months working for a conservation or forestry organisation.
Forestry degrees provide an understanding of biodiversity, the ways in which it is influenced by people, and the role that forests can play in reducing the impacts of human activities, including climate change.
With a degree in Forestry, you’ll be equipped with the skills needed for a wide range of careers for people who want to innovate and change the world.
for research impact in Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences REF 2021
in the UK for Agriculture and Forestry The Times & The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024
of the most sustainable universities in the World QS World Rankings: Sustainability 2024
in the World for Environmental Education QS World Sustainability Rankings 2024
in the World for Environmental Research QS World Sustainability Rankings 2024
The placement gave me a great insight into the workings of a leading environmental consultancy, and I was able to apply the knowledge and skills I had learnt in my courses to real life scenarios.
"I was learning from people at the frontline of new and emerging fields of forestry research.
I now work as part of the Forestry and Arboriculture team to manage the nearly 4,000 acres of woodland on Chatsworth Estate."
The placement with Natural Resources Wales (NRW) has been such a valuable experience.
I’ve had opportunities to put what the degree has taught me into practice, whilst also gaining experience that will help me throughout the final year of my Forestry degree.
Forestry BSc (Hons) graduate, Emyr Parker now works as Assistant Forest Manager for Tilhill, a private forestry company.
His role involves managing clients' properties including planning, mapping and on the ground management - from seed to sawmill.
Take a look at Emyr's video from the Institute of Chartered Foresters.
Dr James Walmsley introduces the Forestry at Bangor and discuss resources and facilities available to students.
I chose Forestry at Bangor because the course is accredited by the Institute of Chartered Foresters, which is very well recognised within the industry.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university as a Forestry student.
​​​​​​​
We are at the forefront of international forestry research we have a fantastic reputation for our research activities.
Our students and academic staff are active collaborators with international organisations such as the Tropical Agricultural Research and Higher Education Center, Costa Rica (CATIE), the Center for International Forestry Research, Indonesia (CIFOR), and the World Agroforestry Centre (ICRAF).
Our research team is multidisciplinary and spans the entire breadth of the forestry discipline.
We have active research programmes investigating boreal and tropical forests, and everything in between.
Our work concerns forests and climate change adaption, mitigation, deforestation, biodiversity, disaster recovery, food security, flood protection, nutrient cycling, human wellbeing, conservation and the role of forests in recreation.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/french:
Studying French at Bangor University not only enhances your language proficiency but also immerses you in the vibrant culture, society, and history of France and the Francophone world.
France occupies an important place in the shaping of the modern world.
With a rich and varied cultural heritage, it continues to play an important role today and remains a significant political and economic force on the world stage.
We offer a broad and flexible range of degree options in French.
Our courses aim to accommodate those seeking to specialise in a single language as well as those who wish to study two or even three languages together.
We also offer degree options where you can study a language in combination with another subject.
Our French courses will give you advanced skills in the French language, and a broad range of specialised insights into the culture, society and history that go with it.
All our 4-year language degrees include a year abroad.
You will spend your third year working or studying abroad before returning to Bangor for your final year.
This experience provides a fantastic opportunity to develop your language skills further whilst immersing yourself in the life and culture of your host country.
Prepare for a successful career with a language degree that opens doors to international business, diplomacy, and cultural exchange.
At Bangor University you can choose to study French alone and become proficient in the language by the time you graduate.
Alternatively you can combine your study of French with another one or two language on our main Modern Languages programmes.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/geography:
Are you interested in investigating human and environmental systems?
Would you like to develop solutions to key global challenges?
If so, a Geography degree at Bangor University is for you.
You will be taught by world-leading experts and award-winning lecturers who are involved in a variety of geography-related research, making use of the top-class facilities and our natural surroundings.
Nestled between the mountains and the sea, Bangor University is the obvious choice for anyone wanting to study Geography as our location presents the best natural laboratory in the UK.
You won't have to travel far to visit the most important and varied field sites during your course – they’re on our doorstep.
We’re minutes away from both the foothills of Eryri (Snowdonia) mountain-range and the shores of the Anglesey coastline.
Our Geography BA, BSc and MGeog degrees are all accredited by the Royal Geographical Society (with IBG).
Our modules reflect staff interests, and these topics include rivers/coastal environments, rural-urban areas, social inequalities, geohazards, governance, environmental modelling, oceanography, sedimentology and sustainability.
Our graduates are highly employable because we give our students a broad, integrative geographical understanding.
Geography is the subject of our time, dynamic and constantly evolving as the world around us changes.
A degree in Geography will ensure you can make a difference in the 21st Century.
in the UK for the quality of teaching in Human Geography NSS 2024
in the UK for Geography The Guardian University Ranking 2024
Following in the footsteps of Charles Darwin, Environmental Sciences and Geography students at Bangor University visit Cwm Idwal, in Snowdonia, to discover the natural process that led to Snowdonia being created.
I chose to study here because of the opportunities offered by the location and surrounding landscape of Snowdonia National Park.
What I have enjoyed most is the fieldwork.
The location and topics of fieldwork are varied and help to put theory into practice.
The main reason I chose Bangor was the friendly atmosphere, close proximity to all things Geography and having the opportunity to complete a professional placement.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university as a Geography student.
We have a multidisciplinary team of staff with their expertise ranging from glacial to marine environments, and from food geographies to rewilding.
Our staff are involved in leading research with other academic institutions, non-governmental groups and communities across the globe.
Staff interests include riverine pollution, arctic warming, coastal hazards, nature and society, food poverty, submarine sedimentary systems, and the culture of enthusiasm.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/geology:
Geology is the science of the Earth's physical structure, its evolution, and the processes which have shaped its evolution.
At Bangor we are specifically concerned with the role of the ocean in the evolution of the Earth and making measurements to identify key stages in the Earth’s history.
As such, geological oceanography is directly relevant to the development of both the offshore oil industry and of marine renewables, as well as the identification of past climates and the prediction of future climate, dealing with issues such as sea level rise and the retreat of ice sheets.
Here at Bangor University we have a proud history of over 50 years of world-leading geological oceanography research and training new generations of geological oceanographers.
Many of the UK’s leading Geological Oceanographers started their careers as students at Bangor.
Geological Oceanography focuses on the study of marine sediments within an Earth system science context.
It is concerned with sedimentary processes (the origin, transport and deposition of particles in the marine environment), and with marine sediments and rocks, in particular those formed in the past 2 million years, but also further back in time.
It places emphasis on gaining skills and knowledge of direct relevance to the offshore survey and hydrocarbon industry.
Geological Oceanographers are required to tackle issues such as offshore site investigation related to renewable energy infrastructure and oil and gas exploration, climate and sea-level change, and coastal erosion.
These are challenging and buoyant areas of development; there is currently a deficit of suitably qualified people for these roles.
Upon graduation, you will not only have a deep understanding of the ‘earth system’, but you will also have a broad range of practical skills in sedimentology, geophysics and geotechnics.
Data integration capabilities across these disciplines are in short supply within the offshore industry, but it is widely recognized by employers as being of great value.
I'm a Celebrity fans will recall the terrifying abseil at the beginning of the series set against the backdrop of a limestone quarry in Penmon on Anglesey.
Linda Yorke discusses how these cliffs were formed and how Anglesey used to be located under a tropical ocean.
Filmed for out Virtual Open Days.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university as an Ocean Sciences student.
We have been a leading institution for the study of marine geosciences for over 50 years, with students typically finding employment in the offshore renewable and hydrocarbons industries, geophysical contract companies (both offshore and terrestrial), geotechnical engineering companies, river and harbour boards and government establishments such as British Geological Survey and the British Antarctic Survey.
Our focus is on the identification of processes which drive the fluxes across the shallow coastal seas leading to morphological change.
We have developed new observational techniques which, coupled with theory and modelling, have enabled existing paradigms to be challenged, and new ideas developed.
Current research focuses on helping to improve understanding of how coastal sediment dynamics and budgets are affected by energetic storms, improving understanding of how biological substances stabilise the seabed, the fate of sediment in the coastal ocean and the impacts of the extraction of marine renewable energy on the ocean.
Further afield we have applied our geophysical surveying technics to the determination of the extent of British- Irish ice sheet during the last ice age, and its subsequent retreat.
We have also applied geophysical techniques to determine the extent and causes of climate change over the last 200 ka in East Africa to investigate links between palaeoclimate and human evolution and migration.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/german:
Studying German offers a dynamic learning experience that combines rigorous language training with in-depth insights into German society, politics, and contemporary issues.
Germany occupies a prominent position in the modern world, with a rich cultural heritage and significant political and economic influence.
Studying German at Bangor University will provide you with advanced language skills and a deep understanding of German culture, society, and history.
We offer a wide range of degree options to suit your individual interests.
Choose from single-language degrees, joint-language degrees, or combine German with another subject.
Our courses are designed to accommodate both those seeking specialisation and those who want to explore multiple languages.
Our courses have language at their heart - with core modules developing the key oral, aural and written skills in each year.
At the same time, you will be encouraged to explore and pursue your own interests.
All our 4-year language degrees include a year abroad, providing a valuable opportunity to immerse yourself in German culture and enhance your language skills.
Spend your third year working or studying in a German-speaking country before returning to Bangor for your final year.
We offer learning in small classes, where you get to know the staff and your fellow students in a friendly environment.
Our dedicated Modern Languages centre and translation equipment provide excellent resources for your studies.
Additionally, we offer beginner-level German options for many of our degrees, making it accessible to students of all levels.
Ellie Pugsley studies German and Spanish.
She talks about life as a student and her year abroad in Germany and Spain.
At Bangor University you can choose to study German alone and become proficient in the language by the time you graduate.
Alternatively you can combine your study of German with another one or two language on our main Modern Languages programmes.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/health-and-social-care:
A Health and Social Care degree analyses the interaction between Sociology, Social Policy and Health.
It looks at how society is organised and how it takes care of vulnerable people, such as the sick, the elderly, the poor and people with disabilities.
When studying Health and Social Care you’ll learn about a wide range of interlinked topics including:
An alternative to clinical training, the emphasis is on the social experiences of health and care, including the policy issues, the delivery and management of services, and the evaluation of evidence.
This subject area is perfect for anyone with an interest in playing a proactive role in improving the care given to vulnerable members of society.
Health and Social Care graduates have an excellent knowledge of how the Health & Social Care system operates in the UK and in the rest of the world.
Graduates also have an excellent skill set that allows them to work with vulnerable people in many different settings.
in the UK for Research Quality.
Complete University Guide 2025
in the UK for Graduate Prospects.
in the UK overall.
There are so many different areas for you to choose from within our Health and Social Care degree that you can chose areas that interest you in particular, or are relevant to your current work or future career aspirations.
We have a friendly and informal learning environment where you'll be taught by experts in the subject who aim to be innovative and to meet real-world needs.
We offer a flexible degree structure offering a range of specialisms and a breadth of choice that enables you to tailor your degree to your needs and interests.
We use a variety of learning approaches with an emphasis on the development of practical skills in observation, interpretation, information processing and presentation.
We also have opportunities to study through the medium of Welsh.
You will join about 100 other students, so we can give you individual attention - class sizes are normally less than 30, so no one gets lost in the crowd.
The programme is delivered via an innovative mix of teaching and learning strategies and methods, including lectures, seminars, tutorials, group-work, and reflective writing approaches.
Find out how you can make a difference to those who need you most.
Emma Tiesteel and Sandra Mante discuss their experiences of studying Health and Social Care at Bangor University.
Health and Social Care gives a good background for careers in areas such as health services management, research, health promotion and social and community work.
Some of our recent graduates have taken jobs with local councils as housing officers; working with vulnerable families, or refugees.
Other graduates have worked for charities; helping the homeless, or those with mental health issues or addictions.
Our graduates have also gone on to further study in areas such as social work and criminology and professional training in areas such as nursing or midwifery.
Take a look at their profiles to find out more.
Our research was placed in the Top 20 (of 94) in the most recent assessment of research quality with 95% of research either internationally excellent or world-leading (REF 2014) .

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/history-archaeology-and-heritage:
The exciting and significant research carried out by academic staff in our School plays an important role in making Bangor University a world-leading research institution.
On this page:
Our learning environment is utterly unique; based in a listed building, we’re surrounded by rich history.
From our immediate learning environment to what’s on our doorstep, we can offer students an immersive experience of History, Archaeology and Heritage.
Bangor University is set in a spectacular mountain and marine scenery, producing rich material and written evidence for over four thousand years of human settlement, conflict, industry, community, and inventiveness.
At Bangor, the following are very prominent thanks to our location on our history:
The Archives and Special Collections consists of documents from the medieval to the contemporary age and cover a variety of subjects.
The archival and manuscript holdings of Bangor University were recently described as “the most distinguished in a university library anywhere in Britain”.
They span many centuries, from the medieval to the contemporary age, and contribute to the uniqueness of Bangor as a place of study for history undergraduates and postgraduates.
Our location means we can get students out to learn in the environment with a wide range of field trips and archival visits.
There are two UNESCO world heritage sites within five miles of our campus, and with our field trips, you can encounter evidence from the past first-hand and join us in our mission to promote, protect, and present this heritage.
By studying History, Archaeology, and Heritage you’ll become part of a close-knit and supportive community.
Our smaller class sizes mean you’ll get to know the academic team by name, and there are always people on hand to answer your questions.
Students studying History, Archaeology, and Heritage form a close community, so you’ll get to know others on your course who share your interests well.
Bangor University is committed to the study and the sustainability of the unique histories, cultures, languages, and heritages of Wales, Britain, Europe and beyond.
As well as looking at issues of nationality right here in Wales, our curriculum looks at topics that affect communities across the globe, such as the range of:
Looking at smaller communities like that in Wales allows you to see many different pasts and apply your insights much more widely.
Comparing different cultures and identities in our region and our research serves as a laboratory for thinking about an increasingly interconnected and multifaceted world.
By studying History, Archaeology, and Heritage you can choose to include modules from the following  alongside the core of your own course:
Even within individual modules, you’ll see a vast range of evidence – written, material, pictorial, landscape, and architectural – which we can use to understand the past.
This will enrich the questions you ask, broaden your awareness of how they can be answered, and deepen your curiosity and analysis: all of this is useful, both in your degree and in employment.
By studying History, Archaeology, and Heritage, you can improve your employability and career prospects.
You’ll study the past with an eye on your future.
In your final year dissertation, you design and manage your own research project developing your skills and ability to work independently.
We offer an option to undertake a work placement module, often in local heritage sites allowing you to build relationships and connections within the industry.
Studying the past at Bangor opens opportunities for using your knowledge in research, museums and heritage, archives, teaching, conservation and many other areas.
A degree in History, Archaeology, and Heritage also equips you with skills of investigation, analysis, argument, and presentation, which are highly valuable in many industries.
Overall Satisfaction in History (NSS 2025)
My name is Emma Cassels.
I chose Bangor University because I really liked the idea of coming to a new place and getting to experience a new culture.
I liked that it was in an area that was almost between city and rural.
The coolest part of my course has definitely been the opportunity to travel around North Wales and really get to see and experience different elements of the heritage.
I mean, whether it be through field trips with my course professors or through internship.
The internship that I've done here at the university.
I really enjoy the fact that it's not just History and Archaeology.
It's connected to so many other things in the wider world.
It's connecting the past to the present is educating people on their heritage.
It's working with tangible buildings in the environment, and really, it's just so much beyond History and Heritage and Archaeology, as you would think of it by itself.
I think that's been really incredible to experience and see how it goes beyond what even my expectations entering the course were.
My favourite thing about Bangor, I would probably split into two sections and that is the environment around me.
Beautiful nature, beautiful scenery, but also the actual environment of the school.
I've met a lot of very great people, whether it be professors, students, staff and I'm really grateful for the environment here at the university and how it's helped me get through my course and succeed in my course.
So those two things together, I think, really make Bangor a great place for me.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university as a History, Archaeology and Heritage student.
The friendliness and positivity of the staff across the campus, including student administration, specialist student services, lecturers and library staff have made my experience a positive one.
The confidence which this support incites has made a huge difference to both my academic and personal growth.
Bangor University has a long tradition of working with the community, and we firmly believe in the special connection between the institution and the area in which we’re based.
Here are some examples of projects relating to History, Law and Social Sciences:
Our research spans a wide range of subjects and specialisms in the fields of History, heritage and Archaeology and includes:

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/law:
Studying Law at Bangor is more than a pathway to becoming a solicitor or barrister; it’s an opportunity to explore the contemporary legal issues that shape our society.
Leading to careers within the legal profession and beyond studying Law with us will help you become more confident and improve your analytical, research and public speaking skills.
A huge benefit of studying for a Law degree at Bangor is you'll have the opportunity to choose a range of optional modules.
Our LLB programmes offer unique options that are taught by academics who are passionate about the topic.
In addition to the compulsory modules, you can study topics such as International Law, Media Law, Law and Technology and Law and Contemporary Issues.
A flexible Law degree means you'll have the opportunity to broaden your knowledge and gain an LLB degree that looks at developing areas of law, something employers are increasingly looking for in a graduate
Are you looking to study Law so that you can become a solicitor?
All our LLB degrees are "SQE Facing” ; meaning our programmes include a pathway to qualify as a Solicitor.
Our compulsory modules closely follow the specification required by the Solicitor’s Qualifying Exam.
However, each module then goes further, exploring topics at the depth required for degree level study.
Therefore, you get the best of both worlds, an academic degree that ensures you have the practical knowledge you need to succeed if you pursue a career in law after your degree.
Our students go on to pursue a wide variety of careers in the legal and non-legal sectors.
Our LLB degree programme prepares you for a successful career by mixing theory with practical elements.
Whilst studying, you can gain the practical skills needed for the courtroom by practising mooting in our on-site Moot Court Room .
After graduation, some of our graduates have undertaken training contracts at various law firms, stretching from international law firms based in the City of London to regional and local firms.
Some have pursued a career at the Bar.
Others choose careers away from the law, with graduates becoming civil servants or other sectors, including the police, accountancy, or the armed forces.
Law at Bangor is relatively small compared to other Law Schools in the UK.
This means that we have a close-knit community here.
You’ll get to know academics well as well as other students on the course.
Choosing Law at Bangor means you will have opportunities to take part in work placements, mooting and other activities such as field trips and attend visiting lectures.
We also have our very own Law Society, where you'll find a group of like minded students who participate in Mooting competitions and hold events and gatherings throughout the academic year.
In addition to providing the foundation for a career in law in England and Wales, the three-year LLB in Law and our four year LLB degrees combining law with a European language are recognised by the Bar Council of India at Bangor for professional purposes.
Students from other jurisdictions such as Canada and Nigeria can have the Bangor LLB recognised by the professional bodies in their countries.
This means that the Bangor LLB attracts students from around the world creating a diverse student body.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Group of three students wearing law gowns walking into the Main Arts Courtyard with a majestic view of the Main University Building in the background.
[VOICEOVER] At Bangor University, we’re much more than just students and lecturers.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Student sat at table at Cegin Cafe holding a pen with paper on the table laughing and chatting to a lecturer and another student.
Two students sat in the Shankland Library chatting and smiling at each other with books and laptops on the desk whilst another student is busy writing on a desk in the background.
Lecturer sits in front of a red backdrop talking to camera.
[VOICEOVER] We’re a community really shaping the future of justice.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Lecturer talking to camera sat in front of a red backdrop.
In bottom left hand corner text appears reading Dr Hayley Roberts, Reader in Public International Law.
Camera pans across the Mock Court Room from the audience with students sat watching two other students practicing to moot.
[VOICEOVER] Our size is one of our strengths, so you get that big university experience, amazing opportunities like the law clinic, mooting and options to study abroad, but in a supportive, intimate setting.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Student talking to camera in front of red backdrop whilst text appears in the bottom left hand corner reading Holly Jones, Undergraduate Student LLB Law.
[VOICEOVER] The community in Bangor is amazing.
The Law Society often offers exciting events and the sports clubs are great here.
The connection between the students and the teachers here and the support available is amazing.
Here at Bangor, I'm more than just a number.
I'm a name, a person and a valued member of the community.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Lecturer appears on screen talking to camera in front of red backdrop.
In bottom left hand corner text appears reading Tracey Horton, Director of Bangor University Legal Advice Clinic.
[VOICEOVER] At Bangor University Legal Advice Clinic, the students are really putting into practice what they learn in the classroom.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two students walk engaging in conversation in Bangor High Street with a range of vibrant shops and cafes in the background.
[VOICEOVER] The location of Bangor University Legal Advice Clinic I think makes it unique and unparalleled.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Both students walk into Bangor Legal Advice Clinic, located in the middle of the high street.
[VOICEOVER] We are not on campus, we are in the heart of our community on Bangor High Street.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Bangor University Legal Advice Clinic flyer appears on screen.
A student welcomes a client into the Legal Advice Clinic.
[VOICEOVER] Being part of the Law Clinic has been an incredible experience, allowing me to apply my legal knowledge in real life cases.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two students and Tracey Horton with laptops around a table chatting with the client in a meeting room in the Legal Advice Clinic.
[VOICEOVER] I have developed my communication skills and my emotional resilience by actively working alongside clients who are often vulnerable and stressed.
[VOICEOVER] These are skills you wouldn’t learn in the classroom alone.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Dr Hayley Roberts talking to camera in front of a red backdrop.
[VOICEOVER] Our lecturers are experts in their field, so you know that you're being taught by people that are shaping government policy, that are having a real impact on people and making a difference worldwide.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Tracey Horton typing on computer in Legal Advice Clinic.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Student talking to camera in front of red backdrop.
Text appears in the bottom left corner of the screen reading Owain Evans, Undergraduate Student LLB Law.
[VOICEOVER] Their teaching and industry connections have given me real insight into the legal world and given me some amazing opportunities.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Student Holly in front of red backdrop is talking to camera.
Two students are practicing mooting in the mock court room.
Student holding folders looking directly to camera with mock courtroom in the background.
[VOICEOVER] From asking questions in a client interview competition to being a claimant in a mock employment tribunal.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Dr Hayley Roberts talking to camera in front of red backdrop.
[VOICEOVER] Studying law at Bangor opens doors to so many career options,
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Stock video of office building in large city.
[VOICEOVER] from local solicitors to city firms, barristers chambers,
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Stock video of files and papers on table.
[VOICEOVER] international organisations and social justice roles.
Different employer stands with pop up banners and employers chatting to students at the employability fair.
Student with leaflets chatting to employers at the fair.
[VOICEOVER] Our strong links with the legal profession and beyond give you access to exclusive internships, placements, networking with guest speakers and access to our vibrant Careers Fair.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Tracey Horton talking to camera in front of red backdrop.
[VOICEOVER] At Bangor University, we don't just teach law.
[VOICEOVER] We create opportunities for our students, we build futures and we are creating the legal leaders of the future.
[VOICEOVER] Justice in Action: Learning, leading and changing lives together.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Camera pans across the Main Arts Courtyard with three students wearing their legal gowns and holding books walking across the outdoor space with the majestic Main University Building in the background.
University crest appears.
Our Legal Advice Clinic is an opportunity for you to put into practice what you’ve learnt in the classroom.
A chance to make a real impact within the local community through pro bono work, the clinic offers the chance to give free legal advice to members of the public under the supervision of qualified solicitors.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two students walking through Bangor High Street with a variety of cafes and shops in the background.
[VOICEOVER] I didn't really want the clinic to be on campus.
[VOICEOVER] I wanted to it to be in the heart of the community.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Both students walk into the University's Legal Advice Clinic in the middle of the High Street.
[VOICEOVER] So we're really trying to bring the university into the high street.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Lecturer sat talking to camera.
[VOICEOVER] So I think that is quite a big distinction from other university clinics.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two students walking into the University's Legal Advice Clinic.
The Legal Advice Clinic's flyer is held to camera with the text Bangor University Legal Advice Clinic, Free Legal Advice Clinic provided by the Law students at Bangor.
A student welcomes a client into the legal advice clinic.
[VOICEOVER] The University Law Clinic is students giving free legal advice to members of the public.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A lecture is talking to camera.
In the bottom left hand corner text appears reading Tracey Horton, Director of Bangor University Legal Advice Clinic.
Student walks client to meeting room in the Legal Advice Clinic.
Two students sat around table with lecturer talking notes on laptop whilst client is talking to them.
[VOICEOVER] So the client will be interviewed by two students, I sit in on all the interviews, no advice given on the day students go away, carry out some research and a detailed letter of advice is sent out to the client within 14 days.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Tracey Horton is typing on laptop whilst client is talking in the background.
[VOICEOVER] It's great for employability skills so they can hit the ground running - employers love clinic!
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Student is talking to camera.
In the bottom left hand corner text appears reading Eloïse Bordet, Undergraduate Student LLB Law.
[VOICEOVER] I chose to take part in clinic because I wanted to gain practical experience.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two students and Tracey Horton chatting to client in Legal Advice Clinic taking notes on laptop.
[VOICEOVER] I wanted to apply the knowledge I’ve gained throughout my studies.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Student Eloïse Bordet is talking to camera.
[VOICEOVER] I think it's a great environment to learn, it's really helpful for us students, but also for our community.
In bottom left hand corner text appears reading Tom Jarman, Undergraduate Student LLB Law.
[VOICEOVER] I didn't think I’d be able to sit in front of people from the local area and ask them about their problems and interview them.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Client chatting to students in the Legal Advice Clinic.
Two students and Tracey Horton talking notes on laptop chatting to client.
Student Tom Jarman is talking to camera.
[VOICEOVER] That’s really improved through clinic and I think things like note taking, letter writing, which you don’t really get from your law degree, you do a lot of assignments and exams, but nothing really practical and I think it's really helped that side of things.
Both students are walking through Bangor High Street with a variety of shops in the background.
Client is chatting to Tracey Horton and students in the Legal Advice Clinic.
[VOICEOVER] As an international student, I was obviously kind of scared before starting but we do get a lot of support from Tracey, our supervising solicitor and from the university as well.
[VOICEOVER] The clinic experience is going to make us more employable.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Client is chatting to Tracey Horton and students in the Legal Advice Clinic.
[VOICEOVER] And it's really going to help in the future in any jobs that involve communication and legal research skills and legal writing skills as well.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Tracey Horton is talking to camera.
[VOICEOVER] There's a real gap in the market within North Wales for free legal advice.
[VOICEOVER] In addition to that, there's not that many firms now that have got legal aid contracts.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Client is chatting to students in the Legal Advice Clinic.
[VOICEOVER] Citizens Advice Bureaus are absolutely inundated and can't cope with the demand.
So it was a real need for the local community to have a clinic like this.
[VOICEOVER] My advice would be to seize the opportunity.
Don't be afraid to be curious.
Don't be afraid to ask questions.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Client is sat chatting to Tracey Horton and students in the Legal Advice Clinic whilst they they make notes on laptops.
[VOICEOVER] The clinic is a great way to gain legal experience while helping the community.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] University crest appears reading Prifysgol Bangor University.
in the UK for Learning Resources in Law with questions such as how easy it was to access subject specific resources and how well have library resources supported students learning (NSS 2025)
Overall Satisfaction for the Law programme (NSS 2025)
in Wales for Course Quality University Compare 2026
in the UK for the subject area of Law Guardian University Guide 2024
in the UK for academic support in  Law NSS 2023
"Our lecturers always asking us questions on what we think about the law.
We're able to talk about reforms and the way the law should change and develop.
There are so many things I love about Bangor!"
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Student is talking to camera with a view of some trees and greenery in the background.
Camera pans to view of the Main University Building.
[VOICEOVER] My full name is Holly Alicia Jones.
I'm from Criccieth in North Wales.
I'm in my second year and I'm studying in LLB law.
I chose Bangor University for a range of reasons.
[VOICEOVER] I'd heard a lot of good things about the course I've chosen.
I've heard that many clubs and societies to offer, and a nice small university community so I can make friends easily.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Camera pans across a busy lecture theatre.
[VOICEOVER] The coolest is part of my course for me as a Welsh person is being able to connect with Welsh students through tutorials.
[VOICEOVER] They offers all tutorials for my course through the medium of Welsh, so I was able to connect with other Welsh students and learn together through, um, most comfortable language.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two student in Moot Courtroom practicing to moot.
[VOICEOVER] There are so many things I love about law.
I'd say probably the best thing is being able to argue with people I've always loved to argue, and law is such an area of debate.
[VOICEOVER] Our lecturers always asking us questions on what we think about the law.
We're able to talk about reforms in the way the law should change and develop.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A group of four students are sat outside chatting to each other with a view of Bangor city in the background.
[VOICEOVER] There are so many things I love about Bangor.
However, I would probably say the small community is the best thing.
[VOICEOVER] Many unis are huge and overwhelming, but Bangor is a lovely small community, so you're able to connect with your friends easily and no one's too far from you.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Students at a law fair chatting to employers whilst other students in the background are busy walking around the fair that has employer stands.
[VOICEOVER] A piece of advice I would give to new students is attend things.
[VOICEOVER] Go to serendipity.
Go and look at the stalls of the clubs and societies that you're interested in joining those kind of things and finding people with similar interests to you is such a good way to make friends, and the opportunities are there for you to take them.
If you’re looking to study Law, you may have heard about mooting, but do you know what mooting is?
Essentially mooting is a mock trial where two sides argue a point of law in front of an acting judge.
The judge will then decide who the winner is once they’ve heard presentations from both sides.
If you’re thinking of becoming a solicitor or barrister mooting is an important skill to have.
Studying LLB Law at Bangor allows you the opportunity to practice your mooting in our on-campus mock courtroom.
Taking part in mooting is a great way to acquire skills you need to become a lawyer.
It helps develop legal skills, analysis skills and interpretation skills.
Practicing mooting will help you become more confident and build your personal skills of public speaking.
Mooting enables students to;
As a smaller school we're able to offer students more opportunities to moot than other institutions.
Law students at Bangor will argue a fictitious legal case within simulated court proceedings.
Two pairs of advocates – the Appellants and Respondents – contest the case in front of a 'judge', normally a lecturer or postgraduate student.
The winning team is not necessarily the one that wins the case, but the team that makes the best presentation of their legal arguments.
Do you want to become a Solicitor?
If so you'll need to undertake the Solicitors Qualifying Exam.
All Bangor’s LLB degrees are ‘SQE facing’, meaning that our degrees contain a pathway that will allow you to study the material tested on the Solicitor’s Qualifying Exam (‘SQE’).
An SQE Facing degree essentially means that you'll be studying a degree programme that has the option for you to continue your training and become a solicitor.
To do so you'll need to sit the Solicitors Qualifying Exam (SQE) which is the centralised assessment for anyone who wants to qualify as a solicitor in England and Wales.
The SQE is part of a four-stage route to becoming a solicitor.
All Bangor’s LLB degrees are ‘SQE facing’.
This means that our degrees contain a pathway, allowing you to study the material tested on the Solicitor’s Qualifying Exam (‘SQE’).
Whether you choose an SQE pathway or not, all our LLB degrees go further, by combining these ‘SQE ready’ elements with a critical and academic study of the law to understand the role of law in society and address contemporary legal issues.
This is achieved through both the core and the optional modules available on Bangor’s LLB degrees.
From September 2021, the Solicitors Qualifying Exam (SQE) is the new assessment that those who wish to qualify as a solicitor must pass.
This replaces the qualifying law degree and the Legal Practice Course.
The process to qualify as a barrister remains unchanged.
The SQE has two elements, SQE1 and SQE2.
SQE1 must be completed before SQE2.
There are two elements to SQE1, FLK 1 and FLK2.
These both test your understanding of ‘functional legal knowledge’, through 180 multiple choice questions split into two sessions.
FLK 1 tests the subject areas below;
FLK 2 tests the following subject areas:
Ethics and Professional Conduct is examined ‘pervasively’ across FLK 1 and FLK 2, meaning it can arise in any question.
To pass SQE1, you must pass both FLK1 and FLK2.
The assessments take place in January and July each year.
SQE2 is a skills-based assessment which covers the following skills.
In all of Bangor’s LLB degrees, students get an opportunity to experience and learn these skills across the core modules.
Our recommendation is that following the completion of a Bangor LLB, students undertake short SQE preparation course, to prepare for the specific nature of the SQE1 and SQE2 examinations.
For more information regarding the SQE, please consult the website of the Solicitor Regulation Authority.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university as a Law student.
The influence that Bangor had upon both my career and life cannot be overestimated.
The way teaching was delivered at Bangor, combined with the excellent academic and pastoral support I received, allowed me to flourish academically and lead to me obtaining a First-Class degree .
I very much attribute that great success, not only to my work, but also to the commitment and dedication of the lecturers and the overall quality of the School itself.
I visited and fell in love with the surrounding landscape.
Snowdon is visible on a clear day and the Menai Straits are just on your doorstep.
The university is steeped in heritage and feels friendly too.
You will enjoy your time at Bangor and it will give you not only a solid foundation for future employment, but you'll have fun in the best surroundings of any UK university.
I thoroughly enjoyed studying at Bangor University and it is without a doubt that the support and opportunities provided to me have enabled me to be where I am today.
Throughout my time at Bangor, I was fortunate to be involved in many extra-curricular activities, including being Mistress of the Moot, a Halls of Residents Mentor, and an Intern Research Assistant for the Law School's Cymuned project.
The three years I spent at Bangor were a treasure, despite the lockdown, lecturers endeavoured to ensure the standard of teaching remained high.
Moreover, the location of Bangor lends it's own advantages over other institutions for study, with the sea, the mountains or simply the countryside at your doorstep.
Bangor offers many programmes which are ever-expanding for students to get involved with.
The Law degree at Bangor is an absolutely brilliant course.
With the assistance from the best tutors and the resources available and perseverance by myself studying long hours I graduated with a first class honours.
Studying at Bangor University, or the University of Wales, Bangor, as it was then was probably the best three years of my life.
I met lots of wonderful people both in my department and socially who I remain in touch with and are good friends to this day.
I enjoyed the teaching and went away with a degree in Law with Accounting and Finance which laid the foundations for my career and I wouldn't be a partner in my law firm now without the help and support I received at Bangor.
I had a fantastic experience at Bangor Law School.
The small class sizes meant the lecturers gave me a lot of attention.
The course is really interesting and led by experts who brought their practice, passion and experience to the lectures.
There were loads of opportunities to engage with Mooting, as well societies outside the Law School.
The LLB degree is probably the most common type of undergraduate law degree, and is studied by undergraduates seeking to practice in law as well as those students who eventually enter into other non-law related professions.
LLB degrees are well regarded as rigorous degrees that train graduates for a wide range of career opportunities.
The LLB is a three-year qualifying law degree which leads you to the next stage of training within the legal profession you can follow the SQE route for solicitors or the BPTC for barristers.
An LLB programme will look at different areas of the Law examples include Public Law, Contract Law, Criminal Law, Tort Law, Land Law and the UK, EU Law and Brexit.
As part of your LLB degree you’ll be able to choose optional modules in areas that you have an interest in and may want to pursue in the future.
At Bangor our academics have a range of interests within Law that include topics such as Family and Welfare Law, Sports Law, Media Law, Intellectual Property Law, Commercial Law, Law and Technology, Environmental Law and Endangered Wildlife and International Law.
Every Bangor LLB degree is SQE Facing which means that our degrees contain a pathway, allowing you to study the material tested on the Solicitor’s Qualifying Exam (‘SQE’).
Whilst providing a thorough foundation in the fundamentals of law, Bangor LLB degrees also reflect the legal environment of the 21st century by focusing on developing the legal skills required not only in the UK but also in Europe and the wider international community.
In the latest National Students Survey (2022), Bangor University was awarded an impressive 84% student satisfaction rating in the subject area of Law, highlighting the high level of support and smaller class sizes offered at Bangor compared to other larger UK law schools.
If you'd like to studying another subject in addition to Law, but you also want to ensure you study a Qualifying Law Degree, then you should consider one of our 'Law with another subject' degree courses.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/linguistics:
Applied and theoretical research strengths include language acquisition, variation, sociolinguistics, corpus linguistics, psycholinguistics, historical linguistics, Welsh linguistics, and cognitive and critical discourse.
To understand the world, you need to understand language.
From ancient manuscripts to modern computational models, from how babies learn to speak to the impact of language on society, Linguistics covers the whole human experience.
You will learn to work with data, investigate many different linguistic phenomena and acquire skills in critical thinking that will make you valuable to employers in diverse fields.
We have cutting-edge tech to research language, e.g.
eye-tracking devices and professional audio equipment.
Linguistics is a tight-knit group of staff and students where you can get to know everyone.
Smaller class sizes set Bangor apart, allowing for more meaningful interaction with your lecturers and for continuous personal support.
Students also run the Bangor Linguistics Society, which organises events throughout the year.
Our university is in the most bilingual part of the UK, so you’ll be joining a community where bilingualism is thriving.
Furthermore, all lecturers in Linguistics speak more than one language.
This means that you will be able to experience the reality of multilingualism and the way in which different languages shape society.
After learning about the foundations of linguistics, you’ll be able to specialise.
You will also complete a dissertation project on a topic you choose, which you will work one-to-one with a lecturer to develop.
You can also tailor your course to include studying abroad and/or undertaking work placement, to broaden your horizons and prepare you for life after graduation.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university as a Linguistics student.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/marine-biology:
Marine Biology has been taught here for nearly 100 years.
We are unique in encompassing the study of all aspects of the global marine environment, from estuaries and coasts to the deep ocean.
Here at Bangor University, Marine Biology has been taught for nearly 100 years.
You will be taught by world-leading experts who are involved in a variety of Marine Biology-related research, making use of the top-class facilities at Bangor University.
Our expertise is incorporated into our teaching activities, giving you direct access to the latest Marine Biology research.
Our unique location on the north Wales coast means we have unrivalled access to the sea and seashore, ideal for undertaking experimental work in the intertidal environment.
We have a £3.5m ocean-going research ship and three smaller inshore vessels.
Our excellent facilities include tropical marine and temperate marine aquaria, analytical laboratories, flow and particle transport simulators and computing capabilities.
The increasing global population coupled with challenges posed by climate change place increasing pressure on the Earth resources.
Marine Biologists have a key role to play in the development of sustainable future food resources against a backdrop of climate change and increasing levels of waste.
As a Marine Biologist you will gain the knowledge and skills to manage these important resources and to ensure that they are managed in a sustainable way so that the natural environment is conserved.
By studying Marine Biology, you will gain the critical appraisal skills to identify and define problems, and the analytical skills to be able to find solutions.
and #44 in the UK The Times & The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024"
"As an Oil Spill Responder, I travel anywhere in the world at short notice to provide technical advice and active response assistance to minimise the environmental impact of an oil spill."
We have excellent facilities for the study of Marine Biology – all of which are constantly used for teaching and research.
"From almost the first moment we walked through the Main Arts doors in the morning we knew that this was going to be the place for me.
As the day went on it just got better and better – particularly when we got to visit the School of Ocean Sciences."
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university as a Marine Biology student.
Bangor University has a long track record of Marine Biology research stretching back over 100 years.
Our research covers the full marine realm, ranging from semi-terrestrial habitats such as saltmarshes to the deep sea and from the poles to the tropics.
We currently have research projects which focus on Antarctic fjords and Indian Ocean Coral reefs.
An important strand of Marine Biology research here at Bangor focuses on conservation and marine resource management.
Our research examines how anthropogenic disturbances such as exploitation, invasive species and climate change affect marine ecosystems, and how to best manage and protect these ecosystems
Our research underpins the sustainable exploitation and production of wild-capture fish and aquaculture.
It also covers the wider impacts of fisheries and aquaculture on the marine ecosystem and how they can affect bycatch species (other fish, seabirds, marine mammals, seabed organisms) and habitats (e.g.
reefs, seagrass beds).
It also underpins our development of sustainable tropical fish hatcheries.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/marketing:
Studying Marketing at Bangor University encourages you to think strategically and creatively.
You’ll learn practical marketing skills alongside theory and our BSc in Marketing is accredited by CIM, the largest community of marketers.
We’re committed to teaching and giving you real-world experiences, this shows in our ranking, we’re currently 6 th for Teaching Satisfaction within Marketing and Public Relations (Guardian University Guide 2025).
Bangor Business School has a close relationship with many professional bodies that recognise the quality of our courses.
Our BSc Marketing degree is accredited by the Charted Institute of Marketing (CIM), demonstrating to prospective employers that you have up-to-date, commercially relevant knowledge that can be readily applied in the workplace.
Studying on our Marketing degree will allow you to develop into an outstanding marketing professional, fully equipped to launch into an exciting career.
Furthermore, by studying on our accredited Marketing programme, you will receive automatic exemptions from a range of professional qualifications that can enhance your career progression.
These exemptions will allow you to gain highly sought-after professional qualifications by employers faster and more affordably.
As well as using simulation games to bring challenges to life you’ll be able to have lots of practical experiences.
You’ll learn more about consumer behaviour, communication channels and how sales and branding can impact products and services.
You can gain skills in social media, websites and learn about other digital marketing channels.
At the Business School we have plenty of opportunities for you to boost your employability.
Our Enactus programme supports students in engaging in social action and social enterprise, allowing you to work on an existing idea or to develop one of your own with support from our employability experts.
Our students can participate in national competitions such as the 'The Pitch, a UK-wide Business Plan and Marketing challenge.
A marketing degree opens up a wide range of creative and technical roles.
You could specialise, for example, in events marketing, advertising, branding, communications, PR, content and digital marketing.
Alternatively, you may gravitate towards market research, analytics and insight, and search engine optimisation.
The transferable skills you will gain will open doors in a range of sectors.
Your ability to think creatively and plan strategically will be valuable to many employers.
Studying Marketing at Bangor University means you’ll be joining a welcoming and supportive community.
You will get to know your lecturers well, we operate an ‘open door’ policy where students can book a meeting with academic staff and we run regular drop-in sessions for students to come along and ask questions.
Your personal tutor can help with personal and academic matters, such as creating a study plan, making friends, and point you to a wide range of support services available from the wider University.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/medical-sciences:
Completing an IBMS-accredited degree and accredited NHS placement is essential for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and often a prerequisite for many roles within the NHS.
The curriculum at Bangor has been specifically aligned and accredited by the IBMS.
If you compete a degree without IBMS accreditation and wish to become a HCPC registered Biomedical Scientist you would have to request an IBMS degree assessment and may be advised to undertake top up modules at your expense.
As well as preparing you for other roles in healthcare, such as Physician Associate, this BMedSci Medical Sciences degree also feeds our Graduate Entry Medicine degree.
Please note that additional entry requirements must be met.
Full information on the course page .
The common first year means that whatever course you start on with us you have the flexibility to follow your interests as they develop and the potential to change degree at the end of your first year.
Our degrees are firmly rooted in the latest research, and content is regularly updated to ensure you’ll be exposed to the cutting edge of what is a fast-moving field.
Students will gain lab experience from the first semester of their first year meaning that they spend time building valuable lab skills that are beneficial for a career in science.
Our state-of-the-art labs include well-equipped cell and molecular research laboratories, a Category 2 pathogen lab and human anatomy suite with a 3D anatomy visualisation and virtual dissection tool.
Our small, friendly school allows you to get to know our academic staff very well and easily access both academic and pastoral support, enabling you to perform at your best.
You won’t be lost in a lecture hall of hundreds as we focus on small group teaching, so we get to know you quickly and make sure you can thrive at Bangor.
The foundation year is a year before you start year one of your course.
If you don't quite have the necessary qualifications or want to build your confidence in the subject this year prepares you for degree-level study, developing your knowledge of medical sciences together with essential academic, research, and laboratory skills.
In both the Medical Sciences and Biomedical Science programmes, you’ll benefit from a common first year that builds a strong foundation in human biology, physiology, and the principles of disease.
This common year ensures all students gain essential scientific knowledge and lab skills before progressing into more specialised areas of study.
This also provides flexibility with students having the ability to transfer across programmes if they wish.
Take a look below to see how these degrees differ and the different opportunities they could lead to.
Medical Sciences focuses on understanding human health and disease from both a clinical and scientific perspective.
It’s ideal for students interested in the biological basis of disease and those considering a future in medicine or healthcare.
The course is mapped to a pre-medical curriculum and explores the structure and function of the body’s major systems, as well as the abnormalities that lead to conditions such as diabetes, cancer, and liver disease.
Graduates of Medical Sciences are well-prepared for a variety of scientific and medical careers.
The degree offers a strong foundation for postgraduate study in Medicine, Dentistry, or Veterinary Science.
High-achieving students may also progress to Bangor’s Graduate Entry Medicine programme in North Wales.
The course is an excellent stepping stone to our MSc in Physician Associate Studies , among other clinical pathways or allied health roles.
The Medical Sciences degree is clinically focused and constantly updated to reflect the latest developments in healthcare and research.
Students gain a deep understanding of disease mechanisms and clinical case studies, with teaching that bridges the gap between science and medicine.
After the common first year, from the second year onwards, Medical Sciences students explore topics aligned with a pre-medical curriculum.
You’ll study clinical case-based modules and gain insight into the structure and function of major body systems, as well as the mechanisms of disease.
Teaching includes lectures, small-group tutorials, and digital anatomy sessions using the Anatomage table – a cutting-edge tool for virtual dissection and clinical simulation.
The course is designed to bridge the gap between science and the theory of clinical practice, preparing you for further study in medicine or healthcare.
Biomedical Science , delves into the scientific investigation of health and disease at a cellular and molecular level.
It covers a broad range of key disciplines outlined by the Institute of Biomedical Science, with subjects including genetics, microbiology, cell pathology, immunology, and blood sciences.
This course is designed for students who are passionate about laboratory science and want to contribute to medical advances through research and innovation.
Biomedical Science graduates are equipped with the skills needed for careers in the NHS, pharmaceutical companies, research institutions, and biotechnology firms.
Many go on to work in clinical laboratories, medical research, or science communication.
The course also opens doors to the NHS Scientist Training Programme and other specialist roles in healthcare and diagnostics.
In Biomedical Science , students explore the biology of disease through a strong laboratory-based curriculum.
The course includes an optional Applied Biomedical Science route, which provides practical experience aligned with NHS training standards.
This hands-on approach ensures graduates are ready for both research and clinical environments.
In Biomedical Science , you’ll dive deeper into the molecular and cellular basis of disease.
The course places a strong emphasis on laboratory-based learning, with modules in genetics, microbiology, immunology, and diagnostics.
You’ll develop hands-on skills in modern biomedical techniques and have the opportunity to undertake research projects.
Students on the Applied Biomedical Science route also gain practical experience aligned with NHS laboratory training, enhancing employability in clinical and diagnostic settings.
in the UK for Research Quality (Biomedical Science) Complete University Guide 2026
in the UK for Teaching Quality for Biomedical Science (NSS 2025)
Overall Student Satisfaction for Medical Sciences (NSS 2025)
Satisfaction for Quality of Teaching for Biomedical Sciences (NSS 2025)
in the UK for Biomedical Science Guardian Good University Guide 2024
Satisfaction for Academic Support for Medical Sciences (NSS 2025)
Within the North Wales Medical School our research employs state-of-the-art approaches to address basic questions in medicine and/or develop applications to overcome serious unmet clinical needs.
We have an overarching aim of improving the patient pathway, either by contributing new insight to fill an important gap in medical knowledge or developing applications which directly contribute to improving health and well-being.
We have a strong focus on cancer research ( North West Cancer Research Institute ) where our research teams are exploring the complex processes which result in the development, progression and therapeutic resistance of cancers.
We’re also developing the basis for new therapies and patient monitoring technologies.
This cutting-edge research feeds directly into our teaching and you’ll encounter elements both within your taught modules and especially during your research project in the third year making our degrees some of the most dynamic and up-to-date you can experience.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/midwifery:
UNDERGRADUATE SUBJECT AREA
Midwives strive to optimise maternal and newborn health, physiological birth and the overall birth experience for women, their partners and their families.
Midwives work in health care practice environments and in health education, research and management, to support the provision of quality care for women and their partners before, during and after the birth of their baby.
Contemporary midwifery practice in the UK is underpinned by national and international research evidence.
Midwives work autonomously within midwifery led care environments including the community, at home births, birth centres and alongside midwifery led units (situated beside larger maternity units within hospital settings).
Midwives also coordinate care for women and their newborns requiring additional advice and care from the multidisciplinary team.
Team working is a crucial aspect of modern healthcare.
Midwives work closely with other professionals including consultant and other specialist midwives, obstetricians, general practitioners (GPs), nurses, mental health workers, physiotherapists, dieticians, neonatologists, health visitors and lactation consultants, to name a few.
Student Midwives at Bangor University experience excellence in midwifery education along an outstanding student experience and placements across the region with practice partners.
Early applications for Midwifery are strongly encouraged as the course usually fills all its places well before the end of the admissions cycle and Bangor can't guarantee to consider any applications submitted after the initial UCAS closing date in January each year.
Our close partnership working with practice partners ensures that our Bachelor of Midwifery programme at Bangor University will prepare you to be a midwife who is able to provide exemplary midwifery care.
You’ll be educated by expert midwifery educators and by experienced practitioners from our practice learning partner organisations.
Satisfaction with Quality of Teaching in Midwifery (NSS 2025)
Overall Student Satisfaction for Midwifery (NSS 2025)
in the UK for Assessment and Feedback in Midwifery (NSS 2025)
Satisfaction for Academic Support in Midwifery (NSS 2025)
S4C TV Presenter Ameer Rana introduces the Midwifery courses we offer.
Take a look at our excellent facilities and hear what our students and staff say.
Amy Roberts from north Wales discusses studying Midwifery at Bangor and placement opportunities available.
Midwives often describe their job as 'privileged'.
The role they have in preparing women for the delivery of new life makes them a vital presence during all stages of pregnancy, labour and the early postnatal period.
Once registered, midwives can use their qualification to work in other health care settings such as special baby care units (SCBU).
Some midwives become specialists in areas such as diabetes or public health and perinatal mental health.
There are also opportunities to work in research and education.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled into life at university as a Midwifery student.
Our team supervises postgraduate degrees including master's students, and two of our team supervise PhD students.
Our areas of research focus on active offer of homebirth, fathers’ involvement during labour, optimal care for survivors of sexual violence, women’s experiences of induction of labour, what works to support student midwives in in the learning environment, use of a co-production design method to improve birth experiences, cervical screening, development of a fetal surveillance package for midwives in Lesotho and the impact of using the Welsh language on birth experiences.
We are building on BIHMR’s success in REF 2014 t o sustain and grow excellence in health, medical and social care research.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/music:
Staff are world-leading experts in early, contemporary, classical, popular and Welsh music, critical music editing, composition (acoustic and acousmatic), sonic arts, and contemporary and interactive performance.
You will study with staff who are known for their world-leading expertise.
They bring their knowledge and experience to the classroom to give you the best possible learning environment.
Classes and assessments are designed to be challenging and intellectually stimulating across our three disciplines: musicology, composition and performance.
Whether appraising music from the past or the present day, you will develop skills of critical thinking and creativity, which are highly transferable to the world of work.
Our courses are flexible, allowing you to develop your interests in familiar areas such as music history, composition or performance.
Studying Music at Bangor University provides exciting opportunities for study in less familiar areas such as Music in Health and Wellbeing, Notation and Editing, and Acousmatic composition.
You will have access to state-of-the-art facilities including our Electronic Music Studios.
The Arts and Innovation centre houses two theatres and a cinema that double up as teaching spaces.
You can choose to study solo performance on your main instrument or voice, but there are also options to perform in ensembles as part of your course.
Student ensembles always feature strongly in our gala concerts as well as in the annual Bangor Music Festival .
We pride ourselves on offering a student-centred experience.
You will be welcomed into a lively and supportive community of Music staff and students here at Bangor University.
There are many opportunities for you to get involved with music-making and other extra-curricular activities.
When you arrive at Bangor, you will be assigned a peer guide to help you find your way around and settle into university life.
You will receive academic support from your lecturers and tutors, who are always happy to answer questions and offer advice.
Each student also has a personal tutor, a member of academic staff who is there to provide pastoral care and support throughout your studies.
Preparing students with excellent employability opportunities is at the heart of all our courses.
Studying, performing, and creating music allows you to develop essential skills such as critical thinking, creativity, problem-solving and teamwork.
You will also be able to take opportunities to put your skills into action through community placements, allowing you to explore the use of music in different contexts, such as music centres and care homes.
We also offer a range of support on CV writing, interviewing and professional development.
The skills and experiences you will gain are highly valued by prospective employers and allow our graduates to pursue a wide range of careers.
Our dedicated music facilities include two professional concert halls and a recital hall, which host a lively series of recitals, concerts and workshops.
We have a soundproofed practice suite, four electroacoustic studios equipped to international standards, and a large collection of instruments including harps, three harpsichords, a fleet of grand pianos (including three Steinway Model D Concert Grands and a Bosendorfer Imperial) , and a full complement of percussion.
Our theatre and performance work benefits from professionally equipped public performance spaces in the Pontio Arts and Innovation Centre: a 450 seat theatre, with full lighting and technical facilities, and a 250 seat studio space, both for rehearsals and performances.
in the UK for Learning Resources in Music with questions such as how easy it was to access subject specific resources and how well have library resources supported students learning (NSS 2025)
in the UK (Music) Guardian University Guide 2024
in the subject area Music Complete University Guide 2024
in the UK (Music) The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024
We have a mix of theoretical and practical expertise and staff teach from their own research interests as musicologists, composers, theatre directors and performers.
Our musicological expertise covers a wide range of areas in both the classical tradition and in popular music.
We have particular specialisms in early music, music and literature (especially Shakespeare), the long nineteenth century, popular music and creative practice.
Composition is interpreted in its widest sense, encompassing contemporary ‘classical’, electroacoustic, popular and applied composition (including music and sound for games), and cross-fertilization between these genres.
The performance of music and drama is central to the life of the Department, and music can be studied as a soloist and as an ensemble musician.
Students receive private tuition from a dedicated team of instrumental/vocal tutors alongside performance workshop activities.
We also offer modules in vocational subjects such as Arts Administration and Music Education..
I like the fact that as a musician you aren’t limited to performance only.
I’m able to tailor my degree to what I want to do through the modules that I take; therefore, having the opportunity to make the most of my degree.
Our practice-based teaching presents unique opportunities for student compositions to be performed, for interactions between live music and electronics, and for historically-informed performance arising from our musicological activity.
In addition, there is an extensive range of extra-curricular activities, including orchestras, choirs, a brass band, a jazz band, a concert band, and opera and musical theatre groups.
There are also four theatre societies who stage annual public productions in Pontio’s large theatre, and a film and radio society.
We have a range of choirs and orchestras you can get involved with outside of teaching time here at Bangor University, learn more about all the opportunities available to you by visiting our Choirs and Orchestra page .
Chat with our students
Our staff conduct research and provide PhD supervision in Musicology , Music Education , Composition , Performance and Health and Well-Being .
Within these broad designations, we have key strengths in Early Music; 20th and 21st century Music; Music Editing; Welsh Music; Acousmatic and Electroacoustic Composition; Film Music; Sonic Arts; Contemporary Performance; Interactive Performance with Electronics.
Most staff members are active in more than one field and often engage with research projects with colleagues working in other disciplines.
Music on X/Twitter

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/nuclear:
Nuclear energy is going to be a key contribution to the planet’s commitments to be carbon neutral and mitigate anthropogenic climate change.
The safe and reliable operation of a nuclear power station requires a broad range of advanced technologies to measure, monitor and control the nuclear reactor and all the other subsystems like turbogenerators, water treatment works and many others.
We are committed to producing engineering graduates who can play a key role in the safe and reliable operation of nuclear power stations and have devised the MEng in Control and Instrumentation Engineering to accomplish this, in close collaboration with industry.
The Nuclear Futures Institute (NFI) has been created at Bangor University with the support of the Welsh Government through the Sêr Cymru programme, delivering a world leading nuclear research capability for Wales and the United Kingdom.
NFI combines state-of-the-art nuclear materials manufacturing and modelling capabilities, nuclear and reactor physics expertise as well as thermal-hydraulics, sensor development and nuclear regulation for current and future nuclear systems, including fusion and advanced modular reactors.
We are also building a capability devoted to nuclear medicine to support industry efforts in this area.
Our close links with industry and world-leading experimental facilities are vital to economic growth and the creation of high value jobs in the area.
Not only are our researchers supporting undergraduate programmes but also have an active post-graduate research programme supported through the Nuclear Energy Futures Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) .
More information on the NFI can be found here: http://nubu.nu
As well as having access to the excellent teaching and research facilities you will also be able to use the latest technologies in control engineering, such as Programmable Logic Controllers (“PLCs”) and robotic equipment.
Our research environment - also of considerable importance to postgraduate students - received a remarkably high rating as well.
The SEEC project, Smart Efficient Energy Centre, a collaborative research project of approximately £6M value includes a significant effort in Control and Instrumentation Engineering.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/nursing:
Nursing is a profession that encompasses academic knowledge, clinical competence, and core qualities and values to develop the intelligent kindness used to provide care and treatment in a wide variety of settings.
It’s about people, and if you have the desire to help people and transform lives, nursing could be the career for you.
Nursing can be fast-paced, diverse and challenging; it is a profession that requires excellent communication skills within different care situations, and there are many specialities you can work in, for example, paediatric, community nursing, mental health, adult nursing, learning disabilities, trauma and surgery.
Considered both an art and science, nursing is highly rewarding and is a profession constantly evolving to address the needs of contemporary society.
The art of nursing is the caring relationship through which nurses apply knowledge, skills and judgements in a compassionate manner.
The science is underpinned by evidence-based practice and the focus on the whole person, not just a particular health problem, and on individuals during all stages of the life cycle.
Nursing includes the promotion of health, the prevention of ill health and the care of the ill, disabled and dying person.
Bangor accepts applications for nursing courses throughout the year, while places are still available.
As some pathways do become full we recommend applications are submitted as soon as possible.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two nursing students in uniform stand beside a hospital bed in the simulation lab, carefully performing clinical procedures on a high-tech adult mannequin.
One adjusts the oxygen mask while the other monitors vital signs on a digital screen.
[VOICEOVER] Nursing is a rewarding career, built on compassion, dedication and the drive to make a difference.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A lecturer sits confidently in front of a red backdrop, speaking directly to camera.
Text in the lower left corner reads: Mared Jones, Lecturer in Adult Nursing .
[VOICEOVER] At Bangor, students are supported to develop their skills through high quality education, hands on experiences and a supportive, close-knit community.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Another lecturer, also seated against the signature red backdrop, smiles warmly while speaking.
Text overlay: Glain Jones, Lecturer in Child Nursing .
[VOICEOVER] Bangor offers four fields of nursing.
We've got adult nursing,
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Two students practice clinical techniques on a high-tech adult mannequin.
The scene transitions to a close-up of a child mannequin having its ear temperature taken using a tympanic thermometer.
[VOICEOVER] children's nursing, mental health nursing and learning disability nursing.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A Mental Health Nursing student in purple scrubs engages in a calm conversation with two women in a clinical setting.
Cut to a sunny park bench where a male learning disabilities patient chats animatedly with two female carers.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A lecturer sits in front of the red backdrop, speaking with authority.
Text reads: Bernard Okeah, Adult Nursing Programme Lead .
[VOICEOVER] From early on in the course, students get the opportunity to work and learn alongside a diverse group of healthcare professionals, and this helps them to build and to nurture their skills.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A male student in purple scrubs wears a VR headset, immersed in a clinical simulation.
Behind him, the Bangor University logo is visible on the wall, reinforcing the tech-forward learning environment.
[VOICEOVER] The level of support that we're able to offer our students is of high standard.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A lecturer speaks candidly in front of the red backdrop, hands gently folded, conveying empathy and lived experience.
[VOICEOVER] Having been a student here myself and knowing the process, I feel like I'm in a good position to know what students are going through and to be able to signpost them to additional support if needed.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A student sits confidently in front of the red backdrop.
Text reads: Lizzie McKnight, Undergraduate Student in Learning Disabilities Nursing .
[VOICEOVER] The lecturers here at the University have been really supportive and kind.
I've been able to go to them whenever I've needed to.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Another student smiles as she speaks to camera.
Text reads: Jaimy Ch, Undergraduate Student in Adult Nursing .
[VOICEOVER] Being part of a supportive community makes me a better nurse in training.
[VOICEOVER] Three students in scrubs stand in a ward setting, each wearing stethoscopes.
They appear focused and collaborative, preparing for a clinical task.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] When you have a supportive community, you are able to drive through challenges.
[VOICEOVER] A lecturer in front of the red backdrop speaks with conviction, gesturing gently to emphasise key points.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] When you study nursing at Bangor University, you get the option of taking the NHS Wales Bursary and this means that you don't have to pay for your course fees.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A close-up of the Welsh flag fluttering proudly in the breeze, set against a clear blue sky.
[VOICEOVER] You have to work in Wales for two years after qualifying.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A sweeping aerial shot of Bangor University’s Main Arts Building, nestled among trees with the Menai Strait in the distance.
[VOICEOVER] Every year in Bangor, we have an inter-professional module.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A student speaks earnestly to camera in front of the red backdrop, reflecting on collaborative learning.
[VOICEOVER] In this module, we happen to meet many other health professionals and by doing so, we are able to form a collaborative approach towards patient care.
And when this is translated into actual clinical practice, we are able to successfully work together.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A lecturer in front of the red backdrop explains placement opportunities with enthusiasm.
[VOICEOVER] Bangor University offers a wide range of placements throughout the local health board.
You get to work within the multidisciplinary team, within the hospital and the community.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A student shares her experience on camera, seated in front of the red backdrop.
[VOICEOVER] I'm really lucky to have had a really good variety of placements so far, and these have really helped improve my communication skills and my confidence.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A lecturer describes the clinical skills ward, seated in front of the red backdrop.
[VOICEOVER] There was once a scenario that we were given where there was a very realistic voice assisted mannequin, and this mannequin was able to mimic worsening breathing and various other clinical symptoms.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] Multiple angles of the voice-assisted mannequin show its lifelike features and responsive technology.
[VOICEOVER] This scenario made me very conscious of my role as a student nurse.
This wouldn't have been possible if the equipment was not very modern and realistic.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] An infant mannequin lies in a crib beside a teddy bear.
A student gently places a stethoscope on its chest to measure heart rate.
[VOICEOVER] At Bangor, you're not just preparing for a career you're becoming the kind of nurse
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A male patient gestures expressively while chatting with a Learning Disabilities student nurse, highlighting rapport and trust.
[VOICEOVER] who is ready to make a real difference.
With real world experiences, expert support and a close-knit community to help you grow – in confidence, compassion and capability.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] A final lecturer appears in front of the red backdrop, delivering the closing message with warmth and conviction.
[VOICEOVER] This is your future in action.
[VISUAL DECRIPTION] University crest appears.
in the UK for Career Prospects, Mental Health Nursing Guardian Good University Guide 2025
in the UK for Career Prospects, General Nursing (Adult) Guardian Good University Guide 2025
People choosing a career in nursing make a real difference to people’s lives.
Nursing is highly rewarding, constantly changing/growing and an exciting profession.
Registered nurses work within one or more of four fields; adult, mental health, learning disability or child.
The Bachelor of Nursing degrees offered at Bangor University will provide you with the knowledge and skills you need to provide evidence-led and compassionate nursing care.
Advances in treatments and technology are creating new career opportunities for registered nurses with different service provision, roles and ways of working.
They are many different aspects of nursing within the four fields and varied opportunities for career advancement and work in a variety of settings.
Career opportunities range from working as a staff nurse in, for example, the hospital and community setting, to more specialist and leadership roles such as specialist or consultant nurses.
Registered nursing roles have many forms and offer career development and progression from a staff nurse to nurse specialist, ward manager, matron, leader, researcher, educator and nurse consultant within each field.
Find out more about NHS Nursing careers.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled into life at university as a Nursing student.
We are building on BIHMR’s success in REF 2021 to sustain and grow excellence in health, medical and social care research.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/ocean-sciences:
Chat to students and staff
The Earth's surface is dominated by a vast interconnected ocean: life originated underwater and the Earth, its ocean, its climate and its organisms have interacted and evolved together over the ages.
Humankind has been profoundly influenced by the ocean.
Its waters and floor are rich in physical and biological resources.
It provides employment for millions of people, acts as a transport route for much of the world's commerce, and accepts vast quantities of waste.
Perhaps most of all, it inspires our spirit of adventure and imagination.
Sailors, divers, surfers, anyone who has gazed out to sea and wondered, know the special sense of awe that the ocean can induce.
Ocean Science at Bangor is unique in encompassing the study of all aspects of the global marine environment, from estuaries and coasts to the deep ocean.
It involves the application of specialist scientific disciplines (biology, chemistry, geology, mathematics, physics) to observe and to understand the diverse and often complex processes governing the Earth-Ocean-Atmosphere system.
The unique location between the mountains and the sea, and the unique facilities, which include a fully equipped sea-going research vessel, as well as over 50 years of experience in world leading research and teach across the full breath of the ocean sciences, make Bangor University one of the most popular Universities in the UK for the study of the ocean sciences.
The need to identify and exploit new food and energy sources against a backdrop of the threats posed by global warming make ocean sciences very much a subject of the future.
It is all about identifying problems and finding solutions.
Understanding how the oceans work is key to predicting how our planet is going to respond to our warming climate.
It is also important if we are to efficiently harness the huge but largely untapped potential of renewable tidal energy.
By studying the physics of the ocean, you will learn about how the ocean works and interacts with other elements of the Earth System, the atmosphere and cryosphere.
You will also learn about how to observe the ocean, both from ships and from space, and to develop numerical models for the prediction of the ocean.
You will gain the tools to be able to tackle important problems linked to climate change and to extracting energy from the ocean.
"I chose to study at Bangor as the University’s Ocean Sciences department is internationally renowned."
Marine Centre Wales Courtyard
Marine Centre Wales contributes to the wider impact of research by the School of Ocean Sciences.
It supports the blue economy by linking academic research to real-world applications.
Marine Centre Wales balcony
We're very lucky to be located right beside the Menai Strait in Anglesey's Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty with views across the water towards Snowdonia.
Sarah Jones seminar room
The Sarah Jones Seminar room, where you'll join us to hear about our latest world leading research.
Marine Centre Wales conference room
This is one of our conference rooms where you might join us for tutorials, discussions or other meetings.
Coldwater aquarium
This coldwater aquarium supports our research and teaching with a range of local species.
All our aquaria are Home Office approved with filtered seawater directly on tap from the Menai Strait.
Craig Mair building
Much of our teaching and research takes place in the Craig Mair building which includes our largest teaching laboratory for undergraduate degree studies.
Sedimentology laboratory
Mud, clay, sand and silt in all shapes and colours!
The sedimentology laboratory is where we sift, sort, analyse and learn about marine sediments.
These range from core samples from deep below the earth's surface to sand from nearby beaches.
Hydrodynamics laboratory
Our Hydrodynamics Laboratory is an experimental facility for the simulation of water and sediment movements by waves, tsunamis, tides, rivers and density currents.
We have three experimental flumes, the largest 10m in length equipped with a wave generator.
Dennis Crisp suite
Named the Dennis Crisp Suite after one of our founding scientists, this area is dedicated to our Masters degree programme students comprising laboratories, seminar rooms, teaching areas, a computer room and the masters common room.
Craig Mair Balcony
The balcony outside the main teaching laboratory is a pleasant place to take a breather and enjoy the views.
Main teaching laboratory
All good science starts in the lab.
This is our dedicated teaching lab where, as a student, you'll carry out marine biology and oceanography practicals in first and second year.
Our practicals give you many skills including anatomy, physiology, animal behaviour and species identification.
Algal culture Laboratory
Our Algal Culture laboratory provides many of the bare ingredients to support our aquaria, teaching and research.
Rest area
If you're studying  with us, you can relax here between sessions.
Ocean Science research at Bangor University spans the globe.
Our world-leading research looks to identify the causes of Arctic Sea ice retreat and the impact of global warming and plastic pollution on tropic coral reefs.
In collaboration with the British Antarctic Survey and others we have recently found worrying levels of microplastics in pristine Antarctic fjords.
Our research delves into the Earth’s history.
We have developed techniques to quantify past climates on the planet and use complex numerical models to look at the key processes driving those past climates.
We have recently identified a ‘tidal super cycle’ linked to continental drift and now understand how tides might have influenced evolution of life on Earth.
We have worked in collaboration with NASA to examine the role ocean tides in the evolution of an early Venus.
We are also a leading institute for research into fisheries science and the generation of tidal renewable energy.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/philosophy-ethics-and-religion:
Explore meaningful questions about faith, values, and human purpose through philosophy, ethics, and religion.
Gain critical thinking and reflection skills while engaging with diverse beliefs and traditions that shape how people live and understand the world.
At Bangor University takes we offer a distinct approach to the study of Philosophy, Ethics, and Religion through our specialised 'RE Pathway.' Tailored for students thinking of becoming educators in Philosophy or Religious Studies, this initiative is the result of a collaborative effort between the faculty of Philosophy, Ethics, and Religion and the National Centre for Religious Education in Wales.
The RE Pathway is designed to equip you with a comprehensive understanding of the subject matter, ensuring you are well-prepared to teach Philosophy and Religion across Key Stages 3, 4, and 5 in the future.
The curriculum encompasses an exploration of the six principal world religions, philosophy of religion, and both normative and applied ethics.
This holistic approach aims to deepen your knowledge and foster a well-rounded foundation for a future in teaching.
You’ll be able to personalise your degree to suit your interests through a range of optional modules.
The flexibility within the degree will allow you to delve deeper into subjects that resonate with you or complement your professional aspirations.
From your first year you’ll be able to focus in on topics within Philosophy, Ethics and Religion that appeal to you.
We offer a diverse and engaging curriculum.
You can explore the multifaceted aspects of philosophy, ethics, and religious studies throughout your degree.
In philosophy you can study both analytical and continental traditions, fostering analytical skills through topics such as Ancient Philosophy and Philosophy of Religion.
You’ll develop the ability to construct rational arguments while critically engaging with the works of influential philosophers such as Plato, Aristotle, and Wittgenstein.
You can delve into topics such as existential philosophy and question the meaning of human existence in the context of Nietzsche, Sartre, and Du Beauvoir's works.
Whilst studying Ethics you can delve into topics such as applied ethics, pressing global issues like human rights, sex and sexuality, cannibalism, torture, the refugee crisis, and AI.
Studying Religion allows you to explore a wide spectrum of world religions, including Christianity, Buddhism, Islam, Paganism, and Hinduism.
We also cover unique topics, such as Serial Killers and Exorcisms, bring together elements of philosophy, ethics, and religion, offering an exciting and distinctive academic experience.
In our degree program, we actively engage students by featuring an array of captivating guest speakers who shed light on the real-world relevance of philosophy, ethics, and religion.
Distinguished legal experts have shared their experiences dealing with serial killers, providing valuable insights into the intersection of law and morality.
We’ve also welcomed exorcists who share their encounters in deliverance ministry, offering perspectives on the contemporary understanding of demonic possession.
Religious leaders from diverse backgrounds, including practicing Druids, Hindus, Jedis, and Buddhist monks, have contributed to discussions on how their faith shapes their lives and informs their responses to moral dilemmas.
These engaging talks helps to enrich the learning experience, connecting theoretical concepts with practical, lived experiences, and fostering a dynamic exploration of the impact of philosophy, ethics, and religion on the world around us.
At Bangor, we've minimised the reliance on examinations for students, opting instead for a diverse range of engaging assignments aimed at showcasing knowledge and fostering essential employable skills.
Throughout your academic journey, you'll encounter varied assessments such as essays, case studies, film reviews, and text analyses, honing your ability to articulate ideas in different styles.
Depending on the modules chosen you'll have the chance to immerse yourself in creative assignments, curating music playlists or creating podcasts for example.
The option to deliver oral presentations or participate in debate-style activities further enhances your communication and critical thinking skills.
Each assignment is designed to contribute to the development of employable skills and enriching your CV, preparing you for a successful transition into the professional world.
I'm Alex Courage.
I'm studying Philosophy, Ethics and Religion, and I'm a third year.
I enjoy Philosophy at Bangor University, as it's allowed me to grow confidence in my social engagement, my political engagement and research subjects that I'm truly passionate about.
Bangor University cares for students and has respect for academia.
The coolest part of my course so far has probably been the working opportunities.
I'm currently working for an internship for the philosophy department, which has allowed me to create an A-level revision podcast with complete creative freedom.
My favorite thing about Bangor is probably the fact that it is so small, not only geographically, which allows people to go around quite easily without needing a car.
But also in the fact that the Philosophy department and all the students are quite close knit, allowing for feedback to come across effectively and for social activity.
My advice to new students at Bangor University would be to get involved with your department.
I found that with projects, they are looking for students who want to be involved with the community, and this is the best way to get more work on your CV and to truly get the true experience of Bangor University.
in the UK for Assessment and Feedback in Philosophy with questions such as how clear the marking criteria was and how often does feedback help students improve their work (NSS 2025)
in the UK for Assessment and Feedback in Theology and Religious Studies with questions such as how clear the marking criteria was and how often does feedback help students improve their work (NSS 2025)
in the UK for the quality of teaching Philosophy with questions including how well teaching staff explain things and how often it challenges students to achieve their best work (NSS 2025)
The expertise of Philosophy and Religion staff lies broadly in the areas of Western philosophy and both Western and Eastern religions, and includes philosophy of religion, ethics and psychoanalytic studies.
The department has an active community of research students and offers research supervision in a range of specialist areas, including:

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/physics:
The Ocean covers 70% of the Earth’s surface.
It plays a key role in determining the Earth’s climate, is a major source of food and a largely untapped supply of renewable energy through the tides.
It is essential that we understand how the ocean works if we are to be able to understand the global consequences of our changing climate and the impacts of extracting renewable energy from the ocean.
Here at Bangor University we have a proud history of over 50 years of world leading Ocean Physics research and in training new generations of physical oceanographers.
Many of the UKs leading Physical Oceanographers started their careers as students at Bangor.
We apply to laws of physics to understand how the ocean moves and mixes and the consequences on life in the ocean.
Our research focuses on understanding of how the ocean works and interacts with the other components of the Earth System.
In particular, our research has led to a step change in our understanding of the continental shelf seas and their role in the Earth System.
This includes identifying the factors controlling the partitioning of these seas, and identification of key mechanisms regulating dispersion of freshwater in estuaries and coastal seas.
Current research aims at improving climate and weather predictions, with particular focus on the role of the tides and their evolution over Earth History.
We have identified a "super tidal cycle" linked to plate tectonics and the potential role of tides on an early Venus in creating a habitable planet.
Current research also focuses on the extraction of renewable energy from the ocean, particularly associated with the tides, and the potential impacts of energy extraction.
Our research is underpinned by the development and application of state-of-the-art numerical modelling and observational techniques.
In particular, we have been at the forefront of developing methods for measuring turbulence in the marine environment for over two decades.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/policing:
Explore our Undergraduate Policing Courses
Police training is changing across England and Wales as a result of a comprehensive workforce transformation programme set out by the College of Policing and the National Police Chiefs’ Council.
This transformation is achieved in part through the introduction of the Policing Education Qualifications Framework, which equips new police recruits with the right skills to adapt to the professional complexity of modern-day policing including the changing nature of crime and demands on police services.
Bangor University, in partnership with Grŵp Llandrillo Menai, is offering an undergraduate degree in Professional Policing, licensed by the College of Policing.
This will introduce students to the skills required to work as a police officer and builds on the highly successful Police Foundation Degree offered by Grŵp Llandrillo Menai.
Please note: Completion of this degree does not guarantee the opportunity for recruitment into the police service.
Those planning a career in the police are advised to check eligibility criteria as set out by individual police services.
My full name is Ross Oliver Griffiths.
The course I'm studying is Professional Policing and I'm in my first year.
The reason I chose Bangor University and was after coming to an open day here.
After meeting all the lectures and seeing the course content, I thought this is the right place for me.
The coolest part of my course so far has been the experiences that we've had.
We've been able to go to the control centre in St Asaph.
Armed Response unit has come to visit us and show us the equipment that they use and to give it a good insight into North Wales Police.
Favourite thing of Bangor 100% is the community that we have here.
But also say the amount of sports that we have here as well make it a lot easier to make friends outside as well.
Piece of advice that I'd have to new students would be just join in with everything and come out of your shell as much as you can.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled into life at university.
This course will be taught through a combination of lectures, tutorials and workshops and seeks to provide students with a thorough grounding in a range of key issues and themes required to work as a police officer, including:
The exciting and significant research carried out by our academic staff in the field of Crime, Criminal Justice and Society plays an important role in making Bangor University a world-leading research institution.
Our Researchers are interested in the effects of crime as well as criminal justice on society.
This includes internationally recognised research conducted in the School of History, Philosophy and Social Sciences exploring representations of crime in news and entertainment media, policy development on the appropriate responses to crime, changes in criminal justice arrangements in times of austerity, as well as broader theoretical questions of governance through crime and justice.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/politics:
The exciting and significant research carried out by our academic staff plays an important role in making Bangor University a world-leading research institution.
The field of politics is forever changing, with new political topics being put on the agenda daily.
This makes studying politics hugely interesting, you can discuss current affairs and things that are impacting the people of today and tomorrow by learning from the past and engaging in debates.
Politics dictates a lot of our day-to-day lives, by studying for a degree in politics you can shape your opinion and prepare for a career where you can impact policy and drive change in the world we live in.
Studying politics at Bangor University means you can take an interdisciplinary approach to the subject.
You can take the opportunity to explore politics through many approaches, with a range of modules that consider political issues from the perspective of political history, philosophy, sociology, social policy, law and media studies.
Since 1999, Wales has had its own government, allowing you to live in country where political debates happen at different levels.
Experience living in a country where issues from your politics classes are played out locally and nationally.
Learn first hand what it’s like to live and study in a country with a devolved government and how policy and national issues such as health, education and law are handled.
Studying politics will help develop your written and oral communication, analysis, evaluation, and problem solving, through your assessments and extra-curricular activities.
These are highly transferable skills that are desirable in the world of politics and in many other professions.
Here are some examples of projects relating to History, Law and Social Sciences.
Our research spans a wide range of subjects and specialisms in and around the subject of Politics, and encompasses themes such as: Health, Social Care, Welfare and Wellbeing; Communities, Cultures, Language and Identities; Crime, Criminal Justice and Society; Governance, Political History and much more.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/radiography:
There are two branches of radiography: Diagnostic and Therapeutic.
Radiographers work with medical professionals such as assistant practitioners, radiologists and oncologists in providing person-centred support and care for patients during screening, diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of trauma and disease processes.
Diagnostic radiographers will use a range of imaging technology to look at what condition or disease may be causing a patient’s illness.
Therapeutic radiographers use doses of x-rays and other ionising radiation to treat medical conditions - mainly cancer and tumours.
Radiographers are registered Allied Health Professionals who in the UK work under regulation of the Health and Care Professions Society (HCPC).
Radiographers comment on image appearances for referrers after an examination is completed; they can also issue full reports after specialist postgraduate training.
Studying radiography at postgraduate level, a radiographer can develop their role to include reporting on images, educating student radiographers, postgraduate training of radiographers or carrying out fluoroscopic, angiographic and endoscopic procedures.
Radiographers work in many areas in a hospital, in addition to the imaging department; including A&E, operating theatres and on hospital wards.
According to The Society of Radiographers, “The profession is dynamic, developing rapidly in response to changing technological, health and patient population needs.
Every year, radiographers provide essential healthcare services (24 hours a day, 7 days a week) to millions of people.”
Bangor accepts applications for Diagnostic Radiography throughout the year, while places are still available.
However early applications are strongly encouraged as radiography does usually fill all its places well before the end of the admissions cycle each year.
The BSc Diagnostic Radiography course at Bangor University (which is taught from Bangor’s Wrexham Campus ) will equip you with a unique mix of technology and people skills that will make you highly employable.
You will learn not only about how x-rays are produced and the anatomy of the human body, but also how to talk to people and what sort of things patients/service users may be concerned about.
for Academic Support for our Diagnostic Radiography Programme (NSS 2025)
Satisfaction for Quality of Teaching for our Diagnostic Radiography Programme (NSS 2025)
in the UK for Academic Support in the subject area of Medical Technology (NSS 2025)
Complete Univesity Guide 2025
S4C TV Presenter Ameer Rana introduces the Radiography degree taught at the School of Health Sciences at Bangor University’s Wrexham Campus.
Kara-Ann Edwards discusses studying Diagnostic Radiography at Bangor University.
As a Bangor graduate in Diagnostic Radiography your career prospects are excellent.
Over the last 11 years our graduates have found 100% employment within 3 months of graduation, mainly within the NHS.
Once employed, your career development is linked to continuous professional development and with additional in-work training you can specialise in a particular imaging modality or further develop your career within Radiography as an advanced or consultant practitioner.
As well as working within the health service, radiographers can also go on to work in the commercial sector.
Possible careers include working as applications specialists providing training on the correct use of equipment to others, sales, and Informatics.
Radiographers use cutting edge technology in the field of informatics in the UK.
All imaging in the NHS has been digital since 2010, therefore you’ll have a vast knowledge base to support informatics in other areas of health, giving you additional career flexibility.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled into life at university as a Radiography student.
Our research in Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy is ranked 15th overall in the UK.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/sociology-and-social-policy:
Discover how society works and how policy shapes lives.
Our undergraduate degrees in Sociology and Social Policy explore key social issues, from inequality to justice, preparing you to make a real impact.
A career in Sociology and Social Policy can be highly rewarding.
By applying the knowledge and understanding you’ll gain whilst studying, you can address social issues and enhance the quality of life for individuals.
You’ll develop your critical thinking and problem-solving skills, preparing you for a career in a wide range of sectors.
You may choose to work in public housing, civil service, government administration or health services.
Whatever you choose the skills you gain whilst studying a degree in Sociology and Social Policy will provide you with the knowledge of people and social problems.
Social Policy focuses on enhancing the wellbeing of society on a broad scale.
You will learn how the government and society address welfare issues and be equipped to make a positive impact in the world through your career.
Explore topics such as the housing crisis, inequalities faced by gypsy travellers, domestic abuse, the experiences of LGBT communities, impact of Covid on society, and the cost-of-living crisis to name a few.
From child poverty to income inequality, there is ample opportunity to engage in constructive debates with staff and fellow students on issues that matter to you.
You’ll gain an understanding of what leads people to feel differently and explore the causes and solutions of social problems in areas such as poverty, inequality, housing and health both globally and locally.
Here at Bangor University, we have close links with charities, social care organisations, criminal justice agencies and local/national governments that enable field trips and ample opportunities to engage and network.
Recently our students have enjoyed trips to the UK and Welsh Parliaments and Supreme Court.
I'm Aaron Wynne I'm studying Sociology and Social Policy.
I'm in my second year.
I choose Bangor University as I wanted to study in Wales.
I think the modules are tailored to the world of work in North Wales.
Hopefully it puts me in good stead when I go and apply for jobs after I graduate.
What I enjoy most about the subject is the wide range of modules and the lecturers.
I'm really lucky with the course I've selected.
I can choose different modules with different lecturers, and I've enjoyed all of them so far.
My favourite thing about Bangor is that there's a close knit community here in the city.
The Welsh language is a thriving language here at Bangor, as someone who's first language, Welsh, that's really important to me.
My advice to new students would be if you're ever lost, just look up.
The Main Building is the centrepiece of the city.
So you're never too far.
So if you're ever lost, just look up the uni building.
There are so many support services available to help us students as and when we need it.
That's on top of the excellent support we receive from our lecturers and personal tutors.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled into life at university as a Sociology and Social Policy student.
Bangor University has an international reputation for interdisciplinary and innovative research about the effects of innovation, social changes, political and policy developments on health, mental health, poverty, social care, welfare and wellbeing.
Research carried out by academic staff in the fields of Sociology and Social Policy plays an important role in making Bangor University a world-leading research institution.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/spanish:
Studying Spanish at Bangor University offers a comprehensive learning experience, equipping you with advanced language skills while providing in-depth insights into the Spanish-speaking world's rich cultural, social, and historical contexts.
Spanish is one of the most widely spoken languages in the world.
Not only can learning Spanish make it easier for you to travel but also to work internationally.
In demand by a wide range of employers, whether you want to work in tourism, business, education or international relations skills in Spanish can help open doors.
Learning another language has also been known to improve your cognitive function, memory and creativity.
We offer a broad and flexible range of degree options in Spanish.
Our Spanish courses will give you advanced skills in the language, and a broad range of specialised insights into the culture, society and history that go with it.
We focus on developing key oral, aural and written skills whilst also encouraging you to explore and pursue your own interests.
With many countries having Spanish as their official or widely spoken language the choice is endless of where you may choose to study!
Learning Spanish will allow you to meet new people, experience new cultures and open doors to new experiences.
With Spanish spoke in countries such as Spain, Mexico, Argentina, Chile and Peru the range of cultural experiences on offer are endless.
5th in the UK for Organisation and Management in Iberian Studies with questions including how well organised the course was and how well changes to teaching were communicated (NSS 2025)
Languages student Eleanor talks about moving to Spain for a year as part of her Spanish degree.
Eleanor worked in a primary school and immersed herself in the Spanish culture!
At Bangor University you can choose to study Spanish alone and become proficient in the language by the time you graduate.
Alternatively you can combine your study of Spanish with another one or two language on our main Modern Languages programmes.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/teaching:
Studying Primary Education at Bangor means you’ll graduate with Qualified Teacher Status or QTS.
Throughout your degree we will prepare you to be the best possible teacher through mixing theory with practice working with a network of schools.
Our Primary Education programmes are co-written and co-delivered by excellent primary schools in the region.
You will have sessions at both the university and in lead schools to help you understand the relationship between practice and theory.
Studying at Bangor University aims to help you become a highly reflective and thoughtful teacher.
Throughout your placement you will be supported by fantastic network lead mentors, and you will also get to hear from a range of teachers from across the school about their responsibilities.
You can observe, carry out learning walks and work alongside small groups of children whilst at one of our partner schools.
These sessions will ensure you are confident and equipped for the classroom when you graduate.
As you progress through your Primary Education degree there are opportunities to specialise in an age range of your choice.
At Bangor University, we are proud to be a bilingual University, where you can choose to study for your BA Primary Education degree in Welsh or English.
Every school in Wales, whatever their language category, will respond to Government requirements and introduce Welsh heritage and culture, as well as the language to their learners.
Experienced language practitioners, who work as part of a language team, will coach you in an engaging style to address this requirement.
Furthermore, in the Lead Schools, you will be assigned a Welsh Language mentor ‘Mentor Iaith’, who will also co-deliver Welsh sessions during your studies.
If you choose to study through the medium of Welsh, you will have the opportunity to further improve your Welsh language skills.
Placements will be in Welsh medium primary schools, where you will also learn how to develop learners’ literacy and language skills in both Welsh and English.
If you choose to study through the medium of English, you will have the opportunity to learn/develop Welsh language skills in sessions specifically tailored to match your ability.
These sessions will allow you to develop your bilingual skills in a fun and engaging way which are required for teaching in English medium primary schools across Wales.
At Bangor University, we use education research to develop lectures and seminars, so you are taught the most innovative and effective ways to teach your future pupils.
Our research involves local schools giving you the opportunity to be part of some research projects.
Getting involved in projects early in your teaching career is important, it helps you to understand how you can address classroom challenges and make improvements in the field of teaching.
Our location lends itself perfectly to outdoor education.
The nearby Menai Straits and Eryri National Park give ample opportunities for outdoor teaching.
Outdoor learning is a valuable pedagogical approach that can be transformational, contributing to health and well-being and increasing a child’s enjoyment of learning.
Becoming increasing popular in the field of teaching, outdoor education can help young people deal with exam stress and the pressures of everyday life such as social media.
We’ll teach you how you can help support young people through outdoor education.
By studying Primary Education, you will feel empowered to help children fulfil their potential in ways that can't be measured by just grades – through teamwork, resilience, courage, and compassion.
Our Primary Education degree come with Qualified Teacher Status or QTS.
This means that alongside your degree you’ll have the necessary qualification to become a teacher in Wales and England*.
You can start applying for teaching roles during your third year.
Our degree is designed to get you ready to step into teaching.
Between lectures, seminars and placements alongside various assessment methods and continued support throughout your studies, you’ll have all the necessary skills and knowledge to succeed as a Primary Teacher.
*Those seeking to teach outside Wales and England should check recognition and transferability of Qualified Teacher Status with the respective country’s Teachers’ Professional Body.
Satisfaction for the Quality of Teaching on the Primary Education (QTS) Welsh Medium programme
in the UK for Assessment and Feedback in Teacher Training with questions such as how clear the marking criteria was and how often does feedback help students improve their work (NSS 2025)
"I had 3 very happy years in Bangor.
My favourite thing about the course was the annual learning experiences in schools where we fostered 'real' learning experiences in the classroom.
I was very fortunate to have 3 supportive schools which established a very solid foundation for our learning journey.
Being able to study together with an enthusiastic crew was also a highlight of mine over the 3 years."
BA (Hons) Primary Education with QTS (3-11) is recognised across Wales and England and is often transferable further afield for entry into the teaching profession.
It fully prepares you for the demands of teaching in Wales and beyond, as well as other roles supporting children (pre-school) and curriculum-based jobs (curriculum design).
There are also other options available to you following your degree, including educational research or branching out into a more specialised teaching environment.
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled into life at university as a Teaching student.
At the School of Educational Sciences, you will learn about the most current research findings in your field and have the opportunity to work alongside internationally renowned research experts in designing and implementing your own research.
You will be taught by individuals who are recognised internationally for their expertise and who are invited regularly to speak at various high-profile events world-wide.
The teacher education team at Bangor is involved in a wide range of research that feeds into modules on the course, including internationally recognised research on bilingualism and multilingualism, mentoring, Special Educational Needs and school leadership.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/welsh-and-celtic-studies:
Immerse yourself in the Welsh language at Bangor University, located in the heart of Gwynedd, the county with the highest number of Welsh speakers in Wales.
Experience the vibrant Welsh culture firsthand while developing your language skills.
If you want to study the Welsh language at university, Bangor is the obvious choice to do so as the city is located in Gwynedd, the county in Wales with the highest percentage of Welsh speakers.
Studying in Bangor University is an opportunity to immerse yourself in Welsh culture.
You'll often here Welsh spoken and be able to live your life through the medium of Welsh.
The opportunities to socialise here are second to none, with UMCB, Bangor's Welsh Students' Union, organising a variety of events for students, you'll also find many Welsh events here in the City of Bangor and in the surrounding area too, from plays to gigs and comedy nights.
A degree in Welsh from Bangor University is a strong and solid foundation for a successful career in a variety of different fields.
Our recent graduates have gone on to become teachers, lecturers, journalists, authors, editors, Welsh language tutors, civil servants, politicians, researchers, translators, language enterprise and local government workers, librarians and workers in museums and in the heritage industry.
There is no such thing as a 'traditional' career for people with a degree in Welsh.
By studying Welsh at Bangor University you'll cultivate and refine excellent transferable skills, such as writing confidently and accurately, leading and participating in discussions, understanding and analysing information and presenting ideas and arguments, all of which opens doors to many different jobs.
100% of our graduates are either in work or following postgraduate courses 15 months after graduating, which is proof of the value of a degree in Welsh from Bangor in the world of work (Discover Uni 2024 - BA Welsh degree) .
At Bangor University the lecturers who will teach you are experts in their respective fields, and that the school is one of the most prestigious in the field of Celtic Studies, not only in Wales, but across the whole world.
Our lecturers are regularly invited to judge the main competitions at the National Eisteddfod of Wales, to lecture to local societies all over the country, to discuss various topics on television and radio and in magazines, and to deliver papers and lectures in conferences.
Bangor was the home of the XVIth International Celtic Studies Congress, the world's largest and most important Celtic Studies conference, in 2019, and over the past few years our lecturers have been lecturing and taking part in conferences in places as diverse as Poland, Germany, the Netherlands, and the United States of America.
As the School of Welsh and Celtic Studies is a relatively small department, everyone here knows each other, and we have a close community of students and lecturers.
Socially, studying in Bangor University will give you the opportunity to meet hundreds of new people, but academically, you will have lectures and seminars in small groups in an intimate atmosphere.
You will know your lecturers, your lecturers will know you.
There will be plenty of opportunities for you to receive individual attention in order to discuss your academic work or other matters.
We take great pride in the fact that we know our students individually, and give them every possible support to see them succeed.
There has never been a time when there was a greater need for bright and enthusiastic graduates in the Welsh language.
The Welsh Government has announced a target of one million speakers by 2050, and that is not going to happen without teachers, tutors, journalists, writers, civil servants and many other Welsh-speaking people.
The language needs people who are going to inspire other people and organisations to embrace the language and strengthen it in every corner of Wales.
Studying Welsh is an unforgettable experience, an opportunity for you to get to know the language, literature, history and culture of Wales better.
It is an opportunity for you to be excited by books and ideas.
If you choose to come and study Welsh in Bangor University, you can be absolutely sure that whatever career you choose to follow after graduating will make a real difference.
Satisfaction for the Quality of Teaching in Welsh Studies (NSS 2025)
Overall Satisfaction for Welsh Studies (NSS 2025)
Welsh on Facebook Welsh on Instagram Welsh on X/Twitter
The Department of Welsh has research specialisms in all major areas of Welsh literature.
Staff members also include some of the most prominent writers and poets in contemporary Wales such as Dr Angharad Price, Dr Jason Walford Davies, Professor Jerry Hunter and Professor Gerwyn Wiliams.
We work closely with other academic Schools in the University, e.g.
with History and Welsh History in the field of Celtic Studies and with Modern Languages in the fields of translation studies and comparative literature.
The main aim of our research is to place Welsh literature in new intellectual contexts.
At Bangor, the objective remains to study Welsh literature not as remnants of a 'Celtic' past but as a manifestation of a viable literature that belongs to the modern world.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/zoology:
Are you passionate about animals, the natural world, climate change prevention, sustainability and the environment?
If so, a Zoology degree at Bangor University is for you.
You will be taught by world-leading experts and award-winning lecturers who are involved in a variety of zoology-related research, making use of the top-class facilities at Bangor University.
Throughout your degree you will benefit from being close to such an exceptional range of terrestrial, marine and freshwater habitats.
Nestled between the mountains and the sea, Bangor University is the obvious choice for anyone wanting to study Zoology as our location presents the best natural laboratory in the UK.
You won't have to travel to visit the most important and varied field sites during your course – they’re on our doorstep.
We’re minutes away from both the foothills of the Snowdonia mountain range and the shores of the Anglesey coastline.
For those passionate about animals, the natural world, climate change prevention, sustainability and the environment; Zoology at Bangor University is the must-have degree.
Zoology is literally ‘all about animals’ – animal behaviour, animal physiology, evolution, the interactions between animals and the environment and wildlife conservation.
If it’s to do with animals, you’ll be an expert on it after studying Zoology at Bangor.
We also give you the opportunity to specialise in a related subject alongside your Zoology studies.
Whether that is the conservation of our natural habitats, primatology, herpetology, the science of climate change, ornithology, marine life, or animal behaviour.
A degree in Zoology will equip you with all the practical and problem-solving skills you’ll need to excel in a huge range of careers.
So if you want to be the next David Attenborough and travel the world, discover a new species of invertebrate, develop anti-venoms or lead the fight in protecting our remaining areas of wilderness, a degree in Zoology at Bangor University is for you.
in the UK for Zoology The Guardian University Ranking 2024
university in the World in the overall Times Higher Education Impact  2024
Meet our student Patrycja.
She takes you through her week studying Zoology at Bangor.
The best thing that my course, Zoology with Animal Behaviour, has provided so far for me is all the opportunities that have been offered.
These include the second year field course where I went to Florida to conduct fieldwork and modules which can help in life after University
"In a field as competitive as zoology, hands-on experience like this (placement year) is essential for getting a job upon graduation.
It's given me great insight into the world of work and what I can expect in the future."
I believe that my placement has been a great learning experience and has helped me to develop the skills and knowledge needed to pursue my career marine science and conservation.”
They can tell you more about studying here, about the amazing Clubs and Societies we have, and how they made friends and settled in to life at university as a Zoology student.
Lecturers and researches at Bangor University are involved in research across a wide range of zoological fields, which take them right across the globe.
We actively encourage students to get involved with many of these projects and to take advantage of the cutting-edge facilities on offer.
We support a vigorous research base including molecular ecology , Biogeochemistry and Plant Science , Animal physiology, behaviour and conservation , Microbiology, parasitology and biotechnology , fisheries genetics, ancient DNA, evolutionary and conservation biology, biogeochemistry, biohydrometallurgy, plant product biochemistry and (plant) stress physiology, wetland biogeochemistry, neurophysiology of crustaceans, animal responses to stress and applied microbiology.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/psychology/why-study:
in the UK for Student Satisfaction
Complete University Guide 2024
in UK for Student Experience
Times Good University Guide 2023
in UK for Teaching Quality
in the UK for Psychology
The Guardian University Guide 2023
in Wales for Psychology
for Lecturers and Teaching Quality
What Uni?
Student Choice Awards 2023
At Bangor University, we are proud of our teaching, learning, and research strengths, ensuring that you’ll be learning the science and application of psychology from world-class researchers and lecturers.
Whilst studying for a Psychology degree, you may have the opportunity to attend human brain dissections and run marathons-  all in the name of science!
86% of research output is either world-leading or internationally excellent (REF 2021) Bangor Psychology was established in 1963, making it among the oldest in the UK We have many specialist research labs, including an MRI scanner, TMS Labs, EEG facilities, and a human brain anatomy laboratory.
The academic support available to ensure you make the most of your potential includes drop-in skills and stats sessions.
As psychologists, we have used our skills to embed a mental health skills programme into our courses.
At Bangor University, you’ll also benefit from award-winning student support.
We have a tutor on hand every working day to deal with pastoral care issues, and you’ll also benefit from the guidance of a dedicated academic, personal tutor.
Bangor University has a cosmopolitan feel, with staff and students coming to North Wales from across the world to work and study.
Alongside this vibrant and multilingual international staff and student community, we offer classes through the medium of Welsh for our local Welsh students.
The psychology degrees you can study here offer a combination of variety, quality, and learning experiences that are not available elsewhere, delivered in a large, multilingual, diverse department.
We’d love you to join us.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/sport-and-exercise-sciences/why-study:
The rapid and expanding growth of Sport and Exercise Science makes it a fantastic degree programme choice.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/sport-and-exercise-sciences/careers:
An independent analysis of the contribution Sport and Exercise Science makes to the UK economy by the Physiological Society (2019) highlighted that Sport and Exercise Science:
Our sports science degree programmes aim to maximise your employability by gaining hands-on experience alongside teaching.
These include lab practical sessions, a research project or dissertation and demonstrations, tutorials and research.
You can gain real life experience working abroad and develop additional professional qualifications in a range of areas.
Through our extensive links with sporting organisations, the NHS, and the National Exercise Referral Scheme, we are able to offer you short, mentored work placement opportunities alongside your degree programmes in areas including:
You can support your future career aspirations even further by undertaking a year-long work placement year.
These opportunities allow you to work with experts in a field that’s relevant to your degree and future career.
You’ll also benefit from our employability workshops, employability week and careers fair where you’ll meet our alumni, speak to potential employers in the sector, and gain knowledge of graduate employment schemes and sport science career paths.
Sport and Exercise Science offers rewarding and well-paid employment in a diverse and ever-growing market, some of the more ‘traditional’ careers are listed below:
Or you could use your degree and the transferable skills you will have developed to work in management, the police, armed forces, emergency services or to set up your own business, as many of our past graduates have done.
In addition to these exciting career options, there are several routes at Bangor that would enable you to further develop your academic career.
The University offers postgraduate degrees in areas such as Sport & Exercise Psychology/Physiology, Exercise Rehabilitation, Physiotherapy or PE Teacher Training.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/environmental-science/research:
World-leading research Bangor University has been at the forefront of research in the environmental sciences for decades.
The diversity of staff interests and expertise mean that our research helps provide answers to fundamental theoretical and applied problems in the environmental sciences, as well as directing our teaching.
Amongst others, on-going studies focus on climate change, waste management and utilisation, nutrient cycling, greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural systems, lifecycle assessments and carbon footprints, environmental microbiology (e.g.
antibiotic resistance and pathogens), food security (e.g.
sustainable intensification), and many aspects of soil science.
The research emphasis is highly international.
Many of the team are invited experts on government committees, and we are particularly active in engaging with the public to publicise our work.
Our staff are active in the following areas of research:
Excellent facilities We have excellent facilities for research, including our 252 hectare research station ( Henfaes Research Station ), where many projects are based, glass houses, laboratories, a rhizotron , and Environment Centre Wales .
International collaboration We collaborate with people from around the world, including academic experts and industry.
Collectively, this helps to ensure that our research has real-world application and relevance.
The research emphasis is highly international, with projects based in every continent in the world, from the Arctic to the Antarctic.
Addressing current issues Amongst others, on-going studies address a range of issues, including climate change, waste management and utilisation, nutrient cycling and optimising their use, greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural systems, lifecycle assessments and carbon footprints, environmental microbiology (e.g.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/n313-business-data-analytics-bsc-hons:
Ready to join us this Autumn?
We still have places available for a September 2025 start.
Got Results?
Apply Now For Clearing Course Call the Clearing Helpline 0800 085 1818

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/data-science:
Data underpins everything from medical breakthroughs to climate change solutions and is key to our understanding of the issues facing us today.
You will be taught by world-leading experts who are involved in a variety of data and computer science-related research, making use of the top-class facilities at Bangor University.
Our expertise is incorporated into our teaching activities, giving you direct access to the latest research.
Anyone who chooses to study Data Science with us at Bangor University gets help every step of the way.
The next decade and beyond will be defined by how we use, adapt and react to the data all around us.
A degree in the field of Data Science will equip you with all the practical and problem-solving skills you’ll need to excel in a huge range of careers.
Data Science will open a world of interesting and creative career options.
It encompasses a wide range of careers for those who want to problem solve, innovate, and help change the world.
Our research activities are organised in three research groups, which can overlap to maximise synergies and resources Photonics & Communications , Energy Environmental and Bio - Sensing (EEBG) and Visualization, Data, Modelling & Graphics (VDMG) .
Catch up with the latest from the School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering.
Follow us on X

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/engineering:
Our unwavering dedication is to cultivate engineers who are prepared, eager, and capable of contributing to the development of cutting-edge smart infrastructures for the future.
The following courses are accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of fully meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
The following courses are accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of partly meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
You will be taught by staff who are experienced engineers, who are involved in a variety of engineering-related research, making use of the top-class facilities at Bangor University.
Our academic staff maintain links with industry to ensure that our courses reflect recent developments.
We also have staff who specialise in teaching mathematics for engineers.
Anyone who chooses to study Engineering with us at Bangor University gets help every step of the way.
You will have access to state-of-the-art laboratory facilities.
As well as large, well equipped teaching laboratories, we have several research laboratory areas.
We have computer rooms using industry-standard software and our own reference library.
in UK for Engineering The Guardian University Ranking 2024
university in the World in the Times Higher World University Rankings and the QS World University Ranking
Abigail talks about her course, accredited by the Institute of Engineering and Technology, facilities and future career options.
"The balance between the lectures and lab sessions has ensured that I understand the work as I get to apply what I’ve learned in lectures in lab practicals."
In this video, Abigail talks about her experiences at Bangor studying an undergraduate Engineering degree.
[Music]
Electronic Engineering at Bangor University in the first year covers basic elements of the subject area so you do mathematics, programming fundamentals, laboratory experiments and circuit theory and design.
Then in your second year it's just a build up upon what you've done already with a bit of a business element and then in your third year it's kind of you integrate all that you've learned into your individual project.
What I love most about electronic engineering is the amount of opportunities that will be available to me when I finish the degree.
The ere is an unlimited amount of industries that I can go into - aerospace, telecommunications, research or even automotive electronics.
The degree is accredited by the institution of Engineering and Technology which means that we get to a very high standard and also because of this we get a free membership for the institution for the duration of our course and also after we finish we'll still be members so though we have the right to become or start on the path of becoming eventually a chartered engineer.
I decided to study at Bangor University because of the staff to student ratio so you get to know everybody on an individual basis which makes the learning experience a lot more personal and you actually feel like an individual not just a student number to a lecturer.
Being taught by lecturers that are research active - it's very inspiring but it's pretty amazing because they teach you this like first-hand the research that they discover and it's it's really impressive work and it does inspire you makes you more ambitious.
At Bangor University in the Electronic Engineering School we have access to many facilities such as well-equipped laboratories with a lecture room attached to it, computer rooms with networked computers and industrial software and we've also got state of the art class one thousand clean rooms so it's quite amazing being able to see where you know where the magic kind of happens and starts.
When I'm not studying up on university I like to go on many adventures such as hiking, climbing up mountains such as Snowdon, just pretty much taking advantage of the landscape and the area that Bangor is situated in.
Also, there are over a hundred and fifty clubs and societies here at Bangor University which are all free to join which is incredible for our students and also it's just such a great opportunity to try new things also to make lots of new friends.
Bangor University has amazing links with industries and between the second and third year we get the opportunity to have a year in industry which is amazing players we've experienced get to apply all practical knowledge to actual practices and we therefore become more attractive to future employers.
The advice I would give to somebody considering studying here at Bangor University is don't think twice about enrolling here.
It's such an incredible university, the quality of teaching reflects this and the friends that you'll make and how happy the students are here it's you know just a true reflection how amazing your university experience will be here at Bangor University.
Masters student Jasmine, talks about her experience as an undergraduate Engineering students at Bangor University.
In this video, Masters student, Jasmine Parkes tells us about her experience as an undergraduate student studying Engineering at Bangor.
"I'm Jasmine, I'm a Masters student doing fibre optic sensing.
The sensing part is trying to sense if someone is tapping into the fibre.
So if an eavesdropper is trying to eavesdrop on the data that you're trying to send, I'm trying to locate that.
What I love about engineering is you could do just about anything.
You could enter any field and you kind of just turn your imagination into reality.
I think that's amazing.
I'm local, so it was great having a really good engineering course at my doorstep.
When I went into A-levels I was panicking about, oh, what do I do?
I just knew that I loved maths.
So when my dad, who had an electronic engineering background, he was looking...He was like - you'll love electronic engineering, and I do, so it's brilliant.
Bangor University has got a really good, undergraduate internship scheme, so I was able to do a Technocamps internship, which is going to primary schools, secondary schools, trying to encourage people to go into STEM through different activities.
In my third year I did internship with DSP Centre which led to me getting a funded Masters, which was brilliant.
And then hopefully, it'll lead to me getting a PhD, which would be great."
Tessa Davey talks about what inspired an interest in Nuclear Engineering at Bangor University.
My name is Tess Davey.
I'm a UK reader in nuclear materials at the Nuclear Futures Institute, which basically is part of generating clean energy towards a net zero carbon future.
I have a really great opportunity to work with a really diverse group of people from all over the world on developing new technologies and new materials for both fission and fusion, um, to potentially be realised in the future.
I was inspired to work in nuclear engineering, particularly because I think it's a very important field in terms of sort of climate change and things like that.
We need to look to cleaner energy sources in order to kind of progress as a society.
Nuclear energy is one way to do that.
For me in particular, it's very meaningful to develop new technologies or contribute to the development of technologies that will help us have cleaner energy in the future.
I've been really lucky to have many very strong mentors at all stages of my career.
When I was working, um, at Torque University in Japan, I was working with a very inspirational woman who really helped me navigate being a woman in academia, particularly in very different environments, and that was really inspirational, being a very good mentor in terms of academics, she taught me a lot about how to navigate this field as a woman.
I've also been very lucky at other stages of my career to have some very supportive mentors who supported me and given me lots of opportunities, um, without which I certainly wouldn't have been able to achieve so much in my career so far.
In the 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF), 50% of our research impact was rated as world-leading and 87% of our research outputs rated as world-leading or internationally excellent.
Our globally renowned research groups include the Digital Signal Processing Centre and the Nuclear Futures Institute.
Our research activities are organised in three research groups, which can overlap to maximise synergies and resources: Photonics & Communications , Energy Environmental and Bio - Sensing (EEBG) , Visualization, Data, Modelling & Graphics (VDMG) .

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/environmental-science:
You will be taught by world-leading experts who are involved in a variety of environmental science-related research, making use of the top-class facilities at Bangor University.
Our research is changing the world in Earth Systems and Environmental Science - we are ranked 1st in the UK for the impact of our research in the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021) .
We are a friendly and dynamic group, working across a range of disciplines in the environmental sciences, from soil and water pollution to greenhouse gas emissions, from wastes to environmental economics, hydrological modelling, carbon foot printing, and pathogens.
This work takes us across the globe – we have projects on every continent, from our very own research station near Bangor, to the Arctic, Brazil, and Indonesia.
Our research also means that we influence policy at many different levels.
When you study with us you benefit from the first-hand interaction with staff that are at the forefront of their field.
We are minutes away from a huge diversity of landscapes and environments.
Our location, between Parc Cenedlaethol Eryri (Snowdonia National Park) and the sea, means that Bangor is a great location for studying and researching environmental issues.
We lead research into some of the most pressing environmental issues across the world.
Environmental scientists use their skills and scientific knowledge to tackle these issues by exploring new approaches to conserving our natural world.
"The School runs fieldtrips throughout the academic year, and this is a great way to be able to learn about conservation and ecology in the natural environment."
We have excellent facilities for the study of Environmental Sciences – all of which are constantly used for teaching and research.
Bangor University has been at the forefront of research in the environmental sciences for decades.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/medicine:
We will train you to be an excellent doctor for Wales and beyond by providing high-quality teaching, and an inspiring learning experience based around increased clinical contact and award-winning clinical teaching at the University Health Board.
We appreciate that starting a Medicine programme is a major step for our new students and acknowledge that it is the longest and one of the most demanding academic programmes, so we make sure that pastoral and academic support is accessible to students with a dedicated personal tutor.
Studying medicine in Wales, a bilingual country, helps you to develop valuable communications skills.
The ability to feel confident to treat patients whose first language is not your own will equip you to work anywhere in the world, and you will frequently consult with interpreters working across the UK.
We’re lucky to have a small course size that makes us feel more like a family than a standard degree course.
My favourite part of the course so far has been having 1:1 time with my GP tutor to feel confident in my skills and my ability as a medical student.
The thing I’m most looking forward to is being able to fully embrace my training and hopefully become the kind of doctor I aspire to be.
The priority in Year 1 is to provide you with a strong foundation in basic sciences, clinical skills, communication, and professionalism.
You will learn the foundations of medical sciences and develop the skills necessary to become competent doctors.
The programme also emphasizes early patient exposure to enhance learning and understanding of real-world medical scenarios.
During Year 2, you will engage in various learning activities and experiences, including Community Based Learning and Student Selected Components.
One notable highlight of year two is the Rural Health Simulation, which exposes you to the challenges of healthcare delivery in rural settings compared to urban areas.
You will practice clinical and communication skills while responding to a simulated emergency alongside doctors and paramedics.
In Year 3 of your course, you will undertake a Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship (LIC).
During this clinical placement you will be embedded within a local community and its GP practice for an entire year.
This will enable you to follow the full patient journey both in primary and secondary care, observing the impact that medical conditions and the treatment of these conditions have on patients.
In Year 4 of the program, you will focus on increasingly specialist cases and apply the core skills you learned in Year 3 in different clinical settings.
The year is divided into multiple learning opportunities, including specialist clinical placements and a Student Selected Component.
Year 5 is designed to integrate and prepare medical students for the Foundation Programme and your future careers as doctors in the National Health Service (NHS) or further postgraduate studies.
The 2024 commencement date for the North Wales Medical School Medicine programme has been agreed with the GMC.
The North Wales Medical School curriculum has been academically validated by the Quality and Validation unit of Bangor University through a process involving external medical educational expertise.
All UK medical schools are regularly reviewed by the General Medical Council (GMC), the professional regulator for Medicine responsible for ensuring high standards for medical education detailed in their document “Promoting excellence: standards for medical education and training”.
In addition, all new medical schools are subject to rigorous scrutiny by the GMC.
The North Wales Medical School is progressing through the GMC approval process to award a Primary Medical Qualification.
GMC accreditation is only completed when the first intake of students is due to graduate.
To protect students, new medical schools must work with a ‘contingency’ partner, an established medical school able to provide support and willing, if GMC quality standards are not met for any reason, for students to transfer and graduate from the contingency school.
The contingency partner school for the North Wales Medical School is Cardiff University School of Medicine.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/modern-languages:
Whether you choose to study French, Spanish, German or Chinese you’ll learn how to write, read, and speak to a high standard with a Modern Languages degree at Bangor University.
Our classes are smaller than most making is much easier for you to get to know fellow students and teaching staff.
Outside the classroom we organise trips and social events for our students.
There is also space for you to relax and study with fellow language students in our dedicated resources room, chill room or at our Language Centre.
The LangSoc is also a big part of our community here, a society which organises events centred around film, food and the cultures of languages.
We don’t mind admitting that the Year Abroad is one of the most exciting parts of your degree!
You can spend time in a country where the language you study is widely spoken to improve your language skills.
We have over 30 partner universities in Europe and China with a range of destinations ranging from large capital cities to smaller, more rural locations.
You can also choose to work abroad, you can apply to be a language assistant on the British Council Language Assistant scheme or look for your own placement.
We know that the Year Abroad can seem like a big deal so we make sure you are well-prepared with a schedule of events and dedicated coordinators for each language who will keep in touch while you are away.
Our International Exchanges Office and Money Support Team are on hand to help negotiate the paperwork and to make sure you get the most out of the year.
There are many transferable skills you’ll gain whilst studying at Bangor University.
Alongside developing your skills in French, Spanish, German or Chinese you’ll learn about the culture of countries giving you a global outlook and cultural awareness.
Writing, reading and speaking to a high standard are all key skills you’ll gain but the ability to research and manage large amounts of information, analyse arguments and understand cultural nuances, and work effectively independently and as part of a team are also skills you can expect to gain.
Studying French, Spanish, German or Chinese can open doors to a range of careers.
Some of our graduates have gone on to teaching, translating, sports commentating and banking.
Our Language Buddy scheme which pairs up Bangor students with exchange students from our partner universities to practice their language skills and make new friends is an excellent addition to your CV!
At Bangor University we don’t require that you have studied a language at A Level.
All our programmes have two pathways where you can continue your A Level studies at a more advanced level or choose the beginners pathway.
This gives you flexibility, you could choose to learn a new language with us or continue with one language from A Level and learn a new language.
For example, if you studies French in A Level but want to have a go at learning Spanish you can do.
You’ll go onto the ‘Post A Level’ pathway for French and ‘Beginners’ pathway for Spanish.
And remember at Bangor you can study up to three languages at the same time!
We like to keep our degrees as flexible as possible.
If you choose to undertake three languages in your first year, you can decide at the end of year one if you want to continue with all three or take it down to two or one language.
We also have a range of optional modules that explore cultures, you can also choose to undertake modules from the wider university (subject to availability).
For example, you may want to undertake a module in creative writing, music or psychology.
Most of our modern languages degree have a year abroad embedded within the course, however you can choose not to study overseas as part of our 3 year Modern Languages Studies degree.
Eleanor is working in a primary school and has immersed herself in the Spanish culture!
Did you know you can study a single language or a combination of two or three languages on our main programmes.
On our Modern Languages degree you can choose to study French on its own or as part of a joint-language degree or 3-language degree scheme.
You can also choose to combine the study of French with another discipline one on of our many joint-honours programmes.
On our Modern Languages degree you can choose to study Spanish on its own or as part of a joint-language degree or 3-language degree scheme.
You can also choose to combine the study of Spanish with another discipline one on of our many joint-honours programmes.
On our Modern Languages degree you can choose to study German on its own or as part of a joint-language degree or 3-language degree scheme.
You can also choose to combine the study of German with another discipline one on of our many joint-honours programmes.
As part of our joint-language degree or 3-language degree scheme you can combine the study of French, Spanish or German with some Chinese.
Did you know you could study a language alongside another subject area?
Here at Bangor University we offer several join honours programmes where you can learn a new language or continue your study of a language alongside the study of another discipline.
1 00:00:00,210 --> 00:00:05,670 Hello.
My name is Malak.
I'm Spanish, I'm second year modern languages student.
2 00:00:05,970 --> 00:00:11,300 I choose Bangor University because I was looking for a university who match my vibes,
3 00:00:11,320 --> 00:00:16,620 match everything I was looking for and definitely Bangor University was the right decision.
4 00:00:16,920 --> 00:00:22,639 The coolest part of my course so far has been meeting new people, learning about new skills that I didn't
5 00:00:22,640 --> 00:00:30,450 know I had.
Joining societies, be able to make friends and live in my comfort zone as well.
6 00:00:30,480 --> 00:00:37,950 What I like about this subject is challenge to my own mind.
I really like to develop new skills that I didn't know I had.
7 00:00:38,160 --> 00:00:43,350 My favourite thing about Bangor is that it's really small, so you know everyone, you feel safe.
8 00:00:43,620 --> 00:00:47,070 You can go to the street and meet your friends easily.
9 00:00:47,340 --> 00:00:51,270 You don't need to worry about your safety.
Bangor is that small.
10 00:00:51,270 --> 00:00:55,860 That can be really, really safe.
And it's also a really beautiful city.
11 00:00:56,280 --> 00:01:01,739 You've got so Snowdonia, you've got Bangor University, you've got societies.
12 00:01:01,740 --> 00:01:06,240 You got scenic view.
So Bangor University will be always the right choice.
1 00:00:00,030 --> 00:00:04,020 Hi, my name is Eliza.
I'm from Las Vegas.
I'm a second year language student.
2 00:00:04,140 --> 00:00:10,200 I choose Bangor University because it is a beautiful place and it's a very good international university.
3 00:00:10,590 --> 00:00:17,610 It was on plenty of like the international websites that I looked at, and I was really interested in the language department they had to offer.
4 00:00:17,730 --> 00:00:20,940 The coolest part of my course was meeting all the new people.
5 00:00:20,940 --> 00:00:26,729 I've lived in the States for so long, and coming out and meeting all these people from like Spain,
6 00:00:26,730 --> 00:00:30,150 Nigeria, all these different places was quite amazing.
7 00:00:30,150 --> 00:00:37,620 And that course really gave me an opportunity to communicate with them and have something in common with them.
8 00:00:37,830 --> 00:00:43,649 I enjoy learning new languages.
I like going on the street and I'll hear someone speak Italian.
9 00:00:43,650 --> 00:00:45,690 I'm like, oh, I know what they're saying.
10 00:00:45,900 --> 00:00:52,889 And I think that's just an amazing thing because bilingual people have so many advantages in the world and trilingual people.
11 00:00:52,890 --> 00:00:58,530 That'll be me eventually.
But they have so many opportunities and I wanted to be a part of that community.
12 00:00:58,770 --> 00:01:01,229 My favourite thing about Bangor is how small it is.
13 00:01:01,230 --> 00:01:08,459 It may seem like not that good of a thing, but I like walking down the street and seeing all my friends like I see at least five people I know.
14 00:01:08,460 --> 00:01:11,670 I say hi, have conversations.
It's just a small city.
15 00:01:11,670 --> 00:01:19,200 It's it's not as overwhelming as going to like Manchester, Liverpool and I got to know the city really well.
16 00:01:19,560 --> 00:01:25,230 And I do love living here because it made my transition from the States to the UK very easy.
17 00:01:25,230 --> 00:01:27,809 My piece of advice would be to get yourself out there.
18 00:01:27,810 --> 00:01:33,719 I wouldn't have made any friends if I just stay locked up in my room like I got into societies, I made friends,
19 00:01:33,720 --> 00:01:39,960 I know people, I go out, I have fun because I made those friends and I made that effort to get out of my room.
We have graduates working all over the world in various roles.
Here is Olivia and Charlotte talking about their time at Bangor University and how studying Modern Languages has helped them in their career.
Undertaking a modern languages degree gave me the skills to be able to learn other languages.
The year I spent abroad provided valuable experience and insight into teaching and delivering training to others has been a key part of my career since graduating.
I loved my time at Bangor University.
I studied (and played) hard, made some lifelong friends, and fell in love with the area.
I thoroughly enjoyed studying at Bangor, much more than I could have imagined, and I look back at that time with such fond memories.
I loved all my modules, and my lecturers were all so engaging.
I made many good friends there and embraced the social life as well, of course.
It opened my eyes to different cultures and perspectives and helped shape me into the person I am today.
I changed my mind about going to Bangor after an open day, as I had originally planned to attend a different university.
It was clear I was going to be better supported in my studies and well-being.
Bangor also offered far nicer accommodation to most universities, which I felt was important as it would be the first time living away from home.
Bangor’s offering to take up a new language in the first year and then be integrated into classes with others who’d studied to A-level in the second year was a real opportunity to broaden my horizons.
My time at Bangor University was the most enjoyable of my life!
I felt so at home studying the languages that I loved in a beautiful part of the UK.
I met friends for life, honed my language skills and gained valuable real-life working experience which has led me to my dream job.
I choose to study at Bangor University because the department was extremely welcoming.
I remember attending the Open Day with my parents and feeling that each staff member would know who I was if I studied here.
Our international research profile in modern languages is derived from the dynamic work of academic and research staff, who have built major individual and collaborative projects in the histories, cultures and politics of the Francophone, Hispanic, German and Italian-speaking worlds, with a growing specialism in Translation Studies and Chinese Studies.
Particular research strengths lie in postcolonial approaches to Francophone and Iberian Cultures, the politics of memory and memorialisation, travel writing, Catalan and Galician Studies, Italian organised crime, translation, power and critical discourse, film and national identities, popular culture and comics, material cultures and material texts, visual cultures and contemporary art.
Our students benefit from a lively and inclusive research community.
Not only does our research inform our teaching, we also run an exciting Research Forum each term, comprising a variety of events, including talks from visiting scholars and our own research staff and students, book launches and art, music and poetry performances.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/pharmacy-and-pharmacology:
Do you want to pursue a career where you can have a positive impact on people’s healthcare and treatment?
Both Pharmacy and Pharmacology offer you the chance to make an impact in the world of medicinal drugs.
Excellent facilities include a simulated pharmacy environment equipped with dispensary counter and consultation rooms; a clinical simulation suite with mock hospital ward; well-equipped cell and molecular research laboratories including a Category 2 pathogen lab; and state-of-the-art digital human anatomy suite with 3D anatomy visualisation.
Bangor University is committed to providing exceptional pastoral care, ensuring students receive the support they need throughout their studies.
With dedicated personal tutors who are available to meet throughout the year, wellbeing services, peer guides to welcome you on arrival and a strong sense of community, students can easily access guidance and assistance, helping them navigate academic challenges and personal wellbeing for a successful university experience.
As part of the new North Wales Medical School, Pharmacy and Pharmacology students benefit from enhanced collaboration with students from across our programmes.
This integration promotes interdisciplinary learning, helping students develop teamwork skills essential for delivering integrated healthcare in their future careers.
Bangor University has established strong partnerships with local health boards and research institutes, providing both Pharmacy and Pharmacology students with valuable opportunities for clinical placements and hands-on experience in real healthcare settings.
These connections enhance the learning experience by allowing students to engage in cutting-edge research projects and gain insights into the practical applications of their studies, ensuring they are well-prepared for their future careers in both fields.
At Bangor University, students benefit from a research-led education delivered by faculty who are leaders in their fields.
This unique approach means students are exposed to the latest advancements in pharmacology and pharmacy practice, including novel drug development and innovative therapeutic strategies, ensuring they are learning from current experts and engaging with ongoing research.
Although Pharmacists and Pharmacologists work in the same field their roles and responsibilities are different therefore so are our courses.
Here you can compare the courses and the careers that they can lead to.
Both fields offer rewarding careers, but the pathway students take will depend on whether they are more interested in clinical practice and patient interaction ( Pharmacy ) or scientific discovery and laboratory research ( Pharmacology ).
Pharmacy is a healthcare profession that trains students to become pharmacists , who are responsible for the safe and effective use of medicines .
Pharmacists work directly with patients, doctors, and other healthcare professionals to ensure medications are used correctly, advising on prescriptions, dosages, and side effects.
Pharmacy graduates usually become licensed pharmacists, working directly with patients in hospitals, community pharmacies, or the pharmaceutical industry, ensuring the safe and effective use of medicines.
In order to become a Pharmacist you will need to undertake an MPharm degree, then foundation year training and a General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) Registration exam.
Students focus on the comprehensive journey of medicines, studying drug action, delivery, discovery, and management.
The curriculum emphasises the relationship between chemicals and patients, ensuring that the patient's needs and safety are at the forefront of pharmaceutical practice.
Pharmacy students have a patient-focused education.
Students participate in placements in real pharmacy settings and simulated environments, alongside workshops, tutorials, and lectures.
The curriculum includes laboratory classes and a variety of assessments, such as Objective Structured Clinical Examinations (OSCEs), exams, coursework, and a reflective portfolio to enhance practical skills and critical thinking.
Pharmacology is the scientific study of drugs, focusing on how they interact with biological systems.
Pharmacologists work to understand how drugs are developed, their mechanisms of action, side effects, and potential therapeutic applications.
Pharmacologists enjoy a highly varied career, often starting in laboratory settings, though opportunities exist outside the lab as well.
Many pharmacologists begin their careers in academic research or within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
Their roles may also extend to science communication and public engagement, science policy, and regulatory affairs.
Additionally, pharmacologists can contribute to clinical research and participate in NHS health technology assessments, playing a crucial role in evaluating and implementing new treatments.
Pharmacology focuses on the study of drug action, including pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and toxicology.
The program emphasises understanding how drugs interact with biological systems and the effects they have on health, incorporating both theoretical knowledge and practical laboratory experience.
The Pharmacology program is typically a three-year BSc that emphasises a strong scientific foundation.
Students engage in laboratory classes for practical experience, complemented by lectures, workshops, and tutorials.
Assessments consist of exams, coursework, and practical evaluations, ensuring a comprehensive understanding of the subject.
The facilities at Bangor uni are a some of the best and it has been a privilege to have access to these and work within the North West Cancer Research centre.
I have really enjoyed being at Bangor and love the atmosphere of the uni.
It's a small university so you get to know your lecturers and personal tutor and you end up really enjoying going to lectures and having the friendly and welcoming atmosphere.
You aren't just another lost student- but you're a valued member and pushed to the best of your ability with incredible support.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/product-design:
Product Design at Bangor University is ranked No.1 in the UK (The Guardian University Guide 2025) and achieved outstanding results in the latest National Student Survey.
Bangor University is in the top 10% of the most sustainable universities worldwide (QS World Rankings: Sustainability 2024).
Bangor University’s Product Design course has achieved the top position in the UK according to the Guardian University League Table 2024.
Our course has also achieved outstanding results in the National Student Survey (NSS) including: 1st for Teaching on the course, 1st for Learning Opportunities, 1st for Academic Support, and 1st for Organisation and Management.
Read more
You will put what you have learnt in lectures in to practice and gain hands-on experience in bringing innovative products to market, managing commercial projects professionally and helping companies to be more effective, competitive, and relevant in the world today.
You’ll be taught in small teaching groups by lecturers who want to see you thrive.
Our multi-material prototyping workshop, CAD suite and host of top of the range equipment will allow you to turn your ideas into a reality.
There is no extra cost for materials or usage of workshop or studio spaces.
Our students and staff come from a variety of backgrounds, but all share the same goals and are visionaries who are dedicated to improving the world we live in through design and innovation.
Product Design will open a world of interesting and creative career options.
We are rated 1st in the UK for Graduate Prospects in Product Design ( The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2023 ).
Everything we experience in our built environment has been created by people for people.
Our Product Design BSc (Hons) will help you to realise your ideas to make the world a better place.
Product Design student working with Solidworks CAD software
in the UK for Product Design The Guardian University Guide 2025
in the UK for the quality of teaching in Design Studies NSS 2024
[00:03] We believe we've got an unique approach at product design Bangor.
[00:07] Our students develop to be creative thinkers, practical in their approach, and we put the students at the centre of everything that we do really
[00:15] Although the course is actually titled as product design, we cover a whole vast array of sort of design activities here, leading to a range of design professions at the end of this.
[00:24] I think that's one of the key strengths of the course.
The type of companies that our students go to...
[00:31] So we've got students in high end position engineering jobs, we've got agency designers, we've got in-house designers working on specific products...
[00:39} We've got students that are working as graphic designers, either self-employed or with companies.
[00:44] So they are highly employable and companies take them on.
We've got a well-developed workshop where our students prototype that is both in traditional materials as well as digital.
[00:57] So we've got CMC routers, plasma cutters, 3D printers.
We bring in 30 students and four lecturers and it gives us a family feel.
We get to know the students really, really well.
[01:08] The students between the years get to know each other well through collaborative projects.
[01:12] So the workshop that you see around us is available for them to use.
Students can come here and have a tailored approach to this and have the course actually fit
[01:22] in with their individual needs in terms of where they see themselves working in future.
CHAT TO STUDENTS & STAFF
[00:03] It's important that students understand the materials and the processes that goes into into building products, making products.
[00:10] And it's something that employers value very highly.
[00:14] Typically in the first year, we run through a whole variety of making skills, fabrication skills, production skills and so on...
[00:21] And then that escalates into the second year so that everything that we have here in the workshop, we actually train the students to use.
[00:26] I think we pride ourselves that we can work in pretty much any material -wood,
[00:30] metal, plastics, composite, silicones, anything goes here, to be honest with you.
[00:34] We can fabricate, we can assemble, we can weld.
We've invested in different types of 3D printing.
[00:39] We have a 3D printer farm, we can do the FDM, we can do the resin printing, and we use that a lot in the course.
[00:47] So one of the strongest messages we get from industry is that they want design students who can not only imagine stuff, design stuff, but also build prototypes.
[00:57] And that's what we do here on the course.
Having and developing creative ideas is the key really to product design.
[01:04] Students imagine a new future and then actually make it happen.
[01:09] Highly commercial projects that could actually spin, that typically do spin, into new company start ups...
To actually see a student come here,
[01:17] learn all the skills, develop their sort of vision, decide where the future is going to be,
[01:22] design and create that product that the market will need in future and establish that start-up
[01:26] business is something that's very valuable and an awful fun to be involved in.
Book YOUR PLACE AT AN OPEN DAY
As a graduate of BSc Product Design you’ll be highly employable.
You’ll be able to use your design-thinking skills to make the world a better place by solving problems for customers, users, clients and companies all over the world.
You’ll work on live projects with companies and will gain industrial experience, learning how to manage commercial projects professionally, allowing companies to be more effective, competitive, and relevant in the world today.
Our students often graduate into jobs, with many of them securing a post at their second- or third-year placement companies.
You will attend three placements across the degree rather than one-year long placement at the end of the course.
Our Product Design BSc (Hons) degree is the only course in the UK to offer this.
Workplace experience consists of 24 weeks over three years - that's a block of 8 weeks during each year of your course.
Benefits include:
You will study human-centred design and design thinking methodologies.
A range of briefs will challenge and develop you both creatively and professionally.
Projects with industrial partners will ensure a grounding and context of how industry works.
Your challenge is to be creative and ensure innovation within the given challenge.
These lectures are designed to make you competent in the issues that affect product designers in industry:
Each year, we present two awards to our graduating Product Design students.
The £150 M-SParc Award for Academic Achievement is given to the graduating student with the highest academic mark.
The £1500 Lloyd Jones Award for Entrepreneurship is awarded to one male and one female student who will contribute to the technological aspects of the North Wales economy once graduated.
Find out more about the awards
"Rhino Products Ltd.
is Europe’s leading van accessory manufacturer who design and manufactures roof racks, bars, ladder transportation systems, rear steps, side steps, pipe tubes and door ladders.
I use Solidworks to design and test our new products and FEA (Finite Element Analysis) to test products before commissioning tooling for manufacturing.
I get ‘hands-on’ with our products to test and look for improvements for the next models, working with 4 other design engineers."
"For over 100 years, CK has been at the forefront of hand tool manufacturing.
I use Solidworks to design our products, but I also use Cura 3D to print off basic prototypes.
We constantly talk to the end users of our products such as electricians to learn how we can improve our products.
In our ofﬁce there are two design engineers and we work closely together on product development and typically manage 20 projects at any one time."
"Welcome Furniture has been manufacturing in the UK for over 15 years.
We supply to a huge range of companies and stores, including Argos, Matalan, Very & Wayfair.
I prepare designs to be manufactured using CNC machines.
I use VR to evaluate new designs and test alternative materials and ﬁnishes.
I also use VR to showcase our products to potential customers.
I research current interior design trends and we use a combination of Adobe suite, Solidworks, Keyshot and iMOS during the design process.
There are 250 people in our workplace, and I am responsible for managing a team of 3 designers."
"Gerallt Evans Metalcraft are a multiskilled team of craftspeople who are passionate about creating beautiful items, using a wide range of metals and ﬁnishes, that will stand the test of time.
I use Autodesk Fusion 360 and Inventor to design, develop and test our new products.
We have a SwiftCut Pro CNC plasma cutter and SAFAN CNC press brake.
Every project requires its own design process.
It’s always a challenge ensuring the engineering of the product is balanced with its visual appearance.
Since becoming director, I have increased proﬁtability, stafﬁng roles and responsibilities and structured project management systems."
"My current role involves designing and testing hydraulic systems, as well as structural components and bracketry, for a range of excavators and other plant machinery.
It also involves less design-specific tasks as well, such as risk assessments, failure mode analysis and problem solving exercises.
I am often presenting concepts and solutions to a small team of 10-15 people, and sometimes discussing the work I undertake to the wider team of around 60 or 70 people.
Bangor really helped bring out my work ethic and my passion for good design and also the idea of continuous personal improvement - trying to be the best version of yourself every day."
[00:03] So, we have an annual work placement every year and the students spend six weeks in a company of their choice.
[00:08] Some students might view this is an opportunity to experience working in a large factory with a design team.
[00:14] We've had students go as far afield as California and Sweden, so on, and to Poland.
[00:18] The best placement for you is wherever you think you should be...
[00:22] Whatever company can actually give you the experience that you think you need for your own development.
[00:26] I went to Arielworks up at MSparc not too far from here in Anglesey.
[00:31] They're a company that mostly do drone filming for television and cinema.
[00:36] I can definitely say that I've really enjoyed my work placement working with them.
It was a really fun environment.
[00:41] Overall, it was a complete blast because not only did I get to work in an industry on an active project and watch it fully come to fruition,
[00:47] I also got to work with something that is a hobby of mine and I'm really interested in.
So yeah, I had a great time working there.
[00:56] During the course, I've been on two work placements so far.
The first one I was with a Sonic Alarm Systems.
[01:02] I did more of a digital work placement, so I was able to work on my graphic skills.
[01:06] And then my second work placement, which I've recently done, I worked in Wild Creations, which is based in Cardiff.
[01:11] So I did fibreglass, which was very messy.And then I did CNC machines, the big CNC machines where I was able to do some of the programming.
[01:20] And then I was also able to do carpentry, which I really liked and I focussed on.
[01:24] I was in a big place where I was able just to learn all different skills and work on different techniques with different people
[01:29] who have worked in this trade for quite a while, so it's good to have like that one on one experience,
[01:34] but it pushes you out your comfort zone, gets you into the industry and makes you more skilled for that type of job.
[01:43]0 I started a placement with Animated Technologies in February as part of my second year.
[01:47] Obviously you've got deadlines in university, but I didn't realise how tight those deadlines actually are when you go out into industry.
[01:54] Yeah, that was one of the biggest things I think that was a bit of a shock to the system.
[01:57] I suppose the kind of stepping stone that I was given here was learning CAD...
[02:01] And my advice for any kind of younger designers is if an opportunity comes your way, just take it.
[02:08] Yeah, they really do care about you.
They do want to see you succeed.
[02:12] The biggest shift that students come back with after work placement is the work ethic one.
[02:16] They're enthused by imagining what it would be like to be a designer in a company and
[02:22] seeing that they've been there and they've done it and they've gained that confidence.
[02:25] And I think they come back with a different work ethic and applying the skills that
[02:30] they've learned in industry and knowing that they're working at a professional level.
[02:34] So I'd say confidence, yeah, lots of transferable skills.
[02:38] The magic really happens when at the end of the process, an employer comes to us and say, "Have you got some design students for me to employ?"
[02:46] We get a lot of contact from companies looking for design students.
[02:49] It helps the students actually get the job that they want; design the career that they want.
It's probably the most valuable thing we do here.
A post shared by productdesignbangor (@productdesignbangor)
Become a changemaker, innovator and leader.
I love that we have a 7-9 week placement every year, allowing me to specialise in the specific industry that interests me.
By studying Product Design, you will learn about the most current research findings in your field and have the opportunity to work alongside nationally and internationally renowned research experts in designing and implementing your own research.
Our Product Design research is continuously embedded in our live briefs and the outcomes become an integral part of new product development and innovation processes within companies.
These applied and real-world experiences have resulted in a number of our students being named on patents with our partner companies.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/psychology:
Psychology at Bangor regularly ranks among the top 10 in the UK in the National Student Survey, for overall student satisfaction.
With over 1,000 students, we're also one of the largest departments in the UK.
Psychology helps us to understand the complexities of the human mind and behaviour.
It allows us to gain insight into why people do the things they do, and how our thoughts and feelings can affect our behaviour.
At Bangor, we are interested in understanding the psychology of the brain and mind through the lifespan.
We are interested in:
To answer some of those big questions, we first need to understand HOW the brain works - the physiology of the mind and ways we can support and promote mental well-being.
At Bangor, our labs and teaching facilities have state-of-the-art technologies.
You will gain experience in our research labs, as both a participant and a researcher, using technologies such as Event-Related Potential (ERPs), eye tracking software, and Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS).
We are also one of the only UK psychology departments to have our own MRI scanner for research into brain function and physiology.
We also lead the field in research and training in therapeutic techniques such as mindfulness, cognitive behavioural therapy, and dialectical behaviour therapy.
By studying Psychology at Bangor, you will:
As a psychology department, we pride ourselves on delivering internationally excellent research as well as providing a research-led exceptional student experience.
As an undergraduate research participant at Bangor, you will have opportunities to experience these facilities and laboratories from Year 1, and in Year 3 you will become a ‘researcher’ and collect your own data for your dissertation in our state-of-the-art facilities.
Additionally, our Year 1 ‘Brain and Mind’ module provides a unique opportunity to hold a human brain.
North Wales Centre for Human Anatomy
Pursuing a Psychology degree allows you to learn how to analyse scientific data and develop critical thinking and problem-solving skills.
Bangor University is one of the top universities for Psychology in the UK, with a long-established track record for excellence in teaching and research.
Our research (86% rated as world-leading or internationally excellent - REF 2021) feeds directly into our teaching.
You will have a vibrant learning experience with world-class academics.
With small class sizes in practical sessions and regular drop-ins for statistics and skills, you will benefit from close contact with academic staff who are experts in their field of research.
Our unique and sector-leading Psychology Oral Presentation Practice Sessions will help you develop your communication skills.
Gain the confidence to tell the world about the research you generate!
A better understanding of psychology can be beneficial in a variety of different career paths, such as social work, healthcare, and teaching.
As a psychology student at Bangor University, you will have the opportunity to take part in research projects, enabling you to expand your soft skills while you study.
85% of our students go on to work or study within 15 months of the course (Discover Uni).
Bangor University offers a wide range of psychology courses, from BSc and MSc to PhD, allowing you to tailor your degree to your interests and career aspirations.
Many of our degrees are pathways to further study, such as our MSc in Counselling, postgraduate courses in Mindfulness, Dialectic Behaviour Therapy, or a doctorate in Clinical Psychology.
Did you know that the Doctoral training programme in Bangor was the first of its kind in the UK?
We also offer excellent career support, giving students access to networking opportunities and one-to-one advice.
By studying Psychology, you'll gain an understanding of the diverse ways in which people think, feel, and behave, and how these differences can impact our lives.
Learn to respect and empathize with people who have different beliefs, values, and backgrounds, and appreciate the unique perspectives they bring.
This knowledge can help us to appreciate and understand our own identity, as well as the identities of others.
It will also give you a greater appreciation for diversity.
Bangor University is committed to promoting inclusivity and diversity in all aspects of university life.
We are dedicated to promoting respect for everyone regardless of their:
Psychology holds an Athena Swan Bronze award and, through the appointment of student representatives, we incorporate our students’ opinions in the development and support of our courses.
Psychology is not afraid to tackle the big issues facing humankind in the 21st Century.
If this interests you, a Psychology degree at Bangor University could be what you are looking for!
[Voiceover] Why do we need psychology?
Well, psychology is everywhere.
We use psychology in every aspect of our day to day life, from perceiving and understanding the world around us, to processing and exchanging language and communication with others, and to thinking about our own behaviour and that of other people.
So one thing that characterises Bangor is that staff are very approachable.
Students are given the care and the attention that you would not expect from pretty much any other place in the UK.
As an international student, Bangor genuinely feels like a second home.
You always know there is someone to talk to about your academic or personal concern.
The research and the neuroscience heavy modules, particularly the developmental and brain degeneration modules, have really accelerated my desire to follow a career in research.
Each of our undergraduate pathways are BPS accredited.
One of the beauties
of having the same curriculum for year one and two in each of our pathways is that you can actually choose to change pathway partway through your course.
In my first year module, Brain and Mind, I got to work on a real human brain.
Seeing it in real life made what we were learning feel so much more real.
One of the things we do here at Bangor particularly, is we try and build your confidence, and we do that through our oral presentation training package.
I'm actually not a great public speaker.
However, I did manage to stand up in a lecture theatre full of first year students as a course representative, and that is purely down to the progress made through POPPS.
Graduating from a BPS accredited degree enables you to register for one of the professional psychology professions, such as educational psychology, clinical psychology, occupational psychology and health psychology.
But actually, graduates of psychology can go on to a range of different professions where we use our skills and understanding of people and human nature in professions such as marketing, healthcare, education, data analysis, and so on.
During your time with us at Bangor, we give you an opportunity to undertake work experience or a placement as either a two week placement opportunity during your summer between year two and year three of your degree, or as a full year placement that you can take during that time.
On my placement year, I worked as a learning support assistant in a secondary school.
I worked closely with pupils dealing with emotional and mental health challenges.
It really opened my eyes and showed me that I want to make a difference.
That hands on experience is something I will take with me into my future career.
Clearly, the world today is facing unprecedented challenges.
Psychologists are the ones that can help and can find pathways to solutions through research, but also through counselling and seeing situations and how to solve them.
This is the job of psychologists.
They are a huge source of hope.
And of course you need good psychologists.
And that's what we produce in Bangor.
So come to us.
We'll teach you how to be good psychologists for the world and you'll really enjoy the trip.
Overall Satisfaction for the Psychology with Neuropsychology programme (NSS 2025)
in the UK for the quality of teaching in the subject area of Psychology and Health, with questions including how well teaching staff explain things and how often it challenges students to achieve their best work.
(NSS 2025)
If you want to become a professional Psychologist you’ll need to register as a graduate member of the British Psychological Society and for this, your degree needs to be accredited by the BPS.
All of the undergraduate single honours psychology degrees at Bangor have this accreditation meaning that you’ll study all the content necessary for graduate membership.
Accreditation by the BPS ensures a high standard of teaching delivery.
It ensures that our assessment practices are fair and transparent and that we have strategies in place for inclusive assessment.
Furthermore, accreditation places limits on the staff to student ratio ensuring that you have access to high-quality, research-led, lecturing staff.
BPS accredited degree must include all core areas of psychology and must prepare graduates with subject-specific skills.
This is achieved through the core and optional modules available on Bangor’s Psychology degrees .
All students undertaking a BPS accredited degree must carry out empirical studies collecting and evaluating their own data, in line with active research in the School.
Each of the following are covered by our curricula to ensure graduate basis for chartered membership:
Discover what's it like to study Psychology at Bangor University.
You will be learning about a truly fascinating subject from leading experts.
There will be opportunities for hands-on experiences that range from dissecting the human brain to working with advanced facilities such as an MRI scanner.
Our students talk about the modules they chose and facilities they use whilst studying Psychology with us in one of the UK's leading Psychology departments.
As a graduate with a good degree in Psychology from Bangor University, a variety of careers will be open to you.
A psychology degree (with Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership) is essential in some posts, and the British Psychological Society (BPS) confers Chartered status in the following areas:
There are also careers for which a psychology background is beneficial:
Employers also value the transferable skills you will develop; such as numeracy, literacy, and interpersonal skills, as well as your understanding of human behaviour.
As a Bangor University Psychology graduate, you’ll possess a unique combination of these skills.
The Brigantia Building on College Road houses academic and administrative offices for Psychology.
Psychology undergraduates will visit Brigantia when they need to meet with personal tutors and project supervisors, as well as when they tend to various administrative aspects of student life.
The Department of Psychology has its own research dedicated MRI/fMRI facility in the Brigantia building.
Facilities within the Bangor Imaging Unit include a research and teaching dedicated 3 Tesla Magnetic Resonance Imaging scanner, MRI compatible EEG, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), stimulus presentation systems, and eye tracking systems.
In addition to anatomical and functional MRI, the scanner is equipped for 4D cardiac, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS).
The Miles Dyslexia Centre provides language and literacy teaching support and assessment for children and adults.
The Centre also conducts research into the neurocognitive and behavioural basis of reading and writing.
The Miles Dyslexia Centre comprises of a team of researchers and educational practitioners, developing best-practice teaching and assessment methods, combined with cutting-edge scientific research.
The Lloyd Building on College Road houses a number of different research labs used by students and researchers within the Department of Psychology at Bangor University.
The Department of Psychology has open-access eye-tracking facilities in the Lloyd building.
Facilities within the Open Access Eye-Tracking lab include a remote eye-tracker Eyelink 1000 plus, HD LCD monitors, Ultravoice Dynamic Cardioid Vocal Microphone, audio mixer, and over ear headphones.
Eye trackers work by using infrared light to track the position of the eyes.
In this lab, a chin rest is also available to help stabilise the participant’s head and to ensure that their eyes are at the correct distance from the eye tracker.
The Department of Psychology has open-access electrophysiology and topographic facilities in the Lloyd building.
Facilities within the Psychology Open-access Electrophysiology and Topographic (POET) Lab include ActiveTwo multi-channel high resolution biopotential measurement system from BioSemi, pin-type active electrodes, EEG headcaps.
The lab also includes a remote eye-tracker Eyelink 1000 plus for EEG measurements with simultaneous eye tracking.
In the POET lab, participants are tested inside an electrically shielded Faraday cage with acoustic dampening.
Faraday cages are used to enhance the quality of the EEG data by blocking electromagnetic signal interference from the measurement room.
In this lab, there are also cameras and an intercom system available for researchers to regularly check on the participants during the testing session.
This ensures that the participants don’t feel too isolated from the outside world whilst inside the testing room.
In the control room, there are three desktop computers dedicated to data analysis.
The Department of Psychology has a 3-D vision and hand function laboratory that contains a Qualisys Miqus motion capture system for precise measurement of hand movements, as well as various bespoke pieces of equipment, including visual displays for presenting virtual 3-D visual stimuli, and tools and simulated prostheses for studying use of mechanical devices
The lounge area in the Wheldon Building is equipped with a printer, a vending machine, and comfortable seating options, where students can sit and chat with their peers before their classes, or study in a relaxed atmosphere.
The Wheldon Building’s computer lab is a versatile facility equipped with 80 computers.
This lab supports a range of practical sessions, such as statistics and academic writing.
Pontio is Bangor University’s arts and innovation centre.
Some of the modules offered by the Department of Psychology are delivered in Pontio Level 5, a large lecture theatre that can seat up to 450 students.
When using the MRI scanner to take images of the brain, it is of vital importance that participants keep their head (and body) as still as possible.
The Brigantia building houses a state-of-the-art mock scanner that is equipped with a sound system to play scanner sounds, and MoTrak, a software which allows fine-grained head motion tracking.
The mock scanner is designed to familiarise participants, particularly children, with being in the scanner environment.
This lab contains a unique prototype stereoscopic 3-D display designed to investigate how we see in 3-D and in particular to explore solutions to various problems experienced when using media such as VR systems, 3-D movies etc.
As well as perceptual measures of depth perception, the system can measure where the eyes are looking, and the distance at which eye’s lens is focused.
The experiments require that only the experimental stimuli are visible, and so the room is blacked out when in use.
The Brigantia building houses a state-of-the-art EEG lab that features two testing booths, including BioSemi systems for high-resolution biopotential measurement, and CRT monitors for displaying visual stimuli during testing sessions.
The lab is also equipped with several EEG caps.
The testing booths are designed to provide a quiet and controlled environment for data collection.
Researchers can also monitor participants during testing sessions using cameras and an intercom system to ensure their safety and comfort.
Global Marketing Specialist, Carpenter Technology
"I cherished my time at Bangor, but one experience stands out as truly transformative: participating in the Born to Run module."
Director of Service and Organisational Design at Frog
"As someone with dyslexia and ADHD, coursework was always something I struggled with, and the department were really patient and supportive in helping me."
Client Solutions Manager at TikTok "Psychology is important for my job as you need to figure out what is driving consumer behaviours, for example, why people watch certain videos or trends, or engage with particular brands".
Psychology
"The experiments are one of the best aspects as they enable a hands-on visual experience of my degree".
See the latest tweets from Bangor Psychology and Bangor University.
Bangor Psychology on X/Twitter
Bangor University on X/Twitter
Research in Psychology at Bangor University reflects two key approaches.
First is the development and study of interventions to promote well-being, from early childhood to older age.
Intervention was at the heart of the School’s agenda at its inception more than 50 years ago, and remains central to our research identity today.
Our second key approach is cognitive neuroscience, where we have invested heavily in staff and specialised research facilities, to investigate perception and action; language and development; and social cognition.
Our research

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/sport-and-exercise-sciences:
Bangor ranks in the Top 5 for its research quality and is one of the oldest providers of Sport and Exercise degrees in the UK.
All our staff have higher education teaching qualifications and 100% of their research was rated as world leading or internationally recognised in the 2021 Research Excellence Framework.
This places us 5th in the UK for all Sport Science departments.
This means that staff are not only leading researchers, but many are also applied practitioners working with some of the world’s leading athletes and teams.
This is a rare combination.
It ensures that students benefit from the latest perspectives from both the research labs and from the applied world of exercise and high-performance sport.
All of our programmes offer placement opportunities to gain work experience, including placement years.
These opportunities are closely linked to the unique high calibre professional research links associated with our staff e.g., UK Sport, Manchester City FC , Liverpool FC, RAF, England and Wales Cricket Board, NHS.
To gain a placement in these leading organisations is facilitated by our staff unique links.
Our class sizes mean all students have regular practical sessions in our £1 Million teaching lab right from Year 1.
This ensures you can confidently and competently use testing equipment, so you stand out for the competition in the world of work.
All our programmes break from the traditional compartmentalised teaching models adopted by many other sport and exercise departments.
We achieve this by featuring cutting-edge modules across all years that are dedicated to bringing the psychology, physiology and human movement disciplines together.
Modules such as “Psychophysiology of Sport and Exercise” and “Applied Psychophysiology: How to Monitor and Enhance Performance” cover the latest psychophysiological and neuroscientific research in sport and exercise and include practical experience so students can learn first-hand how what is happening in the mind can impact the body (and vice-versa).
This interdisciplinary way of thinking is driving many of the latest trends in the field (e.g., the explosion of bioapps for monitoring stress levels, recovery, brain readiness etc) and will set-up graduates to apply modern interdisciplinary knowledge and skills in their future careers.
Many Sport and Exercise Science graduates pursue careers in teaching, coaching, physiotherapy – our course lays a solid foundation for careers in these domains.
BUT, in addition to producing graduates for these traditional career paths, our programmes have also produced a long line of graduates who have progressed into highly successful academic careers (i.e., developed into the next generation of world-leading sport and exercise scientists).
In fact, most of our current lecturers and Professors are Bangor graduates!
Our course has also produced a long line of graduates who have become successful applied practitioners for high-profile organisations (e.g., for Premier League football teams, international cricket teams, sport governing bodies, NHS).
The sports science degree you choose will depend on your specific interests, for example, a degree in Sport and Physical Education will give you skills to undertake a PGCE to teach A Level PE.
Adventure Sport Science equips you with technical skills and teaching ability in various water and mountain-based disciplines.
See our Courses
These degrees are aimed at medical students who have successfully completed the requisite number of years in Medical School and want to gain a BSc to specialise, or gain experience in sports science or clinical sports science.
This sport degree is suitable for those who have studied a related sport science Foundation degree.
Complete University Guide 2026
Overall Student Satisfaction for Sport and Exercise Science (NSS 2025)
in the UK for value added Guardian University Guide 2025
overall for Research REF 2021
university in the UK The Times & The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024
university in the UK The Guardian University Ranking 2024
Sport and exercise science is about applying scientific principles to the promotion, maintenance and enhancement of sport and exercise related behaviours.
It is fast becoming one of the most popular subjects to study in the UK (and globally) at both undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Studying with us will offer you opportunities to transform your life, build great friendships, and have fun whilst doing it!
Each month, we invite expert guests to talk about topics related to health, performance and well-being.
We’ll help you gain the knowledge and skills you need for a career in the expanding sport and exercise and adventure markets.
Maximise your employability by gaining hands-on experience alongside teaching.
Gain real-life experience working abroad and develop additional professional qualifications in a range of areas.
"The course is designed to equip students with the skills to enter a sporting environment.
With Bangor being a research orientated university, it puts a lot of emphasis on developing research and critical thinking skills.
Bangor Sport offer indoor and outdoor facilities for a whole range of sport and fitness activities, including weight training, aerobic classes, athletics, indoor climbing, indoor cricket, tennis, squash, trampolining, football, rugby, hockey and much more.
Unusually for such a high ranked sport science department, all your facilities are easily accessible in one space.
Our teaching and lab buildings are all located on the Normal Site Campus helping to reduce your travel time and create a great community working and learning environment.
This is the access hub to the departments Physical Activity and Well-Being centre, together with the onsite leisure facilities, including two sports halls and a small strength and conditioning space.
You are now in the main corridor of the PAWB centre, where students have access to three separate teaching and research labs.
Here is where you get direct practical experience using the most up-to-date sport and exercise science equipment.
This regular hands-on experience helps set us apart from other top ranked sport science departments.
You’ll get real world practical experience using the equipment in the same way the department does when working with organisations to investigate neuroscience, psychophysiology, sport psychology, personality, and physiology to answer future employers’ questions and have real impact.
For example, how to measure exercise behaviour change?
How to accurately measure patients, potential talent, and world class athletes’ physiology to help drive positive change for them?
Or how to design and implement individualised pressure training programmes for high performance teams?
Incidentally, the departments individualised pressure training programme was recently implemented with the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) and directly helped the England Men’s teams’ win the World Cup.
It is both important for all students to have practical hands on experience and that we continue to sit in the UK’s top 5 list for Sport Science departments, the PAWB centre houses a number of separate teaching and research spaces.
Here is one specifically designed for health, pre- and rehab, and other aspects of medical based application of sport science knowledge.
In this teaching and research lab, the PAWB centre has a suite of S&C equipment, from free weights right through to treadmills that can work up to speeds faster than humans can typically run.
The use cases for this is vast from simple warm ups to high performance testing.
All the facilities are just a short walk apart and often just a quick hop down a corridor.
Everything is designed with your studies in mind.
We minimise travel challenges by housing your facilities in a simple to access space.
This is the main Sport Science building where you can access staff offices, lecture theatres, more labs, together with a fantastic view of the Menai Straits!
This is the larger of the two on site sports halls and contains full size basketball, 5 a side football, and netball courts, together with 4 badminton courts.
This is used by students both for recreation activities, but also directly in modules and classes for practical sessions and research purposes.
On site we have two sports halls.
In this, the smaller of the two, students and clubs can access the space for a variety of activities.
This is the main entrance of the George building.
As a grade II listed building you can see it has a lot more character and soul than the typically new glass fronted buildings you’ll encounter in other institutions.
On this wing of the George Building, you can access the two main teaching and lecture spaces.
In this lecture theatre, you’ll experience smaller group teaching and seminars.
These enable you to develop your learning and knowledge and offer a smaller forum where discussion and challenge take place.
This is the department's main lecture hall.
This is where you’ll experience the traditional teaching method of a university and interact with the staff to gain the core aspects of your sport and exercise science degree.
The George building is split over several levels.
Once up the stairs, you can access the staff offices and additional research and teaching labs.
The staff offices are in the same building as your lectures, and you won’t need a special card or code to access them.
This means you can schedule tutorials and discuss your studies directly with staff in a safe and friendly environment and on an ad-hoc basis.
The second floor houses another series of research and teaching labs where you have further access to world-class equipment.
In the first of the George building physiology labs, you’ll find hundreds of pieces of equipment that are used for a multitude of purposes, from taking and analysing blood through to manipulating exercise and performance environments.
The latter can be completed in this lab via the environmental chamber, where we can manipulate both room temperature (extreme heat to extreme cold) and humidity.
This helps investigate how extreme environments impact human performance, e.g., Firefighters, athletes, rescue, and military personnel.
Similar to the first of the two physiology labs in the George building, the octagonal houses hundreds of pieces of equipment, including an altitude (hypoxia) chamber.
It's just a short hop outside the Padarn labs and teaching spaces, where you’ll find the biochemistry, motion analysis, psychology, and motor control labs.
In Padarn's biochemistry and prep labs, you’ll have access to all the equipment necessary for collecting and analysing the bodies' ‘chemistry’.
Here, you can collect and analyse everything from hair samples through to blood, muscle tissue, and the body's cell structure.
This is an example of one of our 7 separate psychology and psychomotor control labs.
In these.
you have access to equipment at your fingertips, including multiple electroencephalogram (EEG) and electrophysiology (ERP), eye tracking, manipulandum’s, graphics tablets, balance boards and even Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and brain simulation.
All these will enable you to investigate and further your knowledge of sport and exercise science to a level that will stand you apart when you enter the workplace.
In the motion analysis lab, you’ll have access to a 12 camera Vicon passive tracking system and an Optotrac active marker tracking system performance.
Here you can really get to grips with developing your understanding of human movement to aid in your skill development surrounding performance analysis from the sports, health, and wider high-performance sectors.
In addition to the excellent facilities on the Normal site, just a 5-minute walk between Telford’s famous Menai suspension bridge and Stephenson’s noted and picturesque original railway bridge - Britannia - you’ll have access to Treborth.
This houses flood-lit 4G pitches and traditional grass pitches (football, rugby, hockey, even American football) together with a full-size athletics running track.
Whilst you can access these facilities for general sport and leisure, you’ll also experience practical classes here where you can put what you learn in the lecture theatre into a real-world setting.
Research and Impact in the School of Psychology and Sport Science
Sports Science Research Excellence:
All our staff are research active and this world-class research informs all our teaching.
We place a strong emphasis on the application of research to practice and you’ll undertake a supervised research experience during your degree.
This will help you follow a successful career as a Sport and Exercise professional as being able to identify relevant research questions, and having the skill set to conduct research to answers these questions, is highly valued by employers.
Your supervised research experience will help to nurture your skills whilst also allowing you to be mentored (in an area of your choice) by an established researcher, experienced in developing research-based practices that enable leading organisations to stay at the top of their ‘game’ (e.g., UK Sport, NHS, and the MOD).
We have expertise within the areas of:
During your degree you’ll showcase the results of your research experience at the Student Conference, which is acknowledged as a hallmark of our degree programmes by both our students and external examiners.
Working with our academic staff and presenting your research in this way will give you highly prized transferable skills such as being organised, effective time management, problem solving, positive interpersonal skills, analytical skills and critical thinking.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/mature-students:
As a Mature Student you may have other commitments and responsibilities and your academic and social approach to university may vary.
Take a look at where you can find dedicated support for you as a mature student, whilst you're studying at Bangor.
This is reflected in the fact that we were placed 6th in the UK for Student Support at the WhatUni?
Student Choice Awards 2019.
Here at Bangor we appreciate that Mature Students, or students with children, families or care responsibilities may have different needs to students who arrive here straight from school and so we have a dedicated Mature Student Advisor.
Having a personal tutor means there is always an academic member of staff you can turn to with any problems.
The Student Services Centre provides a professional support service for students.
At Bangor, we offer a wide range of self-catered accommodation, including standard or en-suite rooms.
All single first year single undergraduate students who apply to stay in university accommodation.
Each year we try to designate some rooms for students for whom peace and quiet is important.
Details of which hall has been designated as such will be on our website.
These may be suitable, though not exclusively, for mature students who often prefer a quieter environment.
You may arrive at Bangor as a mature student with commitments and responsibilities.
We appreciate that you may be relocating with your family or have dependants at home.
Find out more about how we support students with families and find more information about childcare, schools and the financial support on offer.
SUPPORT FOR STUDENTS WITH FAMILIES
The University does not own or manage any family accommodation.
However, students coming to Bangor with their families can search for suitable accommodation in the private sector with help from the Student Housing Office.
STUDENT HOUSING OFFICE

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/course_structure:
Some students want to specialise in one subject and choose to study a single honours degree.
However, if you want to keep your options open you can study two subjects by opting for a joint honours degree.
You can do this by taking half your modules from one subject and half from another.
This is possible with a variety of different subjects at Bangor.
If you choose to study a language as a joint honours degree your course may last for four years, with the third year being spent in an appropriate country.
To complete a degree course you will take modules (units of study) that add up to 360 credits over three years.
If you study full time you take 120 credits in each year of study.
The academic year is split into two semesters (terms).
The final weeks of each semester (term) are set aside to give you time to revise and sit exams.
If you’ve chosen a course with a placement year, the structure of the University-based study is the same but your placement will take place between the second and the third year.
You will learn most of the theory work in lectures.
They are normally presentations by academic staff given to groups of students studying the same subject.
Seminars are more informal teaching/discussion sessions in smaller groups and involve more interaction with the tutor.
In a tutorial you will meet with your tutor, either on your own or as a part of a small group.
You may also need to prepare work to discuss or present.
Some courses are more practical and involve workshops or laboratory work.
Practicals give you the opportunity to handle material described in the lectures, to use experimental techniques, and to make the connection between theory and practice.
Practicals often include project work.
You might also have the opportunity to undertake field work or visit relevant organisations or research establishments.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/professional-development-training:
As part of the highly acclaimed Business School at Bangor University, The Management Centre offers postgraduate and professional qualifications, bespoke programmes in the areas of management, leadership and finance, and training packages designed for continuous professional development.
For further information about Training at The Management Centre contact the Team on 01248 365 992 or email training@themanagementcentre.co.uk.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/distance-blended:
You can study at a distance (on-line only) or a ‘blended’ course where you can combine distance or e-learning with conventional face-to-face study, at some of our Schools.
Advanced HEMS Practice
PGCert - Taught - School of Health Sciences
Prevention, Population Health and Leadership
MSc - Taught - School of Health Sciences
PGDip - Taught - School of Health Sciences
Charted Banker
MBA - Taught - Bangor Business School
Agroforestry and Food Security
MSc - Taught - School of Environmental and Natural Sciences
Forestry
Tropical Forestry
Ageing and Dementia Studies
Professional Doctorate - Research - School of Health Sciences
MSc - Taught - School of Health Sciences
Philosophy and Religion
MRes - Research - School of History, Law and Social Sciences
Performance Psychology
MSc - Taught - School of Psychology and Sport Science

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/get-ready-for-university/personal-statement:
The Personal Statement is the most important part of the UCAS application - one that you will probably stress most about.
This is your time to show who you are and why you want to study the course.
A good personal statement should reflect your individuality, show your enthusiasm and commitment to the course, show admissions tutors that you are worth offering a place to and explain why the university should want you as a student.
Law student Dave and Law lecturer and Admissions Tutor Chaynee offer advice on how to write a winning Personal Statement.
The UCAS Personal Statement is a marketing tool for your interests, talents and accomplishments.
If you’re not invited for an interview, admissions tutors (the people who decide on who gets a place on their courses) rely on your statement when making their decision.
Every single personal statement is read!
You are competing against many other applicants and have to sell yourself.
It’s important to take care in considering what you want to say and how to say it.
Writing your UCAS Personal Statement can only be done properly when you are sure about what you want to do and why, so don’t start before you do.
Look at the subject and the course details to get a clearer picture of what studying those courses will involve and remember that you can always ring Admissions Tutors if you have any questions.
Tutors like well-rounded, responsible individuals, with a range of interests and well-organised enough to cope with university-level study.
They're looking for motivation and potential and expect the statement to relate to your choice of course.
Tutors will read hundreds of personal statements, many of which are dull, so make yours interesting!
When you're writing your UCAS personal statement you should explain why you want to study that subject and give specific reasons for your interest in the course.
Show evidence of research and background reading and make it clear that you’re prepared for studying the course - especially if it is a vocational course or a subject that you haven't studied before.
What are your career plans for when you finish the course?
Include information about any relevant job, work placement or voluntary experience – especially if it’s helped you develop skills and give experience that you wouldn't get through school or college.
Have you attended any summer schools or related lectures?
If you’re applying for different subjects on the same form, you’ll need to explain why that is, otherwise the universities might feel that you haven’t made up your mind.
Most admissions tutors want to know more about you than just your academic qualifications, they love students who put themselves out to achieve something and enjoy a life outside their studies - i.e.
they want to see what makes you tick!
Include any hobbies/interests you may have and, if possible, relate them to how they will make you a better student, and mention any involvement with any other extracurricular groups e.g., the Duke of Edinburgh Award.
If possible, include anything which shows that you have an intelligent interest in the world.
Mention any positions of responsibility, evidence of self-motivation and any hurdles you’ve had to overcome and use these to show your character and your strengths.
If you’re planning to take a gap year, explain why.
The maximum size of your UCAS personal statement is 47 lines – that’s around 500-550 words, size 12 font.
The maximum number of characters is 4000, and this includes spaces.
Your reason for wanting to study your chosen course is the first thing tutors will look for and will usually be the opening part of a statement.
BUT - Don’t start with “I’ve always wanted to study…”
It is important to hook the reader and grab the attention of the Admissions Tutor from the start.
If you have a unique selling point, this is where it should be mentioned.
Be personal and positive - and don't be bland.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international/exchanges:
For students coming to Bangor from another University as an exchange or Erasmus+ student.
For Bangor University students wishing to study or work abroad during their degree.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergrad/defer:
If you want to take a year out (Gap Year) before you start university, to see a bit of the world, take up volunteering or maybe just to have a break from the books – we can offer you deferred entry for most of our courses.
You can apply for deferred entry on your UCAS application form or you can request it once an offer has been made and we’ll consider your request.
In most cases, as long as you meet the conditions of your offer by the end of August, we’ll save you a place for the following year.
If you do accept a place for deferred entry, you won’t be able to reapply the following year, unless you withdraw your original application by the end of September.
For more information about Gap Years, why not visit the Great Gap Years website (External site).

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/undergrad/sponsored:
If you’re employed in industry and hope that your employer will sponsor you, you’ll need to apply through UCAS in the normal way.
But, if you only want to apply to Bangor University, you or your employer can contact us direct in the first instance to find out more.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/eu-students:
The UK Government has announced that it will cease providing support for EU nationals and their family members after the end of the EU transition period in December 2020.
In line with this and reflecting the fact that student finance arrangements involve complex inter-dependencies with rules set by the UK Treasury, the Welsh Government will cease providing equivalent support for EU nationals and their family members as for Welsh domiciled students.
Students who begin a course of higher or further education on or after 1 August 2021 will not be eligible for support or, in the case of higher education courses, home fee status.
Students who have already started or who start courses before 1 August 2021 will continue to be eligible for support and home fee status for the duration of their course.
The Welsh Government intends to provide support for those who will benefit from citizens’ rights (‘Settled Status’) under the EU Withdrawal Agreement.
Full details of the 2021/22 Tuition Fees for EU Student can be found here.
Visit this link for more information about the EU Scholarship.
Further information about our bursaries and scholarships.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/international/fees:
Refer to the table below for the annual tuition fees for international applicants, applicable for both September and January intakes.
In addition, all students are expected to meet general living costs such as accommodation, food, books, clothing etc.
Although it is nearly impossible to provide an exact figure as all students are different and have different lifestyles, but an estimate about the Living Costs at Bangor can be found here .
The table below shows the tuition fees per year for our Undergraduate programs.
Note for BUIC student progression fees: please refer to Foundation and Pre-Masters courses further down.
* includes placement fee
If you opt to undertake an International Experience Year or a Placement Year as part of your degree programme then you will be charged the following tuition fee for that year:
International Experience Year: £ 1,430 Placement Year: £1,907
Please check the relevant course pages or check with your academic school for details of any additional compulsory costs e.g.
field trips, equipment, core text books.
The table below shows the tuition fees per year for our Postgraduate programs.
Note for BUIC student progression fees: please refer to Foundation and Pre-Masters courses further down..
incl.
Consumer and Digital Marketing Analytics & Business and Marketing
* Unless otherwise stated ** Includes bench fee of £500 *** Includes bench fee of £1500 **** Includes bench fee of £5000 ^ Includes placement fee ^^ (inclusive of 2 night residential event)
NB Study Abroad equal to subject area fees
2025 entry (per year fees)
~ Part-time Postgraduate Research tuition fee is 50% of the full-time Postgraduate Research tuition fee per annum
* Unless otherwise stated ** Includes bench fee of £2,000 *** Includes bench fee of £5,000
^ Please note, admission is open throughout the year for Research programs.
Tuition fees listed above for 2024 entry will be applicable if you start your studies anytime before 31 August 2025.
For students starting their studies anywhere between 01 September 2025 to 31 August 2026, the tuition fees for '2025 entry' will be applicable.
Click here for the Tuition Fee details of Foundation and Pre-Masters courses offered by Bangor University International College.
MSc Tropical Forestry
MSc A groforestry and Food Security MSc Forestry MSc Environmental Forestry
*International students may be eligible for a £1,500 part-funded scholarship off the full programme fee.
For further information on the above courses click here .
The tuition fees listed above are only for the international applicants (all countries except the UK and Ireland).
Applicants from the UK and Ireland can find details of Home Tuition Fee rates here .

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentservices/moneyadvice/pt.php.en:
Eligible part-time students who are ordinarily resident in Wales can apply for a fee loan.
The fee loan is not means-tested.
Support for Living Costs available to part time student commencing their studies in 2025
The following table will help you determine your approximate entitlement :
Course intensity is the time you’ll study compared to an equivalent full time course.
For example a full time course is 3 years an equivalent part time could take up to 6 years.
You can apply on-line or by downloading an application from the Student Finance Wales website: www.studentfinancewales.co.uk .
The application portal and application forms will be available from March 2024.
If you have previously studied a higher education course, your entitlement to student finance may be affected.
We recommend that you contact Student Finance Wales: www.studentfinancewales.co.uk or the Money Support Unit here at Bangor or for further information and advice as soon as you decide to apply to University.
Part-time students with disabilities, long-term health conditions or specific learning difficulties, including distance learning students who are studying at least 25% of a full-time course, may be able to get Disabled Students’ Allowances (DSA).
For further information, support and advice you can contact our Disability Service .
Please visit the Students with Families webpage for specific funding information .
To apply for the extra financial help you will be sent the appropriate forms by Student Finance Wales or they can be downloaded from their website: www.studentfinancewales.co.uk .

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentfinance/work:
Bangor TARGETconnect is a dedicated student employment bureau that advertises jobs and work experience opportunities, including local part time and casual work.
You can search and apply for opportunities, and set up email alerts based on your requirements.
Our Employability Service deliver regular webinars and workshops offering information and advice regarding searching finding and applying for part time/casual work, as well as many other topics – if you are a current student, you can find out more on the Employability Hub.
You can also make an appointment to speak to an Employability Adviser if you would like support with improving your CV and/or job applications.
You’re welcome to contact the Service: careers@bangor.ac.uk for more information.
Our Get Ready for University videos have useful tips on how to manage your finances as a student.
Our vlogger Kaiya chats with her flatmate Will about what's it like to work part-time as well as studying at university.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/finance-services/payments/home:
PAYMENT OF FEES - TUITION AND HALLS 2025/26
All tuition fees and hall fees are payable in full prior to completing the registration process, unless you elect to pay your fees by our payment plan relevant to your student status to spread the cost evenly throughout the academic year.
If you have applied for a tuition fee loan to cover your tuition fee costs, this will be paid directly to the University.
However, you will need to make arrangements with the University directly to pay any accommodation costs (Hall fees)
You may pay by either of the following methods:
Payment Plan
Your payment plan will take payment by recurring debit/credit card.
To set up your payment plan you must complete the instruction via the online registration process.
You will be informed when the online registration is open.
We will ask you to provide an email address when setting up the plan and notification of the payment will be sent to this email 5 days prior to each payment date.
Postgraduate Students:  12 Instalments – Monthly, October 25 to September 26 - 11th of each month
Postgraduate Students:  3 Instalments - October, January and April - 09/10/25, 15/01/26 and 23/04/26
Postgraduate Students:  7 Instalments - October to April monthly, last day of the month
Undergraduate Students: 3 Instalments - October, January and April - 09/10/25, 15/01/26 and 23/04/26
Undergraduate Students:  7 Instalments - October to April monthly , last day of the month
If you prefer to pay your tuition and hall fees in one lump sum you may also do so when you arrive in Bangor.
Please see Registration for details of the enrolment and registration arrangements for your course.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/finance-services/payments/international:
PAYMENT OF FEES - TUITION AND HALLS 2025/2026
Most International Students who have been accepted to study at Bangor University and who require a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) Letter will be required to pay a deposit as specified in their offer letter of Admission.
The deposit will be non-refundable except in certain cases (e.g.
certified illness).
This deposit will be offset against the students' first year tuition fee.
Tuition fees can be paid in full before or during the Registration process (please see Registration for details of the enrolment and registration arrangements for your course) or can be paid via the instalment option.
Government sponsored students, US and Canadian loan students and Bangor University graduates do not have to make a deposit payment.
Full payment can be made prior to or at registration.
Students have the option to pay by three, six or nine instalments, depending on your student status.
Postgraduate Students:  3 Instalments – 50% on or before last date permitted to register; 25% 31/01/2026; 25% 30/04/2026
Postgraduate Students:  9 Instalments - 50% on or before last date permitted to register; 8 equal monthly instalments from 31/01/2026 to 31/08/2026
Undergraduate Students: 3 Instalments – 50% on or before last date permitted to register; 25% 31/01/2026; 25% 30/04/2026
Undergraduate Students: 6 Instalments - 50% on or before last date permitted to register; 6 equal monthly instalments from 31/01/2026 to 31/05/2026
Students opting for an instalment plan can make additional payments on their account at any time but will need to ensure their plan is kept up to date.
For entry onto the Pre-Sessional Course, fees must be paid in full, either in advance or at ELCOS programme registration.
No instalment plan is available.
The University reserves the right to charge a 1% monthly interest on any late payment after the last registration date.
The late payment interest charge may also apply to instalments.
Accommodation fees can also be paid in full (see https://www.bangor.ac.uk/international/future/payment ) or by instalments using recurring credit/debit card as part of the online registration process.
Postgraduate Students:  12 Instalments – Monthly October 2025 to September 2026 on 11th of the month
Postgraduate Students:  7 Instalments - Monthly October to April , last day of the month
Undergraduate Students: 3 Instalments - October, January and May - 09/10/25, 15/01/26 and 23/04/26
Undergraduate Students:  7 Instalments - Monthly October to April , last day of the month
Students have the option to pay by three or nine instalments.
Postgraduate Students: 3 instalments - 50% on or before last date permitted to register; 25% 30/04/2026; 25% 31/07/2026
Postgraduate Students: 9 instalments – 50% on or before last date permitted to register; 8 equal monthly instalments from 30/04/2026 to 30/11/2026
Bangor University has partnered with Flywire to accept payments from international students worldwide.
Easily and securely make education payments in your own currency, using local payment methods from the safety and convenience of your home.
With real-time tracking and Around-the-clock multilingual support, millions of students and families around the world trust Flywire for payment processing.
DID YOU KNOW?
● Flywire is the global market leader for education payments, the Trusted Choice of millions of students, thousands of institutions and hundreds or recruitment agents and partners worldwide.
● Flywire offers convenient payment options from over 240 countries and territories, in more than 140+ currencies.
● Flywire supports a variety of local payment methods including bank transfers, credit cards, e-wallets and more.
● Flywire guarantees payment as soon as funds are received in any of our accounts around the world.
● Flywire offers peace of mind by providing real-time payment tracking every step of the way through email, in-app and text alerts.
● Flywire offers Around-the-clock multilingual support via email, phone or live chat.
● Flywire provides a secure and streamlined refunding process with automatic tracking notifications.
● Flywire’s internal controls ensure that funds are secure and protected against fraud.
● Flywire provides a Best Price Guarantee: if you find a better exchange rate at your bank within two hours of booking a local currency bank transfer with Flywire and send us a quote from your bank, we will match it.
An online payment management system (TransferMate) is available at Bangor University to facilitate payment of various fees including deposits, tuition fees, English language course fees and accommodation fees in your local currency at your local bank.
Group payment by our official providers or agents is also possible.
Further information can be found at:
https://www.bangor.ac.uk/international/future/payment
Students are also able to pay fees through a bank transfer using the details below:
Please quote your full name and student number when making the transfer and please email remittance@bangor.ac.uk (to advise the transfer amount, date and student number).
Please note that failure to pay your fees may result in the termination of your registration
If you anticipate any difficulty paying your fees you should contact the Finance Office as soon as possible.
The University will levy a penalty charge for a late payment but we are keen to ensure that you avoid such charges and in order to help you the University has a specialist adviser in the Money Support Unit moneysupport@bangor.ac.uk (01248 383637).
For further information please contact the Finance Office by emailing feepayment@bangor.ac.uk or by telephone on 01248 382055 between 10.00-12.30 and 1.30-4.00 Monday to Friday.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentservices/moneyadvice/wales.php.en:
Student finance is usually paid in three instalments, directly into your bank account.
If you have previously studied a higher education course (HNC, HND etc) , your entitlement to student finance may be affected.
We recommend that you contact Student Finance Wales: www.studentfinancewales.co.uk or the Money Support Unit or for further information and advice as soon as you decide to apply to University.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentservices/moneyadvice/england.php.en:
If you have previously studied a higher education course (HNC, NHD etc) , your entitlement to student finance may be affected.
We recommend that you contact Student Finance England Student Finance England or the Money Support Unit at Bangor University for further details as soon as you have decided to apply to University.
https://www.bangor.ac.uk/students-with-families
Student Finance England Money Support Unit Welfare Benefits

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentservices/moneyadvice/scotland.php.en:
The following information will give you an indication of your entitlement.
(if you are a dependent student - Aged under 25 at the start of the course)
Taxable Household income
Bursary
Loan
Total Award
£0 to £20,999
£2,000
£9,400
£11,400
£21,000 to £23,999
£1,125
£10,525
£24,000 to £33,999
£500
£9,900
£34,000 and above
£0
£8,400
(if you are a independent student - Aged 25 or older, married or self - supporting at the start of the course)
£1,000
£10,400
Repayment of Maintenance and Tuition Fee Loans
We recommend that you contact Student  Award Agency Scotland or the Money Support Unit here at Bangor University

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentservices/moneyadvice/northernireland.php.en:
The following information will give you an indication of your entitlement for the 2024-25 academic year
Your living arrangements during term-time
Maximum Maintenance Loan available
Living in your own home and studying outside London
£6,776
Household Income
Maintenance Loan available - Living away from home and studying outside London
£19,203
£9,541
For further information: A guide for Financial support for Full Time student in HE .
If you have studied a course of higher education in the past (HNC, NHD etc), your entitlement to tuition fee and grant and loans may be affected.
Contact Student Finance Northern Ireland or the Money Support Unit for further information.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentservices/moneyadvice/EU.php.en:
The UK Government has announced that it will cease providing support for EU nationals and their family members after the end of the EU transition period.
In line with this, the Welsh Government will cease providing equivalent support for EU nationals and their family members as for Welsh domiciled students.
Students who begin a course of higher or further education on or after 1 August 2021 will NOT be eligible for support or, in the case of higher education courses, home fee status.
New EU students/applicants should refer to the International Education Centre website for details of international tuition fees and scholarship opportunities.
Learn more by visiting Student Finance Wales.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/studentservices/moneyadvice/NHS.php.en:
The NHS Bursary package differs from the support available to non-NHS students.
To qualify for NHS financial support:
To qualify for NHS financial support, students must be accepted on one of the following courses:
Tuition Fee Support for students who opt for NHS Wales funding:
The following financial support is available from NHS Wales:
2025/26 Starters Sept 2025 &    March 2026
2024/25 Starters Sept 2024 &    March 2025
Elsewhere rate:
£11,345
£11,150
Parental Home rate:
£9,480
£9,315
Apply on-line or download a paper PN1 form from: www.studentfinancewales.co.uk
£2,753
£2,670
Students Living in Wales
Students Living in England
Students can also apply for a non-means tested Maintenance Loan from their student funding organisation:
In addition, students can apply for a number of additional allowances if they meet specific criteria.
Students going back to university to study for a second degree will be eligible to apply for NHS financial support (tuition fee funding and a means-tested bursary) and a reduced maintenance loan.
Students must be accepted to study in one of the above undergraduate courses (see the 'Who can apply?' section at the top of this page).
Students may also be able to receive assistance with clinical /practice placement costs, which are means tested.
Students should contact their university for advice on how to claim clinical/practice placement costs.
Students with a disability and who need extra help or equipment to help complete their course may be able to receive assistance under the Disabled Students’ Allowance.
Students should contact their university in the first instance for advice on how to claim Disabled Students’ Allowance.
Visit School of Healthcare Sciences or email hcsbursaryqueries@bangor.ac.uk .
NHS Wales Student Awards Unit (The NHS Wales Student Award Unit implements the NHS Wales Bursary Schemes, which provides  funding for healthcare students on NHS funded courses in Wales).

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/canolfan-bedwyr/ccc:
The Coleg's aim is to build a Welsh and bilingual education and training system which is open to everyone and to develop a bilingual workforce for Wales.
The Branch’s role is to:
The Branch maintains a staff e-mail list for any matters concerning the Welsh language provision at Bangor.
To subscribe to this list, please send a message to Emily Davies, Branch Officer.
"Hello everyone!
I'm Emily Davies, and I'm the Bangor University Branch Officer of the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol.
I'm a former student of Bangor University.
I graduated with a degree in Sociology and Social Policy back in 2018, so it's nice to be back here!
I grew up in a non-Welsh speaking household and learned Welsh mainly through the education system.
Undertaking a Welsh medium higher education course was a natural choice for me.
I hope this experience will help me in my role."
Bangor University offers many opportunities for students who wish to study through the medium of Welsh.
In collaboration with the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, Bangor provides more modules and courses through the medium of Welsh than any other university.
Bangor also has the highest number of students studying through the medium of Welsh.
The Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol's course finder will give you an indication to what extent you can study your course in Welsh.
Click the link below to read about the many benefits of studying through the medium of Welsh and to find out which modules are offered through the medium of Welsh or bilingually.
The Coleg awards several scholarships to students who study specific courses either partly, or wholly, through the medium of Welsh.
Full details of the scholarships can be found on the Coleg's website .
The Main Scholarships are worth £3000, and are available to students who will be studying 80 credits of their course each year through the medium of Welsh and who successfully undertake Bangor University's entrance examination.
The Incentive Scholarships are worth £1500, and are available to students who will be studying 40 credits of their course each year in any subject where it is possible to do so through the medium of Welsh.
Membership of the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol is free of charge and open to anyone.
There are four categories of membership:
Anyone who joins as a university student or staff member will also become a member of the Bangor University Branch.
Join the Coleg Cymraeg Cene dlaethol
All students who are members of the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol have the opportunity to apply for the Welsh Language Skills Certificate.
The certificate is a way of showing employers that the student's Welsh language skills are of a recognized level, and that they can communicate and write confidently in Welsh.
In order to gain the certificate, students have to complete and pass:
Language support sessions are available to anyone who wishes to apply for the Certificate.
Support at Bangor is provided by the language tutors at Canolfan Bedwyr.
Any student can apply for the Certificate.
The Porth is a collaborative e-learning platform.
It was set up in 2009 to encourage universities to share their Welsh-medium teaching resources, and has grown to be a focal point for studying and teaching through the medium of Welsh at universities in Wales.
It is based on Blackboard, and is accessible to staff and students in all Welsh universities.
It includes:
Although the Porth includes a number of open resources, you will need to register as a user to gain access to some resources (e.g.
certain modules).
The registration process is straightforward - just follow the instructions on the Porth's home page .
Go to Porth
@CangenBangor
Emily Davies, Swyddog Cangen y Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, Canolfan Bedwyr, Prifysgol Bangor, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DG.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/cymorthcymraeg/geirfa_myfyrwyr.php.en:
Words and Phrases
Greeting
Socialise
Dates/Numbers
Learning
University's Events
Job Titles, Buildings and Departments
Local Area
Canolfan Bedwyr

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/careers-and-employability:
Whether it is exploring your career options, undertaking work experience, finding a graduate job, or setting up your own business, we are here to help you develop your employability and realise your career ambitions.
Access our resources and find out how you can connect with us.
For resources and information
For appointments, events and opportunities
Who we are, what we do and how to contact us
Supporting you after Graduation
How we can support and work with you
What to expect and how to prepare
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
LinkedIn
Neuadd Rathbone, College Road, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 2DF
Please see the detailed instructions on how to find us below.
Our offices at Neuadd Rathbone can be accessed via College Road or Love Lane.
College Road Entrance: ( what3words - ///fittingly.reclusive.sofa )
Love Lane Entrance: ( what3words - ///shaped.passively.evenings )

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/skills-and-employability/new-students.php.en:
The Careers and Employability Team here at Bangor are on hand to provide information, inspiration, resources, advice and guidance to our students and graduates, to help develop their employability and confidence, and explore, pursue and realise their career aspirations, whatever they may be!
The Bangor University community has a very strong focus on employability, from our academic programmes, to our clubs and societies, opportunities, events and initiatives.
Our team support and collaborate with staff and students, the Students’ Union, alumni, graduate employers, entrepreneurs, business mentors and volunteer organisations to name a few!
We host a wealth of resources on our Employability Hub , including online workshops, interactive tools, student and employer videos, handouts and useful links, as well as being the home of our Employability Award.
We deliver subject-specific information sessions in the academic timetable , providing information and signposting on careers relevant to your degree subject.
We run workshops and events online and on campus , and support our various careers fairs throughout the year.
Our Employability Advisers can provide guidance on all matters of career exploration, research and management, and offer support with CV and application feedback, interview preparation and much more.
If you are keen to search and apply for part-time work before coming to Bangor, you can download our Finding Part Time / Vacation Work Handout.
Students and Graduates can use their CareerConnect account to search for part time work, internships, placements and other work experience opportunities ,and local, national and overseas graduate jobs .
Our Undergraduate Internship Scheme offers all undergraduate students the opportunity to apply for a paid 80 hour internship hosted by a University department / academic school – an opportunity to gain valuable work experience and build confidence and contacts.
Our staff support students to find, apply and prepare for sandwich and shorter placements , if they decide to include a placement as part of their degree programme.
The Work Experience Support  Team offer students experiencing barriers to employment one-to-one support in exploring, finding and completing work tasters and work experience, helping them develop their experience and their confidence.
We encourage and enable our students and graduates to explore self-employment and entrepreneurship through workshops, events, competitions and initiatives, and can offer business mentoring and start-up advice.
Our Bangor Employability Award incorporates a comprehensive ‘professional preparation’ course, and gives formal recognition of all extra-curricular activities such as part time work, clubs and societies, volunteering and participating in events and other initiatives.
Danial, a recent BU graduate, coming back to talk about life at, and after Bangor.
You can keep up to date about our services and what we are up to by following us on social media:
If you’d like more information or would like an online demo of our password protected services such as the Employability Hub, Bangor TARGETconnect and Bangor Employability Award, we would love to hear from you – you can contact us at careers@bangor.ac.uk or follow and connect with us on social media:
Facebook : @PBcyflogadwyedd / @BUemployability Twitter: @PBcyflogadwyedd / @BUemployabilit y Instagram: @pbcyflogadwyedd / @buemployability LinkedIn: Cyflogadwyedd Prifysgol Bangor / Bangor University Employability
Updated August 2023

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/alumni/built-2024:
Conceived by alumnus Kailesh Karavadra and led by Dr Andy Goodman, senior lecturer in design, the BUILT programme invites students to form interdisciplinary teams who are tasked with devising innovative solutions to a food-based challenge.
This hands-on experience is intended to inspire and educate students along the entrepreneurial path, from the first spark of an idea informed by research and design to generating a marketable prototype.
Central to this experience, alumni mentors have shared essential insights and support helping the teams to nurture their emerging ideas and navigate entrepreneurial complexities.
The 2024 programme culminated on 2 May with a grand finale in which teams presented their solutions to an independent judging panel.
The winning team, Team Tatws, received the £10,000 Mabel Evans Award for Innovation donated by alumnus Jonathan Wright (1999, Social Policy/Criminology & Criminal Justice) in memory of his great-grandmother and a further £5,000 was awarded to the runners up, thanks to alumni donations to the Development and Alumni Relations Office-administered Bangor Fund.
Bangor University is also grateful to Succession Wealth for sponsoring the evening.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/accounting-banking-and-finance:
Explore our Postgraduate Taught Courses
Our postgraduate degree programmes in Accounting, Banking and Finance address a wide range of high-profile issues affecting consumers, companies, financial institutions and the public sector.
You will learn about influential current themes including financial technology, governance and stakeholders, corporate communications, risk analytics, sustainable investing and international business.
Our academic staff are passionate about key questions affecting modern economies such as: What are the drivers of firms’ profitability and growth?
Why do multinational corporations report huge profits yet pay very low taxes?
Is there a link between firms’ profits and share prices?
In addressing such questions, we link theory, practice and research evidence to provide you with a deep understanding of the direction of global developments which will affect your future careers.
The recent Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2023 saw Bangor Business School achieve excellent results.
Business and Management was ranked 3rd (out of 85) for the Overall measure and 4th (out of 84) for the Teaching measure.
Student support also shone through with the school coming 4th (out of 71) for the support measure.
We offer a wide range of courses at postgraduate level.
Find out about the course options in this subject area.
Many of our degree programmes provide the opportunity to follow the CFA (Chartered Financial Analyst) specialist pathway and acquire the skills to complete the CFA Level 1 examination (for both September-intake and January-intake students).
The CFA has become the most respected and recognised professional qualification in finance in the world.
Students undertaking this pathway will take a module titled Financial Research & CFA Series during the summer period.
Students will attend research seminars in June to be followed by specialist training for the Level 1 CFA exam.
The teaching will include two days of Research Seminars in June and five two-day blocks of training, plus an additional two-block of revision provided across July and August.
Assessments will follow the seminars and the CFA training.
No additional fees are charged for students undertaking this pathway.
However, as a logical progression from the training, students will be encouraged to enrol with the CFA Institute and register for the professional examination after graduation.
You will be able to register on this CFA pathway after arrival in Bangor.
If you wish to make any enquiries in advance, please contact owain.apgwilym@bangor.ac.uk .
Graduating from Bangor University was a transformative experience for me both professionally and personally.
The best thing about studying was the teaching staff who were extremely welcoming and supportive.
I was very glad I chose Bangor University since I gained a lot of different experiences, learned numerous new skills, and found my future employment direction.
I loved studying at Bangor, it’s a wonderful University set within a beautiful part of North Wales.
The modules were interesting, the staff members were supportive, and the opportunities were endless!
In addition to gaining a job role within my Degree subject, I have gained and strengthened so many other employability skills through the opportunities that the Business School provided.
I selected Bangor Business School as it is ranked high in Banking and Finance studies.
The school’s quality of teaching is outstanding and focuses on a curriculum which is very close to industry developments.
Moreover, the location of the Bangor University is stunning that was one of the major factors that lead me to choose the University for my Postgraduate studies.
We are very proud of the teaching and learning environment at Bangor Business School.
We have invested heavily in teaching innovation, technological support, pastoral care and the student experience.
Our strong performance on the global stage is testament to our commitment to providing a challenging and rigorous experience for all our students.
Our postgraduate programmes in Accounting, Banking and Finance deliver highly valued knowledge and transferable skills which prepare you for a very wide range of potential careers.
You are exposed to a range of Accounting and Finance tools and techniques along with a rigorous academic foundation.
We offer a range of alternative summer projects within the taught programmes, which provides the potential for you to tailor your dissertation work towards your specific career aims.
The skills developed within these programmes are immediately applicable when you resume your career path.
At Bangor Business School, we pride ourselves in our research excellence, and we disseminate this through teaching and high-quality international publications.
Our new podcast series sees our academics take on topical issues, discuss their cutting-edge research and share their insights with you.
We'll be dropping new episodes throughout the year, so make sure to follow and subscribe.
You can enjoy teaching of a high standard delivered by true experts in their field.
Take a look at our staff profiles to find out more.
Our graduates progress to employment in the private and public sectors, in international financial markets and central banks or in local and multinational businesses.
On leaving Bangor, our graduates are well prepared for opportunities of stimulating and rewarding future employment.
Our postgraduate taught programmes in Accounting, Banking and Finance are recognised by highly respected institutes including the Chartered Banker Institute (CBI) and Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
Our Chartered Banker MBA is a unique global qualification combining academic rigour with professional recognition.
We also offer pathways to prepare graduates for the globally recognised Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exams.
These relationships with the professional world of finance involve huge benefits that will allow you to leap ahead in your career.
Our programmes are oriented towards preparing students for the expectations of employers in the global accounting and banking sectors and in international financial markets.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/applied-innovation-design:
POSTGRADUATE TAUGHT SUBJECT AREA
What is design innovation?
Is it…
If you said yes to one or more of these, you are a future innovation designer!
Design is about making your imagination a reality.
Designers come from different backgrounds, some have creative skills, some have technical skills, but all are visionaries who are dedicated.
It encompasses a wide range of careers for creative people who want to problem solve, innovate and change the world.
Design thinking can be employed to change the world.
Our Applied Innovation Design course offers a pathway for individuals who wish to lead innovation through creativity and applied design thinking, in a variety of related industries.
The course is designed to offer advanced study in innovation design, with an emphasis on application of creativity and innovation tools, alongside the skills needed to lead, collaborate and facilitate in areas which require innovation.
The Masters in Applied Innovation Design is intended to enhance your career prospects and opportunities, whilst offering the flexibility to adapt the course to your own area or industry of interest.
Students may choose to study either full or part-time, which may include studying alongside employment in a related role.
Students graduating from the Masters course will be able to pursue leadership, managerial and practitioner roles in design related areas in a range of industries, as well as pursue entrepreneurial avenues.
[0:03] So on this course we can actually work with companies, industries...That Bangor University is offering a course which actually allowed me to work with an actual industrial problem [0:12] I did my Bachelor's degree in Mechanical Engineering at an University in India so I'm currently doing my second MSc in in Applied Innovation Design.
[0:20] I would say I've developed myself a lot after coming to this course.
I've developed my CAD skills, the design software skills, my finite analysis and also the thinking process.
[0:33] This course actually taught me how to think how to approach a problem and the lecturers!
Other universities if you want to go and meet lecturers or professors you have to send them an email you have to ask for permission.
[0:46] Here you just have to you just have to come in and then you can meet them whenever you want and then like they'll talk to you like more than one hour explaining very clearly what you need to do what you should not do I've never found it in any any of the previous degree I've done yeah it's completely different.
[1:04] In the last 6 months I took two projects in two different industries - the first project is with a company called International Safety Components.
They are based in Bangor so they are a safety equipment manufacturing company.
[1:16] The project that that I'm currently doing is with a company called Key Optic.
Key Optic is is a military based company but now they want to expand into commercial market so the the first product they want to launch is a thermal image camera so I am currently designing a concept design for the for them and we actually want to design a product for firefighters.
[1:36]  So now we are designing a thermal image camera for firefighters.
So how this goes actually helped me in in securing a job...
As I said earlier, at the group stage we have to work with other people we, have to work with strangers, to come up with a solution for the problem like in this course, in this Applied Innovation Design course, we actually have some of the tasks like that, so that's that really helped me in the group stage and in the interview stage.
[2:06] And the presentation stage they almost focused on the strategy of the company so I've done the strategy course - it actually helped me to prepare for that presentation and the interview.
[0:04] After I finished my levels I went to  Bangor University to study Product Design, during those three years we worked on various  projects, live projects with real companies.
[0:12] Before graduating then I got the offer to come and  work here at 5th wheel from one of my lecturers, went for an interview and got the job luckily and  then after further discussions then the company offered to sponsor the Master's course which  obviously was a great bonus [Music] [0:29] So, 5th wheel is a family based company in Rhuallt North  Wales.
We manufacture electric caravans, touring  caravans.
Caravans are exported all across Europe,  New Zealand, Australia.
[0:40] It's grown massively over the years.
The Master's course allowed me to bring  the skills I already had but take the next step  and bringing kind of maybe a more managerial side  as well.
You know, design thinking is it kind of changes your perspective of how you look at things where maybe before I would just do a task in one [0:55] way but now I see kind of variations of different  ways to do it.
I work here you know Monday to  Thursday and then on the Friday I'm in University  learning and then expanding all my skills.
There's  obviously that jump from University life to  working life.
The company here, 5th wheel, made me feel comfortable instantly.
I'm a Welsh  first speaker - being able to speak through medium of Welsh was always a bonus and comfortable  thing for me supported by all the lecturers.
[1:18] They've got so much vast expertise in so many  different industries, you know and bringing those together, yeah, it's like the dream thing really.
You're always looking for talented people to join the business that's the big thing trying to find  local talent especially so when you bring someone in that's that's that's got that talent you want  to try and keep encouraging them and helping them [1:38] develop even more.
The culmination of Ciron's  work came into looking at GRP mouldings and  working with GRP, bringing manufacturing in-house.
In all fairness he actually has been paramount to  the success of that as a project, especially with  the design thinking side of things, you know, he's [1:51] done a course on innovation and I'm starting to  see that innovative thinking in how he approaches  tasks, how he reports to us and how he he talks  about the things that he's found and he's been  really instrumental in developing a design process  that we've used now across all the models.
When  you look at what he can do and what he can bring  to the business it's a two-way thing -we've got [2:12] to help him and he's got to work with us and bring  that talent and show what he can do to us as well.
I say the highlight of the course for me was  the kind of the last module which was the  dissertation or the artefact and reports.
In  that kind of module I got the opportunity to [2:27] kind of work on something I wanted to work on but  as well this, it kind of fitted with the company  I was working for.
Thank you to 5th wheel, I  could work and concentrate on what I want to  do and also develop the company's needs.
In  that module I learned so much new skills you know thanks again to the lecturers, you know  that transition from theory to practical was [2:45] really nice.
I think the main advice is to kind  of look around first, kind of do your research, don't stick to one place or one idea  first you know we've got plenty of time,  don't rush and there's so many opportunities  locally or maybe further away in the UK [Music].
You can enjoy teaching of a high standard delivered by true experts in their field.
Our research is continuously embedded in our live briefs and the outcomes become an integral part of new product development and innovation processes within companies.
These applied and real world experiences have resulted in a number of our students producing successful products with our partner companies.
Have a look at our video case studies.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/applied-psychology:
Our research (85% rated as world-leading or internationally excellent in the recent REF exercise) feeds directly into our teaching, ensuring a vibrant learning experience with academics with an international reputation in their specialist area.
Psychology is the scientific study of how people behave, feel, think and learn.
Applied psychology is the use of psychological methods and findings of scientific psychology to solve practical problems of human and animal behaviour and experience.
Applied researchers study not only how and why people function, using a variety of cutting-edge techniques, but also focus on how the research can be applied to influence behaviours, at an individual, organisational or societal level.
Applied psychology as a science and as a profession makes a difference to real people in the real world and has high levels of impact in a wide range of areas, including:
Applied psychology is not afraid to tackle the big issues facing humankind in the 21 st Century.
Applied psychologists work in a variety of settings, including research environments, where they treat patients while simultaneously gathering data to analyse and draw conclusions for publication.
Others work on healthcare teams, in schools, clinics, marketing, human resources or national bodies, particularly those with a focus on behaviour change.
We offer a wide range of courses in applied psychology subjects.
All of them share the goal of translating psychological research into real life actions.
Rather than just testing abstract theories in the lab, you will look to implement and test theories in everyday settings, with the purpose of making a difference in people’s lives or changing how organisations operate.
At Bangor you can focus your study of applied psychology in a number of areas:
Our MSc in Counselling at Bangor University aims to prepare you to take an active role as a member of the professional counselling/ psychotherapy community.
This course explores a range of psychological approaches and therapeutic methods to provide holistic training in adult counselling.
On graduating with a master's degree in an area of applied psychology, there are a range of career options available including:
Beyond directly related careers such as these the key skills taught at master's level are attractive to a range of employers.
You’ll graduate with highly developed analytical and statistical knowledge, as well as skills in oral presentations and written reports.
You can also use your applied psychology master's degree for further PhD study or other professional doctoral degrees.
As the need to understand and predict human behaviour expands the need for applied psychologists will continue to grow, meaning your skills and understanding will continue to be in demand by a wide variety of employers.
Our research reflects two key approaches.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/archaeology:
Archaeology is the study of the material past.
It is a tangible exploration of monuments and objects that remain in the archaeological record.
Studying for a post-graduate degree in Archaeology at Bangor is unique in terms of the variety, preservation and chronological range of archaeology on the doorstep – Mesolithic flint scatters, Neolithic tombs, Bronze Age mines, Iron Age hillforts, Roman settlements, medieval castles and post-medieval industrial archaeology.
Fieldtrips and study visits are embedded in our programmes to enhance learning and engender cutting-edge research and new theoretical approaches.
Our postgraduate programmes aim to build a detailed and critical understanding of Archaeology.
Key practical skills are developed and honed using the rich archaeological record of Wales as a study area.
You are equipped with key transferable skills to successfully enter a range of occupations or continue their academic career.
Modules combine training in archaeological research techniques and archaeological theory with a sound knowledge base.
These skills are then applied to the rich archaeological record of the Celtic west.
You are encouraged to take part in excavations.
There’s a wide variety of topics available for study which reflect the archaeology of the area – from prehistoric landscapes and seascapes, Roman frontiers, Iron Age settlements and nineteenth-century industrial sites.
Find out about the course options in this subject area
Archaeology offers an interesting and varied career which provides intellectual satisfaction.
A degree in Archaeology bridges practical and theoretical skills, calls for practice in the collection and analysis of data, and is a good foundation for other careers because it combines literacy and numeracy, arts and sciences.
Studying Archaeology therefore provides a broad range of skills and knowledge that employers value, both within the Archaeology and Heritage sector and in the wider jobs market.
Archaeology students are often the most versatile and skilled of employees, with excellent transferable employment skills.
We have research expertise in the following areas: The Prehistory and Medieval Archaeology of Britain and Ireland; European Prehistory, Maritime Archaeology; Roman Frontiers; Heritage and Contemporary Archaeology.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/bilingualism-and-linguistics:
Linguistics and English language as subjects have been taught at Bangor University since the 1960s, making our department one of the first Linguistics departments in the UK.
We are a vibrant, accessible, friendly department with staff committed to high-quality teaching, excellent student experience, strong pastoral support, and cutting-edge research.
Located in the richly bilingual setting of north Wales, our department and staff also have a long history of important research, teaching, and research project supervision fields of bilingualism and multilingualism , as well as more generally in the Welsh language and in Welsh linguistics.
Our postgraduate courses are ideal for those who are interested in applying theoretical, applied, experimental and ethnographic approaches to the study of language, its nature, structure, form, varieties, use(s), variation and change as well as from teaching / instructional and pedagogical perspectives.
Our courses in Linguistics, Applied Linguistics for TEFL, Language Technologies, Bilingualism and Language Acquisition and Development offer students the chance to explore language from a range of theoretical and methodological perspectives.
Our staff have internationally recognised specialisations and research profiles in the following fields:
Our students also benefit from our state-of-the-art  learning facilities which include:
We also strive to provide  strong and personalized student support throughout the duration of your post graduate studies.
The coursework and training on our degrees provide the necessary theoretical, analytical and methodological tools and skills to undertake advanced research in one of five specialist fields.
All of our MA and MSc students progress through a taught component, comprising a range of compulsory and optional modules, before embarking on a significant individual, supervised, research project – the Master level dissertation.
With respect to the dissertation our staff does its best to accommodate any topic that can be reasonably supported by our research expertise.
This includes but is not limited to the following areas: psycholinguistics; child language acquisition; 2nd language acquisition; discourse analysis; TEFL (Teaching English as a Foreign Language); SLA and language teaching; corpus linguistics; language and communication; phonetics & phonology; morphosyntax, semantics and pragmatics; historical linguistics; language variation and change; language and communication; bilingualism and multilingualism; language disorders; Welsh linguistics and language technologies / Natural Language Processing (NLP).
Finally, our vibrant research environment is supported through various events throughout the year, ranging from individual talks to informal seminars and workshops to large conferences.
Many of these are open not just to academic staff, but also to students and to the general public.
We are an accessible, friendly Department whose staff are committed to high-quality teaching and strong academic (and personal) support throughout the duration of our students’ studies
Our staff are passionate about passing on their expertise and subject knowledge and our research informs our teaching provision , with our students beneﬁtting from cutting-edge of academic enquiry and developments.
We have state-of-the-art research facilities, labs and equipment that includes recording and sound processing, eye tracking, ERP, language technology and high-performance computing machines and/or resources.
We offer personalized dissertation support and supervision on wide range of linguistics topics using applied, theoretical, experimental, corpus-based or ethnographic methodological frameworks.
A vibrant research environment is also manifest through various public events and workshops throughout the year.
Applied Linguistics at Bangor University: A Graduate's Experience
This is an interview with Elham Taheri, an Applied Linguistics student at Bangor.
She  is wearing a graduation gown and hat and speaking directly to camera.
My Experience at Bangor University
My name is Elham Taheri.
First of all, I enjoyed being taught by very professional teachers.
Of course, I have studied English language before, but this time it was more professional, and I loved that.
A Friendly and Supportive Learning Environment
It's a cosy place and a friendly one.
And the course, because it has both theoretical parts and a practical part, really helped me.
I learnt a lot, not only in classes but also in practical situations, using the theories that are used in my classes.
And as I said, because of the professional teachers here, I learnt a lot.
Career Opportunities After Graduation
Right now, exactly after I finished my course here, I moved to London and fortunately found a job in a college in London.
I didn't think I did that easily, but fortunately, because I was graduating from Bangor University, it was easy for me to find a job.
I loved my job as a teacher.
"I love everything about Bangor and I’m planning to stay in Bangor for an extra term."
Our courses offer a range of experiences and would appeal to anyone seeking to embark on career involving the development of the nature, use and application language or languages in modern society.
Our MA in Linguistics will give you a detailed understanding of how language works and the ability to conduct research at various levels of linguistic analysis.
Students also gain key intellectual skills such as examining and evaluating theories and empirically based models and hypothesis which are also combined with a range of transferable skills - such as computer literacy, working with data, information retrieval, critical analysis and problem solving.
Graduates are well-equipped to ﬁnd career opportunities in communications, teaching, publishing, marketing and research.
The transferable skills acquired through this programme are beneﬁcial in a range of other careers, including advertising, journalism, consulting etc.
After successful completion of the MA in Linguistics, you may also decide to pursue an academic career in Linguistics, by applying for a place on the PhD in Linguistics
Our MA in Applied Linguistics for TEFL will give you a detailed understanding of how to teach English as a foreign language for various professional purposes across the globe.
In addition to gaining class-room experience you will also have the opportunity to develop strong research and analytical skills as well as the ability adopt/use different strategies for communication and presentation in English in a range of multilingual and international contexts.
Although this is not a formal teaching qualiﬁcation, it gives students who wish to go on to teach English to non-native speakers the theoretical and linguistics background they need as well as offering practical, classroom experience.
Opportunities exist to teach in countries all over the world, e.g., in universities, colleges or private language schools.
After successful  completion of the MA in Applied Linguistics for TEFL, you may decide to pursue an academic career and apply for a PhD.
Our MSc in Language Technologies develops skills and knowledge that employers need in a number of areas related to the ﬁeld of language technologies, especially areas such as natural language processing, machine translation, text-to-speech conversion.
You will also ﬁnd that you develop transferable skills that will allow you to progress to different career areas or to continue your studies at PhD level in language technologies or a related ﬁeld.
Graduates from this course will appeal to employers in a wide variety of ﬁelds related to the broader ﬁeld of linguistics (e.g., education, management, government, research, health) especially where an understanding of language and human-machine interaction are needed.
Others may seek to pursue careers where an understanding of language-based problems is relevant (e.g., translation, software development, cryptography, language planning).
To that end, a Masters in Language Technologies might go on to obtain professional qualiﬁcations or to further enhance their employability in their chosen ﬁeld.
After successful completion of the MSc in Language Technologies, you may also decide to pursue an academic career in Computer Science or Computational Linguistics, by applying for a place on the PhD in either Computer Science or Linguistics.
Our MA in Bilingualism will give you a detailed understanding of issues related to bilingualism and multilingualism and the ability to conduct research in these areas.
Students also gain key intellectual skills such as examining and evaluating theories and empirically based models and hypothesis.
When combined with a range of transferable skills such as computer literacy, working with data, information retrieval, critical analysis and problem solving.
Graduates ﬁnd career opportunities in communications, teaching, speech and language therapy, publishing, research, and the transferable skills acquired through this programme are beneﬁcial in a range of other careers, including advertising, journalism, consulting etc.
After successful completion of the MA in Bilingualism, you may also decide to pursue an academic career, by applying for a place on the PhD in Bilingualism.
Our MSc in Language Acquisition and Development will provide you with the requisite skills, understanding, and knowledge to work effectively and increase your employability in organisations working with bilingual populations and second language learners with and without language impairment, such as speech and language therapists and teachers.
After successful completion of the MSc in Language Acquisition and Development you may also decide to pursue an academic career in Linguistics, by applying for a place on the PhD in Linguistics.
We are a vibrant, accessible, friendly department with staff committed to high-quality teaching and cutting-edge research.
As a Department.
our staff has an active and diverse research profile that is internationally recognised, in a range of fields including: 1st and 2nd language acquisition, language variation and change, language maintenance, atypical language development, corpus linguistics, language and communication, language technologies / natural language processing (NLP), contested languages, processing and acquisition of prosody and syntax, psycholinguistics, historical linguistics, grammaticalization, Cognitive Discourse Analysis (CODA), Critical Discourse Analysis (CDA), multimodal analysis, temporal language and the nature of figurative language, TESOL and SLA language teaching pedagogy and Welsh linguistics.
Our vibrant research environment is also supported through various events throughout the year, ranging from individual talks to informal seminars and workshops to large conferences.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/biology:
Biology covers both the unity and diversity of living organisms.
Studying for a degree with us allows you to develop interests in plant and animal science and receive a thorough grounding in cell and molecular biology.
Our courses are taught by world-leading experts and award-winning lecturers who are involved in a variety of biology-related research, making use of the top-class facilities at Bangor University.
You will be taught by staff from the School of Natural Sciences who are experts in their field.
We have a long tradition in teaching and research in the Biological Sciences.
Research submitted by our staff has been recognised as being within the top 20 in the UK in the Research Excellence Framework (REF 2014).
We have excellent facilities on campus for the study of both flora and fauna, which include our very own natural history museum, botanical garden, freshwater and marine aquaria, venomous snake collection, Europe’s largest underground soil laboratory, aviaries, an ocean-going research vessel, and an active research farm – all of which are constantly used for teaching and research.
The 21 st century post genomics era offers a wide range of job opportunities in the agricultural, medical, pharmaceutical, aquaculture, forensics and environmental science areas.
The rapidly developing economies of China and India in particular have recognised the enormous opportunities offered by Biotechnology.
Job openings in sales and marketing with companies who have a science base are also common.
Some graduates will also choose to extend their knowledge base by undertaking PhD programmes in relevant areas.
Our graduates are now enjoying careers in research (both in academia and research institutes) as well as in commercial environmental consultancies, DEFRA, water authorities, scientific publishing, landscape architects and many others.
We have a vigorous research base in a number of areas which include: molecular ecology, fisheries genetics, ancient DNA, evolutionary and conservation biology, biogeochemistry, bio hydrometallurgy, plant product biochemistry and (plant) stress physiology, wetland biogeochemistry, neurophysiology of crustaceans, animal responses to stress and applied microbiology.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/business-management-and-marketing:
A manager's role has become increasingly challenging with strong competition everywhere, huge expectations and challenges to develop innovative, sustainable organisations that need to compete in today’s business environment.
This makes roles in Business, Management and Marketing ever more complex and demanding but also very interesting!
Our postgraduate degrees will give you the skills and insight needed for a successful business career in a variety of different industrial sectors whether in private companies, the public/government sector or voluntary organisations.
You will also gain the qualifications and confidence needed to compete in the job market on an international level.
We will provide you with the ability to deal confidently with various challenges so you can look forward to a rewarding future in virtually any organisation.
Bangor Business School offers a wide range of innovative master’s degrees (MBA, MSc and MA) which provide you with an understanding of contemporary business themes including sustainability, entrepreneurship, management, leadership, digital marketing, data analytics, organisational behaviour, strategy, brand management and business planning.
All our postgraduate Business, Management and Marketing programmes are accredited by the highly sought after and widely recognised CMI Level 7 Diploma / Certificate / Award in Management and Leadership so successful students obtain a dual award.
My experience at Bangor University was extremely positive as it gave me several opportunities to develop personally and professionally over the four years of study.
The University supported my personal growth greatly by giving me opportunities to develop my self-confidence, enhance my critical thinking skills and encouraged building meaningful relationships with other students and businesses worked with.
My MBA Environmental Management gave me leverage to obtain my current role with HALO and it also provided me with some new friends, including University staff who I will keep in touch with going forward.
My online communication skills significantly improved due to the nature of the online course delivery and socialising.
Our postgraduate degrees range from broad and comprehensive to highly specialised programmes, spanning subjects including Digital Marketing, Strategy, Managing People, Marketing, Finance, Business Administration, Strategic Marketing, Data Analytics and setting up New Business Ventures.
To succeed in today's management environment, you need to understand and react to the implications of operational, strategic and organisational changes, as well as being able to manage and motivate people.
These programmes will help you link theory and practice relevant to today's organisations, giving you the personal tools to create, implement and progress the most effective management policies.
You will gain a solid grounding across all the main business disciplines, while also having the opportunity to customise your course towards your specific areas of interest with modules covering everything from the strategic and financial, to sustainability, innovation, knowledge management, leading people and managing change.
Many of our tutors have significant global industrial experience and others are active researchers in Business, Management and Marketing.
This combination of research and practitioner-led teaching means you can look forward to insightful and engaging teaching that will help you to take your career to the next level.
Many of our courses offer the option of a January start as well as the traditional September start.
Professor Gareth Griffiths explains the benefits of studying for a CMI qualification alongside your Masters degree at Bangor Business School.
All our Business, Management and Marketing courses are designed to improve your professional skills, prepare you for work and help you to develop the attributes you need to be successful in a range of careers.
Recent graduates of our Business and Management Master’s programmes have gone on to a vast array of jobs worldwide in many private and public/government sectors as consultants, managers, market researchers, analysts, manufacturing executives, brand managers, marketers, advisors, sales consultants and project executives.
In Marketing, the nature of the work is changing, traditional techniques alone are not enough to attract the modern consumer in a digital world.
Today’s social media campaigns require interdisciplinary strategies and a deeper understanding of customer needs and wants.
Several of our Marketing students have found positions as social media managers, product managers, brand managers, search engine optimisation specialists, web content writers and marketing analysts.
Both inform our high-quality teaching.
Our research covers a wide area including investigating an understanding of consumers in various contexts and cultures, investigating the impact of business and governmental strategies mainly in the communications area.
Our research seeks to understand how consumer perceptions and judgments are formed and how they influence the decision-making process across diverse contexts.
Our research focus spans for-profit and non-profit contexts as well as supporting cross cultural studies.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/celtic-arthurian-and-medieval-studies:
The ‘Middle Ages’ across Europe (and beyond) span the period of roughly a millennium between the collapse of the Roman Empire and the age of Humanism.
Our courses allow you to focus on aspects of strictly medieval literature, art, history and music (be that Welsh, English or from further afield), and interested students may also contextualising particular elements by casting an eye back to the societies of the ‘Celtic’ Iron Age or onwards into the Renaissance and beyond, as medieval culture is reimagined and repurposed in times of Romanticism and Revolution.
Medieval, Celtic and Arthurian studies have a long-standing tradition in excellent teaching and internationally recognised research here at Bangor University.
You'll be taught by staff who are truly passionate about the subject area and will benefit from research informed teaching.
The diverse and interdisciplinary natures of Celtic, Welsh, Arthurian and Medieval studies are well represented at Bangor University, drawing together research expertise across language, literature, history, archaeology and music.
Bangor University’s contribution to the growth of Welsh and Celtic scholarship, and Arthurian Studies has been recognised internationally since the foundation of the University in 1884.
It was here that Sir John Morris-Jones compiled his monumental Welsh Grammar (1913), which forms the basis of the modern literary language, and the key editorial tradition of scholars such as Ifor Williams (Canu Aneirin, Canu Taliesin, etc.) continues to our times.
Bangor University has expertise across all major fields of Celtic literature, language and history, and staff include some of contemporary Wales’s leading writers and creative practitioners, in both prose, poetry and drama.
The exceptionally rich archaeological landscapes of north-west Wales provide a natural focus for our research analysing past societies, their settlements and material culture from the late Mesolithic to the post-medieval.
Excellent research and teaching of Arthurian Studies has been cemented through the foundation of the University’s Centre for Arthurian Studies , serving as a hub for international research exchange through long-standing connections to the International Arthurian Society.
Alongside the Stephen Colclough Centre for the History and Culture of the Book, and the R.S.
Thomas Research Centre, it offers impressive resources, including rare editions, for researchers in all of these areas.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/computer-science:
Computer Science underpins all aspect of society, powering not only business but also enriching the lives of millions.
We are fully committed to producing graduates that are ready, willing and able to take their place building the next generation smart societies.
All of our courses cover the foundational skills in Computer Science; programming, logic and problem solving.
At Bangor University we go further...
our world-leading experts in Artificial Intelligence, Visualisation and Virtual Reality join forces to create an award-winning teaching and research environment where all students enjoy an opportunity to specialise in the area that most excites them.
Industrial Revolution 4.0 is already upon us, this and future generations will rely on Computer Science and Scientists to engineer the green future that we all deserve.
The idea of steam power was once revolutionary, the idea of a computers was once revolutionary - imagine what we will achieve tomorrow.
This why we do what we do, and we want you to help us.
We have recently installed a large networking laboratory – designed to provide the opportunity to design and administer networks and to support the delivery of computer architecture modules.
My lecturers are professionals who have vast knowledge in their different fields.
They make sure lectures are engaging and concepts are broken down as simple as possible for easy understanding.
They are also really friendly and always available to provide academic support at any point in time.
Our degrees will prepare you for a variety of careers in web application development software engineering, programming, communications and networking, computer applications, IT management, computer sales and marketing.
Our graduates are valuable to all kinds of industrial and public-sector employers.
The combination of advanced numeracy, skill with computers and experience in teamwork and problem solving makes our graduates highly employable.
Computer Science graduates will have career opportunities anywhere that computers are used by businesses and the public-sector.
From working as application developers to managing the IT and communications services for companies, to computer games, there are plenty of opportunities.
Many of our graduates go on to further study, on taught postgraduate courses such as the MSc degree, or research degrees such as the MPhil or PhD.
Wherever there is a need for people who can use their knowledge of science and engineering to solve problems, our graduates will be ready to make a valuable contribution.
Our research specialties include computer graphics, visualization, knowledge discovery and communications.

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/conservation:
The world is facing interlinked nature and climate emergencies.
Conservation and restoration of ecosystems has a central role to play in tackling both.
Bangor University has world leading strength in research in this area .
We are dedicated to training the next generation of conservation scientists, practioners and policy makers who can go out into the world and make a difference.
Our research is highly interdisciplinary and brings together disciplines as varied as ecology, land system science, oceanography , remote sensing, physiology, behaviour, forestry , economics and policy.
We carry out cutting-edge research in a full range of terrestrial and marine habitats, from polar regions to the tropics.
Our research is highly impactful.
For example, our research on the impacts of bottom trawling , advancing agroforestry , and reducing the social costs of conservation in low-income countries contributed to Bangor University being ranked number one in the UK for the impact of our environmental science research in the 2021 Research Excellence Framework .
Our research facilities in this area are world-beating and include our ocean-going research vessel the Prince Madog , the Henfaes research farm , and Treborth Botanic Gardens
Read more about our research around the world
"I attended Bangor University for my undergraduate degree and was impressed by the standard of teaching and amount of in the field experience ...
It was an easy decision to come back here for a Masters degree."
Conservation graduates are now working at conservation agencies, NGOs and government organisations and with academic institutions both in the EU and overseas.
MORE ABOUT OUR RESEARCH

New sentences found on https://bangor.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/creative-writing:
Not every writer needs a creative writing course, but every writer can benefit from one.
Bangor has one of the longest histories of teaching creative writing in the UK and has pioneered the creative-critical interface that has allowed our graduates to excel in writing and publishing work.
You will join a flourishing community of novelists and poets.
A course in creative writing may be the first step towards a writing career, or a chance for more experienced writers to develop their work from a new perspective.
Creative writing at Bangor University offers a range of opportunities for postgraduate study in a dynamic critical and creative environment.
We offer an engaging and supportive environment for postgraduate study, focusing on small group teaching and one-to-one supervision.
You will work closely with academic staff in a research community that encourages interdisciplinary exchange and activity.
We will encourage you to try new things: new genres, new narratives and new language.
Perhaps most importantly of all, we will encourage you to write whether you feel like it or not, to stop waiting for a “muse” to inspire you but to instead take control of your own creative talent - to find your own voice.
Our MA in Creative Writing is taught by staff who are both published writers and practising academics thoroughly experienced in the challenges of university research.
Creative Writing staff comprise a team of leading scholars which includes award-winning poets and novelists.
Creative writing staff at Bangor publish in the major forms of short fiction, the novel and poetry, their research spanning criticism and practice-based contributions to these areas.
A postgraduate qualification in in Creative Writing may lead to a career as a novelist, poet or playwright.
Planning and developing a substantial writing project is a good preparation for future funded or commissioned writing, as well as for an academic career in practice-based research.
You will also acquire skills that can be applied in other contexts, for example editing, publishing, journalism or arts administration.
The ability to use language fluently and persuasively is essential for success in almost any field, and the flexibility of working across genres in this course offers an excellent grounding in creative language use.
The department has an active community of research students and offers research supervision in a range of specialist areas, including:  Poetry, Short story writing, Experimental writing, Ecopolitics.
English Literature & Creative Writing research interests are varied in period and approach.
Ongoing and new areas of research in Creative Writing include adaptation, experimentation and translation and creative writing, approached from a range of perspectives and theoretical angles, informed by gender, social class, ideology, as well as the relationships between literature and the arts, literature and geography and literature and religion.