# Site: https://www.bathspa.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 500
# --------

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk:
Undergraduate Open Day
Develop, produce, direct and crew your own films, TV shows and digital content in state-of-the-art studio facilities.
Become a skilled, aware and socially-conscious professional ready to thrive in tomorrow’s workplace.
Develop your practical and professional skills alongside your knowledge of legal theory.
Gain certification in digital marketing skills and create immersive campaigns as you become a socially-conscious marketer.
Combine the key areas of graphic design and illustration practice as you work across print, screen and interactive media.
Learn to protect critical IT systems and become a highly employable cyber security professional.
Prepare for a career as a primary school teacher with this Department for Education accredited course.
A vocational music course for songwriters, producers and performers who want to turn their passion into a career.
Become a versatile and employable voice, film and stage actor.
A practical, lab-based course to prepare you for a range of careers in biological and medical science.
Understand the mind and human behaviour from a range of perspectives and methodologies.
Hone your craft, find your niche and build an attention-grabbing portfolio under the guidance of award-winning published writers.
Combine the academic study of literature with practical, skills-based modules designed to prepare you for the workplace.
Become a journalist for the twenty-first century and tell the stories that matter.
Respond to complex social and environmental needs using architectural design principles.
Kickstart a career in fashion with this fast-paced, dynamic and demanding course.
Explore, challenge and define the role of the photographic image in fashion.
Combine your creativity and enthusiasm for fashion with core business, management and marketing skills.
Tap into your professional creativity and pursue a career that fully expresses your unique ideas and talents, while making a difference to the issues that matter to you.
Historic buildings and ultra-modern teaching facilities nestled in the countryside on the edge of Bath.
A creative campus near Bath city centre that houses our creative technical workshops and flexible studio spaces.
A welcoming teaching location in the vibrant Hoxton area of the UK's capital city.
You can also study with us from a range of locations through our UK and international partners.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses:
Kick-start your career with an MSc in Accounting and Finance at BSU
Prepare for a portfolio career.
Train as an actor who can work across a range of media including theatre, screen, radio and voiceover.
Be inspired by your surroundings – study an Architecture degree at our RIBA Award-winning Locksbrook Campus building.
Gain professional experience in arts and cultural management, and develop your understanding of cultural policy and the creative economy.
Become fully qualified to teach in just 12 weeks while working in your current school.
Explore, create, and transform your ideas into tangible pieces of textile art.
Gain a solid and practical understanding of screen printing, helping you to confidently create professional-quality prints and bring your artistic ideas to life with different techniques and hands-on experience.
A contemporary skills based course producing highly employable professional biologists.
Pursue your passion for Biology while developing the knowledge, skills and experience you need to become an educator across diverse settings.
Our practical, lab-based Biomedical Science degree prepares you for a career where you can make a difference.
An innovative Business and Management course offering a choice of specialist pathways.
Develop your career in business and management with a focus on creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life:
Find your place.
Throw yourself in.
Push yourself.
Explore options, embrace challenges.
Do.
Don’t just say you’ll do.
Make your ambitions happen.
Make it – at Bath Spa University.
Our new undergraduate prospectus showcases the exciting courses we offer, and the supportive community, inspiring spaces and services available to help our students thrive.
It’s a great introduction to Bath Spa, and a useful guide to help you decide which university and course is right for you.
We'd like to send you more information to help you make an informed decision about what it would be like to study with us.
You'd also receive updates about events where you can meet our team.
To do this, we would need to know a little about you to tailor the information to your needs and interests.
Our staff bring real passion to their teaching and inspire our students to become thinkers, doers and makers.
Our staff create and achieve amazing things, and with us, you can too.
22 August 2025
21 August 2025
20 August 2025
18 August 2025
“I recommend Bath Spa because it very much caters to you as an individual and creative, embracing differences and promoting collaboration.”

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/open-days:
The best way to know if Bath Spa University (BSU) is the place for you is to visit.
Have a chat to our staff and students, explore our campuses and facilities, and learn more about what it’s really like to study at BSU.
If you can't attend a BSU Open Day, why not come along to a Campus Tour ?
You’ve had a look online; you’ve been to a UCAS fair; you’ve got your stack of prospectuses; now it’s time to really delve into the universities that interest you most.
Open Days are a great opportunity to figure out which university is the one for you.
You can check out the campuses, meet other students, scope out the social life, and visit your future halls.
You’ll know it’s right when you can’t wait to get started!
Before your event, we'll email you some information to help you plan your visit.
On the day, you'll receive a full programme and timetable when you register, and there'll be plenty of helpful Student Ambassadors around to point you in the right direction.
Here’s an example of what to expect during your Open Day.
Think about some questions you want to ask our staff and students.
An Open Day is your chance to find out the answers to everything important to you.
You could ask:
We’ve also put together a list of our top five Open Day activities to help you fully enjoy your visit and make the most of the day.
Open Days are a great way to get a feel for the University, to learn about what we can offer your student, and how we’ll support them throughout their time with us.
This is an opportunity to meet with student services, support staff and the senior leadership team and to ask them any questions you may have, and for us to help you with any concerns.
We know that the day can sometimes be overwhelming for students, so it’s handy to have a few questions you’d like to ask on their behalf you think they’d like to know the answers to as well.
Your Open Day will take place at either: Newton Park Campus Newton St Loe, Bath, BA2 9BN Locksbrook Campus Locksbrook Road, Bath, BA1 3EL For advice on travelling to our campuses, please see our guidance on how to find us .
Parking arrangements are outlined below.
Your Open Day will take place at either:
For advice on travelling to our campuses, please see our guidance on how to find us .
If you're arriving by car, parking is free at Newton Park .
If you or a member of your group is a Blue Badge holder you can find dedicated parking outside Commons, the Library and Main House.
Feel free to ask for directions from one of our event staff on the day and they will be able to direct you to a space.
Other visitors will be directed to the next available space in the main carparking at the top of the campus.
Parking at our Locksbrook campus is free for Open Day with a Blue Badge.
Due to limited parking, we're asking all other Locksbrook Open Day visitors to park at offsite carparking nearby where you'll then be able to catch a regular, free shuttle bus to Locksbrook campus.
We would encourage visitors to arrive by public transport if possible.
The campus is a 15-20 minute walk along the river from the main Bath Spa railway station, and is well-served by regular buses.
You can find food and drink to purchase on the day at a number of our catering outlets on campus.
Complimentary tea and coffee will be available throughout the day.
We'd love you to share your experience with us on TikTok, Instagram and Facebook.
Make sure to tag us to share the best bits of your day.
During your visit you might notice members of our Social Media and Digital Content teams capturing photos and videos for future use.
Please speak to them if you would prefer not to be photographed.
If you can't attend one of our Open Days and you'd like to find out more about BSU, you can book a Campus Tour.
You'll join one of our Student Ambassadors for a guided tour of the campus.
They'll show you our inspiring surroundings and facilities, and this is also a great chance to talk to current students and learn about student life.
Tours usually take place in December, January, May, July and August.
Our postgraduate Open Days feature course presentations, Q+A sessions and campus tours.
You’ll get to talk to current students and staff, and explore the course you’re interested in through talks led by subject leaders.
You can also ask our teams about careers, finance, wellbeing and accommodation.
At our Teacher Education Events you’ll learn about the different routes into teaching, entry requirements, fees, scholarships, bursaries, and how to apply.
You’ll also get the chance to ask our staff any questions you may have.
These events are most suited for individuals who have already completed an undergraduate degree.
If you’re interested in teaching and haven’t completed a degree, we’d encourage you to book onto one of our undergraduate open days where you can find out about undergraduate routes into teaching and our education courses.
Our Newton Park Campus is nestled in the countryside just four miles from Bath city centre, and Locksbrook Campus enjoys a riverside location in the old industrial area of Bath.
Bath is a world-famous, beautiful city that is the ideal combination of the old and the new.
Small, but perfectly formed, the city is a UNESCO World Heritage site which boasts world-famous architecture, a wealth of independent shops, cafés, clubs and bars, and a vibrant music, arts, and theatre scene.
It’s hard not to fall in love with it.
During your visit, why not take a trip into the heart of the city?
"It was the campus that swung me.
It’s small enough that it feels community-like and I could see myself feeling a lot more at home at Bath Spa than I would in a big city university."
"Photography and Film were my two passions.
I struggled for a long time to decide which path to take, but after visiting Bath Spa I fell in love with the possibility of exploring both options with the openness of the Photography course."
Questions about Open Days and visits?
Please email o.days@bathspa.ac.uk to get in touch.
Already booked?
We'll send you a programme one week before the event.
From our labs to our specialist art and design workshops to our multi camera TV studios.
Beautiful spaces.
Supportive people.
Unique location.
Find out more about student life.
Read our digital prospectus.
If you’ve applied to BSU and we’ve made an offer, you may be invited to one of our Offer Holder Days.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/clearing:
Call us between 9.30am and 4.30pm on +44 (0)1225 876 180 .
360° tour of BSU's campuses, facilities and the city
Why BSU
Clearing courses
Whether you’ve changed your mind about your firm choice, you're applying for the first time, or have different grades than you were expecting, there's a place for you at BSU.
Study in one of the UK's most beautiful cities – your home from home.
We have a limited number of Clearing places available for those who live locally or are within commuting distance.
To discuss these opportunities please contact our Admissions Team on 01225 876180 , we're open Monday to Friday, 9:30am - 4:30pm.
You can also email admissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
“ The course leader, along with the University’s Admissions team, guided me through the steps.
BSU were so supportive during this process, and they always replied to emails or answered the phone almost immediately, and I am so grateful for this as I wouldn’t have been able to go through Clearing without their support .
”
Read about Alice's journey to BSU through Clearing.
Art and Design
Business, Management and Economics
Single honours courses:
Combined courses:
Related courses:
Computing
Education and Teaching
English, Writing and Publishing
Film and Media
Food and Nutrition
Geography and Environmental Sciences
History
Law
Life Science
Marketing
Music and Sound
Performing Arts and Production
Politics, Philosophies and Ethics
Social Sciences
Sport
Industry standard facilities to support your learning.
Our award-winning Careers and Employability Team will help you get to where you want to be.
Your home from home.
Bars and clubs, culture and festivals await in our unique city, perfect for students.
We'll give you a guaranteed offer of accommodation when you apply and accept your Clearing offer.
How do I contact the University?
Call our Admissions team on +44 (0)1225 876 180 .
Phone lines are open 9.30am-4.30pm , Monday to Friday.
If you have any questions, you can also email us at admissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
How does Clearing work?
Universities will advertise which courses are available through Clearing and, when you find the right course for you, you'll need to contact the university to apply.
If you meet the entry requirements, you'll receive an offer from them.
Some courses may require an interview or portfolio.
When you're happy with your offer, head to UCAS to add your Clearing choice .
When does Clearing open for 2025 entry?
Clearing opens on 5 July 2025.
We will consider applications to open courses until the start of term.
Can I get a place at Bath Spa University through Clearing?
If you don’t hold any offers (this could be because you haven’t applied yet, haven’t received any offers, or you haven’t accepted any offers) you can search and apply for a place at BSU through Clearing.
If you have changed your mind about your chosen course or university for September, give us a call so we can help you find the right fit for you.
Can I defer or release my place?
If you'd like to defer your confirmed place here until September 2026, please email admissions@bathspa.ac.uk and include your UCAS Personal ID (or Bath Spa ID number), date of birth and your full name.
If you want to change your course with us, please call us on +44 (0)1225 876 180 as soon as possible.
If you wish to be released from your unconditional offer with us, you can do this by using the 'Decline your place' button in your UCAS application.
How can I support my child?
It's a good idea to have a plan B and research other options, even if they’re confident they’ll achieve the grades they need for their firm choice.
Find out all you need to know about pre-Clearing and Results Day with our dedicated parents guide .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/course-index-a-z:
We’re constantly exploring innovative courses that prepare you for emerging careers.
Find out more about our new courses or explore all our courses below:
If you are interested in pursuing a research degree with Bath Spa University, please see our current list of research area interests.
Choosing a Research Degree
See also our single honours Journalism and Publishing degree .
You can also study with our partners in education – exceptional colleges and institutions in the UK and around the world.
Find out more about the specialist courses on offer with our educational partners .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/types-of-courses:
Whether you're hoping to kickstart your career, expand your existing skillset or specialise your subject knowledge, you're sure to find a course that suits you.
We offer a wide range of honours degree courses for prospective undergraduate students.
Many students join us straight out of college or sixth form, others join us after spending time traveling, or having spent time in the workplace.
Depending on your experience, you may be able to apply without A-levels or equivalent.
You’ll complete the course in three years of full-time study, or five to six years of part-time study.
Degree courses can be in a single subject (known as Single or Specialised Awards) or in two subjects, which would be a Combined Award .
You’ll graduate with a BA (Hons) or BSc (Hons) qualification, depending on whether you study an arts or science-based course.
Many of our undergraduate programmes can be combined, so you don’t have to limit yourself to one subject if you're interested in two.
If you choose to study a Combined Award then in Year One you’ll start by studying both subjects in equal depth.
From Year Two you can choose whether to continue with equal numbers of modules from each subject, or whether you want to select additional modules in one or the other.
Upon successful completion of the programme you will graduate with a joint degree.
Our prospectus lists which courses can be combined with each other.
You can also filter our course listing to find subjects that can be combined.
These undergraduate courses offer you the chance to identify, apply for, and secure professional work experience, to be taken between your second and final years (a 'sandwich' year).
Lasting four years in total, Professional Placement Year (PPY) programmes are your opportunity to gain an undergraduate honours degree and workplace experience over an extended period (usually one to three placements over a minimum of nine months).
By completing the programme, you'll be entitled to add “with Professional Placement Year” to your BA (Hons) degree title.
Looking for your next challenge?
Our postgraduate awards are normally studied after completion of an undergraduate course.
They provide opportunities for advanced study that are both academically challenging and vocationally relevant.
Undertaking a postgraduate course is a great launch-pad for PhD level study, if you’re interested in becoming a research student undertaking doctorate level work.
Our taught postgraduate degrees normally last one year, if studied full-time.
You’ll find that many of our courses can also be studied part-time.
Taught programmes lead to the award of Master's degrees (MSc, MA, MTeach or MRes) or Postgraduate Diplomas (PGDip).
If you’re looking to study at undergraduate level, but like the idea of finishing with a Master's qualification rather than an undergraduate honours degree, we have some Integrated Master's Programmes.
They’re an attractive option because they're designed to help you graduate with improved job prospects and career opportunities, and you’ll benefit from more in-depth academic study and research.
These are four-year courses incorporating an undergraduate degree leading directly to a Master's qualification.
On completion of the four-year programme, you’ll graduate with a Master's degree.
If you change your mind at the end of the three year degree and don’t want to continue onto the fourth year, you’d simply stop after the three years with an undergraduate qualification.
Want to become a teacher?
You’ll be able to apply for one of our PGCE courses after you’ve completed an undergraduate degree.
Bath Spa University has a long tradition of teacher training, and courses are planned and taught in close collaboration with teachers in schools.
Our PGCE programmes typically last one year.
A high proportion of time is spent on school placements, working with pupils, teachers and University tutors in the classroom.
If you successfully complete one of our PGCE programmes you’ll gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) as well as a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE).
We offer opportunities for supervised, original research leading to the degrees of PhD and MPhil.
Successful completion of a research degree represents the fulfilment of your intellectual potential and a major life achievement.
Research programmes lead to the award of MPhil or PhD.
If you don’t have the grades or qualifications to enrol onto one of our undergraduate courses, you can consider a foundation course.
Our foundation courses are often taught by partner colleges, and provide a combination of academic training and work-related skills.
You’ll study for two years full-time; although for some foundation courses this involves just one day of formal academic tuition per week, with the rest of the time spent studying vocationally in your workplace.
On completion of the course you’ll have a foundation degree.
You may be able to apply to progress to a compatible honours degree and complete a top-up year to get an honours degree.
You may also progress to a work-based learning honours programme when you successfully complete your foundation course.
Undergraduate degrees at the Bath School of Art, Film and Media and Bath School of Design are available with an Integrated Foundation Year .
Our intensive and experimental foundation course is designed to help you reach your full potential.
You'll develop your ideas, skills and confidence in readiness for progressing to year one of your undergraduate degree programme.
The Integrated Foundation (Year 0) element of the course lasts one year.
This, combined with your chosen undergraduate programme means that you'll study a four-year course.
On successful completion of the Bath Spa University Foundation Diploma in Art and Design, you'll progress to your chosen undergraduate degree.
We offer a range of short courses , both self funded and free courses which are funded by the government.
Whether you're looking to reskill into a new career, enhance your knowledge or explore an interest, we have courses to suit everyone.
Do you want to take your learning to the next level from the comfort of your own home?
At Bath Spa University we offer a number of distance learning courses that are taught and assessed entirely online, giving you the opportunity to study anywhere in the world.
We offer a range of Continuing Professional Development programmes.
These provide structured training and development for teachers, lecturers in post-compulsory education, and other professionals.
Maximum flexibility is built into the delivery of these programmes, so that you can fit them around your current commitments.
The qualification you’ll get when you successfully complete your course varies depending on the course.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/new-courses:
New ideas.
New technologies.
New careers.
The world is rapidly changing and we want to help you develop the skills to thrive.
We’ve introduced innovative new courses that prepare you for emerging careers.
Our courses allow you to explore your passion while equipping you for tomorrow’s workplace.
You’ll learn critical skills across disciplines, and gain that all-important hands on experience that gets you noticed.
Undergraduate
A fast-paced, exciting and ambitious course for determined and inventive individuals who want a career in fashion textiles.
View the course page
Change lives through education on this BA Education degree.
Postgraduate
Position yourself at the forefront of legal innovation, helping to shape the future of law in an increasingly digital world.
Prepare to excel in the fast-paced world of international commerce and law with this comprehensive and forward-thinking Master's degree.
Kick-start your career with an MSc in Accounting and Finance at BSU.
You'll gain valuable skills in financial management, deep dive into accounting principles and explore global financial strategies.
Change fashion.
Change society.
Become a leader in the business of sustainable fashion with our Fashion Management degree.
Explore, analyse and tackle the challenges facing society in this combined Business and Economics degree.
Explore the economic and legal challenges facing the world today on this combined Law and Economics degree.
Learn how to use science to help solve crimes on this Forensic Science degree.
Become a versatile performing musician who is ready for a varied and viable career in the wider entertainment industry.
Explore the fast-paced world of Sports Production across all types of media on this hands-on, industry-focused course.
Become an effective and ethical manager with our MBA at Bath Spa University London.
Extend your knowledge of Special Educational Needs Coordination in our SENCO top-up course, a flexible course designed to complement your National Professional Qualification (NPQ) award.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/acting-and-production:
in the overall rankings for Drama and Dance (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Value Added in Drama and Dance (Guardian University Guide 2025)
and #1 in the South West for Satisfaction with Course in Drama, Dance and Cinematics (Complete University Guide 2025)
At our Open Days you’ll be able to explore the range of courses on offer, chat with academic staff and learn more about life at Bath Spa.
We can't wait to see you there!
Students from across our Bath School of Music and Performing Arts came together to create over 30 performances for Sparkfest.
Here's a snapshot of what our students of Acting, Music, Commercial Music, Creative Music Technology, Dance, Drama, and Theatre and Digital Production got up to over three weeks.
Bel Clarke, BA (Hons) Acting alumna, is a Cultural Producer and Theatre-Maker with a passion for identity and representation.
Rob
          Sayer
Robert
          Brown
Suman
          Ghosh
Sam
          Ellis
Holly
          Leggett
BA (Hons) Acting
Dominic
          Thompson
Peter
          Smith
Edward
          Tristram
Samuel
          Freeman
Christopher
          Britton
Matthew
          Emeny
Aimee
          Pollock
Naomi
          Knox
Belinda
          Clarke
Niklas
          Aarre
BA (Hons) Acting and MA Directing
Roger
          Apfelbaum
Senior Lecturer in Performing Shakespeare
Sophie
          Francis
As part of our Acting or Theatre and Digital Production courses, you will have access to our purpose-built facilities at our Oldfield Park Theatre Workshops, where you can collaborate on a production from start to finish, including set and costume design, performance and lighting.
Bath Spa Productions is Bath Spa's theatre production company, which puts on events in theatre, film, television and audio drama across a range of venues, drawing together performers, designers, technicians and managers.
As part of our Acting and performance courses, you will have involvement and full access to our Bath Spa Productions staff and network, helping you launch your career into the wider world.
Our acting and performance graduates have gone on to do amazing things, from starting their own production companies, to starring on the London stage, to performances for the Edinburgh Fringe and the Bath Festivals.
We will give you the tools to make your talent thrive.
We work with fantastic colleges, both in the UK and overseas, so that you can benefit from a broader range of courses, diverse facilities, and specialist staff - no matter which field of study you choose.
Find out more about our partners .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/architecture:
Learn to create inclusive, resilient spaces with our Architecture degree .
Explore the relationships between conservation, planning and the use and reuse of spaces in response to crucial issues such as climate change, biodiversity loss and the needs of communities.
BA (Hons) Architecture at Bath Spa University is prescribed by the Architects Registration Board (ARB).
for Graduate Prospects – On Track in Art and Design (Complete University Guide 2025)
Available in clearing
Popular course
Related careers:
Not available in Clearing
Bath Spa University was a platform that gave me the confidence to push boundaries, with the aid of some amazing tutors, to turn my business into what it is today.
Kamal Ali, MA Design (Textiles)
Inspiration around every corner
From the Roman Baths to the Royal Crescent, Bath’s architecture is unmistakable.
It’s the only UK city to be designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site in its entirety, making it a unique place in which to study Architecture.
Student-centred design
As an Architecture student, you'll be based at Locksbrook Campus .
Originating in 1976, this former furniture factory was reimagined for the needs of our students by Grimshaw Architects in 2016.
Their design provides you with social spaces and open, flexible studios.
They have also future-proofed the building’s three floors with enhanced energy performance.
You’ll be based at Locksbrook Campus in Bath’s industrial area near the river Avon.
Our award-winning building cleverly incorporates modern touches into a Grade II listed space.
Keen to enjoy the best that Bath has to offer?
The nearest accommodation to Locksbrook Campus is:
Access the full Adobe Creative Suite , work in our studio spaces, and experiment in our on-site workshops , where you can explore techniques in disciplines such as ceramics and metalwork, with support from our technical demonstrators.
From grants and short-term loans to low-cost hot meals, free period products and on-campus food larders, we’ve got a range of services and support to help you manage your money .
Whatever you need, our Student Wellbeing Services team is here to signpost you in the right direction.
Access a range of 24/7 services , as well as long-term support.
Need someone to critique your CV?
Looking for a part-time job while you study?
Want a mentor?
Our Careers team have you covered.
It usually takes at least 7 years of study and practice to become an architect.
Often, students spend longer than this in training and practice.
To become an architect in the UK, you’re required to hold qualifications specified by the Architects Registration Board (ARB).
These requirements, which are divided into Parts 1, 2 and 3, are a mix of formal qualifications and professional experience.
The first step towards becoming an architect is to complete an ARB Prescribed 3-year undergraduate degree before undertaking a year of professional experience.
For more information, see the ARB guide for students considering a career in architecture.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/art:
for Satisfaction with Teaching in Fine Art (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Continuation in Fine Art (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Graduate Prospects in Art Design (Complete University Guide 2025)
for Continuation in Art and Design (Complete University Guide 2025)
Choose from one of the specialisms below, or start with our Integrated Foundation in Art and Design .
You’ll have access to our exceptional technical facilities, technicians and technical workshops .
“The teaching staff enabled me to develop as a practising artist, giving me confidence to explore contemporary art in a playful, exciting and experimental way.”
BA Fine Art graduate
Develop your creative potential in a cross-disciplinary environment, using specialist equipment and drawing on the expertise of practising artists and skilled technicians at our Locksbrook Campus .
Michael
          Tooby
Matthew
          Murray
Melissa
          Mahon
PhD in Fine Art
John
          Wood
Roger
          Clarke
Robert
          Luzar
Rosemary
          Snell
Karen
          Richmond
Andrew
          Southall
Jonathan
          Kelham
Jenny
          Dunseath
Natasha
          Kidd
Associate Vice Provost: Creative Engagement
Conor
          Wilson
Camilla
          Wilson
6 December 2024
24 June 2024
Date: Sat 23 Sep 2023 10:00 AM
Date: Fri 26 Nov 2021 05:00 PM

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/biology-food-and-nutrition:
in the overall rankings for Nutrition and Food Science (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Satisfaction with Teaching in Nutrition and Food Science (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Satisfaction with Feedback in Biology (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Student Experience in Food Science (Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025)
for Satisfaction with Course in Food Science (Complete University Guide 2025)
Our Biology, Food and Nutrition programmes combine practical, hands on experience with real world relevancy.
From the food and beverage industry, to environmental consultancy and beyond, our graduates are highly sought after.
As part of our Biology and Nutrition courses, we connect with industry to create working apprenticeships for our students, giving you the skills and experience you need to forge your own career path and pursuits.
Our Human Nutrition and our Food with Nutrition programmes offer you the option to have a sandwich year before your final year.
Put theory into practice, build professional networks, and meet and work with potential employers, all with full support from our staff.
Ralph
          Thompson
Senior Lecturer in Zoology
Hartwig
          Visser
Lecturer in Biomedical Science
Miriam
          Thavarajah
Lecturer in Wildlife Conservation and Ecology
Kate 
          Petty
Lecturer in Plant Science
Adam 
          George
Senior Lecturer in Conservation and Environment
Lori
          Bystrom
Lecturer in Food Enterprise and Plant Science
Elena
          Paci
Senior Lecturer in Biological Sciences
Georgina
          Ives
Lecturer in Forensic Science
Matthew
          Baker
Senior Lecturer in Human Biology and Human Nutrition
Samantha
          Lane
Academic Leader for the School of Sciences (Marketing and Student Recruitment)
Tracey
          Lewarne
Programme Leader for Human Nutrition and Sport and Exercise Nutrition
Read our latest Biology Newsletter to find out more about recent news and events.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/ceramics:
Wen-Hsi
          Harman
Practice-led PhD in Ceramics
Aimee
          Lax
Keith
          Harrison
Maybe you don't have to!
You can study Ceramics at undergraduate level as part of our Creative Arts Practice course.
Founded in 1852 as the Bath School of Art, the School has a long history.
As a student here you can expect to expand your horizons and deepen your knowledge through exploration in ideas, experimentation in process, and engagement with the creative industries.
We're top in the South West for Art according to the Guardian University Guide 2021.
They also ranked us in the top 25 for Art in the UK!
12 August 2025

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/computing-and-digital-creativity:
Realise your ideas - from design to development to deployment - with our Computing degree.
Join the next generation of digital creatives with our hands-on, industry-focused Creative Computing course.
Shape playable worlds that inform, persuade and entertain with our Gaming degree pathway.
Our Web Technologies degree pathway lets you reimagine the web as a canvas for connected creativity.
Interrogate the fascinating, dymanic world of Cyber Security in this applied course.
Turn your love of games into a career with this hands-on, industry-focused Games Development course.
Push the boundaries of digital creativity on our MSc Creative Computing course.
Learn how to make operational level decisions on Cyber Security that protect modern businesses.
As part of the ethos of the School of Creative Industries, we believe hands on experience is the only way to go.
We collaborate with emerging tech companies, prolific creative media practitioners, and a collective of independent animation and game studios across the Southwest, including Aardman Animation, IBM, and Funko.
Alongside our three specialist pathways in Gaming , Web Technologies and Animation, we also offer BSc (Hons) Creative Computing as part of a combined award, where you can combine your study with anything from Business and Management to Publishing.
Ready to take it to the next level?
Explore our MSc Creative Computing and learn digital storytelling and interactive design in an area that interests you.
A key feature of our Creative Computing pathways is collaboration.
On your course, you will have the opportunity to join forces with students across our subject areas - from Theatre and Production to Art and Design - creating unique and compelling digital work with real world possibilities.
Don't believe us?
Let our students tell you.
Ron
          Herrema
Jake
          Hobbs
John
          Curry
Coral
          Manton
Research Fellow in Creative Computing
Dave
          Cobb

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/creative-writing:
for Graduate Prospects in Creative Writing (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Student Experience in Creative Writing (Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025)
for Value Added in Creative Writing (Guardian University Guide 2025)
Gavin
          James Bower
Celia
          Brayfield
Mel
          Darbon
Lucy
          Hope
MA Writing for Young People
Marissa
          Hoffmann
PhD in Creative Writing
Alexia
          Casale
Emma
          Geen
Nathan
          Filer
Annalie
          Grainger
Robin
          Mukherjee
Steve
          Hollyman
Level 5 Leader and Senior Lecturer in Creative Writing
Nizrana
          Farook
Kate
          Pullinger
Professor of Creative Writing and Digital Media, and Director of the Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries
Rachel
          Hamilton
Lucy
          Cuthew
Toni
          Chappell
Chris
          Vick
Tim
          Liardet
Jasbinder
          Bilan
Lily 
          Dunn
Lucy
          English
Anna
          Freeman
Gerard
          Woodward
Philip
          Hensher
Alyssa
          Hollingsworth
Naomi 
          Alderman
Sam
          Beckbessinger
Dashe
          Roberts
Emily
          Koch
MA Creative Writing
Kristien
          Potgieter
Karen
          Gregory
Jess
          Butterworth
Tanvir
          Bush
Research Fellow in Creative Writing and Disability Studies
Lucy
          Sweetman
Samantha
          Harvey
Richard
          Kerridge
Stephen
          Moss
Renowned as one of the UK’s most prestigious literary awards, the Booker Prize features the most impressive works of sustained fiction and has catapulted exceptional literature into the spotlight for the last 55 years.
Sam ’s novel, Orbital , takes place over a single day in the life of six astronauts.
During those 24 hours, they observe 16 sunrises and 16 sunsets over their silent blue planet, spinning past continents and cycling past seasons, taking in glaciers and deserts, the peaks of mountains and the swells of oceans.
MA Writing for Young People graduate Lucy Hope's debut novel Fledgling was picked up by award-winning children’s publisher Nosy Crow just months after Lucy found her agent following the release of the course’s annual anthology.
Bath Spa University Research Centre in Creative Writing is a prospering centre of excellence, representing perhaps the strongest academic teams of creative writers in the country.
We believe that writing is a powerful instrument for discovering new ideas; that the development of writing skills is a vocational commitment, and that all writers benefit from sharing work in progress.
We’ve got a wide range of undergraduate courses.
Unsure of the right course for you?
We give you plenty of options and our combined courses mean you don’t have to limit yourself to one programme if two tempt you.
What does your life have coming up next?
Fancy jetting off to the other side of the world, founding a business, mastering a new hobby or landing your dream job?
You could achieve all this and more studying with us.
2 June 2025
8 May 2025
6 May 2025
24 March 2025
In this recorded online event, six former MA students from our MA Creative Writing share their experiences of the course along with insights into their careers and paths to publication.
Our guest speakers write fiction, poetry and non fiction.
They also organise events.
This event is sponsored by Bath Spa University and delivered in partnership with Novel Nights, a literary events organisation set up by Bath Spa University alum, Grace Palmer.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/creative-writing/creative-writing-publications:
View a full list of staff publications on their profile pages .
About: Published by Walker Books in July 2020, Blood Moon is an extraordinary YA novel in verse about the online shaming of a teenage girl.
About: Published in 2017, Jess Butterworth's debut won a Warwickshire Junior Book Award and was shortlisted for an Awesome Book Award in 2019.
About: The Eleventh Trade is out currently in the US and UK, and translation rights have been negotiated for five other countries to date.
About: Published in 2018, Redferne Lane is MA Creative Writing graduate Sarah Scholefield's first novel.
She began the novel on the course.
About: Described by The Guardian as "a beautifully conceived and entangled metaphor for Britain’s shifting relationships with Europe" The Western Wind is Creative Writing Senior Lecturer Samantha Harvey 's fifth novel, published in March 2018.
Critics are already calling it "darkly atmospheric" and "evocatively written".
About: Described in the Times as "a charming paean to this bird...
seamlessly linking biological fact with the anecdotal", this was one of the top bestsellers of Christmas 2017.
Stephen is now writing a follow-up on the Wren - Britain's commonest bird.
About: Amazon bestseller If I Die Before I Wake is MA Creative Writing graduate Emily Koch ’s debut novel.
The book has received rave reviews and ratings and was chosen as BBC Radio Jersey’s Book of the Month in January 2018.
The Guardian calls it a "...debut to be reckoned with."
About: The Paper Lovers is Creative Writing Professor Gerard Woodward 's fifth novel and explores marriage, transgressions, betrayal and identity.
Published in May 2018, it's available to order now.
About: The Power is Creative Writing Professor Naomi Alderman 's fourth novel and is set to be turned into a television series.
This "classic of the future” has been listed among the New York Times' 100 Notable Books of 2017 .
Award: The Women’s Prize for Fiction, 2017
About: Award-winning novelist and former Creative Writing Professor Tessa Hadley has written six novels and three volumes of short stories.
Her latest publication, Bad Dreams and Other Stories , has been listed among the New York Times' 100 Notable Books of 2017 .
About: Nathan Filer graduated in 2010 and had a runaway success with his debut novel, The Shock of the Fall , which won Costa Book of the Year in 2014.
It was also longlisted for the Desmond Elliott Prize and International Dublin Literary Award 2015.
Awards: Costa Book of the Year, Betty Trask Prize, Sunday Times Bestseller
About: Alumna Evie Wyld was named one of the eight winners of the Jerwood Fiction Uncovered Prize for All the Birds Singing in 2014.
Evie was also awarded the Miles Franklin Literary Award 2014 , Australia's highest profile fiction prize, against a strong field.
Awards: Jerwood Fiction Uncovered Prize 2014, Miles Franklin Literary Award 2014
About: Bath Spa University graduate Jack Wolf was named winner of the Author’s Club Best First Novel award 2014 for The Tale of Raw Head and Bloody Bones , which was also shortlisted for the 2013 Polari Prize.
Awards: First Novel Award 2014

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/creative-writing/the-poetry-hub:
The Poetry Hub of Bath Spa University strives for excellence in all fields of Poetry.
In the writing, the reading, the practice and application of poetry.
Auden said the principal role of poetry is to ‘protect language’.
We go further.
We believe poetry can augment, expand and provoke language, force it to grow.
We want to stimulate passion for the literary arts.
It's our goal to promote poetic literacy, to support and empower emerging and established poets, and to bring the best practitioners of the craft into the community.
We believe that Poetry is the food of the spirit.
The Poetry Hub is a living archive which seeks to maintain and cherish the spirit of poetry.
Tim Liardet is twice nominated for the T.S.
Eliot Prize, awarded one Poetry Book Society Choice and four Poetry Book Society Recommendations, an Arts Council England Writer’s Award, and a Society of Authors work-in-progress award for his eleventh collection in 2020.
Emma Jones is winner of the Forward Prize for Best Collection, the Judith Wright Calanthe Award for Best Collection, The Fellowship of Australian Writers First Prize Anne Elder Award, and shortlisted for the John Llewellyn Rhys Prize and New South Wales Premier’s Literary Award.
Gerard Woodward is twice Nominated for the T.S.
Eliot Prize, awarded two Poetry Book Society Choices, plus Man Booker shortlisting, Sunday Times Short Story Award, Jerwood Fiction Prize and O.
Henry Award for his esteemed work in prose.
Lucy English is Co-director of the Lyra Bristol Poetry Festival , has two collections with Burning Eye Books ( Prayer to Imperfection , 2014, and The Book of Hours , 2018), and is a BBC Radio 4 Poetry Slam finalist.
All poetry teaching at Bath Spa University emphasises the importance of the poetry publishing market.
We invite poets and poetry editors from journals and prominent publishing houses to talk to our students.
Over one hundred and sixty poets have visited Bath Spa University to read and answer our students' questions.
We feel it's a crucial part of a poetry student’s development to see how major poets project their own work in a public space.
Bath is a poetry-friendly city.
Over the years we have helped to feed the community with high quality poetry.
We' re proud of the many Bath Spa University alumni who have become published poets.
We're equally proud of the past and current poetry students who continue to place individual poems in distinguished journals.
Our poets have been shortlisted for the Edwin Morgan Prize, the Melita Hume Prize, awarded an Eric Gregory Award, the Bridport Prize, the Templar IOTA Shots pamphlet competition, the UNESCO Bridges of Struga Award or been a winner in the Troubadour International Poetry Prize Competition.
BA Hons (Creative Writing) takes you through the stages of artistic excitement to the forms into which that excitement can be channelled.
You'll begin by learning how crucial the reading of poetry is to the development of your own method, and progress to taking on every form that is available to the writing of poetry.
Finally, you'll get to grips with the exciting business of collection-building.
Our module in performance poetry and spoken word began in 2004 and is still offered as an option for our undergraduate Creative Writing students.
For those wishing to go one stage further, the MA in Creative Writing will enable students to develop, explore and challenge their expertise in the writing of poetry.
MA students will belong to a community of aspiring poets who share exactly the same learning values as they do.
The reading of poetry will quadruple.
Many students, at this stage, begin to publish their first poems.
Students wishing to progress even further in their expertise will pursue the culmination of poetry study in Bath Spa University’s Poetry Hub: the Creative PhD.
The Creative Writing PhD in Poetry explores the cross-pollination between an original idea of your own creation and the writing of a collection of poems which – in the most affirmative terms –reflects that idea.
Students exploring performance poetry at Bath Spa University are encouraged to experience live poetry.
Bristol and Bath have a range of lively spoken word events that students attend and analyse.
Taking this experience into their final year modules, our students develop portfolios of spoken word poetry, their own recordings, and professional publicity material.
Graduates from the MA in Creative Writing have published collections with Tall Lighthouse , Oversteps , Seren , Smith/Doorstop , Mulfran Press , Templar Poetry, and New York Quarterly – among other poetry publishers.
Others have placed poems in individual journals and publications such as Poetry Review , PN Review , The Best Australian Poetry , Under the Radar , The Rialto , Poetry Wales , The Edinburgh Review , The Warwick Review , The Long Poem Magazine , The London Magazine , Stand Magazine , The New Welsh Review , Smiths Knoll , Tears in the Fence , Magma , The Interpreter’s House , Orbis and Staple , among many others.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/creative-writing/the-poetry-hub/performance-poetry:
Performance Poetry and Spoken Word began at Bath Spa University in 2003, when Professor Lucy English organised the International Conference in the Practice of Performance Poetry, held at Newton Park.
In 2004 Lucy created the first module in Performance Poetry and Spoken Word to be validated at a British University.
This module is still offered as an option for second year undergraduate Creative Writing students.
Students exploring performance poetry at Bath Spa University examine historic and contemporary influences on current spoken word practitioners, and create and perform their own poetry.
They’re also encouraged to experience live poetry.
Taking this experience into their final year modules, they develop portfolios of spoken word poetry, their own recordings, and professional publicity material.
The University is one of the partners of the Lyra Bristol Poetry Festival, which is run by Lucy English and a former student.
The festival showcases a range of established and emerging talent, including Bath Spa students, who perform, organise and volunteer at the festival.
Kathryn O’Driscoll (pictured) is a spoken word poet and activist whose poetry explores disabilities, mental health and LGBT+ issues.
She is a UK slam champion and World Slam Finalist (2021).
She was longlisted for the Outspoken Prize for Performance Poetry and the Saboteur Award for Best Spoken Word Artist in 2022.
She was featured on Sky’s Life and Rhymes in 2021.
Kathryn’s first collection, Cliff Notes , was published by Verve in 2021.
Photo by Jorbein Photography at Spork!
Poetry at Exeter Phoenix on 25 October 2022.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/dance:
Michelle
          Elliott
Subject Leader for Dance
João
          Oliveira
BA (Hons) Dance
Leanne
          Oddy
Matthew
          Howard
Raquel
          dos Santos
Rhiann
          Ashley
Jess
          McCormack
Sophie
          Northmore
Associate Lecturer in Dance
Vicki
          Hearne
Lecturer in Dance
Bridie
          Doyle-Roberts
Keziah
          Benbow
Mason
          Palmer
Jasmine
          Hall
Zhi
          Xu
Senior Lecturer in Dance
Luke
          Antysz
Silvia
          Carderelli-Gronau
Teaching Fellow in Dance
Sarah
          Stone
Holly
          Bartlett
Chris
          Lewis-Smith
Amy
          Foskett
Jack
          Sergison
Stephanie
          Scheubeck
Xavier
          De Santos
Sarah
          Alexander
Course Leader for BA (Hons) Dance
Our BA (Hons) Dance students have worked with professional organisations, freelance dancers and dance companies including 2Faced Dance Company, Moving Soma, Alexander Whitely, Ballet Cymru, Motionhouse, The Egg Theatre, Impermanence Dance Theatre, Circomedia, Untold Dance Theatre, Amy Morvell, Be U Dance Company, The Dance Network Association, Rise Youth Dance, Jean Abreu Dance and Spectrum Dance Company.
At our Newton Park campus we offer three fully-equipped dance studios, the University Theatre, a Mac video editing suite, additional rehearsal spaces for independent study, and access to green screen film studios.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/dance/events-and-performances:
Bath Spa's Dance department has a vibrant calendar of events and performances with over fifty different activities taking place each year.
In addition to showcasing a wide range of exciting work from our emerging dance artists, the University also hosts performances, workshops, and research events with our extensive network of professional artists and companies.
"There were so many things that happened whilst I was at Bath Spa...
I can't pick just one or two.
I felt like the whole course and experience was one big highlight of life so far.
I've learnt so much, not just academically, but in life.
I feel like I really lived and experienced these three years of my life to the fullest."
Bath Spa dance students have the opportunity to take part in regular workshops and classes with a range of professional artists and companies.
Examples include:
"Lecturers at Bath Spa have a clear understanding of trends and current working methods in contemporary working practices.
I feel proud to be working in partnership with the University and would happily recommend them to anyone pursuing a career in the arts"
The following dance companies have given our students valuable insight into how companies function, the many and varied roles and activities that are involved in running a company, and allowed our students to gain real life experience of working in the professional dance sector.
"My favourite elements of the course are the workshops and events run by professional artists.
We get the chance to network with practitioners which really opens our eyes to what's out there."

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/dance/dance-grads:
Whether they've continued their education, or progressed to the professional performing arts, our Dance graduates have gone on to do amazing things.
Here are some of their stories.
Rouxuan
          Zhao
MA Dance
Yifei
          Liu
"I cannot thank Bath Spa enough for the amount of ways it prepared me for my future.
Not only did the course develop my physical technique and performance skills, but it also allowed me to grow as a creative artist."
BA (Hons) Dance is both physically and intellectually challenging, while MA Dance focuses on you as artist and entrepreneur.
Learn more about our courses, or head over to our interest area page to find out more about the Dance department .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/design:
for Continuation in Interior Design (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Value Added in Graphic Design (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Graduate Prospects in Fashion and Textiles (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Graduate Prospects in Interior Design (Guardian University Guide 2025)
and #9 in the UK for Continuation in Graphic Design (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Graduate Prospects for Fashion and Textiles (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Graduate Prospects – On Track for Art and Design (Complete University Guide 2025)
Kristin
          Doern
Stuart
          Henley
Erin
          Deighton
Naomi
          Wood
Teaching Fellow
Dan
          Mifsud
Gaby
          Durnford
Teaching Fellow in Textile Design
Laura
          Medlicott
BA (Hons) Graphic Communication
Julia
          Keyte
Rachel
          Withers
Creativity is a key part of design, and we've got it in spades.
Don’t just take our word for it; we’ve been voted one of the top creative universities in the Which?
University Student Survey 2017.
Create a journey that appeals to you.
Unsure which specialism you want to study?
Our flexible framework means that you’ll be able to develop skills in a multidisciplinary context.
We applaud the creativity and success of our students.
As part of our design courses, you will take part in a number of public facing exhibitions and events, such as our Graduate Fashion Week, where your designs will come to life on the catwalk, or as part of our partnership with the Holburne Museum in Bath.
25 November 2024
15 November 2024
1 December 2023
30 June 2023

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/drama:
Do you want to be a director, performer, practitioner, producer, writer, researcher, facilitator, teacher or lecturer?
If so, then find your place with us in the world of drama by developing performance work and undertaking projects that allow you to explore your creative identity.
We'll give you the performance, critical and creative skills that you need to thrive in whatever your chosen career.
Find out what our Drama students get up to via Bath Spa Live .
"Through studying Drama I acquired the confidence to stand up in front of a group of young people and lead a workshop – a workshop that may include elements of creativity, or drama games to assist learning.
And I think the most valuable thing I’ve learned is that I don’t have to do just one thing.
I’m a teacher, a writer, a consultant, a facilitator, a project manager, an events organiser, a social media content producer and so much more."
Miranda
          Lundskaer-Nielsen
Sita
          Calvert-Ennals
Programme Leader for MA Performance (Directing)
Kerrie
          Reading
Senior Lecturer in Drama
Katherine
          Hipkiss
Simon
          Crispin
BA (Hons) Drama
Laura
          Gates
Reader in Theatre and Performance
Olivia
          Turnbull
Pippa
          Thornton
BA (Hons) Drama and MA Arts Management
Roy
          Connolly
You'll benefit from a wealth of teaching and rehearsal facilities on our Newton Park campus, including our University Theatre , the central hub of our Drama courses.
Our students have entered into a diverse array of careers, and we're proud of each and every one of them.
Fields include directing, acting, media, drama therapy, teaching, lecturing, arts administration, as well as setting up individual theatre and production companies.
Tempted by two courses?
Our combined degree courses mean you don’t have to limit yourself to one programme.
You could pair Drama with anything from Biology to Business and Management.
"The Drama lecturers were committed to giving us the tools we needed to thrive in further education and become well-rounded, creative and collaborative Drama practitioners."
Drama Fest is an exciting annual fringe festival at our University Theatre that features works produced by final year Drama students.
Performances can include devised theatre, physical and visual theatre, stand-up comedy, processional theatre, immersive theatre, text-based drama, Shakespearean theatre, installations and more.
Previously 9 to 18 April
Starting in 1983, this hilarious comedy spanning over three decades, shows three young women come together to experience the complex dynamics of female friendship.
Di is an athletic closet lesbian coming to terms with being openly gay, Viv is an outspoken perfectionist striving towards a career in the fashion industry and Rose is a sexually ambitious artist with more enthusiasm for “thing” than her degree.
The world around you is an illusion.
Welcome to Madame Irma’s Maison de l'Illusion, a modern reimagining of Jean Genet’s The Balcony (1956), a play that accuses our world of being nothing more than a brothel, and we its eager clients.
Five teens in the town of Whitby, North Yorkshire find themselves immersed in a fantasy world of Dungeons and Dragons, separated in background and social status but brought together by the camaraderie of adventure.
An unlikely friendship occurs, surviving through tragedy and hardship, helping the teens to cope with the harsh reality they reside in.
7 March 2023
"There is a great mix of performance and theory within this course, that will give you an excellent grounding within the subject for whichever field you go into - whether that be teaching, performing or directing."

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/english-literature:
for Graduate Prospects in English (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Satisfaction with Course in English (Complete University Guide 2025)
in the overall rankings for English (Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025)
Jenni
          Lewis
Lowri
          James
BA (Hons) English Literature
Kyriaki
          Hadjiafxendi
Neil
          Sammells
John
          Strachan
Poppy
          Westwood
Samantha
          Walton
Ian
          Gadd
Faith
          Binckes
Nicola
          Presley
Christopher
          Ivic
Marcie
          Burnett
Nicky
          Lloyd
Elizabeth
          Wright
Dr Stephen
          Gregg
"The English lecturers at Bath Spa seemed from the outset to take a real interest in the welfare of their students and the progression of their learning.
Their passion for books is highly contagious"
Our BA (Hons) English Literature course is a large and popular programme with an excellent reputation.
We'll cover a diverse range of modules exploring books and writers from the sixteenth century to the present, finding your own specialty as you go.
Our English lecturers are all dynamic teachers and researchers in their field, often contributing to scholarly books, publications and conferences.
We scored highly in the last Research Exercise Framework (REF), and some of our research was awarded world-leading rating.
Our combined courses means you don’t have to limit yourself to one programme if two tempt you.
You could pair English Literature with a range of subjects from Publishing to Philosophy and Ethics.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/explore-business-management-and-economics:
We've a wide range of Business, Management and Economics courses that cover every aspect of the world of business today, from Entrepreneurship to Festivals and Events.
Keep reading to find out more about our courses and other ways to get involved in business at the University.
Become a skilled, aware and conscious professional who is ready to thrive in tomorrow’s workplace.
Combine your creativity and enthusiasm for fashion with core business and management skills.
Discover the science of human behaviour and its applications in the working world, whilst gaining the skills to investigate and generate new knowledge.
Choose pathways to tailor your Business and Management degree to your aspirations:
Bath Spa University students on the BA (Hons) Business and Management (Festivals and Events) course raised almost £3,000 for local charities.
The THE Awards are widely recognised as the “Oscars” of the higher education sector, regularly with only six nominated for the prestigious prize this year.
Find out more about studying at Bath Spa by attending one of our Open Days or book a campus tour.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/explore-business-management-and-economics/business-degree-accreditations:
CIM is the world’s leading professional marketing body with over 28,000 members worldwide, and a Royal Charter.
A number of our Business and Management degrees are CIM accredited.
As a student on these CIM-accredited courses, you also gain access to CIM's Marketing Gateway Programme and while studying for your degree can gain a number of module exemptions towards acquiring a professionally recognised CIM qualification – one of which is equivalent to an additional undergraduate degree .
Exemptions from two modules of the CIM Level 4 Professional Certificate in Marketing are available to successful graduates of the following courses:
Students on the above degrees can obtain the CIM Professional Certificate in Marketing by completing just one additional assessment within five years of graduating.
Students on our Marketing degree can obtain module exemptions equating to 180 study credits towards the CIM Diploma in Professional Marketing and need to complete just two additional assessments within five years of graduating to obtain this CIM Level 6 qualification, which is equivalent to an undergraduate degree .
CIMA , founded in 1919, is the world’s leading and largest professional body of management accountants.
Bath Business School has secured professional body recognition of the Business and Management degree, which provides graduates with exemptions from several exams.
We've secured professional body recognition of the Business and Management degree.
This provides graduates of the following courses:
with exemptions from the following:
CIMA Certificate in Business Accounting
CIMA Operational Level:
The DMI is the proven global standard for digital marketing certification with 200,000+ members and over 25,000+ certified professionals.
We’ve partnered with the DMI to offer Certified Digital Marketing Associate (CDMA) certification.
This means that on successful completion of the Digital Marketing Essentials module in your second year, you’ll obtain certification that shows you've learned the fundamental skills of digital marketing and is recognised by the world’s leading employers including Google, Facebook and Twitter.
The certification is also a great asset to take forward into your search for a work placement (such as if you’re doing a sandwich/placement year) which can give you a head-start in your career on graduation.
Students who successfully complete our Digital Marketing Essentials module (part of the following courses) will gain professional certification – the Certified Digital Marketing Associate (CDMA) – from the DMI.
Bath Business School has partnered with CIMA/SAGE , who produce the UK's market leading accounting software, to offer an excellent grounding in computerised accounting.
The qualification offers benchmarked skills that aim to enhance employability and business acumen.
Students who take the core Level 4 Managing Data module to have the option of taking the online test to achieve the CIMA accredited SAGE foundation certificate .
The IoH is an international hospitality professional membership body for managers and aspiring managers who work and study in the hospitality, leisure and tourism industries.
It helps hospitality professionals in 100 countries grow their knowledge, professional profile and expertise by offering a wide range of high quality membership services.
Graduates of the following courses are eligible to apply for the Associate (AIH) grade of membership, and following an assessment may also meet requirements for the member (MIH) grade:
CABS supports its members to maintain world-class standards of teaching and research, and facilitates dialogue between business and government.
Bath Business School is a member of CABS, and the Provost of Bath Spa University, Professor Georgina Andrews , is the Vice-Chair of the CABS Learning, Teaching and Student Experience Committee.
Graduates of the following courses are eligible to join CABS:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/fashion:
Joshua
          Williams
Course Leader for BA (Hons) Fashion Marketing and Management
Kirsty
          Bennetta
Senior Lecturer in Fashion Marketing and Management
Anna
          Gravelle
Joint Programme Leader for Textile Design
Emma
          Reichenbach
Frances
          Turner
Senior Lecturer in Marketing and Entrepreneurial Skills for Fashion and Textiles
Rachael
          Howard
Course Leader for Textile Design
Mark
          Cox
Programme Leader for Fashion Marketing and Management
Andrew
          Richards
Technical Demonstrator for Fashion Design Skills
Sarah
          Wilkinson
BA (Hons) Textile Design
Emma
          Askew-Miller
Course Leader for Fashion Design
Young In
          Hong
Reader in Performance and Textiles
Graduates from our courses have been employed by companies including Zara, Toast, Dune, Mulberry, Coast and Karen Millen.
Other graduates have progressed to study Master's degrees, or set up their own businesses.
Read more about some of our graduates:
Explore fashion and design in a global context.
Our students have visited fashion brands and houses in Sweden, Poland and Japan, exploring design and marketing with such giants as H&M and Anthropologie.
See the designs from our students on the BA (Hons) Fashion Design course, modelled on a professional catwalk by models from key London agencies.
Designs by Jack Capstick, Matilda Lines, Connor McCann, Alice Honeychurch, Jessica Purdie, Sophie Macdonald, Elizabeth Midwinter, Suzy Gallina, Anna Fuller, Angela Lopez-Monzon, Rachel Comrie, Geroge Clarke, Maria Emslie, and Charlotte Weaver.
Find out more about what our fashion and design students are up on on our blog .
30 July 2025
18 June 2025
12 June 2025
30 May 2025

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/film-and-media:
for Satisfaction with Teaching in Film Production and Photography (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Continuation in Communication and Media Studies (Complete University Guide 2025)
for Teaching Quality in Media and Film Studies (Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025)
for Continuation in Film Production and Photography (Guardian University Guide 2025)
Whether supporting the digital content creators and screen writers of the future, or the next generation of promotional strategists, film critics and media researchers, our courses provide the creative, critical and ethical toolkits to truly reimagine film and media as a force for change, inspiring others to address the issues of the day.
It’s your world, your media.
Working at the intersection of creative industries, practice and research, our passionate and enthusiastic lecturers are leaders in their fields, producing new ways of learning through documentary filmmaking and digital media arts.
Our research into gender representation, transnational cinemas and digital media technologies is world-leading, inspiring you to challenge the workings of film and media in the contemporary world.
Working with community and industry partners in Bath and beyond, you'll experiment with how film, TV, social media, videogames and emerging digital technologies can transform today’s social issues.
Our students have created behind-the-scenes videos commissioned by TEDx Bristol for their social media department.
Our students co-create promotional campaigns for this National Lottery Heritage-funded initiative to ensure that Bath is better recognised as a landscape city.
Our students pitch for bespoke work experience placements at this leading digital agency.
Our students have been tasked with repackaging their film and media research for the good of this nationally renowned magazine publisher and its diverse readers.
Our state-of-the-art studios, post-production facilities, audio recording and mastering rooms all support your personal adventures in creativity.
Our student-led media production company is home to the final-year Creative Media students, who collaborate with experienced and award-winning media professionals.
Our research centre brings together filmmakers, media artists and researchers, app and games developers to creatively rethink what film and media can achieve in diverse communities, driving forward socially engaged media research.
30 January 2025
23 May 2022
Stephen
          Manley
Sam
          Wilkins
Sara
          Penrhyn Jones
Emma
          Grant
Fred
          Reed
Ruth
          Farrar
Reader in Creative Media and Enterprise, and Co-Director of the Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries
Bethany Rose
          Lamont
Ann-Marie
          McCormack
Rich 
          Warren
Lizzie 
          Powell
Jamie
          Steele
Christina
          Williams
Claire
          Levy
Rebecca 
          Feasey
Keith
          Kopp
Senior Lecturer in Film and Television Production
Elizabeth
          Lombardi

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/geography-and-environmental-sciences:
Learn to shape the connections between humans, wildlife and the natural world.
Our teaching is research-informed and driven by a commitment to sustainability.
These courses are practical and experiential – you’ll get the chance to interact with nature, take part in fieldwork and travel.
Sunday Times Good University Guide
Get free access to the full Adobe Creative Suite , and unleash your creativity and enhance your digital skills.
“...and study a degree that I know will nourish my need for meaning and purpose in a time of impending and current environmental crisis.”
Heidi Mbemap, BSc (Hons) Wildlife Conservation
For a Geography student, being surrounded by lakes and rolling hills was perfect – the estate at Newton Park was like an outdoor lab and we made the most of it!
Harry Watts , BSc (Hons) Geography
Let our campus be your classroom
Fieldwork is central to your studies on each of these courses.
You'll get the chance to use the beautiful Newton Park campus as a natural laboratory, where you can learn a range of scientific techniques including field identification, environmental sampling and water analysis.
Deepen your knowledge through UK and international trips
Field trip opportunities give you the chance to apply the skills you learn in the real world.
You could visit Namibia, Italy, Spain and Wales, depending on your chosen degree.
Please check the relevant course page for the most up-to-date information on fieldwork and trips.
Bath Spa has been great in allowing me to study the natural world in a really natural environment, while being surrounded by passionate staff members and other likeminded people who want to be a part of positive planetary change.
Angel Plumb, BSc (Hons) Environmental Science
Immerse yourself within our natural laboratory of parkland, woodland, streams and lakes at Newton Park campus.
Make the most of our lab facilities and specialist equipment , including total stations, terrestrial laser scanner, GPS, air quality monitors, and specialist software such as Geographical Information Systems (GIS).
Whether you prefer accommodation in Bath's vibrant city centre or the tranquility of Newton Park halls, your new home awaits.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/graphic-design:
for Continuation in Graphic Design (Guardian University Guide 2025)
Joanna
          Boehnert
Matthew
          Robertson
Tim
          Vyner
Victoria
          Norcross
Nigel
          Robinson
Graduates from our Graphics courses have gone on to become graphic designers, illustrators, photographers and photo editors for design agencies, architectural and engineering practices, the MOD and other specialist firms.
Our flexible framework means that you’ll be able to explore other areas and develop new skills.
In addition, we’ll encourage you to collaborate students in other subject areas.
Date: Wed 13 Jun 2018 10:00 AM

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/history-heritage-and-politics:
Alan
          Marshall
Emeritus Professor - History
Jackie
          Collier
Sarah
          Morton
Clara
          Breitenmoser
MA Heritage Management
David
          Coast
Clifford
          Williamson
Kevin
          Grieves
Teaching Fellow in History
Kate
          James
PhD Researcher and Lecturer in History and Heritage
Ever wondered what it's like to study History and Heritage subjects at university?
Perhaps you want to know what the courses are really like, how you'll get on with research, and what kind of topics you'll study?
We asked our students these questions and more in this video.
Our History and Heritage Research Centre harnesses the diverse interests and specialisms of our staff to engage in world-leading teaching, research, and public engagement.
Curious about getting involved?
You can explore our research interests, or our current offer of postgraduate courses on our centre pages.
Our combined degree courses means you don’t have to limit yourself to one programme if two tempt you.
You could pair History with a range of subjects - from Creative Writing to English Literature, or our new Politics combined offer.
Explore our Curious Corners iPad app - created by a group of students on our heritage, humanities, and graphic communication courses, in partnership with No.1 Royal Crescent.
Examine historic objects from the Bath Royal Literary and Scientific Institution's (BRLSI) archival collection, which brings to life the Crescent's 'Cabinet of Curiosities'.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/marketing-and-enterprise:
11 August 2025
Studying with us you can develop a raft of specialist accounting skills.
These will include the ability to:
Courses
Under this specialism you’ll be laying the groundwork to join the ever-growing number of start-ups and SMEs.
The course will cover everything from the basics of setting up your own business in the UK through to international approaches to enterprise and entrepreneurship education.
Bath is an ideal setting for your study of the business of events as it is in the heartland of the UK’s fast-growing festival industry, with its own packed calendar and Bristol and Glastonbury on the doorstep.
You’ll look at the topic from a wide range of perspectives, including the economic, social and environmental factors at play.
Develop your understanding of the many human resources aspects of business.
You’ll graduate with the ability to evaluate and challenge human resource management practices and policies, in-depth knowledge of a current and relevant topic within the human resource management field, an awareness of how the business environment shapes the management of people in today’s organisations.
Gain a grounding in international business.
Specific areas you could be focusing on include the drivers of international business development, the global commercial environment and how management processes differ across the world.
Understand the role that law plays in contemporary business locally and globally.
You'll explore business law through a variety of methods, including practical real-life exercises.
You'll also have the opportunity to develop lawyerly skills such as advocacy, legal research and debating.
Gain insight into contemporary marketing in its many forms and how it delivers results.
You’ll develop specialist marketing skills that are highly sought-after by today’s employers, from a knowledge of broad-based marketing principles to creating a social media marketing campaign and marketing a brand internationally.
Develop a whole variety of valuable skills that will equip you to specialise in the world of tourism.
Those skills could include evaluating different approaches to destination management, understanding contemporary ideas of social change as they relate to tourism and recognising emerging tourism forms.
Li
          Li
Reader in Management
Nasir
          Salari
Gareth
          Stone
Victoria 
          Opara
Anca
          Baker
Eda
          Sahin
Mahmoud
          Alhawamdeh
Rose
          Hiron-Grimes
Penny
          Walters
Judith
          Robinson
Hugh
          Osborne
Hakan 
          Satiroglu
Meryem
          Akin
Emmanuel
          Nartey
LLM Programme Leader
Steve
          Goulton
Anna
          Walker
Marc
          Leverton
Ben
          Davies
Senior Lecturer in Business and Management
Connor
          Coombs
Nilashis
          Ghosh
Polly
          Derbyshire
Isik
          Akin
Nichola
          McNulty
Lu
          Liu
Bronwen
          O'Byrne
Nadine
          Hennessy
Diana
          Reader
Polly
          Crockett
Sam
          Landry
Ben
          Van Praag
Deborah
          Bowe
We really know our stuff.
As part of our thriving business school you'll be surrounded by driven students and taught by passionate lecturers who have bucklet loads of industry experience.
Prepare to get ahead of the game; we offer a variety of pathways (including marketing, law, entrepreneurship and many more), so you'll graduate as a specialist in your area.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/music-and-sound:
28 February 2025
27 September 2021
Do and make in this practical Music course which focuses on performance and composition.
A vocational Commercial Music course for songwriters, producers and performers who want to turn their passion into a career.
Innovate and thrive as an artist producer or audio professional on our Creative Music Technology course.
Create impact and narrative meaning in sound and music for Games and Interactive Media .
Amanda
          Bayley
Professor of Music
Matthew
          Sergeant
Reader in Music
Helen
          Reid
Teaching Fellow in Music Performance
Adam
          Biggs
Senior Lecturer in Jazz
Jeff
          Boehm
Senior Lecturer in Music
Mark
          Whitlam
Teaching Fellow in Music
Matt
          Dicken
Lecturer in Music
James
          Saunders
Matthew
          Lovett
Head of the School of Music and Performing Arts
Jan
          Meinema
Course Leader for MA Sound Design
Andy
          Keep
Performances spaces include the University Theatre and the Michael Tippett Centre.
You’ll find that many of our courses have relationships with various venues in Bath and Bristol.
Oli
          Baldwin
David
          Combes
Duncan
          Silvey
James
          Dickinson
Amy 
          Sergeant
A course for those interested in live or recorded Music Performance within classical or jazz styles.
Develop your unique stylistic voice through working with experienced composers and creative practitioners in our Composition course.
Explore your auditory inclinations by choosing one of three available pathways, with options for combined and parallel courses:
Whether you're a recent graduate or an industry professional, develop your skills on our Commercial Music MA .
The world leader in online Masters-level Songwriting study, this course teaches creativity, technique, research and context to refine your professional song portfolio.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/music-and-sound/explore-composition:
At Bath Spa we have a very active group of composers, songwriters and sound artists from undergraduate level through to Masters and PhD.
Creative work is developed through a series of projects and briefs, supported by seminars, workshops, tutorials and visiting speakers, leading to a live or recorded presentation of everything that is made.
As a department we support a very wide range of approaches to composition.
The courses aim to extend your technical skills and deepen your awareness and critical understanding of recent music in order to help you find your own direction.
We do this as a community through a series of projects which create opportunities to make work in response to a brief, mirroring what is expected in professional practice, and giving you the chance to develop your own way to make music.
The video and project links below show some recent work, but examples of this variety include:
Our Creative Sound Forum brings together composers, sound artists, sound designers on the MA Composition, MA Sound, PhD, BA Music and staff to explore recent work by visiting practitioners.
Composers and writers present their work as part of the series, and provides a great insight into current compositional practice for students and staff.
Explore some recent projects by undergraduate and postgraduate composers at Bath Spa.
An online installation built in Mozilla Hubs by third year composers, with a programme including electronic lofi, ambient orchestral and dark jazz, with accompanying visuals.
A site-specific project created by second year dance and music students in Spring 2021 which explored how work developed online and in the studio could be transferred to different spaces around the Newton Park campus.
A brand new body of work created by dance and music students at Bath Spa University, exploring the idea of the home as a museum and the objects within it as tools for making.
New work by final year BA Music students at Bath Spa University, including pieces intended for concert performance, ambient and immersive audio soundscapes, explorations of memory and the human voice, musical theatre, and audio-visual pieces.
This year our regular project with Plus Minus Ensemble moved online, with the postgraduate composers writing pieces for clarinet, cello and piano for remote recording.
The composers spent time workshopping material with the players, before the trio recorded their parts separately to make the edited recordings you will hear in this event.
The other pieces in the programme are drawn from their portfolios over the past year and include work for acoustic and electronic resources.
Our composition research community is built around staff and PhD projects, which are brought together through our Open Scores Lab research group which meets weekly in term time.
The Lab functions as an environment in which creative practitioners can experiment with new approaches to scoring, working with colleagues in other disciplines to support their research.
It brings together composers and artists whose practice includes making open scores in different media with performers who are experienced in realising open scores in performance.
We work with graphic designers who focus on the visual display and communication of information and creative computing specialists who explore networked processes and interactive systems.
We also collaborate with other researchers in related disciplines where there is a common interest in scoring and communicating instructions.
The work of the Lab is to develop new approaches to scoring music, and consequently to develop new modes of music making.
This takes place through weekly meetings and a series of focused projects that deal with a specific aspect of score making.
You can find out more about the research on the Open Scores Lab blog page .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/photography:
Stephen
          Vaughan
Kellie
          Hindmarch
Hugh
          Sanders
Become part of a motivated community of creative individuals.
Our Photography graduates have secured work in the following fields, and beyond:
Photography at Bath Spa takes a hands-on approach, helping you to cultivate a working practice that's in tune with your interests and long term career goals.
You'll explore ideas of narrative, identity and place, as constructed through the lens and beyond.
Our BA (Hons) Creative Arts Practice lets you develop skills in multiple strands of Art and Design.
You can also study Art and Creative Writing.
4 June 2025

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/politics-philosophies-and-ethics:
How does the world work, and how can it be changed for the better?
How do our beliefs and values shape human behaviour?
If you're interested in questions such as these, one of these courses could be for you.
Get free access to the full Adobe Creative Suite , and unleash your creativity via audio and visuals alike.
Combine creativity with an in-depth exploration of ideas with our Creative Writing and Philosophy and Ethics degree.
Study crime from a variety of approaches alongside specialist subject knowledge from our innovative Politics course.
Explore different perspectives and gain valuable professional skills with our English Literature and Philosophy and Ethics degree.
Develop practical skills as you apply your understanding of the past and your knowledge of philosophy to contemporary challenges.
Our innovative History with Politics degree has been designed to help you develop practical and professional skills that you can apply to contemporary challenges, issues and debates.
Explore the impact of local and national politics and how history informs change with our International Relations and History degree.
Examine world politics and challenge prevailing structures of power and authority with our International Relations and Politics degree.
Develop practical and vocational skills alongside your knowledge of legal theory and specialised subject knowledge from our innovative Politics course.
Gain employable skills and explore how and why we think with a combined Philosophy and Psychology degree.
Investigate issues of philosophy, politics and economics, and devise creative solutions to local, national and global problems.
Discover the power and limitations of activism, social justice, ethical politics and sustainability with our combined Politics and Sociology degree.
Sociology helps me piece things together and see the world how it really is.
The campus is beautiful...and the lecturers are passionate about what they teach.
Kirsty Taylor, BA (Hons) Sociology
Having a knowledge of legal concepts is invaluable within organisations and general life...
my favourite topic is employment law as I want to pursue a career in Human Resources.
Maisy Ward, final year LLB (Hons) Law module
You'll be based at our Newton Park campus, surrounded by both historic listed buildings and ultra-modern teaching facilities.
We’re ranked #3 in the South West for Teaching Quality by the Sunday Times Good University Guide 2023 .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/primary-teaching:
We've been awarded Department for Education funding to deliver an innovative new teacher training partnership that means we can help bring even more exceptional new teachers into the areas that need them the most.
It also offers an exclusive bursary of up to £1,500 to support your primary teacher training.
Bath Spa University has a long and successful history in initial teacher education.
Our belief that ‘all children deserve the very best teachers’ is still central to our practice today.
We believe that education plays a key role in promoting social justice and reducing social inequalities, and that well-qualified and highly skilled teachers make a difference to the lives and futures of the learners they teach.
Our principles of collaboration , critical thinking , creativity , and care are fundamental to our social justice commitment and are the foundations of our programme.
They are part of what makes the Bath Spa University Partnership a unique and special place to train.
We believe that from the start of your journey to be an excellent teacher, you must recognise your responsibilities, as well as the impact you'll have on the lives of children and young people.
From the start of your course, you'll be expected to make a positive contribution to children and young peoples’ learning and progress.
Because of this expectation, you'll become a Bath Spa Teacher.
You'll train in some of our most exciting, innovative and challenging schools and learn first-hand from experienced classroom teachers.
In partnership with schools, you'll have the opportunity to become the very best teacher that all children and young people deserve: a creative practitioner, a critical thinker, a collaborative colleague and a professional teacher who cares for and nurtures the learners you teach.
Genuine partnership, and sharing knowledge, expertise and skills to provide high quality training on the PGCE programme, continues to be at the heart of our provision, and the success of Bath Spa Teachers (BSTs) is the result of working closely with schools in our Partnership to produce a shared understanding of the expectations and requirements to help create the next generation of outstanding teachers.
As a partnership, we'll provide BSTs with challenging and highly effective training and support that will impact on their progress throughout their training year, and into their early careers as teachers.
We will ensure that the quality of the ITE Partnership Curriculum they experience throughout their training and the accurate assessment we make of their progress and attainment will guarantee that they are worthy of employment within our partnership schools and beyond.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/psychology-criminology-and-sociology:
Naomi
          Townsend-Brown
BSc (Hons) Psychology
Sarah
          Hodge
Academic Leader (Partnerships and Combined Awards)
Marie
          Thomas
Reader in Psychology
Hannah 
          Lewis
Lecturer in Educational Psychology
Phoebe
          Abbott
BSc (Hons) Criminology
Kate
          Muir
Senior Lecturer in Forensic Psychology
Paulina
          Wegrzynek
Senior Lecturer in Psychology
Chen
          Zhao
Lecturer in Psychology
Renata
          Bongiorno
Agnieszka
          Janik McErlean
Peter
          Hills
Academic Leader for Portfolio Review and Curriculum Development
Georgina
          Hughes
Andrew 
          Smart
Reader in Sociology
Michele
          Garibbo
Mary
          Nikolaidou
Teaching Fellow in Psychology
Sophia
          Tkazky
Kate
          Hughes
Lecturer
Chloe
          Ghent
Sophie
          Pike
Senior Lecturer in Criminology
Cordelia
          Sutton
Natasha
          Clarke
Jasmine
          Henry
Gerasimos
          Markopoulos
Peter
          Etchells
Professor of Psychology and Science Communication
Zoe
          Bowthorp-Church
Elim
          Sefi
BSc (Hons) Business Psychology
Holly
          Price
Eleni Anna
          Skoulikari
Paul
          Thornbury
Lecturer in Criminology
Luke
          Roach
Sarah
          Warbis
Jessica
          Padgett
Lecturer in Social Psychology
Veni
          Roshith
Andrew
          Bengry
Patrick
          Turner
Senior Lecturer in Sociology
Scott
          Kerpen
Tyson
          Amurun
Our combined degree courses mean you don’t have to limit yourself to one programme if two tempt you.
For example you could pair Psychology with English Literature or Sociology with History.
1 May 2025
12 May 2023
Working alongside HMP Erlestoke, Dr Natalie Booth and Dr Faye Vanstone are extending the reach of higher education into the criminal justice sector with an innovative criminology course for prison learners.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/publishing:
and #1 in the South West for Graduate Prospects in English (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Satisfaction with Feedback in Journalism (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for English (Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025)
for Value Added in History (Guardian University Guide 2025)
I have very fond memories of studying Publishing at Bath Spa University, which was completely invaluable in kick-starting my career.
Our students get out and about working at major industry and cultural events, in the community and on work experience live briefs.
Previous clients include the BBC, TEDx Bristol, Bath Literature Festival, HarperCollins, The Forest of Imagination arts festival for young people and families.
Our publishing courses are tailored to your interests and help you develop expertise to achieve your ambitions.
Combine publishing with English Literature, Creative Writing, History – and even Creative Computing – to stand out from the crowd.
Our staff have a wealth of industry experience and insight.
Not only do they bring their practical skill to the course, but you will also have access to their network of industry contacts, helping you to launch your career even before you start.
Year 3 Publishing students gain work experience as part of the course, running our alternative university magazine Milk .
We even host club nights!
7 November 2022
Date: Sat 14 Oct 2023 12:30 PM
As a student, you will get free access to essential Publishing magazines and subject resources via our library Publishing page.
Megan
          Farr
Jason
          Bennett
Neil
          Baber

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/sport:
Sport has a global impact.
It crosses divides to touch every corner of society.
At Bath Spa University, we want you to gain an understanding of sports that's sophisticated, inclusive and future-ready, and we've developed our Sports degrees with these qualities in mind.
We provide all of our students with free, unlimited access to the full Adobe Creative Suite , giving you the tools you need to communicate creatively.
Call us on +44 (0)1225 876180 or complete our online form.
The best part of my placement so far has been a recent trip to Dubai.
I got flown out to work on the DP World Tour championship for just over a month.
The experience I gained working out there was incomparable.
My placement has provided me with valuable business experience, and I’ve also noticed my confidence and individual professionalism develop hugely.
Anna Chandler, BA (Hons) Business and Management
We're official sponsors of Bath City Football Club's stadium, Twerton Park.
We've also taken our partnership with the club further by sponsoring Bath City's women’s teams.
Based at Newton Park , you'll be perfectly placed to take advantage of everything the countryside has to offer, while also being a short bus journey from the city centre.
We have pitches for rugby, netball and football, and the SU gym , on site.
No matter which course you're drawn to, you'll be able to take advantage of our excellent facilities including:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/interest-areas/textiles:
You’ll have access to:
Our textile graduates have gone on to work with such companies as Liberty, The White Company, Bay & Brown, Lyle & Scott, Keeler Gordon, Debenhams, G.M Syntex, Relish Clothing, IVO Prints, Selfridges, Boden, Joules, Marks and Spencer's, Hand and Lock, Hallmark and Anthropologie.
Our textile students and graduates enter competitions (and win them).
Previous wins have included the Sanderson Award at New Designers and Festival of Quilts Award.
Date: Tue 17 Mar 2020 11:00 AM

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/course-documents:
Interested in studying with us?
Once you've checked the course page , delve into the details of your chosen course by checking the Definitive Programme Document (DPD) – a more definitive guide to what you'll learn.
If you want to study two undergraduate subjects in combination (a Joint Honours degree) please see the programme documents for both subjects.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/short-courses:
Bath Spa University provides short courses that allow you to gain expert knowledge.
Whether you're looking to reskill into a new career, start your own business or explore an interest, we have courses to suit everyone.
We work with local governing bodies and businesses committed to social change to provide the following courses free of charge.
Learn about the Agile Mindset, common Agile Practices and advanced Scrum concepts.
Learn about Agile principles and the Scrum framework.
Gain an understanding of the principles of Serious Games Simulation as a method for strategic decision-making.
Further your career or explore a new hobby.
Learn about the process of creating a cyanotype, different techniques and how to use an analogue process.
Learn how to use the silkscreen process to create big, bold and colourful works, inspired by Henri Matisse.
Learn about the fundamentals of throwing on the potter’s wheel and how to decorate your ceramic pieces.
Learn how to make experimental wet cyanotypes from start to finish.
Explore expressive floral painting techniques using mixed media in this one-day workshop.
Sold out
Discover how to transfer your images onto a screen to produce a series of prints.
Explore the screen-printing process from start to finish to create innovative textile prints.
Explore Monotype, Drypoint and Collograph printmaking which are good foundations for the other techniques.
Learn a variety of techniques in both making and decoration, including wheel throwing and hand-building.
Explore traditional methods of Relief Printmaking including linocut to create your own custom prints.
Explore traditional etching techniques, including using metal plates and acid to etch your own designs.
Enhance your professional development and advance your career.
Develop a creative and interdisciplinary approach to problem solving and capture simple insights about your unique approach to becoming a Creative Leader.
Learn how digital engagement, particularly through online reviews, can be leveraged to enhance your business.
Learn the fundamentals of covering live sports events from the grounds of Bath City Football Club.
Bath Spa University offers bespoke training designed to elevate your business and empower your employees to thrive.
We're flexible and will customise the course to meet your organisation's needs and budget.
Offers include:
To find out more about how BSU can support your training needs, please email Nikki Dodds n.dodds@bathspa.ac.uk .
Penny
          Hay
Professor of Imagination
Jason
          John
Short Course Unit Programme Manager
Louise 
          Bowen
Short Course Unit Curriculum Administrator
Edoardo
          Minott
Click Start Programme Administrator
Tracey
          Edwards
Associate Lecturer and Mentor
Helen
          Gormley
Associate Lecturer in Wellbeing, Employability and Career Coaching
James
          Shaw
Short Course Unit Curriculum Manager
Kate Kinson took part in Bath Spa University's Skills Bootcamp in Agile Project Management at the beginning of 2024.
In this interview, she tells us about why she took part, how she is now involved with the teaching side of the Skills Bootcamps and what her highlights of the course were.
The support I received was incredible and I had the opportunity to really dig deep and think about my career path and where I see myself in the future.
I've taken some of the skills and methods learned into my current role and am more confident in managing a project.
Jennifer, Student, Skills Bootcamp in Agile Project Management
By the end of the Writing for Young People Writing Workshop I had added an additional 10,000 words to my manuscript.
Receiving critique was very helpful and I always felt supported and encouraged.
It was lovely to be in a creative space with other writers each week.
Dani, Writing for Young People Writing Workshop
Daisy 
          Lyons
Click Start in Creative Digital Skills
Kristi
          Kumrija
Madeleine
          Perry
Skills Bootcamp in Creative Computing
Jaffar
          Naqvi
George
          Knowlson
Snizhana
          Rudakevych
Cher-Maine
          Lee
Sabiha
          Kanwal
Maria
          Ancsa Szabo

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/courses/short-courses/skills-bootcamps:
Our free Skills Bootcamps give you the opportunity to build up sector-specific skills and support you towards advancing your career.
Whether you're looking for a new job or starting your own business, our funded Skills Bootcamps open the door to a range of new and exciting opportunities.
You don't need any prior knowledge of the subject, just an interest and willingness to learn.
These online short courses provide you with the skills employers look for, pathways to getting a job and tailored small business support.
You'll also benefit from employment support including techniques for job applications to  building interview skills or developing your own business plan.
Meet the Skills Bootcamp delivery team as they tell you in their own words what goes on in our Skills Bootcamps.
Are you a business interested in working with our Skills Bootcamps?
Find out the benefits of getting involved with our courses, including:
Skills Bootcamps are short courses of up to 16 weeks that allow you to build up sector-specific skills and support you towards employment.
They're for adults who want to retrain, pursue a career in a new field or start their own business.
We're delivering these in partnership with employers, providers and local authorities.
These courses are fully funded by the Department for Education (DfE) and help you gain skills for life, help support skills demands in your area and ultimately help you take the next step in your career journey.
Before you apply to one of our short courses , there are a few things to consider.
These short courses are designed to fit around other commitments and involve around 30 hours of study per week.
A positive mindset and a curiosity to learn is key to successfully complete our Skills Bootcamps.
It's important to note that you're expected to spend a number of hours outside of teaching on independent study to support your learning.
Your lecturers will support you with reading activities to do during your independent study.
Eligibility requirements vary from course to course but generally you must:
Working alongside our partners we're able to provide these courses at no cost to you as a learner.
We only accept applications from those who haven't completed a government funded Skills Bootcamp in the last 12 months.
If you're being sent for training by your employer, your employer will need to pay up to 30% of the total fees depending on the size of the company.
If this is the case, please contact us at skillbootcamps@bathspa.ac.uk for more details.
After completing your Skills Bootcamp you’ll be supported by our Career Development Coach for six months.
This includes help with interviews, updating your CV and putting together a business plan.
During and after your course you’ll be invited to a Skills Bootcamps  alumni LinkedIn group in which you can network and celebrate your career success with your fellow learners.
Once you’ve finished your Skills Bootcamp you’ll also be sent a monthly newsletter with the latest job vacancies and networking events.
As our Skills Bootcamps are fully funded by the DfE, there is an expectation that you'll keep in touch with us to let us know about any career progression opportunities you receive after completing the short course.
You’ll be provided with a short declaration form to fill out once you've secured new work.
“My experience on my Skills Bootcamp was extremely positive.
I've taken some of the skills and methods learned into my current role and am more confident in managing a project.”
Since September 2021, Bath Spa University has run free Skills Bootcamps for local residents.
In January of 2024, Bath Spa started its 50th cohort.
Jed Taylor, a Skills Bootcamp alum, talks about his time on the course and how he was able to combine his previous work experience and Skills Bootcamp experience to land a senior analyst role.
Adam Wozniak has worked as a freelance motion graphics designer for the past five years.
After completing a Skills Bootcamp in Web Development earlier this year, he's now started a three month internship as a Front End Developer Intern.
Skills Bootcamp in Creative Computing student Madeleine Perry recounts her experience on the course.
She tells us her top tips for completing a Skills Bootcamp and her highlights of the 12 weeks.
If you have any queries please contact skillsbootcamps@bathspa.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study:
Join a growing community.
Expand your knowledge.
Follow your passions.
There are so many factors that go into choosing where to go to university.
With BSU’s welcoming community, award-winning research and teaching, and wide range of innovative courses designed to help you become your best self, we hope we’re the answer you’re looking for.
Step into the next chapter of your academic career with us at BSU.
FIND YOUR COURSE
REQUEST A PROSPECTUS
BOOK AN OPEN DAY
WHY BATH SPA?
We are professionally creative .
Studying at BSU means realising your potential, in one of the UK’s most beautiful and beloved cities.
Delve into your academic interests, and become one of the leaders of tomorrow.
From entrepreneurs, scientists and innovators, to performers, authors and publishers- you'll find them all and more right here.
We have a wide range of subjects to suit your interests, paired with award-winning teaching and research, study abroad and work placement options.
From our specialist workshops to our multi-camera TV studios, our purpose-built facilities are here to help you thrive.
There’s a whole new world waiting for you when you arrive at university.
W ith loads of opportunities to make new friends, try new things, and have new experiences , we’re ready to welcome you here at BSU .
Whether you prefer city living or living on campus, in en-suite or shared bathroom, close to the library or close to the lake, there’s something for everyone at BSU.
We know that money is a worry for many students entering higher education.
That’s why we’ve put dedicated support in place to help, and have a number of scholarships and awards available to all of our students here at BSU.
Student Wellbeing Services are here for you.
They can offer advice and support on anything from financial worries, struggles with mental health or wellbeing, to disability and accessibility and learning support.
They provide free access to support 24/7, because we want you to feel supported around the clock whilst you study with us.
Here at BSU, we understand the importance of graduating with all the skills and confidence you’ll need to succeed in the workforce.
Our Careers Team can help you with finding a job and learning about what possible routes are open to you, with networking events, support with finding internships and placements, and opportunities to meet future employers.
For our full time undergraduate courses, you'll usually need to apply via the UCAS website.
Find out what you need to prepare and how to apply to study with us.
"Bath Spa is a small yet mighty place, it contains some of the best creative facilities in the UK, run by some of the best creatives."
"At Bath Spa you have the opportunity to study something you love, with amazing facilities on a beautiful campus."
The best way to see if BSU is the place for you is to come visit us at an Open Day.
With course talks, chats with current students, campus tours and much more, Open Days are a great way to see what BSU has on offer.
Why not come along?

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/art-and-design:
Learn from practising artists and designers, gain new skills in our specialist workshops and shape your unique creative identity.
As a student at BSU, you'll also have free access to Adobe Creative Cloud , giving you the tools to create striking portfolios, showreels and so much more.
The determination and passion that the students have at Bath Spa University is inspiring.
It is such a rewarding and positive environment to study.
Jordan Wright, BA (Hons) Graphic Design

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/business-management-and-economics:
Broaden your knowledge of the business landscape with one of our Business and Management degrees.
From studying the ins and outs of the fashion industry, to getting to grips with the complexities of international organisations, you’re sure to find a course that’s right for you.
Prepare to thrive in the modern workplace as you learn to confidently lead others towards a sustainable future.
Build a solid foundation for a successful career in finance with our CIMA-accredited Accounting pathway.
Learn how to flourish as an entrepreneur by building your concept from the ground up, from pitch to production.
Develop the practical skills needed to succeed in the UK’s vibrant, ever-evolving events management industry.
Become an effective, supportive people manager, led by ethical practices and confident in helping others reach their full potential.
Explore international markets, understand cross-cultural working relationships, and learn how to excel in global organisations.
Get hands-on experience of working on real client briefs, while immersing yourself in the region’s thriving tourism sector.
Critically analyse the major challenges facing society today, such as political instability, financial uncertainty and inequality.
Opt for a distinctive fashion marketing degree with an emphasis on core business skills and digital creativity.
Learn to manage sporting organisations, events, facilities and people, and understand the industry's future opportunities.
Investigate contemporary issues and learn how global forces shape society and relate to the causes and consequences of crime.
Take a creative, collaborative approach to problem solving through in-depth research into current global events.
Bring business management and digital innovation together to drive change in how businesses communicate with their audiences.
I’ve just finished [my internship]...
I’ve now returned to the UK and am working for the bank in London as a Legal Negotiator for Traded Products.
Joesph Cooper, BA (Hons) Business and Management
At the heart of our Newton Park campus is our ultra-modern, state-of-the-art teaching space, Commons .
This is where you’ll attend lectures and seminars.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/computing:
Computing is integral to businesses of every kind, to the economy and to critical services such as water, transport and power.
Our Computing degrees ask you to create, to imagine and to innovate.
You'll develop ways to showcase your practical skills to potential employers and clients.
for Teaching Quality in Computer Science (Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025)
Learn the essentials of games design, including coding, interactive design and digital creativity.
Gain the core skills you'll need to thrive as a digital creative, including coding, web app deployment and asset creation.
I gained everything I needed to get my foot into the industry: creative thinking, leadership, management, work placements and programming experience, all alongside an extensive portfolio filled with my projects...
This breadth of knowledge and showcase of work was the very core to getting where I am today.
Matt Westlake, BSc (Hons) Creative Computing
Bath is a small, well-connected city.
Whether you’re based at Newton Park or Locksbrook Campus , you’ll be able to access the best of the University and the city.
Access high-end computing spaces, 3D printers, VR kit and Internet of Things (IoT) devices, along with dedicated library resources and our free equipment loan service.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/education-and-teaching:
Our undergraduate Education degrees hone your skills so that you can thrive in a range of careers, including teaching.
Successful completion of many of these courses leads to a guaranteed interview for our Primary and Secondary PGCEs.
You can study Education in combination with:
If you’re on target to successfully complete your degree, we offer a guaranteed interview for our Primary or Secondary PGCE courses in your final year.
On successful completion, you'll be eligible for the Graduate Basis for Chartership with the British Psychological Society, provided you achieve a 2.2 overall and pass the final year dissertation.
You may wish to pursue a career as a  psychologist (e.g.
educational psychologist, counselling psychologist) or as a teacher.
Completing this degree will allow you to pursue further qualifications such as a doctorate or PGCE.
The course is about so much more than teaching – it taught me about children holistically – how to think about the whole child...
In the final year of my degree, I achieved things I never thought possible, and I feel I have truly realised my potential.
Lauren Emery, BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies
The qualifications you need for a career in teaching depend on where you want to teach and at what level.
To teach in primary and secondary schools in England, you need a degree and qualified teacher status (QTS).
Learn how to become a teacher or explore our teacher training courses .
You’ll be taught at Newton Park , set in acres of idyllic English countryside.
You'll benefit from access to a wide range of excellent facilities, including our Commons building, specialist Education resources and dedicated subject Librarian.
Our libraries offer a range of specialist Education subject resources .
You'll also have access to thousands of courses via LinkedIn Learning .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/english-writing-and-publishing:
If you’ve got a way with words, or an appreciation for those who do, perhaps a writing degree is for you.
Turn your passion into practical, professional skills that’ll unlock new career opportunities, and build a unique portfolio that’s sure to attract attention from potential employers.
and #1 in the South West for Graduate Prospects in English (Guardian University Guide 2025)
and #1 in the South West for Graduate Prospects in Creative Writing (Guardian University Guide 2025)
Learn by writing, making, producing, performing, directing and collaborating – and complete your projects, your way, with our support.
Follow your passion for literature and writing with an exciting combination of creative practice and critical thinking, led by expert researchers and award-winning authors.
Find your voice as you immerse yourself in theory, criticism and the relationship between film, media and culture.
Explore the assumptions, beliefs and values which shape human behaviour, and apply your newfound practical skills to contemporary challenges, issues and debates.
Join our vibrant community of award-winning writers, publishing professionals and creative practitioners as you turn your passion for writing into practical, professional skills.
Explore the diversity of literature and drama to develop your own critical and creative work, from performances and devising plays to essays, digital work and producing podcasts.
Pursue your passion for English Literature while developing the knowledge, skills and experience you need to become an educator across diverse settings.
Gain real-world experience as you respond to briefs and manage projects, while building practical skills to prepare for a successful communications career.
Acquire specialised subject knowledge while developing practical and professional skills that you can apply to contemporary challenges, issues and debates.
Study literature though diverse perspectives and discover how to successfully communicate ideas and information in engaging and creative ways.
Prepare for a professional career in the thriving communications sector – whether in publishing, marketing, PR or education.
The Publishing course enabled me to specialise in science writing and I found work experience as a science reporter during my third year, interviewing leading researchers and tech businesses.
Amy Barrett, BA (Hons) Creative Writing and Publishing
The best thing about the course is the support, the module choices (which can really inform your path) and the work experience offered with local publishers or events and festivals.
Laura Garcia Moreno, BA (Hons) Creative Writing and Publishing
You’ll be based at Newton Park , where you can take a stroll through the woodland, find inspiration at our beautiful lake, or head to the bustling heart of the campus – our state-of-the-art teaching space, Commons .
Utilise our extensive Library , hire out cameras and audio recording equipment free of charge, and get free access to Adobe Creative Suite to familiarise yourself with a range of elite industry-leading apps.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/fashion:
Want a career in fashion?
Explore our range of fast-paced, dynamic courses for determined and ambitious individuals.
It’s really accommodating.
The lecturers also push you to do different things and expand your skillset, which I’ve really benefited from.
Evelyn Rous, BA (Hons) Fashion Photography
Locksbrook is home to specialist workshops for knitting, embroidery, cutting, printing and dyeing, as well as a fashion archive and photography studio.
Our inspiring campuses are steeped in history, balancing beautiful period buildings and breath-taking settings with ultramodern technology and facilities.
Access the full Adobe Creative Suite , work in our studio spaces, and experiment in our on-site workshops , where you can experiment with different knitting, embroidery, cutting, printing and dyeing techniques.
Whatever you need, our 24/7 services team is here to signpost you in the right direction.
Access a range of Student Wellbeing Services , as well as long-term support.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/film-and-media:
Join the next generation of multi-platform content creators.
Learn from practising professionals, then get to grips with industry-standard equipment and apply your learnings to live briefs.
You'll also have free access to Adobe Creative Cloud as part of our Adobe Creative Campus partnership.
for Continuation in Communications and Media Studies (Complete University Guide 2025)
Pursue your passions as you experiment, reflect and innovate, exploring your own unique creative identity.
Combine your passion for filmmaking with the confidence to communicate ideas in innovative ways.
Shape stories into ideas for print, digital and beyond, then get hands-on experience of turning them into a reality.
Learn how to tackle social issues creatively, and use your communication skills to better the world around us.
Students are given the creative freedom to build a powerful portfolio of communications, digital marketing, journalism and social media content.
I found my passion in journalism, but also explored website building, crafting an Alternate Reality Game, photo and video editing, blog writing and social media – the skills from which I'll carry forward in both my personal and professional life.
Amber Wisteria, BA (Hons) Media Communications graduate
At the heart of our Newton Park campus you'll find our state-of-the-art teaching space, Commons – home to our studios, editing suites, mixing rooms and viewing theatre.
Our purpose-built TV studios and post-production facilities rival those used by commercial organisations and broadcast companies, and we offer an extensive equipment loan service.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/food-and-nutrition:
Curious about careers in nutrition?
Our nutrition degrees cover everything from food technology to fuelling optimum athletic performance.
Explore the science behind diet and health, learn the skills sought after by employers, and apply your knowledge in our well-equipped labs.
I feel very proud to be working at a hospital as well-respected as Salford Royal.
Studying at Bath Spa helped me to realise where I wanted to be.
Lucy Blackstone, BSc (Hons) Human Nutrition
As I had such a good experience at Bath Spa, I decided to go back to complete a PGCE in Secondary Science.
I am now a full-time Science teacher.
Emma Pegler, BSc (Hons) Human Nutrition
Access specialist equipment in our bespoke food and nutrition labs – home to our low hazard laboratory, instrument room, research labs, project labs, and dedicated learning space.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/history:
Investigate the ways the past informs the present, and develop practical skills to apply to contemporary challenges, issues and debates.
Study in a beautiful, historic campus, where you'll have easy access to the nearby cities of Bath and Bristol, which offer an extraordinary wealth of material for historical study.
Its renowned sites and beautiful architecture make Bath the perfect place for history buffs (it is a UNESCO World Heritage site, after all) but if you’re willing to venture off the beaten path, there’s a wealth of history to explore in some of the lesser-known attractions in and around Bath.
We asked our History staff to share their favourites.
Our Newton Park campus is a historic resource in its own right.
Its period manor house, gatehouse, keep, and state-of-the-art learning facilities are set in an eighteenth-century landscape complete with lake and pavilions.
Utilise our library and dedicated Librarian for History and Heritage, as well as our Virtual Learning Environment , Writing and Learning Centre , and English Language Unit .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/law:
Whether you’re intending to take the Solicitors Qualifying Exam (SQE) after you graduate, or you’re keen to gain the transferable skills needed to hit the ground running in a variety of sectors, develop your practical and professional skills with one of our innovative law degrees.
as you benefit from the University's partnership with The Bath Law Clinic .
and #1 in the South West for Satisfaction with Course in Law (Complete University Guide 2025)
*Subject to attaining further qualifications.
Being able to practise debating, analysis and be concise in talking and writing is really useful.
My favourite topic is employment law as I want to pursue a career in Human Resources.
Maisy Ward, BSc (Hons) Criminology and Law
The modules were tailored to the new SQE route, the lessons were always engaging (even on the more technical subjects) and I always felt supported by the lecturers throughout my degree.
I would recommend anyone to study law at Bath Spa University.
Kirsty Soper, LLB (Hons) Law

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/life-sciences:
Whether you’re looking to explore ecosystems, challenge climate change or investigate the molecular basis of disease, our science degrees will equip you with the skills you’ll need to make a positive impact on the world around you.
Immerse yourself within our natural laboratory of parkland, woodland, streams and lakes at Newton Park .
Access specialist equipment in our bespoke on-site biology labs , dedicated food and nutrition labs and glasshouses.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/marketing:
Marketing has the power to shape everything in business, and business is changing.
Our Marketing degrees develop your practical skills and prepare you for the demands of a field that is increasingly focused on improved ethics and sustainability.
Gain accreditation from leading professional bodies when you study one of our eligible courses .
Access the full Adobe Creative Suite , giving you the tools you need to communicate creatively.
Gain a head start in your marketing career with our Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) accredited Business Management pathway.
There are a mix of more business and more creative modules that mean you can tailor the course to you.
I have learnt many skills on my course that not only will I use in the future in the fashion industry, but in life in general.
Alex Murdoch, BA (Hons) Fashion Marketing and Management
Our libraries offer a range of specialist Business subject resources .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/music-and-sound:
Learn how to make a difference to the world through your music, and develop the skills you need to innovate and thrive in your music career.
You'll graduate as a confident, skilled professional ready to make your mark on the music industry.
in the overall rankings for Music (Guardian University Guide 2025)
While giving you a deep understanding of the workings of the industry from business to creativity, it also allows an individual to pursue their specific interests in detail.
Thank you for giving me the best three years of my life.
Neil Martin, graduate and Broadcast Engineer at Abbey Road Live
There’s very little that I learned during my three years at Bath Spa that I haven’t used and built upon on a daily basis in my professional career.
Game Audio requires a very multi-disciplinary skill set touching on all aspects of music, sound and media production, so for me, this course was perfect.
Jethro Dunn, graduate and Audio Director at Firesprite (Playstation Studios)
At the heart of our Newton Park campus you'll find our state-of-the-art teaching space, Commons – home to our recording studios, rehearsal rooms, mixing suites and Mac labs.
Utilise our five recording studios, five full-band rehearsal rooms and three Mac labs, equipped with a full range of industry-standard hardware and software – ProTools, Logic Audio Pro, Ableton Live, Max/MSP and numerous processing software packages.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/performing-arts-and-production:
Push boundaries and break out of your comfort zone as you build your professional portfolio and make key contacts in the performing arts industry.
You'll also have free access to Adobe Creative Cloud , giving you the tools to enhance your digital skills and create striking CVs, showreels and so much more.
Explore the diversity of literature and drama to develop your own critical and creative work, from performances to essays and podcasts.
Explore the human mind and discover your creative identity with this British Psychological Society accredited degree.
Pursue your passion for Drama while developing the knowledge, skills and experience you need to become an educator across diverse settings.
Through studying Drama I acquired the confidence to stand up in front of a group of young people and lead a workshop – a workshop that may include elements of creativity, or drama games to assist learning.
I think the most valuable thing I’ve learned is that I don’t have to do just one thing.
I’m a teacher, writer, consultant, facilitator, project manager, events organiser, social media content producer and so much more.
Laura Clarke , BA (Hons) Drama graduate
The best thing about the course was the constant creative stimulus and the attitude I developed through the course.
I was always accompanied by very supportive lecturers that provided us with contacts, strategies and tips to get into the professional world.
After graduating in 2020, I immediately started teaching and choreographing.
João Oliveira , BA (Hons) Dance graduate
Our Newton Park campus is home to the University's theatre , auditorium and amphitheatre , as well as dance studios and state-of-the-art TV studios .
Four purpose-built rehearsal studios, performance spaces, quiet study areas and fully-equipped carpentry, costume-making and prop-making workshops – all housed in our Oldfield Park Theatre Workshops .
The largest dance studio at Newton Park is equipped with a fully sprung floor, mirrors, sound system, projection facilities and a full lighting rig.
It's an exclusive performance and teaching space, with easy access to shower and changing rooms.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/undergraduate-study/social-sciences:
Delve into the workings of the human mind, push boundaries and learn to tackle problems creatively.
We offer a vast range of social science and psychology degrees, including combined courses which allow you to get the best of both worlds.
for Value Added in Criminology (Guardian University Guide 2025)
for Value Added in Sociology (Guardian University Guide 2025)
Explore the causes, motivations and patterns of criminal conduct, while gaining a deep understanding of the justice system and the law.
Study the links between the mind and criminal behaviour with our combined degree, accredited by the British Psychological Society.
Examine crime, justice and punishment at local, national and transnational levels of society, and learn to tackle problems creatively and make better decisions.
Explore the human mind and discover your creative identity as you research, analyse, produce, perform, direct and write.
Reimagine how you use media to communicate to audiences ethically and progressively, and help to make the world a better place.
Understand and apply different cultural perspectives as you combine professional skills and opportunities with subject knowledge.
Combine the study of societies, cultures, and groups with the practical and professional skills valued by employers.
The best thing about Bath Spa is that everyone really cares about you as an individual.
The lecturers and tutors always go the extra mile to make sure that you get the most out of your degree, and the amount of contact time we had with them was brilliant.
Madeline Carter, BSc (Hons) Psychology graduate
My lecturers seemed to really care about my wellbeing.
They were always happy to do anything for us students.
It was really nice, because some of my friends went to quite big universities where they felt like they were just a number.
Chloe Ghent, BSc (Hons) Criminology graduate
At Newton Park you'll be surrounded by historic listed buildings, ultra-modern teaching facilities and an abundance of woodland and parkland.
Access over 400 psychology-related journals, statistical computer software for analysing quantitative data and NVivo for qualitative data analysis.
We also have a biopsychology lab and dedicated lab spaces for research.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/postgraduate-study:
Explore ideas.
Expand specialist knowledge.
Build career prospects and follow your passion.
There are so many reasons to embark on further study.
Whatever your ambition, we’re here to champion it – through academic guidance and career-focused support within an inspiring setting.
VIEW THE PROSPECTUS
POSTGRADUATE FUNDING
OPEN DAYS
Whether you want to open doors or expand your mind, postgraduate study could unlock a world of possibilities – and give you the time and space to pursue your passion.
What is a postgraduate degree?
How do you choose one?
Can you get funding for postgraduate study?
We answer some of your frequently asked questions.
Be inspired by our picturesque campuses, whether you're based at Newton Park or Locksbrook.
From our specialist workshops to our multi camera TV studios, our purpose-built facilities are here to help you thrive.
With multiple funding options and scholarships available, postgraduate study is more accessible than ever.
Begin a rewarding teaching career at Bath Spa – we offer a range of PGCE and other teacher trainer courses.
Postgraduate funding has become more accessible than ever.
At BSU we fund some awards and bursaries , with government-backed student finance and scholarships available from external bodies.
Are you a BSU alum progressing to a taught Master’s in the 2025/26 academic year?
You could be eligible to receive up to £2,000 towards the cost of tuition fees .
Learn more on our further study options at one of our Open Days.
Explore our beautiful campuses and specialist facilities, and talk to talented academic staff about their subject expertise.
Our next Postgraduate Open Days are:
Our teacher education events feature in-depth course presentations and Q&A sessions, offering advice on different training routes, partnerships and financial support available.
Our next Teacher Education Events are:
“ My experience at Bath Spa University was amazing.
I found the MA extremely rewarding; the perfect mix of design, practical and business learning.
I was supported by a brilliant team of staff.
This guidance and encouragement helped me realise design and practical ideas, giving me the confidence to pursue my own business .”
— Beki Bright, MA Design (Textiles)
“As an international student changing careers into publishing, I was hesitant I’d find a perfect course, but this was it.
The modules balanced creativity, academic application and practical skills, but genuine support from staff allowed me to find my perfect niche and grow skills relevant to my aspirations — best years of my education."
— Meghan Meloy, MA Children's Publishing
University of the Year for Social Inclusion 2024
Adobe Creative Campus
Social Enterprise Gold Mark
17th greenest UK university
Fairtrade University
Creativity for Good Award
Teaching Excellence Framework

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/teacher-training:
We believe that all children deserve the very best teachers, and that education plays a key role in promoting social justice and reducing inequalities.
We deliver training underpinned by four core principles.
We collaborate with a diverse partnership towards a shared vision of a well qualified and highly skilled teaching profession, built on each other’s strengths and expertise.
Nurturing creativity around innovative pedagogy in order to prepare our teachers to thrive in an ever-changing educational context.
Developing critical thinking through engagement with a diversity of perspectives, reflection and the integration of theory and practice.
We’re committed to care, recognising the needs of all individuals, supporting personal wellbeing and helping our teachers to develop empathy and emotional resilience.
Successful completion of the course will lead to recommendation for Qualified Teacher Status.
You can achieve Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) through one of three age phases and specialist pathways:
We offer the following PGCE Secondary subjects:
If you're currently employed in a school as an unqualified teacher and have at least two years' experience, our 12-week Assessment Only Route to Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) could be your route into teaching.
Come to one of our Teacher Education open evenings to learn about the different routes into teaching.
We'll explain entry requirements, the application process and the financial support available for trainee teachers.
You’ll get the chance to speak to our staff and get your questions answered.
Upcoming events
If you’re interested in teaching and haven’t completed a degree, we’d encourage you to book onto one of our undergraduate Open Days , where you can find out about undergraduate routes into teaching and our education courses.
A range of different scholarships, bursaries and awards are available to both undergraduate and PGCE students, depending on which country you live in, your personal circumstances and the tuition fee for the course.
Home students may be eligible for a tuition fee loan and a maintenance loan to cover the cost of tuition fees charged.
This loan is available through Student Finance England.
Find out more on the gov.uk website.
Details on funding for specific PGCE Secondary subjects are available on the DfE website .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation:
We offer single, shared and en suite rooms, as well as private studio flats, across six different locations in Bath and at Newton Park campus.
We manage the Gardens and Lakeside halls at Newton Park and our Bankside House residence in central Bath.
We've also partnered with Unite Students and iQ, who look after our Charlton Court, Waterside Court and Twerton Mil sites, based on Lower Bristol Road.
All Bath Spa accommodation is self-catered and securely monitored 24/7.
Wherever you’re based, you’ll be able to access the best that the University and city have to offer.
Newton Park, with its lake, woodland paths and historical buildings, is ideal for students who enjoy the tranquility of nature.
If you'd prefer to be closer to Bath's thriving city centre , with its independent shops, cafés, museums, arts and music scene, our other accommodation options may be best for you.
The Accommodation team is here to support you at every stage – from applying to settling in and making friends.
Let us know your preferences when you apply, and we’ll do our best to make sure your halls meet your needs , and that you're placed with students who have similar interests and preferences .
Based near the Students' Union at Newton Park Campus, our Gardens accommodation offers bright, modern student housing with easy access to green spaces.
Do you dream of being surrounded by the natural beauty of Newton Park campus?
Situated near the lake, a cluster of dorms makes up our Lakeside accommodation.
We work with Student Wellbeing Services to support students who need specific adjustments to get the most out of their accommodation and student living.
Interested in living with a small group of students?
Bankside is the smallest of our residences, with room for 42 students in single or studio options.
Charlton Court offers 330 en-suite rooms – perfect if you love to socialise.
Located on Lower Bristol Road, it's near supermarkets and a gym.
Twerton Mill is close to the main bus routes, supermarkets, and Chelsea Road – a popular student area.
Waterside Court offers over 300 en-suite rooms.
Its Lower Bristol Road location means you'll have easy access to buses and trains.
Looking for private accommodation in Bath?
We can help with many of the different aspects of renting privately, including:
Bills and wi-fi
Contents insurance
Bike stores
Laundry facilities
24/7 security
The Student Accommodation team is here to support you.
If we can’t answer your question, we’ll advise on where you can get support.
Urgent support
For urgent out-of-hours support, please contact the Security team on +44 (0)1225 875555 or dial 999.
Housing advice
Making friends, managing your budget, and sharing responsibilities with your flatmates...
We understand that there's lots to juggle when it comes to student accommodation, and we're here to support.
Student life also has many benefits, and we're here to help you make the most of your time in halls of residence.
Find out more about life in uni halls.
Nothing beats visiting Bath Spa to experience our accommodation for yourself.
During an Open Day or an Offer Holder Day you can:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/applying-for-accommodation:
Applications for accommodation are currently closed and the opportunity to register interest in a room has now expired.
We do not have any available rooms remaining in BSU accommodation for students entering 2025/26.
Any student still searching for a room is advised to look in the private sector where we know there are options still available, whether you are Insurance, Clearing, a late applicant or a returning student.
If you would like further support or advice with your search, please contact our team .
We don’t allocate rooms on a first come first served basis unless we’re offering rooms during Clearing.
We try to make sure that you'll receive your first-choice halls, however this isn’t always possible due to high demand.
Below, you'll find a general timeline of when applications opened, closed and were allocated for 2025/26.
Timeline
How will I receive my accommodation offer?
We send accommodation offers by email.
Please make sure your email address on UCAS is up to date, and not your school or college email address , as this is the one we’ll use to contact you.
When will I receive my accommodation offer?
Firm choice applicants who have stated specific access requirements will be sent offers of accommodation shortly after the application deadline, in early July.
We send remaining accommodation offers from mid-July onwards.
Don’t worry if you don’t hear from us right away – we send offers throughout the month.
Timings may vary for accommodation managed by third parties ( Waterside Court, Charlton Court and Twerton Mill ).
How do I accept my accommodation offer?
The process of accepting your offer varies slightly, depending on the accommodation you're offered.
Details on how to accept your offer will be contained in your offer email.
In general, you’ll need to:
Make sure you fully understand the legal commitment you're making before returning your signed licence agreement, tenancy agreement and/or terms and conditions.
Remember: accommodation is offered for the full length of the contract .
All contracts are fixed term agreements and once you’ve signed and accepted, you’re committing to the full duration and length of the stay specified.
Move-in instructions will be attached to the offer letter email and you can start planning what to bring.
How do I reject my accommodation offer?
Guaranteed offers of accommodation only apply to the first offer we send to eligible applicants.
If you decide to reject your offer of accommodation, we'll try to make you a second offer, but we can’t guarantee this.
You'll only receive a new offer should an alternative room become available.
What happens if I don’t join Bath Spa University?
Allocations are subject to you successfully joining BSU.
Unsuccessful applicants won’t be able to live in our accommodation and their room offer will be withdrawn.
Is accommodation first come first served?
Firm choice applicants who have disclosed specific access requirements are given priority and are allocated first.
This means that some rooms may not be available in the application portal.
We always try to make sure that you get into your first-choice halls, however this isn’t always possible due to high demand.
If we receive identical applications for room types and locations that exceed our supply, we randomise applications.
What are Show Flats?
Bath Spa University holds a number of Open Days and Offer Holder Days throughout the year.
Students who choose to live in our Show Flats work these events to show their accommodation to visitors in exchange for a discount on their rent.
Bath Spa University has a limited number of ‘show flats’ available at the following locations:
Students living within these flats receive a discounted licence agreement or rent charge, equivalent to £85 per event or £850 for the entire contract length.
Rooms in Show Flats are not guaranteed to applicants who select this option in their application form, due to the limited numbers of rooms included.
Students living in show flats will also have the opportunity to become a paid Student Ambassador on these dates, subject to the standard recruitment process for these posts.
Any Student Ambassador payment is in addition to the discount offered on the licence agreement or rent charge.
Students selecting a show flat option are making a commitment to:
Discounted 'show flat’ accommodation rates are only available to students who commit to all ten dates.
The University reserves the right to move students to alternative, non-discounted accommodation in the event that any of these conditions are not met.
Allocations to these rooms will be completed by the Student Accommodation Team, via the standard allocations procedure.
Students who are allocated a show flat room will receive further information about the full offer terms and conditions when they receive their room offer in July.
To apply online, you'll need your:
When you apply, please check that the details we have stored for you on the application system are correct.
If they're not, please log into your UCAS account as soon as possible and update them (particularly your email address).
The deadline for applications was 30 June 2025.
One of the important things to know about our application system is that we don't run a first-come, first-served system .
Whether you log in as soon as our online form opens or you wait a couple of weeks or months, every application is received the same way, so that all students have the fairest chance of receiving their preferred housing option.
You have the entire application window, until 30 June , to research all of our options before committing to your preferences.
You can even log back in and edit your initial selections, giving you more time to visit us , explore our accommodation locations, and ask any questions you might have.
Bath Spa University offers a wide range of contract lengths, prices and room types.
Your three accommodation preferences are entered into our allocation system and we endeavour to meet your preferred choices, where possible.
By completing this form, you're accepting that you have researched the different options and understand the financial responsibility of the preferences you've indicated .
We may not be able to allocate you a room from your selected preferences, due to demand, so it's important to be familiar with a variety of options across all our locations.
If you need to disclose a medical condition or disability and have specific accommodation requirements please see the Priority Halls and returning students section.
If you have specific requirements for your room because of a disability, you'll need to apply through the online accommodation application system.
Please complete the section of the form called Priority Halls if you feel you're eligible.
To support your application, you’ll need to send evidence from your GP / medical practitioner to studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk .
This evidence should give specific information and reasons about the accommodation you require.
Please contact the Student Wellbeing team if you have any questions about this process.
If you’re entering your second or third year of study, please contact us to discuss the housing options we may be able to provide: accommodation@bathspa.ac.uk .
Please complete the Academic Access Plan Questionnaire if you’re living with any of the following:
Your responses will start a conversation with a University Accessibility Advisor about your requirements.
If you meet the following conditions, we can make you a guaranteed offer of accommodation.
You must:
Foundation students can apply for accommodation for both their Foundation year and first year of undergraduate study.
Applications are now closed for 2025/26 returning students who would like to live in halls of residence again.
We encourage returning students to continue their search for housing in the Private Sector .
Please see our Priority Halls page if you would like to check if you are eligible to return to our accommodation via that process.
Returning students normally will live away from University accommodation, usually in shared houses in the city or in private accommodation providers.
Please see our Private Sector page or contact us for more information on private options available.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/bankside-house:
Surrounded by beautiful Georgian architecture in a quaint part of the city, Bankside House is close to the Royal Crescent, Fashion Museum and Jane Austen Centre.
The building is just a ten minute walk from Sion Hill Campus , a 25-minute walk from Locksbrook Campus , and a ten-minute walk to the nearest U5 bus stop that will take you to Newton Park .
Bankside is our smallest residence with just 42 students.
There are ten flats (four students to in each) and two self-contained studios.
Standard room with ensuite
Your spacious bedroom includes everything you need, including a single bed, desk, wardrobe, chest of drawers and a modern fitted en-suite shower.
You’ll share toilet facilities with one other person in your flat.
You’ll also share a kitchen with three flatmates.
It includes an oven, microwave, fridge-freezer and seating area.
Average room size: 9m²
Studio
Bankside House has two studio flats complete with kitchen facilities, study space and en-suite facilities, including a shower, wash basin and toilet.
Average studio size: 27m²
Bankside is conveniently located near Julian Road shops, including a supermarket and cafés.
You can reach the city centre by foot in under 10 minutes.
Bath has excellent transport routes.
Traveline runs the 700 bus service to Sion Hill from Bath city centre.
This bus stops very close to Bankside House.
If you want to venture further afield, you're not far from the main train and bus stations.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/unite-halls:
Waterside Court and Charlton Court boast modern, spacious interiors.
They're within a short travelling distance of all three of our main campuses.
You'll also be close to Moorland Road, a thriving student area that offers local shops, cafés and a community feel.
Charlton Court and Waterside Court are located next to each other on Lower Bristol Road, close to shops, a supermarket, cafés and Oldfield Park train station.
Each building houses around 300 students on several floors.
They offer the best of both worlds: enjoy your own private bedroom with ensuite and spend time with your flatmates in your communal kitchen and living space.
Waterside Court
At Waterside Court you’ll be living alongside 316 other students in en-suite bedrooms, with single beds, fitted wardrobes, plenty of storage space and a study desk.
When you want to mingle with your friends or rustle up something to eat, the communal kitchen and lounge area is the place.
The large, friendly space comes complete with a breakfast bar, sofa, oven/hob, microwave and fridge-freezer.
Average room size: 15m²
Charlton Court
Charlton Court offers 330 en-suite study bedrooms and studios, with a choice of classic or premium rooms.
Your ensuite room will have a three-quarter size bed, fitted wardrobe, storage space and a study desk.
Studios offer your own private kitchen and even more space.
Premium options include double beds.
Waterside Court and Charlton Court are managed by Unite Students, a UK-wide company offering purpose-built student accommodation.
While you'll apply via the University's application process, your tenancy agreement is with them as a third-party provider, and you pay your rent directly to Unite Students.
Please take the time to read the terms and conditions of your tenancy agreement before your sign it, as we're unable to change any of the conditions.
UCAS has a definition of private halls of residence providers , along with other helpful information.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/newton-park-halls:
We offer single, shared, ensuite and accessible bedrooms in our Gardens and Lakeside residences at Newton Park campus.
You’ll find everything you need on campus, including places to get hot food, stop for coffee, and top-up on groceries.
The Students' Union (SU) has a fully licensed bar and a gym.
Don't forget so see what's on at the University theatre .
Buses run regularly until the early hours, taking you to and from the sights, sounds, shopping and employment opportunities of Bath.
The campus is also bicycle friendly.
Lakeside accommodation offers single, shared, ensuite and accessible study bedrooms.
This cluster of residences, some of which are grouped around a courtyard, offer a village feel.
You'll be close to Commons, the library and many of our teaching spaces and facilities.
You might even get a view of the lake from your room!
Standard and large room with shared bathroom
Hiscocks, Harington and Pope are traditional halls, with individual blocks of eight to 12 students connected by long corridors.
You’ll share bathroom and toilet facilities between no more than five other students.
The kitchen and dining area is also communal, shared with the fellow residents in your block.
Langton and Temple are set around small courtyards, creating a cosy community feel.
Your room will include a good-sized desk, single bed, wardrobe, chest of drawers and wash basin.
You'll share bathroom and toilet facilities with no more than four other residents and a kitchen and communal area between four to eight residents.
Lakeside has a number of rooms in shared houses on Newton Park campus which have single rooms, both standard and large.
This room type include a good-sized desk, single bed, wardrobe, chest of drawers and wash basin.
You’ll share both bathroom facilities and a kitchen between three to five other residents.
Please note: these are only average sizes and each individual room may differ in size depending on its location within each building.
Twin room with shared bathroom
Our Lakeside accommodation contains a small quantity of twin rooms, where two students have their own single bed, desk, wardrobe, chest of drawers and share the rest of the room.
The kitchen and dining area is communal, shared with the fellow residents in your block.
A modern fitted ensuite with shower, wash basin, and toilet is shared among the rest of the residents in the flat, between no more than five other students.
Our Lakeside accommodation has ensuite rooms in Sydney.
These have a good-sized desk, single bed, wardrobe, chest of drawers, and a modern fitted ensuite with shower, wash basin, and toilet.
Private studio flat (accessible)
This Lakeside ensuite studio flat comprises of a large room with a single bed, desk and wardrobe and kitchen facilities and has a separate bathroom/wet room.
There is a ramp and automatic door to access the flat and this flat is allocated as a priority to students with access requirements.
Situated near the Students’ Union and Walled Garden, Gardens halls are the newest of our Newton Park campus halls.
Your room will have a small double bed, a good-sized desk, fitted wardrobe, drawers, under bed storage and an en-suite bathroom.
Block accommodation
The Gardens halls are made up of blocks of ten study bedrooms and a communal kitchen (with the exception of Lime G and F blocks which contain eight bedrooms).
The Gardens residences also has six fully accessible rooms which are allocated as a priority to students with access requirements.
Private studio flat and private studio flat (accessible)
We have fourteen private studios and one fully accessible private studio with kitchen facilities, study space, and en-suite facilities.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/twerton-mill:
Twerton Mill offers 330 bedrooms which include small-double sized beds.
Choose between ensuite and standard rooms, and enjoy the on-site gym.
Both include shared kitchen areas for you to enjoy with your housemates.
Locksbrook Campus is just a short walk away.
Newton Park campus is under three miles away and is easy to get to by bus.
In fact, the bus will pick you up and drop you off at Twerton Mill's front door - it couldn't be easier.
You can also cycle along the Bath and Bristol Railway Path.
Standard
There are 52 standard rooms with shared bathrooms in the Townhouse, which consist of single study bedrooms and shared bathroom and kitchen facilities.
All rooms benefit from small-double sized beds, fitted wardrobes, under bed storage, and a study desk.
You'll share a stylish, well-equipped kitchen with between four and seven other students.
Average room size: 9.5m²
Ensuite
There are 225 ensuite rooms with shared kitchen facilities.
Kitchens are typically shared between four and seven other students and are all kitted out with modern stylish furniture and facilities.
Average room size: 13m²
There are 53 studios at Twerton Mill with a private kitchen included.
These rooms have all the essentials for independent living, with a small double bed, study area, seating and ensuite bathroom.
You get the privacy of your own kitchen, and still get to enjoy the social benefits of the building’s shared spaces.
Average studio size: 21m²
Twerton Mill is managed by iQ Student Accommodation, one of the biggest student housing providers in the UK.
While you'll apply via the University's application process, your tenancy agreement is with them as a third-party provider, and you pay your rent directly to iQ.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/private-accommodation:
Moving into your first shared house is another important milestone on your student journey.
While it's your responsibility to find accommodation for your returning years, we can offer advice and support.
We hold talks in the first term of the academic year, offering tips on where to look and what to look for.
We can also discuss your options with you throughout the year.
Take your time when arranging your accommodation.
Before you sign your contract, make sure you're happy with your flatmates, property, location and budget.
Your tenancy agreement is a legally binding contract.
Once you’ve committed, it can be difficult and expensive to change your mind.
Your property may be referred to as a House of Multiple Occupation (HMO) .
Many of our students live in or near Bath.
Explore different neighbourhoods and transport options.
You might discover some areas that are more convenient than you expected.
You might want to be close to:
Agencies and landlords may advertise properties on sites such as Zoopla and Rightmove .
These are usually most suitable if you have a group of students to live with.
If you're looking for a room on your own, SpareRoom can be a great starting point.
Ads tend to offer one room within an existing household.
Contract lengths can be more flexible.
For more information on living in Bath, read the Student Community Partnership's guide .
Maybe you’ve decided to house-hunt with a group of uni friends, or maybe you’re still looking for flatmates.
Everyone’s journey is different, but whether you’re strengthening existing bonds or forging new ones, we have some tips:
You may wish to join the Bath Student House Hunting Discord group to look for houses with spare rooms.
Students may be from BSU or the University of Bath.
Once you find people you like, consider their hobbies and personality.
Do you have shared interests?
Are your new flatmates party animals, or serious about studying?
Will they be sociable outside of their studies, or busy with a part time job?
Remember, you’ll sign a legal document making a commitment to live with them, so it’s best to be sure.
Compare a few different properties to learn what you prefer.
Everyone should view a property before they sign for it.
If people can’t attend viewings, take photos or videos when you look around the property.
Don’t visit a property alone.
If you can't avoid this, make sure someone knows where you’re going and what time you should be back.
Here’s a list of things to consider:
Please be careful when responding to adverts for private accommodation as there have been reports of people being scammed.
Scams often ask you to send money through services like Western Union or MoneyGram to secure accommodation.
Don't send money for accommodation before you:
If a scam has caught you out, please keep any correspondence and report it to the police as soon as you can.
Most landlords, including private accommodation providers that rent properties to students, require a third person to act as a ‘guarantor’ before a tenancy agreement can be completed.
If you book a room at an accommodation where BSU is the landlord, you do not need a guarantor.
A guarantor is a person who agrees to secure or ‘guarantee’ your accommodation contract.
The guarantor effectively takes on many (or all) of the commitments of the contract.
In other words, if you sign a tenancy agreement, the guarantor will be responsible for fulfilling many of the terms of the agreement if you do not.
The main obligation that the guarantor is taking on is your rent; if you don’t pay your rent, the guarantor will be required to pay it.
Depending on the tenancy agreement, it might also mean the guarantor is liable for other costs, such as damages.
Check if you need a guarantor for student housing that you are interested in and be sure to get this in place before you start.
A person acting as a guarantor would normally have the following credentials:
There are services who will act as your guarantor on a commercial basis, taking a fee to do so (usually expressed as a percentage or amount of the total rent you will pay).
Rent Guarantor is one such service available and they offer a 7.5% discount for BSU students.
You can access their discounted service via their website and use the promo code BATHSPA75 for 7.5% off.
BSU is making you aware of Rent Guarantor, which offers rent guarantee services that some students may find useful when renting accommodation.
Please note that BSU is not affiliated with Rent Guarantor and does not receive any financial incentive for this referral, and is not recommending or endorsing their services.
We are not authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and do not provide financial advice.
Before entering into any agreement with Rent Guarantor, you should make sure the service is appropriate for your needs, and consider comparing the services they offer with those of other companies or seeking independent advice from an FCA-authorised adviser if you’re unsure.
Another Guarantor Service provider available is Housing Hand .
Before signing a license or rental agreement, ensure you understand what it means and seek legal advice if needed.
Both of the following agencies offer free legal advice:
When you sign an agreement for a house/flat, you're agreeing to take it based on the condition it was in when you viewed it.
If a landlord or agent promises to improve a property, ensure it is included in the contract.
Try to get everyone together to sign for a house on the same day.
Make sure you keep copies of everything that you sign.
Did you know?
You can get your contract checked by our Students' Union.
The SU Advice Centre is able to check tenancy agreements for free and answer questions you may have.
This isn't legal advice, but it's good to have someone else look over your tenancy agreement.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/private-accommodation/bills-and-budgeting:
Work out what you can afford before you start your home search.
Don’t overstretch yourself on rent, because you’ll need to pay monthly household bills along with day-to-day living costs.
Deposits are intended to provide landlords with protection if tenants damage or alter a property.
The 2019 Tenant Fees Act sets a limit on your refundable tenancy deposit.
The maximum deposit you can pay is 5 weeks' rent .
You’ll usually transfer a deposit when you sign your contract with the landlord or agent.
Before moving in, check the inventory, take photos, and keep records of any communication with your landlord or agent.
This way, you’ll have evidence in case a dispute arises later.
To ensure you receive your full deposit back when your lease ends, keep your place clean and in good order.
You should also report any issues to your landlord straight away.
Your landlord must put your deposit in a government-approved tenancy deposit scheme within 30 days of receiving it and inform you of the details.
You can use the Shelter Deposit Protection Checker to check if your deposit is protected.
Your landlord or agent will check the property at the end of your lease to make sure it's in good condition.
If it isn't, the Landlord may decide to deduct all or part of the deposit.
The relevant Deposit Protection Scheme will then notify you.
If you’re not happy with the deductions your landlord is proposing, you can ask for it to be taken to Dispute Resolution, but you’ll need evidence to back up your case.
If there are no deductions to be made, the Landlord will notify the Deposit Protection Scheme to return the deposit to you.
Before agreeing to a tenancy, make sure you ask the landlord or agent for a list of all the tenant fees you need to consider.
Refundable holding deposits (to reserve a property) are capped at no more than 1 week's rent .
Agencies can't charge for things like registration, viewings, bookings, and general administration fees.
Landlords and agents can charge for:
You'll likely split the bills with your housemates.
It's important to decide how to pay them on time and what to do if someone moves out.
Make sure all tenants' names are on each bill; that way a single tenant won’t be chased for late payments, and no-one is left to pay the entire bill.
You should take meter readings when you first move in and when you move out (even if this is before the end of the tenancy agreement).
Provide these to the utility companies to help prevent confusion on who owes what.
It's your responsibility to notify providers of a change in occupiers.
You don't necessarily have to stick with one service provider.
However, tenancy agreements often require you to get your landlord's permission before switching providers.
If you do decide to switch providers, shop around on websites such as Which .
Remember to get permission from your landlord or letting agency before installing phone, digital TV (including satellites dishes) or broadband.
If in doubt, always check with your landlord before any work is done.
Students studying full time are exempt from Council Tax .
You should make sure the Local Authority is aware that you're a student, so you don’t receive any bills.
Council tax applies to the whole property.
If a non-student is living in the same property, they will have to pay Council Tax.
A single non-student in your property will be classed as a single occupier and will be eligible for a 25% discount.
If more than one non-student is living in a property with other students, the Council Tax for the whole property applies.
Even though you may be a student and technically exempt, your non-student housemates may want a contribution towards the payment, so agree arrangements before living with non-students to ensure you’re happy.
We strongly recommend that you insure your possessions.
There are several insurance providers for students, so shop around.
Take a second to think about how much you own.
You might not think it’s that much, but if you add up the cost of everything you have – laptop, TV, mobile, clothes, it’s probably far more than you think.
You’ll require a TV Licence to watch or record television programmes as they are being shown on TV, regardless of what you use to stream this TV.
It’s your responsibility to apply for and obtain a TV licence.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/private-accommodation/contracts-and-legalities:
A tenancy agreement is the contract between you and your landlord.
Most tenancy agreements provided by landlords for student properties are Assured Shorthold Tenancy Agreements.
Make sure you read and understand the terms of the tenancy agreement before you sign it.
Usually, you’ll sign a tenancy agreement for a fixed period, and you won’t be able to end this early.
Different types of tenancy are available, such as a joint tenancy, shorthold and licence agreements.
If you’re intending to live in a shared house, it’s likely that you’ll be asked to sign a “Joint and Several Tenancy Agreement" with your other housemates.
This means that you could be pursued altogether or separately for any liabilities.
Further information on the different types of tenancy can be found on the Shelter website.
You should ensure that you fully understand what you’re responsible for under the Tenancy Agreement.
Always ask for your agreement to be in writing as verbal agreements can be hard to enforce.
Ensure that the agreement clearly states the rent, dates to make payments and the way to end your agreement.
Usually, you can’t end your tenancy agreement early.
Don’t leave a property or sign up for another property while you still bound by a tenancy agreement.
Returning the keys to the landlord when you leave doesn’t end your responsibilities.
You're still responsible for rent and any charges until the tenancy officially ends.
Your landlord might let you leave early if you find someone else to take over your lease.
After you're no longer on the lease, tell the utility companies and local government.
Make sure the new tenant will be responsible for the bills.
If you're having problems with your property and want to move out early, please contact us.
We can offer advice and guidance on what steps to take.
You can request that your landlord puts additional wording into a tenancy agreement.
If your landlord wants to change the property before you move in, get it in writing.
Do this before the agreement begins.
If your landlord doesn't complete the work, you'll be in a much stronger position to take further action.
If you’re in any doubt about your rights or responsibilities under a tenancy agreement, please contact us.
We can advise you on where to go for legal help if you need it.
Shelter also has a helpline that you can call to get some initial legal advice about housing issues.
How you obtain a reference for your new landlord depends on where you lived in the first year of your studies.
Bath Spa University accommodation
If you lived in our halls (Newton Park or Bankside) and paid your rent on time, we can give you a financial reference.
We can't provide a personal reference.
To request a tenancy reference, please email the Fees team ( fees@bathspa.ac.uk ) stating your:
Charlton Court and Waterside Court
If you live at Charlton Court or Waterside Court, ask UNITE Students staff at your building for a tenancy reference: bath@unitestudents.com .
Twerton Mill
If you currently live at Twerton Mill, you’ll need to ask the iQ Student Accommodation team if they can provide this for you: twertonmill@iqstudentaccommodation.com .
Renting privately or living at home
If you rent privately, you should contact your landlord or letting agent for a reference.
If you live with parents or guardians, you should declare this to your prospective landlord and advise that you can't provide a reference.
Your tenancy agreement should set out the rights and responsibilities in respect of repairs and maintenance at the property.
If you find a repair that needs doing, report it to your landlord or agent (whoever is managing the property).
Review your tenancy agreement to ensure that it is their responsibility to fix.
If it is, they’ll generally arrange the work and inform you of timescales.
Legally, a landlord has the right to enter the property to inspect it or carry out repairs.
They must give you 24 hours’ notice, unless they need immediate access to deal with an emergency.
As a tenant, you’re expected to use the property in a 'tenant like manner' which means:
You can find a guide to repairs on the Government and Bath and North East Somerset Council websites.
Don't stop paying rent because of a repair unless a legal representative tells you to do so.
Doing so could put you at risk of eviction from the property.
Log and repairs and communication with the landlord or agency, in case you need to settle any disputes later.
Damp can be caused by structural or maintenance issues, but the most common cause is condensation.
Condensation builds up very easily – just sleeping in a room produces a lot of moisture.
Key things that add to moisture build-up are:
Make sure you ventilate your property to allow the moisture to escape.
Switch on the heating to get some warmth into the building.
If you don't undertake these steps in the right balance, mould can grow, and you’ll see a build-up of water on surfaces.
B&NES council offer advice on mould growth and dampness .
Update your landlord on any issues.
Ask for their advice and get them to check that there isn’t an issue with the property itself.
If your landlord refuses to complete repairs or fix conditions in your home within a reasonable time period, then you can tell the B&NES council by using their online form .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/rents:
Cost per week: £201.11
Total cost for a 44-week contract: £8,848.84
Rooms: Waterside Court 316, Charlton Court 262
Cost per week: £219.36
Total cost for a 44-week contract: £9,647.44
Rooms: Charlton Court 15
Cost per week: £229.52
Total cost for a 44-week contract: £10,098.88
Rooms: Charlton Court 18
Read more about halls with UNITE Students
Cost per week: £231.50
Total cost for a 44-week contract: £10,186.00
Rooms: 225
Cost per week: £196.50
Total cost for a 44-week contract: £8,646.00
Rooms: 52
Cost per week: £310.00
Total cost for a 44-week contract: £13,640.00
Rooms: 53
Read more about Twerton Mill
Cost per week: £176.00
Total cost for a 39-week contract: £6,864.00
Rooms: 40
Cost per week: £239.00
Total cost for a 39-week contract: £9,321.00
Rooms: 3
Read more about Bankside House
Cost per week: £197.00
Total cost for a 39-week contract: £7,683.00
Rooms: 546
Total cost for a 39-week contract: £9,321.00
Rooms: 15
Read more about our Gardens halls
Cost per week: £83.00
Total cost for a 39-week contract: £3,237.00
Beds: 14
Cost per week: £145.00
Total cost for a 39-week contract: £5,655.00
Rooms: 168
Cost per week: £155.00
Total cost for a 39-week contract: £6,045.00
Rooms: 78
Read more about our Lakeside halls
We make every effort to use your accommodation preferences to offer you your first choice of accommodation.
However, this may not always be possible due to high demand for particular rooms.
You may be offered one of your other choices or, in some cases, accommodation for which you did not state a preference.
For example, if not enough applications are received for a particular contract length (e.g.
39 or 44 weeks), you may be allocated your preferred room type, but on a different contract length to the one you selected in your application.
If you have any questions regarding this process, please get in touch with us at accommodation@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/support:
A licence agreement is a legally binding document that you sign before moving into halls of residence.
It's a written agreement between you and the University that states the:
We send the Bath Spa University Licence Agreement to you before you move to Bath.
Before you sign this, please read it carefully, making sure you understand the terms and conditions.
All the info you could need while you're in our accommodation, including details on health and safety, fire safety and laundry.
Accommodation Code of Conduct
Students living within Bath Spa halls of residence should make themselves familiar with the Accommodation Code of Conduct.
It contains details on the procedures we'll use if a student in halls of residence behaves in a way that has a negative impact on others, breaches any of the terms and conditions of the Residents' Handbook, or commits a criminal offence.
Bath Spa cancellation terms and conditions
For the terms and conditions regarding cancellation of Bath Spa managed accommodation please see the link below.
Short-term and emergency accommodation policy
For our short term and emergency accommodation policy, please see the link below:
Nomination properties
We offer rooms in our University-managed halls of residence but also rooms in private halls of residence, managed by external housing providers.
These are what's known as "nomination properties." This means that you apply to live in them via the University's application process but your tenancy agreement is with the external or third-party provider, not the University.
We remain involved in your tenancy throughout your stay, and you'll have access to the same student services, such as Student Wellbeing Services .
Some of details around cancellations and your prepayment are different to the standard University policies or process, and this information will be included in your contract, so please read it carefully.
UCAS' has a definition of private halls of residence providers, along with other helpful information.
Parents, relatives and friends often contact the University to ask for information about students.
They may ask how they’re settling in or try to resolve a problem on the student's behalf.
Please note that we can’t discuss student information with anyone, even a family member, without permission from the student.
This is due to the Data Protection Act, which protects a person’s right to privacy in relation to their personal information.
We encourage you to contact the student directly or encourage the student to get in touch with the University to access available help and support .
We treat all students equally under the terms and conditions of the Licence Agreement, regardless of age.
We can offer additional support if requested.
We don't carry out DBS checks for staff attending the residences, other students, or any visiting guests.
Students who are under 18 must abide by our Safeguarding Policy and Procedure, License Agreement and terms and conditions, and stay away from the lake on Newton Park Campus.
More information can be found in our Safeguarding Policy and Procedure .
We’ve committed to the Universities UK Code of Practice and The Student Accommodation Code in all University managed halls of residence.
These Codes promote best practice and protect your rights to a safe, quality place to live.
They've been developed to help you get the best out of your time living in University accommodation.
Check your Student Finance entitlement
Use the Student Finance calculator to check your online account.
Ensure that you're receiving your full entitlement to Student Finance and that you’ve applied for a means-tested maintenance loan (which takes your household income into account).
Speak to a Wellbeing Advisor
If you're having problems with your student finance, you can speak with a Wellbeing Advisor from Student Wellbeing Services .
Find a part-time job
Most students can work during their studies and often secure part-time employment to supplement their maintenance loan.
Our Careers service can help you search for part-time work in Bath and develop your employability skills.
Research student bank accounts
It's also worth investigating the various student bank accounts available to you.
Many include interest-free overdrafts that can help you throughout your studies.
You can set this up before you arrive at University by using your UCAS letter confirming your place at University.
Some also offer other perks such as the 16-25 Railcard.
The Money Saving Expert website includes further useful information.
Read our cost-of-living information
Student Wellbeing Services offer detailed information on the support available to help with the Cost of Living .
Explore other sources of funding
Visit our Scholarships and Bursaries page to see what you may be entitled to.
Turn2Us have a grant search tool that allows you to filter information according to what’s relevant to your circumstances.
Accommodation bursary
For the 2025/26 academic year, we’re providing UK students whose household income is £20,000 or less with a £1,000 bursary to put towards rental payments and other housing-related expenses.
UK students whose household income is between £20,000 and £30,000 are eligible to receive a £500 bursary.
Eligible students will receive this payment automatically by 31 January 2026.
This bursary is only applicable to first year undergraduate students living in BSU-managed or third-party nominations halls of residence.
If you’re in private accommodation, you won’t be eligible.
If you have any questions, please contact the Student Awards team: studentawards@bathspa.ac.uk .
You probably hope to meet like-minded people at your uni halls, which is why our friendly Accommodation team is here to support you throughout the application process.
On the application form for accommodation , you can state your preferences for your halls, for example:
We’ll do our best to cater for your preferences and bring you closer to other students who share your characteristics and values.
Wondering how to apply for accommodation, or what's in your room?
We answer your common questions below.
How do I pay for my accommodation?
For students in Bath Spa University-managed halls we offer payment by instalment and this can be arranged when registering online.
Instalments are offered to coincide with students receiving their three student maintenance loan payments, and are managed by way of a recurring card mandate (using a debit or credit card) and you can enter the details safely and securely when you receive your joining instructions .
We strongly recommend the three instalment payments, as most students prefer to pay their accommodation fees from their maintenance loan funding.
However, if after completing online registration you'd like to pay your accommodation fees monthly, please contact the Student Fees team who can arrange this for you: fees@bathspa.ac.uk .
Please note, we're unable to make changes until registration is complete.
One-off debit or credit card payment can also be made online .
Please note:
Please see our Student Finance page for more details regarding payment.
Can I view the halls of residence before I move in?
You can visit our accommodation during Open Days and Offer Holder Days .
Book an Open Day now .
You can also explore our accommodation options online and find 360° images of our rooms on our virtual tour .
What should I bring?
You should bring bedding, towels, kitchen equipment, cleaning materials, toilet rolls, toiletries and food.
Please refer to our full guide on what to bring for more information.
Are there laundry facilities?
There are laundry facilities on all sites; these are accessible 24 hours a day.
You'll need to provide your own laundry detergent, as we don't provide this.
Laundry facilities are operated by Washpoint and are open 24/7 at Newton Park and Bankside House.
Payment is taken via a tap-and-go system near the machines.
Faults, issues or enquiries should be reported directly to Washpoint and their customer service team can support you.
Washpoint can be contacted by calling +44 (0)8000 546 546 .
Do I need to pay a deposit or prepayment reservation fee?
If you're living in Bath Spa University managed halls, you're required to pay a £250 prepayment of your licence fee to secure your room allocation and confirm your offer.
This prepayment is not a deposit and the amount will be taken off over the course of your instalments of the licence fee.
Please note: it's at the discretion of the University as to whether this prepayment will be refunded in the event that you don't move into your allocated room in September.
If you live in halls managed by external providers (Waterside Court, Charlton Court and Twerton Mill) you'll also be required to make a prepayment to confirm your room allocation.
You'll receive full information on what you need to provide when you receive your offer.
Which accommodation options can I apply for?
The campus where you'll be studying can sometimes determine which accommodation options you're eligible to apply for.
Students who'll be studying at Newton Park Campus are eligible to live at all of the accommodation options.
For example, it's common for students who study at Newton Park to live in one of our city locations.
Students who'll be studying at Sion Hill Campus or Locksbrook Campus (this includes courses taught at City of Bath College, Dartmouth Avenue and The Circus) are eligible to select Charlton Court, Waterside Court, Twerton Mill and Bankside House as one of their preferred options.
Students who'll be studying a combined subject course that is taught at multiple campuses are typically eligible to select any of the accommodation options as a preference.
Will I have to provide guarantor details?
Students who accept an offer of accommodation for a room with Waterside Court, Charlton Court or Twerton Mill will need to provide a guarantor reference.
A guarantor should be a responsible person who will be accountable for paying your rent and any damages should you be unable to make the payments.
By signing the tenancy, your guarantor will accept joint responsibility for the financial aspects of the tenancy agreement.
What If I miss the application deadline?
If you miss the deadline, you can contact the Accommodation team to find out if we have any rooms remaining.
Alternatively, we can support you in your search for accommodation in the private sector.
You can contact our team for help and guidance with this.
Please email accommodation@bathspa.ac.uk for assistance.
More information about deadlines, these can be found in the 'Timeline' section on our Applying for Accommodation page.
I'm a postgraduate student.
Can I apply for accommodation?
Most of our accommodation is prioritised for incoming first year undergraduate students, so postgraduate students aren't usually able to apply for accommodation in our halls.
Our accommodation isn't always suitable for postgraduate students for a few different reasons:
However, we can still support you in your search for accommodation.
We can share a wealth of resources and information on how to begin searching for alternatives in and around the city of Bath.
If you'd be interested in this, please reach out to us and email accommodation@bathspa.ac.uk .
How do I fill out the application form?
Once our application system goes live, you'll need the following to access the online application form:
Please check your personal details to ensure your information is correct.
You'll be asked to select three accommodation preferences.
By choosing your accommodation preferences, you're registering interest in any of these accommodation choices.
Please remember that you could ultimately receive an offer for any of our accommodation locations and room types.
The application isn't a guarantee that you'll get one of the three preferences you select, though we'll try our best to provide you with one of the options you chose.
What are private halls of residence and what do you mean by external providers?
We offer rooms in our University-managed halls of residence and rooms in private halls of residence, which are managed by external housing providers (Unite Students and iQ Student Accommodation).
These are what's known as "nomination properties." This means that you apply to live in them via the University's application process but your tenancy agreement is with the external provider.
You pay your rent directly to them, not the University.
The University remains involved in processes relating to your tenancy throughout your stay, and you'll still have access to the same services, for example, Student Wellbeing Services .
Some of the details around cancellations and your prepayment are slightly different to the standard University policies or processes, and this information will be included in your contract, so please read through it carefully.
UCAS' definition of private halls of residence providers has lots of helpful information.
I have a disability.
What do I need to do to get help with my accommodation?
If you disclosed a disability or medical need on your UCAS form, Student Wellbeing should have been in contact with you.
If you didn't disclose this on UCAS, please email studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk for further information.
You can also request further information about disability support at Bath Spa and the Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA).
Can I stay in my room over the Christmas and Easter holidays?
You can stay in your room or store your belongings throughout the entirety of your contract.
Can I have a fridge in my room?
Fridges aren't allowed in study rooms unless there's a medical need.
To apply to bring your own fridge on medical grounds, please contact Student Wellbeing Services , who'll liaise with us.
Please note: we don't provide fridges.
Is all accommodation mixed?
Generally accommodation is mixed, but we may be able to arrange single-sex accommodation if there's demand.
Please make it clear on your application form if you want to live in a single-sex flat.
We'll do our best to accommodate this but it can't be guaranteed.
What size is my bed?
Bed sizes vary between the different room types, so please check your room allocation to ensure you bring the correct duvet and sheet set with you.
Here's a general guide:
Do I need a TV licence?
Yes, you'll need to buy your own TV licence .
Can I bring a pet?
You're not permitted to bring any animal, including a bird, fish or any other creature.
This will be stated as a condition in all our accommodation contracts.
Students with therapy animals may be an exception but this would need to be discussed and authorised by the Student Wellbeing team prior to joining the University.
Do I need to pay any utility bills?
All utility bills (including heating, hot water and internet) are included in your rent, apart from a TV licence .
You'll need to buy your own TV licence.
Can I bring a car?
Unless you're a blue badge holder, you won't be able to bring your car with you to the University, however all our halls are within short walking distance of Bath's excellent public transport system.
Can I smoke in my room?
Smoking is strictly prohibited inside all student accommodation, including your study room or any indoor communal areas; there are dedicated outdoor smoking areas by your halls or common areas.
The use of e-cigarettes and vaping is also not permitted inside any University building.
Can I bring my musical instruments?
Will they fit into my room?
Although you're very welcome to bring musical instruments, room sizes will vary, so please check before bringing any large instruments.
Please also be mindful of our regulations on noise when playing instruments.
Where can I purchase items for my room?
For students arriving in September, Uni Kit Out can arrange for bedding/kitchens to arrive at the University before you move in.
What happens if I move into halls, then decide I want to live somewhere else?
You're legally responsible for paying the total accommodation fees for the year and should refer to the terms and conditions of your contract.
Under no circumstances should students enter into two different contracts for accommodation for the same year.
Learn more about tenancy agreements .
Most of our accommodation expertise and experience is in the Bath and Somerset area, but we recognise that students attending BSU London need support finding suitable housing within reach of the Hackney campus.
Here are some of our tips:
Find a room
Find housemates
You may wish to join the Bath Spa Student House Hunting Discord page to look for accommodation.
We've set up a Bath Spa University London channel and we direct students who approach us with spare rooms to advertise here.
Please email accommodation@bathspa.ac.uk to request access to our Discord server.
Purpose-built student accommodation
Multiple providers offer student accommodation in East and Central London, and many are advertised and reviewed on Student Crowd .
These are often slightly more expensive but include the cost of bills.
These are usually longer-term solutions:
iQ Student Accommodation has several locations in the vicinity of BSU London:
Short-term stays
Hostels are typically a cheaper alternative to short-term accommodation if needed for less than a few weeks.
However, depending on the provider and length of stay, this is not always cheaper so please browse around to compare prices.
Some local options in the Hackney area include:
Please be aware these hostels include cooking facilities and depending on the hostel you could be roomed in a dormitory with quite a few other people.
AirBnB is also another popular short-term option.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/priority-halls:
Bath Spa University is a diverse community.
In 2024, around a quarter of our student population shared that they had a disability.
Our students come from all over the world, from a range of backgrounds, and we’re committed to helping everyone make the most of their time at BSU.
This means that we allocate specific rooms to people who need them and make reasonable adjustments to our halls.
We can offer support to students in the first and returning years.
Where possible, we prioritise students who are:
What you need is unique to you.
Here are some examples.
If you can’t find what you need on these lists, please get in touch with us as soon as possible to discuss.
Adjustments
Equipment
Please note: the University does not provide funding for personal care support, as this is the responsibility of your Local Authority.
If you have or think you may need personal care support, please ask your social worker or key worker for a reassessment as soon as possible.
Your requirements may be different in a university living environment – for example, you may find you’ll need assistance with daily personal care, cooking, shopping, cleaning and laundry.
In our experience, successful moves to university for students requiring personal care support can take time and require effective liaison with external support teams.
Where possible, please contact Student Wellbeing Services and Accommodation at least 9 months before your arrival.
We have rooms with adjoining carer’s rooms however these aren't always available.
If you’re estranged from your family, care experienced or a foyer leaver, the University can help you to find suitable accommodation for the duration of your course, including vacations if you need them.
Learn more or email: studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk to get in touch with wellbeing advisor and discuss your requirements.
If you’re a current student and you wish to apply or reapply for a priority place in halls, please email us: accommodation@bathspa.ac.uk .
In your email, please let us know your reason for applying.
If you’d benefit from additional support to transition to a different accommodation location, please contact Student Wellbeing Services via My Wellbeing .
If you haven’t identified as disabled on UCAS or with the University, your application to continue living in halls will need reviewing.
Please contact Student Wellbeing Services via My Wellbeing as soon as possible.
Please ensure you have contacted us prior to the 30 June deadline and you’re familiar with the categories of priority student groups listed below.
*When specific accessibility adaptations have been made to a room, continuing students will be allocated the same room.
Adjoining carers rooms are located in Gardens accommodation only.
**Supporting medical evidence will be requested and reviewed by the Student Wellbeing Service.
The University works with AccessAble to produce accessibility guides for our halls of residence.
You can also take a virtual tour of BSU , including our accommodation.
Most of our teaching takes place at either Newton Park or Locksbrook Campus.
To see where you’ll be mostly based, check the key facts panel on web page for the course you’re interested in.
You can also explore our interactive map .
You’re only permitted to park on campus if your term-time residence is outside of the restricted postcode areas, you’re a Blue Badge holder, or you’re eligible for a Student Permit due to exceptional circumstances.
See our student parking information for more information.
Parking permits can be arranged for carers and care agencies supporting students with disabilities on campus.
If you live in our halls of residence and pay additional accommodation costs as a direct result of a disability (for example, you need a studio flat with a self-contained bathroom and kitchen rather than a standard ensuite room), you may be eligible for a subsidy.
Please contact Student Wellbeing Services for information on how to apply.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/living-with-us:
Starting university is an exciting time – even more so if you’re moving into student accommodation and leaving home for the first time.
It can also feel daunting – choosing where to live, budgeting, completing the paperwork and handling the legal stuff...
not to mention wondering who you might end up living with!
If you’re worried about anything – from making connections, to finances, to how to share responsibilities with your new flatmates, please get in touch.
Our Accommodation team is here to support you.
Campus Life Ambassadors are returning students who have already experienced the joys and challenges of moving to Bath and settling into life at BSU.
They’re perfectly positioned to help you adjust to life in halls and make the most of your first year in student accommodation.
They'll organise a series of events throughout the year, to help you get used to the local area and meet new people.
Expect walking tours, crafting sessions, and mixers.
You could design and print your own tote bag, paint a plant pot for your room, or play board games or cards.
Most of these events will be free of charge for you as a resident in our halls.
Worried about sharing your space with new people?
That’s understandable – everyone's an individual and we all have different preferences and needs.
Our advice is to communicate clearly and respectfully.
Discuss your expectations and agree as a group how you’ll solve any day-to-day issues that come up.
We provide a template agreement to get things started and give you a framework to work from.
Sharing a communal space is easier when you and your housemates know when cleaning gets done, which household essentials will be shared, who’ll do the recycling, and what time you turn down the music.
Remember to always treat each other with dignity and respect.
This bursary is only applicable to first year undergraduate students living in BSU-managed or third-party nominations halls of residence.If you’re in private accommodation, you won’t be eligible.
For the 2024/25 academic year, we provided UK students whose household income was £20,000 or less with a £500 bursary to put towards rental payments and other housing-related expenses.
Eligible students will have received this payment automatically by 31 January 2025.
To help supplement your weekly food shop, we run five free food larders across Newton Park and Locksbrook Campuses.
These are based in the laundry rooms of Sophia (near Gardens), Commons, and Locksbrook’s The Street.
You can take what you need, and each month the Accommodation team will top up the larders with a selection of food essentials such as tinned veggies, rice, pasta, and recipe packs.
Check out our other forms of cost of living support , too.
Mediation is a voluntary, confidential and impartial service that helps students find solutions to conflicts.
It provides a safe space for everyone to work toward a resolution.
Mediation is not suitable for educational partnership students, legal matters or formal complaints, disciplinary issues under university regulations, and serious harassment, threats, or safeguarding concerns.
Read Niamh's guide to preparing this classic dish, including how much it costs to cook up a batch.
Anja goes over the long-lasting ingredients for your cupboards and freezer that can help make cooking for yourself easy – and more delicious.
Niamh provides comprehensive lists of what you'll need, including essentials for your bedroom, kitchen, and wardrobe.
Louise shares her advice on overcoming the common hurdles that you may experience when making new connections.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/living-with-us/allergies:
While you’re settling into a new place and meeting new people, telling people that you have a serious allergy may be the last thing you want to do.
Don’t worry – we’re here to help you, every step of the way.
During your first week, you’ll get together with your flatmates to create a living agreement, with the support of our staff and Campus Life Ambassadors if you need it.
This gives everyone the opportunity to talk openly and reach decisions on how you’d like to live together.
You may not want to disclose your allergy but, if you do, this might be a good place to discuss it and the practicalities of what this might mean for them and you.
Please make it a priority to tell the Student Wellbeing Services about your allergy before you arrive, so that they can support you during your time at university, and make a care plan for anaphylaxis.
You can email them to get in touch: studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk .
When you book your room, you’ll have the chance to tell the accommodation team about your allergy.
If you have any additional requirements – like a mini fridge in your room for medication – you can request this in your accommodation application .
If you allergy is particularly severe, you could consider applying for studio flat with your own kitchen facilities.
Please see our Priority Halls page for further information.
It’s a good idea to let key staff members, such as your personal tutor, know if your allergies might affect your studies.
You may be worried about sharing dining, food preparation and storage spaces.
Here are a couple of recommendations:
If you have any concerns or are finding it difficult to communicate your needs to others, please get in touch with the Accommodation team, who will be more than happy to help: accommodation@bathspa.ac.uk .
You can find more advice and support on the Anaphylaxis Campaign website, the UK’s charity to support people at risk from severe allergies.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/accommodation/what-to-bring:
Our team will email you with more information after you've applied for accommodation with us.
We provide basic goods and furnishings in our accommodation, including a bed, desk, chairs, mirrors, white goods, towel rails and waste bins.
However, you'll need to bring some of your own items too.
Here are our suggestions.
Bedroom
Kitchen
Bathroom
What not to bring
We don’t allow these items in halls of residence, so please leave these at home:
Living at Newton Park ( Lakeside and Gardens ) accommodation?
We've teamed up with UniKitOut to offer you a 10% discount on packs for your room.
UniKitOut offers bundles of bedding, bathroom and kitchen essentials, and your order can be delivered to your accommodation before you arrive.
We'll share your discount code with you before you move in.
Hand luggage
The Home Office requires you to carry certain documents in paper form, so that you’re ready to present them on arrival to the UK.
You should also be prepared to answer a few simple questions from the Border Force Officer.
Here's what we advise you to carry in your hand luggage.
You'll also need, if applicable:
Checked luggage
Here's a helpful list of what to bring with you.
Our Accommodation team will email you with more information after you've applied for accommodation.
While you can purchase travel adapters in the UK, it's a good idea to buy them in your home country so you can charge everything when you arrive.
We'd recommend bringing several so you can charge your laptop, phone and toothbrush all at the same time.
It's a good idea to bring some traditional sweets, games, or other items from your country.
This can be a good way to start conversations and make new friends during your first week.
Bring some photos or mementos of your family and friends.
Most rooms will have a noticeboard where you can pin these up and they'll help you to feel more at home.
Remember that our Student Wellbeing Services are always on hand to offer free mental and emotional support if you experience any difficulties.
If you're taking regular prescribed medication, please check if the name of your medication will be the same in the UK.
This is because some medicines may have a different name in the UK, and some medications may not be available at all.
Please check with your doctor before arriving here.
You should be able to order most medications once you're in the UK.
If you need a refrigerator to store your medication, please check our access needs page for more information on how to arrange this with our Accommodation team.
Bedding packs and cutlery
You can purchase bedding and cutlery packs from our partners UniKitOut , and your order will delivered to your accommodation before you arrive.
We'll also share a 10% discount code with you.
Alternatively, there are also many shops in Bath that you can purchase these items from.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/campuses:
We are a modern campus with a historic heart.
Not far from a twelfth century castle tower and a Georgian grand manor house is our state of the art Commons building, which boasts technologically enabled study space, working rooms and a café.
Located in a central location in the city next to the River Avon, Locksbrook is our newest campus and an inspirational place for students to flourish.
Facilities include technical workshops surrounded by open, flexible studio spaces, as well as large, open social areas, a cafe and a permanent gallery for the display of artwork.
A theatre production centre is located between the Newton Park Campus and Bath city centre at Westmoreland Station Road.
The addition of this new facility lets students on our BA (Hons) Acting and BA (Hons) Theatre, Festival and Event Production course to complete practical work in its specialist workshop spaces.
Facilities at this location include:
If you’re studying Filmmaking, you’ll benefit from being taught at Paintworks in Bristol.
The facility offers a large production office, modern edit suites with the latest software, lights and video cameras including the Sony F3 (used on Spike Lee’s Red Hook Summer and This is England 88) and Canon 7D (used on Lena Dunham’s SXSW award winner Tiny Furniture ).
Our beautiful Corsham Court site in Wiltshire is concealed within a Grade I listed country house, surrounded by stunning gardens complete with peacocks.
Corsham Court is home to our Research Support Office, which works on research funding bids, post award administration and knowledge exchange.
The beautiful formal gardens and grounds surrounding the main building are available for you to explore.
Bath Spa University has a long history with Corsham Court and the Methuen family who own it.
Bath Academy of Art moved to Corsham Court in 1946 and provided higher education in specialist art and design, teacher training, performing arts and combined arts.
Bath Academy of Art then became part of the University.
“You are not going to find a more beautiful campus in the rest of the UK.”

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/campuses/newton-park:
There can’t be many campuses that rival Newton Park.
It's steeped in history, and was designed by the well-known landscape architect Capability Brown in the 18th century.
At the heart of the campus is our ultra-modern academic building, Commons .
Facilities include open-access, technology-enabled study space; social learning space; bookable group working rooms; a café; and outdoor amphitheatre.
It's home to the best specialist digital and studio resources for teaching in the South West – equal to anything found in top commercial organisations and broadcast companies.
Our state-of-the-art Commons building sits alongside our award-winning University Theatre and purpose-built concert hall, the Michael Tippett Centre.
You might even find yourself studying in our 14th century castle tower, as the historic buildings on campus are also used for teaching.
Over 850 students live on our Newton Park campus in single, shared and en-suite study bedrooms.
They benefit from great facilities, beautiful surroundings and busy social lives.
Living on campus means everything you need is within easy reach.
Newton Park has a great range of places to grab a coffee or a bite to eat, so you’re sure to find something to your taste.
Expect barista-style drinks, bright and social eating areas, seasonal menus, and a great selection of meals and snacks for when you’re on the go.
Does all of this sound to good to be true?
Come and see for yourself – we'd love to show you around!
Bath’s Clean Air Zone (CAZ) currently operates in the city centre.
Please be aware that when visiting us, you may have to pay a charge if you drive through the zone to get to us.
Private cars and motorbikes will not be charged in Bath’s CAZ but vehicles such as vans, taxis, light goods vehicles and some campers and Land Rovers may be charged if they do not meet required emission standards.
At busier times of year, our Newton Park campus car parks become full.
Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) is in operation at Newton Park Campus, and you’ll need to buy a pay and display ticket to avoid a parking charge notice.
There’s a 30-minute grace period to allow you to pick up and drop off.
During Open Days, Offer Holder Days and Moving In Weekend there is free, limited parking available.
If you're a Blue Badge holder, you don't need to pay for parking at Bath Spa.
Please ask at the security lodge for directions to the closest spaces available and display your badge prominently.
For more information about student parking, please see our terms and conditions.
The U5 service takes you from the centre of Bath to Newton Park.
The U5 operates seven days a week, running until roughly 3am Monday - Saturday.
The X39 stops by The Globe and is a 15 minute walk up the drive to campus.
Bath Spa is Bath’s main train station and is located in the city centre.
Hop on the U5 to take you straight to Newton Park.
In addition to bicycle bays, Bath Spa offers shower facilities at Newton Park.
If you forget your lock or damage your bike on the way to campus, you can borrow a series of bike repair items, including a puncture kit and pump, from Newton Park Security.
If you’re planning to cycle to campus, please read our bicycle parking terms and conditions .
For information about accessibility on-site, please view our accessibility guide or contact our student support team .
Bath Spa University, Newton Park, Newton St Loe, Bath, BA2 9BN

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/campuses/sion-hill:
Sion Hill is known for its friendly community feel and is home to our education space for PGCE courses.
“Sion Hill is well known for its buzzing creative atmosphere, and friendly community feel.”
With recently refurbished facilities, the Conference and Events team have dedicated venues within Sion Hill that can be hired to accommodate an array of events.
The fully flexible spaces can be set-up to suit your event offering different capacities, subject to venue layout.
To find out how we can support your event please contact us on conferencing@bathspa.ac.uk or call +44 (0)1225 876700 .
Parking is available at our Sion Hill campus .
At busier times of the year sometimes our car park will become full.
A pay and display system is in operation at this car park.
To avoid inconvenience to the surrounding community, we kindly ask that you avoid parking on the streets around the campus.
For more information about student parking, please see our terms and conditions .
You can travel to Sion Hill campus from the centre of Bath by catching the Lansdown Park and Ride bus.
Bath Spa is Bath’s main railway station and is located in the city centre.
You can then continue your journey by bus .
In addition to bicycle bays, Bath Spa offers shower facilities at Sion Hill.
Bath Spa University, Sion Hill, Bath BA1 5SF
For more information on how to travel to our campuses, visit the how to find us page.
Need to know where to go once you get to the campus?
Download our campus map .
Need to know about the accessibility of Sion Hill campus?
Our Student Wellbeing Services team are happy to answer your questions, or visit our accessibility guide .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/campuses/locksbrook-campus:
Located next to the River Avon in Bath city centre, Locksbrook is an open-plan building with technical workshops surrounded by flexible studio spaces, as well as spacious social areas.
It's a few minutes' walk from Bath Spa student accommodation on Lower Bristol Road, which is reached via a pedestrian bridge across the river.
The riverside cycle path connecting our Newton Park campus to Bath’s railway and bus stations also borders the site, making it easily accessible from further afield.
Locksbrook has received both a RIBA South West Award and RIBA National Award , recognising and celebrating this inspirational space, in which our students and staff come together to design, make, do, create and learn.
Originally designed by Sir Nicholas Grimshaw in 1976, Bath Spa University has spent the last few years revitalising this Grade II listed building, and creating a new history for this iconic building.
Grimshaw Architects have worked closely with Bath Spa University to transform the building into an extraordinary facility for artists and designers to flourish.
The new building is open-plan, with large, adaptable spaces.
It has a permanent gallery for the display of artwork, as well as a café.
There are large, open social areas with open-access computer facilities, presentation spaces, a rooftop pavilion for reflection and project work, plus an art shop that will promote student and graduate work.
Locksbrook Campus has a range of accommodation options - there’s Twerton Mill, Charlton Court and Waterside Court on Lower Bristol Road, as well as accommodation in Bath city centre.
Car parking spaces at Locksbrook Campus are limited and are for staff use only.
We encourage staff to use public transport wherever possible and not to park on the streets surrounding the building.
Students are directed to park at the Bath Spa University Sports Ground car park on Lower Bristol Road.
Students at Locksbrook will need to apply for a Stothert and Pitt Parking Permit through the apphub .
There are two options:
When parking at the sports ground, students will be able to catch the U5 bus to Locksbrook Campus free of charge.
To access the free of charge service, please contact transport@bathspa.ac.uk once you've paid for your permit.
You'll then be given a unique access code to use on the mTicket app.
The free code will only work on the service between the sports ground/Stothert and Pitt car park and Locksbrook Campus, and return journeys.
During Open Days and Offer Holder Days , all parking on campus is reserved for Blue Badge holders.
Parking information for the event can be found in your pre-event emails.
Locksbrook Campus is just a short walk from the Burnham Road bus stop.
Oldfield Park station is about a 15 minute walk from Locksbrook Campus.
The Bristol to Bath cycle path runs alongside Locksbrook Campus.
Bath School of Art, Film and Media and Bath School of Design, Locksbrook Rd, Bath, BA1 3EL

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities:
Be it eat, drink, perform, talk, learn, or play, our campus has a range of outstanding multipurpose facilities to cover any need or occasion.
Commons is Newton Park’s main teaching building.
It has superb teaching facilities, social spaces and specialist resources such as the Publishing Lab and TV studios.
A modern building, it nonetheless boasts superb views of the countryside.
We believe in providing the best opportunities for your creative practice.
Explore our wide range of specialist workshops and studio spaces , and learn how you can build your digital and design skills thanks to our partnership with Adobe Creative Campus .
You’ll be hard-pressed to find a more inspiring backdrop for your studies.
Our campuses are steeped in history, with beautiful period buildings and breath-taking settings.
Beyond the aesthetics, you’ll find ultramodern technology and facilities.
“We have excellent facilities across our campuses, from our state-of-the-art Commons building at Newton Park to our specialist art and design workshops at Sion Hill.”

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/tv-studios:
Our electronic, multi camera TV studios rival those used by commercial organisations and broadcast companies.
They’re equipped to exceed industry standard and have both blue and green screen capability.
“Our electronic, multi camera TV studios rival those used by commercial organisations and broadcast companies.”
Studio A is a versatile space where students from courses in Film, Television and Digital Production , Acting , Commercial Music and Theatre, Festival and Event Production can collaborate on comedy, drama, music and performance projects.
With a working height of just under seven meters and an approximate floor space of 150 square meters, Studio A can accommodate every large-scale collaborative project at Bath Spa.
Studio B is smaller at approximately 74 square meters.
It can be used as an audio studio when linked to one of the two audio control rooms.
You’re just as likely to find Commercial Music students working in this studio as you are Dance or Business and Management students.
Both studios have double height doors, so loading scenic items or props is easy.
The studio gallery is equipped with three HD camera channels, all viewable on an eight-way monitor stack.
Audio is available from both TV Production spaces and is mixed via the audio mixing desk.
You can connect any of the two production studios into this space.
All Film, Television and Digital Production students have weekly classes in the TV Studio Gallery as part of their core modules, and the space is used by Theatre, Festival and Event Production students for larger collaborative productions.
Our nine HD-capable edit suites offer various edit applications such as Adobe Premiere Pro, FCP, Avid, Lightworks and Davinci Resolve for colour grading.
Each of the edit suites comes equipped with powerful Apple Mac computers, Genelec audio monitors and Eizo grading monitors.
The viewing theatre offers viewing for 2D, 3D, 4k (ultra-HD) and HD presentations.
There’s also an audio system which is a similar specification to those in the Pro Tools Audio Suites.
Files and live production can be viewed in this space.
There are two Pro Tools HDX mixing spaces.
Both are equipped with AVID’s flagship mixing controller, the AVID S6.
The audio monitors are capable of mixing surround projects.
These are both connected to two recording spaces, one of which is designed for voice and dialogue recording, while the other dedicated to Foley recording (sound effect recording).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/music-technology-facilities:
Our new spaces, called The Arc and The Hive, will provide students with state-of-the-art tech and access to industry-standard equipment and archival pieces to learn, explore and perfect their work.
The Arc is a new audiovisual and sound design space built with top-of-the-range sound proofing, speakers in the walls and ceilings, and a large cinema screen.
This room is designed to allow students how to integrate sound with media; for instance, for film scoring, foley sound, music production, and so on.
All light and sound is fully synchronised to allow deep audiovisual analysis, and the Dolby Atmos rig within this room is one of the very first in the UK.
The Hive is our vintage-inspired recording studio, complete with a wide array of instruments and musical equipment.
It is fully sound-proofed and designed with audio optimisation in mind, and home to cutting-edge equipment and archival pieces, all available for students to use including:
We offer Commercial Music and Creative Music Technology students priority use of three Apple Mac labs with up to 50 workstations in our main presentation lab.
These offer a full range of industry standard hardware and software including:
We also support visual and media based work with current versions of applications such as Final Cut Pro, DVD Studio Pro, Jitter and a full range of multimedia authoring packages.
We have five high quality studios running Pro Tools HD systems.
These are used for our Commercial Music students for their album projects, and Creative Music Technology students for Audio Post and other high-end production projects.
We have five full-band rehearsal rooms, all equipped with PA, guitar/bass backline, high end drum kits, amplifiers (Mesa Boogie, Orange, Ampeg and Vox) and Nord Keyboards.
The facilities are mainly used by Commercial Music students to support their tour and album modules.
Two of the rooms have tie-lines into our Pro Tools HD studios.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/commons-building:
Commons is the heart of our Newton Park Campus .
Alive with students and staff, it boasts immersive views of Newton Park's beautiful countryside.
Inside you’ll find lecture halls, seminar rooms, study spaces, a cafe, TV studios, and computer rooms and staff offices.
Looking for somewhere to study?
Commons covers over 1,000 square metres and has 400 study seats, plenty of social learning spaces and bookable group working rooms and pods, as well as a café to relax in.
The ground floor is open from 6am to midnight.
Some spaces in Commons (such as the café, upper floors and specific teaching rooms) may operate different opening times.
Need help?
If you’re ever lost or need information and advice, our friendly staff at the Student Hub are your first point of call.
The Student Hub (TN.G1) is in Twiverton (located behind the Refectory) at Newton Park.
The Publishing Lab is located in the ground floor of Commons.
It comprises rooms full of Macs with the latest desktop publishing software.
The Publishing Lab contains a variety of devices and media for the production of published materials in print and on the web.
The Publishing Labs are used as teaching rooms, open 10-5pm each day and staffed by Technical Demonstrators to help you with your latest projects.
Our Commons building has the best specialist digital and studio resources for teaching in the South West – equal to anything found in the best commercial organisations and broadcast companies.
Need to know about the accessibility of Commons building?
Our Student Wellbeing team are happy to answer your questions, or visit our accessibility guide .
Did you know that you can get help using digital tools for learning from other students?
During term time, our Student Digital Learning Assistants are available in-person and online every weekday between 10am-2pm.
You can drop in at Commons or book an appointment.
They can help with:
To book an appointment or find out more, please email sdlas@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/university-library:
Visit the Library online
The Library provides 350,000 e-books and more than 30,000 academic e-journals in addition to print books, journals, music scores and DVDs.
Other facilities include bookable study seats and computers, as well as copiers, printers and scanners.
Each University School has a dedicated Subject Librarian to support you.
Your Subject Librarian will develop your research skills and highlight resources that are good for your course throughout your time at Bath Spa, but you can also book in a one-to-one session.
As well as books for your course, we also have books that you may wish to read for pleasure, with a range of suggestions on display in the Library Foyer.
We provide a mix of study spaces to suit your learning styles.
You can choose between quiet and group study areas, drop-in and bookable study desks, spaces with calming views of the fields and hills, bookable rooms for working with your peers on projects and assignments, and comfortable sofas for relaxing with a good book.
When you visit the Library, if you’re not sure where to go, our friendly staff are on hand.
We can provide you with a tour of the building, show you how to find resources, book study spaces, and help you navigate the Library and its collections.
The library subscribes to over a hundred premium online services including journal archives, streaming video services, image and newspaper databases.
Research from across Bath Spa’s array of subjects is curated and showcased in our two research repositories, ResearchSPAce and BathSPAdata .
We have dedicated librarians specialising in subject, research, collections, customer and digital service support.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/places-to-eat:
A bright and social eating area with a takeaway service if you’re on the move.
We have a large outdoor seating area with two market sheds for themed outdoor events.
All meals are prepared on site, using lots of locally sourced produce.
Our menu changes daily with hot food and vegan and gluten free options available.
Need to know about the accessibility of the Refectory?
Located on the ground floor of Commons, Newton Park’s main teaching building, the Cafe is a convenient place to grab a drink, lunch or a snack.
At Cafe Commons we proudly serve Costa coffee.
As well as hot drinks, cold drinks and our famous frappuccinos, we serve a wide range of sandwiches, homemade paninis and toasties, premium cakes and muffins, and other sweet treats.
The Deli can be found next to the Refectory and stocks a range of artisan deli foods such as pies, pastries, cakes and snacks.
We also serve hot drinks and sandwiches in cosy, modern surroundings to take out or eat in.
Our barista coffee is provided from local supplier Bristol Twenty.
Located in the Students’ Union (SU), the SU Bar and Kitchen offers a wide range of home-cooked quality food, at reasonable prices.
Our students use the SU Bar and Kitchen to eat, meet up with friends, play pool or study.
This is a new social space for students in Main House, hot drinks and snacks available from the vending area.
You'll now find The Refectory on the Too Good To Go app .
Rescue magic bags of surplus, unsold food - at a great price - so it gets eaten instead of wasted.
You won’t know exactly what’s in your order until you pick it up - it’s all part of the surprise.
Download the app to get started.
At Cafe Sion you’ll find a range of food and drinks on offer, including breakfast baguettes, pastries, jacket potatoes, pasties, sausage rolls, pizza slices, homemade soup, as well as made-to-order salads, baguettes and meals of the day.
We operate a vending service only at Corsham Court, A selection of hot drinks, cold drinks and snacks.
This cook-to-order cafe serves homemade food including hot breakfasts, our famous Locksbrook chargrilled burgers, mac and cheese and more.
Many menu items are gluten free, vegetarian, vegan and dairy free.
Barista trained staff serve our locally-supplied Bristol Twenty coffee, plus a wide range of other drinks.
A choice of confectionery, cakes, muffins, traybakes and chocolate is also available, including delicious pastries.
Opening hours for our outlets vary, so please check our Facebook or Instagram for up-to-date information.
We also share offers, new menus and more on our social media pages.
For key University events such as open days and registration, we operate extended opening times.
*Please note that during the holidays, opening hours may vary.
The Meet + Drink + Eat app allows you to order food and other grocery essentials from your phone for delivery or collection across our Newton Park campus.
Available to download for free from the App Store.
Bath Spa University is committed to ethical consumerism, and supports fairtrade products in all our catering outlets.
All our coffee products are certified fairtrade.
Fairtrade products ensure better working conditions, better pay and improved opportunities for workers in developing countries.
Bath Spa University is proud to support these ventures in keeping with our dedication to integrity and sustainability.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/oak-tree-nursery:
Set on the beautiful campus at Newton Park, Oak Tree Day Nursery offers children plenty of outdoor, all-weather play and beautiful walks.
The nursery staff are proud to have fantastic relationships with the children, and are extremely passionate about providing exciting learning opportunities.
From 1 August 2022, Oak Tree Nursery will be operated by Buttercup Barn Day Nursery on the same premises at Newton Park campus, Bath Spa University.
Parents interested in using the nursery are invited to get in touch to arrange a viewing.
Visit the new Oak Tree Nursery website to learn more.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/sports:
Bath is a great place to run, walk or cycle.
You’ll be able to explore the beautiful countryside around Bath, including areas you can’t reach by car such as the Kennet and Avon Canal , Bath and Bristol Railway Path and the Two Tunnels Greenway .
We have sports pitches for rugby, netball and football, all at Newton Park.
You can visit the Students’ Union website for more information about the facilities and sports societies on offer.
And if you want to take part in a sport we don’t currently offer, you could set up your own society.
Bath Spa University Sports Ground facilities are currently being developed for use by students and staff.
The recreation ground is located on Lower Bristol Road.
Search for us on Google Maps using " Bath Spa University Sports Ground ".

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/dance:
Our largest dance studio is equipped with mirrors, sound system, a fully sprung floor and projection facilities.
The studio has a full lighting rig and is used regularly as a performance and teaching space exclusively for Dance, with easy access to shower and changing facilities.
Within the University Theatre we have light and airy studios with sprung flooring.
These have convenient access to the main theatre space, dressing rooms and full technical support.
The studios have projection equipment installed and one of them benefits from mirrors.
Recents events have included Ben Duke’s Lost Dog, Riccardo Buscarini, Alexander Whitely, Hagit Yakira, Jean Abreu, and Earthfall.
Dance students also have access to a multimedia lab containing iMacs used specifically for video editing and other digital creative endeavours.
Software on these computers includes:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/biology-labs:
Our laboratories, glasshouses and experimental areas provide specialist facilities for a wide range of biological studies including aquatic, ecological, anatomical and soil analysis.
Modern ecological surveying equipment such as bat detectors and night vision wildlife cameras enable you to be involved in interesting and contemporary biological research studies.
In addition, we have ‘low ­hazard’ laboratory space where you can carry out activities such as the preparation and assessment of food, exercise or psychological studies.
You’ll find instruments for: chemical, physiological, environmental and DNA analysis; microbiological culturing; and microscopy.
This is supported by experienced and enthusiastic technical staff.
“The campus provides a rich variety of woodland, grassland and freshwater habitats, which are used extensively in practical work.”
The Newton Park campus is an excellent location for studying biology and similar subjects.
The campus provides a rich variety of woodland, grassland and freshwater habitats, which are used extensively in practical work.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/students-union:
The facilities run on a not-for-profit basis – so you’ll find cheap prices – with any income being put back into the Union to make it better for you.
Visit the Students' Union website
The SU Bar on Newton Park campus offers space to study and socialise; it’s a great place to unwind.
You’ll never go hungry with a great range of ethically sourced homemade food to choose from plus an extensive range of hot and cold drinks.
Take advantage of regular deals and promotions including 2-4-1 pizza deals!
It’s also a great place to catch events, with plenty to get involved with including the weekly Sunday Night Quiz and karaoke.
The SU events team host the annual Summer Ball, which always promises to be a night to remember.
Previous headliners have included Sigma , Sub Focus , The Heavy and The Hooziers .
Monday to Friday 10am – 11:30pm (Food available 10am – 6pm)
Saturday and Sunday 6pm – 11:30pm
The gym is exclusively for Bath Spa University students and staff, as well as Students’ Union associate members.
It's air-conditioned and fully equipped with over 40 stations including:
Gym members receive an induction when they join and access to a gym programme if they'd like one.
Our fully qualified instructors are also on hand to help you get the most from your visits.
A yearly membership for students costs £150 or £80 per semester.
Monday to Friday 7am - 9pm
Saturday and Sunday 10am - 6pm
The Students’ Union is about much more than facilities and summer balls.
They ensure that the student voice is listened to and acted upon.
They're there to support, develop and entertain you alongside your studies.
The day-to-day running of the Union is overseen by Sabbatical Officers, voted for annually by the student body.
The Students' Union website is packed full of information about exciting volunteering opportunities, and how the Students' Union will represent you.
They make sure that their members are getting a fair deal, whether from the University, your employer, or even from your landlord.
Their welfare and advice services can help with a whole range of student-related matters from academic appeals to personal issues.
They’re here as your first port of call with any problems you might have.
They also manage the network of Student Academic Reps who take feedback from fellow students in their classes to relay to the tutors, and the University.
This network is your voice, and works with the SU and the University to voice your feedback and the things that matter most to you and your studies.
Most important of all, don't forget that the NUS extra card is your passport to discounts, from a whole host of shops and services, local and national.
The Students' Union is run by the students, for the students – you automatically become a member for free .
If you don't want to be a member, you can opt-out as part of the annual registration process.
You can still use all the facilities, services and activities, including joining clubs and societies, but you won’t be able to take part in the democratic processes of the Union.
Need to know about the accessibility of our Students' Union building?
Our student support team are happy to answer your questions, or visit our accessibility guide .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/vle:
As a teaching-led university we make sure we're right up to date with the most advanced teaching methods, and all students have access to our online virtual learning environment, Ultra.
Your lecturers will send you course materials using Ultra – so you’ll have everything easy to find in one place.
Using Ultra you can also have online conversations with others from your course, using its discussions board feature.
In addition, it lets you submit coursework electronically.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities:
Whatever your discipline in art and design, we have what you need to get creative, with technicians on hand to realise your most ambitious projects.
Wondering if we have the right facilities for you?
We are confident we’ve got you covered.
We have workshops in digital production, paint, metalwork, sculpture, silkscreen etching and lithography, woodwork, book and print, audio visual, photography, life drawing, ceramics, plastics, 3D printing, and textiles.
Walk into one of our specialist workshops – we’ve got one for everything from ceramics to textiles – and you’ll understand why they’re so fundamental to our art and design community.
We’re bursting at the seams with a mixture of unusual, historic and state-of-the-art equipment.
There’s far too much to list on one page, so be prepared for an overwhelming amount of creative possibility.
Most art and design students are assigned a dedicated studio space – this depends on which course you’re studying.
In our experience no two spaces are the same and this creates a dynamic and exciting studio environment.
As an Adobe Creative Campus, all Bath Spa students have access to the entire Adobe Creative Suite of elite industry-leading apps, including Photoshop, InDesign, Adobe Express and more.
With the ability to amplify your digital fluency from the moment you join Bath Spa, you’ll have the space to develop a wealth of indispensable skills to help you in your studies, and in the world of work.
Wunderkammer Press is a different kind of publishing venture.
It operates within Bath School of Art and Design and publishes the exciting, the curious and the thought-provoking.
A set of Chinese lead letterpress and trays, thought to be the last set cast in lead, was donated to Bath Spa University in 2016.
Gifted to Bath School of Art and Design by RiXing Type Foundry in Taipei, Taiwan, the 48 trays and 10,000 lead characters are used for teaching and promoting Chinese culture.
Our art shop offers a wide range of art materials for staff and students at competitive prices.
Working closely with academics and technicians we ensure that we hold stock, or can obtain at short notice, materials that are required for course and research work.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/equipment:
Our equipment ranges from hand tools and high spec photographic cameras, to rare industrial specialist machinery and large CAD equipment, such as laser cutters, vacuum formers, digital engravers, 3D printers, digital embroidery machinery and CNC routers.
Can’t wait to try it all out?
You can get full-training for all of our equipment.
Art and design is constantly changing, but whatever your era, we’ve got something for you.
From age old, artisan printing techniques to cutting edge 3D printing technology, our facilities are some of the best to be found anywhere in the world.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops:
Our workshops are open for all our students to use, after health and safety introductions and appropriate tuition.
They include:
You’ll benefit from technical support that is second to none.
Our technicians are passionate makers who want you to think big, and will help you find a way to achieve your goal.Workshops operate with an open door policy, and students coming and going as they please.
You’ll see the results of previous experimentations everywhere, from little plastic figures printed on one of our 3D printers to unusual ceramics lining the walls of our glaze laboratory.
Our workshops are the engines of our art and design schools.
They are spaces where students from all years and disciplines teach one another, for failure as well as success, experimentation, and wider discourse between students and staff.
You're likely to explore and experiment in workshops across the school.
Work often overlaps into a variety of areas, and who are we to restrict you to one workshop or discipline?
Our technical demonstrators enjoy a challenge and are happy to collaborate with each other and you to work out the best way to achieve your goal.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/3d-print:
The applications of 3D print are limitless, being used to create prototypes, final models, artworks, moulds, textiles etc.
3D printing is a rapidly expanding technology and will be utilised more and more in the future.
It is a vital skill for all designers/makers/artists to understand and be familiar with.
The workshop is free to use for anyone for any project once they have been inducted.
The 3D printers can also be used remotely, meaning you can send a digital file to the on-site printers and collect at a later date from a collection point.
At university you can experiment and learn with the up to date technology, including 3D scanners and CAD modelling software, without having to invest heavily in the hardware and machines.
You can also take advantage of our 3D digital processes workshop including rapid prototyping and digital transfer printing.
This workshop also stocks a wide range of colours of print materials to enable you to realise your ideas.
We can also make supplies of exotic materials such as wood,rubber and ceramics available for printing.
Our experienced technician is available for inductions, software training and other support.
The workshop is free to use for anyone for any project provided they have been inducted.
The 3D printers can also be used as a bureau service, using the website a part can be requested it will be printed for collection.
As a Bath Spa student of any course, once you’ve booked and attended your safety induction, you can use any of our workshop facilities.
We work closely with your course tutors to ensure that you’re inducted to the workshops that are relevant to your course, and this process is ongoing and flexible – you’re encouraged to attend refresher inductions as needed so that you’re always working safely with the wealth of techniques, facilities and technical support available.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/3d-tech-lab:
Working closely alongside the 3D Print workshop, and available to all students, the 3D Tech Lab offers an opportunity for you to develop your 3D skills using CNC routers, laser cutters and other form-making tools.
3D modelling software such as Rhino and Autodesk are taught by the skilled technical team who will work with you to develop your ideas and support you in your learning.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/ceramics:
The Ceramics workshops allow you to fully explore various techniques and materials in ceramics, supported by an experienced team of technical staff and academics.
From traditional techniques of throwing, mould-making and handbuilding to modern technology, you can try different materials and experiment using a range of tools.
Clay preparation, throwing, plaster mould-making and slip casting – we’ve got everything a ceramicist could need.
You’ll be able to fire your creations using our range of electric and gas-fired kilns.
In addition to the workshop space, you'll also have access to an excellent glaze laboratory.
There are glazes ready for you to use, or if you’re feeling experimental, you can mix up your own!

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/digital-print:
We offer students the opportunity to produce printed work in many forms.
The Digital Print workshop enables students to produce high quality digital work using industry-standard software such as the Adobe Creative suite, large-format digital printers, large format scanners, and vinyl plotters.
This enables students to produce work on a large scale, but also to produce books and magazines as well.
In addition to a high-end professional printing/binding printer for producing books, we teach traditional bookbinding techniques to enable students to produce professional quality publications.
We have comprehensive digital workshops and facilities and we're constantly adding to our digital technology.
Our current facilities include:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/digital-textiles:
Our Digital Textiles workshop is used extensively by Fashion and Textiles students at both and postgraduate levels for Fashion and Interior applications; it can also be used for Fine Art and Research outputs.
Within this workshop, you'll find facilities for direct-to-fabric digital textile printing, dye sublimation printing, and laser cutting.
You’ll be able to explore and experiment with ideas, theory and inspiration, visual research, textile processes, colour, fabric and yarn, pattern, styling and presentation.
Across this and other textile-based workshops you'll have the opportunity to work with a wide range of textiles equipment, including:
Workshops are offered in all aspects of Digital Textile Design.
You can also expand your skillset by taking advantage of drop-in Photoshop Café sessions.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/etching-and-lithography:
The Etching and Lithography workshop can support you across a variety of traditional and modern print techniques including:
You'll also have the opportunity to use equipment ranging from 200-year-old printing presses to digital printing, and learn traditional techniques with experienced technical staff.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/knit-and-weave:
Our specialized knit and weave workshop is used primarily by Textile Design for Fashion & Interiors undergraduates and postgraduates studying knit as a specialism, as well as being used by Creative Arts Practice, Fine Art and Fashion students.
The workshop features four industrial knitting machines which is used to learn how to design on a double needle bed knitting machine.
Students will also be able to use pattern design software and electronic domestic knitting machines for translating images and graphics onto knit.
We have various gauges of domestic knitting machines to knit fine, medium and chunky ranges, as well as linking equipment for professionally finishing products.
There are hank and cone winders to aid students in dyeing their own yarns and we also offer access to a yarn store where students can learn about and sample different yarns.
Our workshops are equipped with embroidery machines, sewing machines and overlockers to enable textile design and creation.
We also have digital embroidery machines so that students can create designs on the computer and "print" the completed designs on chosen fabric in the form of intricate embroidery.
You'll be supported by a technical team who can provide advice and training about hand, machine and digital embroidery as well as fabric choice and manipulation.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/making-and-fabrication-spaces:
The Making and Fabrication spaces are generously-sized areas that enables and supports making in a wide range of materials and processes.
With a large selection of specialist model-making tools at your disposal and support from experienced technical staff, you'll have everything you need to create detailed and high-quality work.
The space is open to everyone as a general making and assembly area for all types of 3D geometric construction, green woodworking, and furniture production.
There's also a material library and other resources to support and inspire you.
We have a material library and other resources to support and inspire students, and the space is equipped with specialist model making tools, including:
Learn something new.
Take advantage of the various specialist taught sessions available in our Making space, including:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/metalwork:
The metal workshop has a wide selection of steel stock available including bars, flats, angles and tube.
We also stock aluminium and steel sheet.
Once students have completed the workshop induction, they will be able to use the the machinery and tools:
The workshop also has a wide range of traditional hand tools including marking out equipment, files, hammers, dollies, jigs, spanners, clamps etc.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/moving-image:
Use high-end computers to edit video, create motion graphics, animate and produce digital art in 2D and 3D.
Our two large Wacom Cintiq drawing screens can be used to create work in Adobe software such as digital painting in Photoshop, illustration in Illustrator or creating keyframe animation.
There are also a number of lighting animation rostrums for traditional stop motion animation, and each setup is in a light controlled space so that external daylight does not affect the look of the work.
Each of the computers has the latest version of the Adobe software available to use, including applications such as Photoshop, Illustrator, Premiere Pro, After Effects and Animate.
We also have a selection of other supporting software for animation and moving image.
Students have access to VR (virtual reality) and AR (augmented reality) setups including software for creating 3D content such as Maya, Blender and software for creating interactive elements such as Unity.
You'll also be able to create other forms of immersive environments using things like projection mapping and lighting.
Alongside the workshop, students also have access to the asset store (SISO) containing hardware and equipment that will help them create and display their work while at Bath Spa.
There is equipment available for making such as 4K Black Magic Production cameras, DSLRS and sound recording equipment.
We have equipment for displaying work such as projectors, televisions, and sound systems.
Audio recording equipment, high tech video cameras, projectors and various media players, such as DVD and Blu Ray, are available for you to use.
Technical demonstrators can get you started with all of these – whether you’re recording and filming in a studio or out in the field.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/paint:
Bath Spa is one of the few universities to have a painting workshop, as well as a dedicated painting technician.
Working with the technician, you'll deal with paint and other fluid materials not just as a picture makers, but also makers of things.
You'll explore various painting techniques from the Renaissance to modern contemporary, with access to tools and equipment including a ball mill for grinding pigment, thermostatically controlled hotpots for varnish and medium making, and peristaltic (or roller) pumps for painting machines.
Expand your knowedge with specialist workshops on making paint, varnishes and mediums, colour theory, hanging and displaying 2D artworks.
We also offer bespoke workshops on things like making paint into textiles, fresco making, and pigment from unusual things.
The workshop has a variety of materials and tools for various procedures, as well as specialist cleaning and air extraction.
Our painting methods room includes:
Want something more outlandish?
We make paint out of anything – dirt, food, metals, blood, plants, we’ll give anything a go.
Or try your hand at making painting machines and paint bombs!

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/photography:
Cameras, lighting and darkrooms – we’re well equipped for your photography needs.
Make the most of our digital suites for image finishing, scanning and large format print.
You'll also work closely with the Digital Print workshop in the production of boutique photography books.
In our workshops you can experiment with:
Don’t have your own equipment?
You can loan all types of professional cameras, lenses and lighting.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/print-and-dye:
With support and guidance from the technical demonstrator, you'll learn how to achieve a number of effects with the differing dye processes such as acid, procion and disperse.
You'll also be able to screenprint long runs of fabric and wallpaper design using the large print tables.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/sculpture:
Like all our teaching and learning spaces, the workshop is here to enable you to realise your vision.
With supervision from the technician, the Sculpture workshop is here for you to take risks, make a mess, and gain confidence in your abilities.
No prior experience is necessary, or expected, and you'll be trained in how to do things safely and efficiently.
A broad range of materials is available, from plaster to silicone rubbers and resins.
You can learn traditional, time honoured plaster piece moulding, or contemporary silicone moulds.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/silkscreen:
The Silkscreen workshop is equipped with a number of screenprinting beds and washout booths.
With guidance from the technical demonstrator, you'll have the opportunity to explore print techniques such as paper stencils, screen painting fluid stencils and screen filler stencils.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/woodwork:
In the Wood Workshop you can process both natural timbers and sheet composite boards for the manufacture of furniture, display units, paint surfaces, moulds and any other wood based items.
The workshop has many different woodworking machines, with portable power tools and hand tools to complete any sort of timber processing needed.
There is also a great range of tools that enable students to prepare natural timbers, carry out furniture and stretcher building, turn wood and use other techniques to produce their finished items.
We stock some sections of timber and the usual sheet material.
As a student, you can bring your own materials into the workshop for processing.
We also try to supply as much recycled material as possible for you to use.
We have a range of machinery to carry out woodworking tasks:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/workshops/fashion:
Working closely with academics and skilled technical staff, students work in spaces that double as both fashion workshops and studios.
On the Fashion courses and in the workshops, there is an emphasis on ideas, creativity and developing your own personal design philosophy underpinned by strong pattern cutting and product development skills.
We aim to take the fear out of the "technical" side of fashion by combining the technical and design into one creative endeavour.
Studio workshops are equipped with a range of sewing machines, overlockers, buttonholers, pattern cutting tables and mannequins, along with other necessary equipment to enable students to achieve their vision.
As a student at BSU, once you’ve booked and attended your safety induction, you can use any of our workshop facilities.
However, please note that, unlike other areas, the Fashion studio/workshops are not open workshops for students on other courses due to the specialist nature of the teaching delivery.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/art-shop:
Based at Locksbrook Campus , the art shop is stocked with a wide range of specialist materials including various papers, inks, professional paints, printmaking supplies, drawing tools and much more.
Our highly experienced staff are also on hand to offer advice and guidance relating to art materials and techniques, and order specifically required materials whenever possible.
We offer:
Supporting our talented community of students and alumni with a space to promote and sell their work.
Wunderkammer Press provides a space for experimentation in art and design publishing through beautifully produced and thought provoking work, featuring many Bath Spa artists.
A selection of these books is available in the art shop.
Locksbrook Campus is part of your community - a place for local artists, staff and students alike to meet and exchange ideas.
Pop in for some paints or pastels, have a wander through our gallery or enjoy a coffee in the cafe.
Need to know about accessibility of our Art Shop?
Our Student Wellbeing Services team will be happy to answer your questions.
You can also read our accessibility guide .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/studios:
Studios are a place of experimentation.
In our spaces, you will be able to test out ideas and think through making, discovering knowledge in unexpected places that will further your artistic practice.
"Busy and vibrant, our studio spaces allow an atmosphere of camraderie, idea exchange, debate and collaboration to flourish."
The majority of our students on Art and Design courses will be assigned studio space.
Busy and vibrant, they remain open until 10pm during the spring and summer terms, allowing an atmosphere of camraderie, idea exchange, debate and collaboration to flourish.
The best way to get a feel of our studio spaces is to visit us and explore for yourself.
You’ll get to meet our technical demonstrators, who will provide you with detailed information regarding the eqipument and spaces available to you.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/art-and-design-facilities/galleries:
Throughout the year we have a full programme of exhibitions and events from students, staff and external exhibitions.
The Gallery Director will help you with organising an exhibition if a proposal is submitted, and will assist with the installation and give curatorial advice.
They are also there to help discuss interesting display methods for your work.
As a student you can choose to sell your work through us.
During end of year degree shows, for example, you have the option to make your work available to buy through our gallery services.
Named for Emeritus Professor of Sculpture Michael Pennie, our gallery at Locksbrook hosts several exhibitions per year, including our annual Degree Shows and the Porthleven Prize.
Follow us on Instagram to stay updated with gallery news.
The Street is central to Locksbrook campus so you get great footfall, and offers the option to try out digital mediums.
Our exhibition spaces, the Michael Pennie Gallery and The Street at Locksbrook Campus, have shows throughout the upcoming year.
View the exhibition programme and find tickets on Ticketsource .
Michael Pennie joined Bath Academy of Art in 1962 as a visiting lecturer and stayed on to enjoy a very rewarding teaching career in parallel with his artistic practice.
In 1996 he became Professor of Sculpture at the then newly-instated Bath University College.
In 2001 Michael retired from teaching to become a full-time artist, and retained his connection with the University as an Emeritus Professor and, significantly, as Artist in Residence at the Corsham Court campus of Bath Spa University.
Michael trained as a sculptor at the Royal College of Art and went on to exhibit widely: notably at Tate Britain, Hayward Gallery, Serpentine Galleries, Yorkshire Sculpture Park, Henry Moore Institute, and with Flowers Gallery.
The Michael Pennie gallery at Locksbrook Campus is named in his honour.
Our Locksbrook campus was officially opened on 4 March 2020 with a series of talks, workshops and exhibitions rounding out the celebrations.
The exhibition - including a piece by Turner Prize winnter Sir Howard Hodgkin - showcased the talent of the University’s art and design alumni, with painters, illustrators, designers and sculptors displaying work across the Sion Hill and Michael Pennie galleries.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/food-and-nutrition-labs:
We have a bespoke low hazard laboratory which is used for food product development, recipe formulation, nutrition, sensory evaluation of foods and exercise physiology.
In addition this specialist facility is also used for behavioural and physiological teaching using biopacs.
Inside the Wellow building on Newton Park campus , you'll be taught in a wonderful new laboratory complex.
The building has a large teaching space that can be divided for more intimate classes.
There is also a dedicated project lab and instrument room.
The specialist facilities in Wellow allow for:
The specialist analytical equipment enables us to conduct a number of analyses such as the measurement of micronutrients, vitamins, fat, sugar, flavour profiles and colour to mention but a few.
The project lab will allow 9am to 5pm access for dissertation and project students.
In addition to these facilities we have three additional laboratories, another project laboratory, two research laboratories and a dedicated student learning space.
We also have professional nutritional software (Nutritics) that can be accessed by all food and nutrition students.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/theatre-and-performance-facilities:
From concerts to dance shows, from plays to gigs, our venues make sure you take part
Wondering if we have the right space for your kind of creative expression?
Our collection of theatre and performance spaces, both on and off campus, are as different as you are.
From the small and intimate, to the loud and dramatic, our venues will ensure that no matter the voice, it will always reach the right audience.
Students perform or work regularly at venues such as: Theatre Royal Bath, Wiltshire Live Music Centre, Moles, and the Bristol Old Vic.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/theatre-and-performance-facilities/amphitheatre:
The amphitheatre sets its own picturesque stage.
With a view out over the lake on our Newton Park campus, it provides an immersive interplay between performance, nature and audience.
With a large 150 seat space, which includes a SaddleSpan cover in inclement weather, it adapts to a variety of performances, including outdoor theatre, acoustic gigs, orchestral concerts and opera.
Recent events have included renditions of A Midsummer Night’s Dream and Troilus and Cressida .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/theatre-and-performance-facilities/university-theatre:
At the heart of the "UT" lies a fully adaptable 186-seat theatre, equipped with state of the art sound, lighting and staging facilities.
These include fully retractable seating, dressing rooms, digital lighting, sound and video control systems, LED theatrical lighting and freshly-painted matte black walls in order to maximise lighting and performance.
The theatre also includes three rehearsal and performance studios on site, one with blackout capability, and a fully stocked equipment room.
This includes cutting edge virtual lighting design creation technology to enable you to digitally design lighting and incorporate 3D set designs for any future performance.
Want to see it in action?
The University Theatre hosts a range of student and outside performances including the annual Third Space Dance Degree Shows, and bands such as Ben Duke’s Lost Dog, Riccardo Buscarini, Alexander Whitely, Hagit Yakira, Jean Abreu, Earthfall and more.
A listing of upcoming performances and tickets are available on Bath Spa Live .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/theatre-and-performance-facilities/michael-tippett-centre:
Influenced by the design of the Snape Maltings arts complex in Suffolk, the Michael Tippett Centre was strategically designed to highlight the melodies of chamber and small ensemble music.
It includes a 150 seat auditorium, two recording studios, Mac computer labs, teaching rooms and adaptable exhibition and practice spaces.
The auditorium has hosted world-class talent from every musical tradition and every part of the globe, from student performances and Indonesian Gamelan to The Bookshop Band.
For a list of upcoming events, see our page at Bath Spa Live .
"Music is a performance and needs the audience."
Widely considered to be one of the leading British composers of the twentieth century, Sir Michael Tippett had an illustrious career for many years before he became involved with music in Bath.
He was an external examiner for music at the Bath School of Art and Design in the sixties and seventies, but made a local name for himself when he revived and became Artistic Director for the Bath International Music Festival in 1969.
He fostered a close relationship between the music community at Bath Spa and the festival, a relationship that continues to this day.
We named the centre after Sir Michael Tippett to celebrate his lifetime contributions to music, as well as his connection to the University.
The venue was opened by Sir Michael Tippett himself in the 1990s, and it was fully refurbished in 2007.
Need to know about the accessibility of the Michael Tippett centre?

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/theatre-and-performance-facilities/oldfield-park-theatre-workshops:
Located near the city centre, our theatre workshops at Oldfield Park have been designed and built to industry standard, replicating the real-world production processes of staging theatre performances.
“What's great about studying in this space is that within two minutes I can be in the rehearsal rooms, or in the costume department, and in another two minutes I can be back working on the set-build – it makes the process a lot more collaborative, and all the skills you learn here are so useful for actual professional life.”
Oldfield Park Theatre Workshops boasts:
There are also breakout spaces, quiet study areas, lecture and seminar rooms and an IT Suite.
“It’s rare that a university is able to provide an all-in-one, industry-standard facility for these disciplines, so we’re delighted to be able to offer this with Oldfield Park Theatre Workshops.
We have consulted with current students throughout the process, to ensure that the space is reflective of what they need to be able to reach their full potential during their studies.”

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/main-house:
Main House started life as a Georgian country house for the Langton family, constructed in 1762-65 according to the design of Stiff Leadbetter.
The house later became the home base for the suffragist Lady Anna Gore-Langton, who used it as a seat for her activist work across Somerset and within the larger UK.
At various times in its life, Main House has also been a World War I Red Cross Hospital and a teacher training college, before its conversion to Bath Spa's Newton Park campus later in the twentieth century.
Today Main House acts as a central space for staff and administrative offices, but it also has a number of shared student spaces .
The Sitting Room located in MHG13 is a dedicated space for wellbeing activities.
Events or activities you might see taking place in here are:
This space is managed by the Student Wellbeing Services team and is for organised events and activities only.
If you'd like to use this space for a student wellbeing activity please contact studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk .
Opening times: 4:00pm - 11:00pm
This study space in MHG15 is for all students to utilise.
There's lots of desk space and it’s the perfect spot to settle down with your books.
It also provides a great space for group work and informal student groups to meet.
Opening times: 8:00am - 5:00pm (term time)
Please note there are a small number of meetings held in this room throughout the year, so if the door is closed please check the sign outside the room which lists the dates the room is closed for meetings.
The Careers team is now located in MHG16.
This is your go to space for all career advice!
No need to book an appointment, just drop in and chat - they can help you book onto an event, make an appointment to speak to a dedicated careers advisor or simply help you to access the job shop.
Opening times: 10:00am - 4:00pm (term time)
All services are currently also available online and can be accessed on MyCareer or through our Careers pages .
The Quiet Space offers a small sanctuary at Newton Park to relax, rejuvenate and take a moment.
This is a designated space for prayer, contemplation, meditation and reflection.
The space has been made available by Bath Spa University in partnership with the University’s Multi-Faith Chaplaincy for the benefit of students and staff.
The shared nature of the space is intended to be as inclusive as possible and relies on the respect and generosity of users to work effectively.
Please observe the guidelines for use of the room.
The Gallery is a great place for both students and staff to enjoy the grandeur of Main House.
This is an open space for you to grab a seat and relax, study or meet with friends.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/geography-facilities:
As a Geography student at BSU, you'll have the opportunity to develop career-relevant skills and learn techniques that will be invaluable in the workplace.
Our on-campus laboratories provide specialist facilities for a wide range of earth and environmental science applications, including the analysis of soil, water and microfossils.
Practical workshops that provide opportunities to learn laboratory analysis techniques are a key component of several modules including Environmental Change (Year 1) and Extreme Climates and Environments (Year 3).
Our on-campus IT facilities give students access to a range of career relevant technologies and software including Geographical Information Systems (GIS).
Students have the opportunity to use these in modules such as Geospatial Skills for Professional Practice (Year 2).
In the module Understand Disasters: Socio-political and geospatial analysis (Year 3) students learn how to use Geographical Information Systems to analyse complex real-world challenges like disaster risk and vulnerability.
Our Newton Park campus is an excellent natural resource right on your doorstep that offers unique opportunities for you to develop your fieldwork skills and knowledge.
In the module Environment, People and Place (Year 1) students use our campus to develop their understandings of physical geography processes such as stream dynamics and channel adjustments, and human geography topics such as historical landscapes of power.
Students also undertake on campus fieldwork in Year 2 modules such as Geospatial Skills for Professional Practice and Research Methods and Design .
Building from the basic skills and knowledge acquired on campus, students have opportunities to further develop their fieldwork skills in Bath, Bristol and the surrounding region, as well as on our international fieldtrips to Italy (Year 2) and Spain (Year 3).
Students can learn how to use equipment such as total stations, terrestrial laser scanner, UAVs (drones), and differential GPS.
On the Year 2 module Geospatial Skills for Professional Practice students learn how to use a variety of geospatial data capture and analysis technologies and reflect on how to apply these skills in a wide variety of careers.
We also have a suite of equipment for environmental monitoring, river modelling, the analysis of quaternary environments, and social science surveys.
All of our equipment is backed up by industry standard software.
In their final year all students undertake a dissertation research project on a topic of their choosing in either physical or human geography, under the supervision of one of our expert academic staff.
Students can arrange access to our specialist equipment and laboratory facilities to support their dissertation research.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools:
Bath Business School aims to develop tomorrow's business leaders and entrepreneurs through student centred teaching, research, and industry knowledge and support.
Bath School of Art, Film and Media focuses on cultivating creative practice in fields such as fine art, photography, ceramics, illustration and curatorial practice – alongside creative media, media communications, film, screen studies, television and digital production.
Bath School of Design embraces a multimedia approach to design, encompassing study in the fields of fashion and textiles, interiors, and product and furniture design.
It also includes graphic communication, cyber security, animation and gaming.
The School of Education , formerly the Institute for Education, has been providing training and research in the field of education since 1946.
From early years and primary settings to secondary schools and colleges, we work with over 670 partners to offer an award-winning professional practice.
The School of Writing, Publishing and Humanities encompasses study across the fields of history and heritage, politics, English literature, religions, philosophy and ethics, and environmental humanities.
It also includes our creative writing, journalism and publishing courses and combinations.
Bath School of Music and Performing Arts offers a portfolio of undergraduate and postgraduate courses across the fields of acting and production, dance, drama, music and the performing arts.
The School of Sciences brings together research and teaching across the fields of geography, psychology, sociology, criminology, biology and environmental science.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/why-bath-spa:
BOOK A TOUR
ACCOMMODATION
CHAT TO A STUDENT
LIFE IN BATH
“The campus is amazing, the lecturers are amazing, and Bath in general is amazing.
The University is so welcoming and there's ample opportunity.
The accommodation is cosy, the facilities are great and the nightlife isn’t half bad, either.
You’ll have such a great time – I wish I could do it all again!”
Set in acres of idyllic English countryside just four miles from Bath city centre, Newton Park is Bath Spa's main campus.
Here you'll find historic buildings such as the Georgian Main House and the castle, as well as our ultra-modern academic building , industry-standard digital and studio facilities , our library with dedicated subject librarians to support you in your studies, Bath's only purpose-built concert hall , as well as our award-winning Students' Union , and some of the halls of residence.
With excellent facilities and a blend of the traditional and the modern, it's a tranquil, reflective and safe place to learn and live.
Subjects including science, business, humanities, film and TV and performance are taught at Newton Park, but please check the location information on each course page for specific details.
Buzzy, innovative and vibrant, our state-of-the-art Locksbrook Campus is located in the heart of Bath’s industrial quarter next to the River Avon.
Once a furniture factory, it has been lovingly restored and is now a purpose-built creative space.
Locksbrook has even received both a RIBA South West Award and RIBA National Award , recognising and celebrating the clever design of the building in which we teach the makers and designers of the future.
Courses from the School of Art, Film and Media and School of Design are taught at Locksbrook, but please check the location information on each course page for specific details.
With top-class technical workshops , flexible studio spaces , a gallery area, art shop, café and large, open social areas, it's been designed to encourage creativity to flourish.
- Lauren Emery, BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies
We're #BathSpaProud of every member of our Bath Spa community, and when they accomplish something great we love to shout about it
Our students become creative thinkers, doers and makers.
They create and achieve amazing things.
We encourage our students to think big – and outside of the box – and they don’t disappoint.
Our students and alumni have won awards for their creativity , given their time up to help the community , invented world firsts and achieved sporting success , and regularly appear in local and national press.
Our staff are not only educators, but makers, entrepreneurs, thinkers, innovators and leaders.
They push boundaries, are leaders in their fields and advise on national policy.
We have partnerships with businesses, organisations and institutions in every corner of the globe.
You’ll see our students at international conferences, tours and events, from the Edinburgh Fringe Festival to the Canadian ‘International Next Way’.
You’ll leave Bath Spa as a global citizen with ambition, drive and focus.
“I’d never see any young mixed race scientists promoting their work.
That’s actually why I’m doing this – to inspire other (black, white, and everything else!) youngsters to get into something that they’re interested in.”
“When I added up all the keynotes and talks I’ve done, it’s then when I realised how much I was doing.
It all helps the research but it’s also supportive for the teachers to hear about the resources directly.”
At Bath Spa we're committed to providing an environment that respects and celebrates all members of our community, and is free from discrimination, prejudice, harassment and bullying.
We value the diverse individuals that make up the Bath Spa community, and want our University to be a safe space where everyone can feel free to be who they want to be.
We recognise that equality, diversity and inclusion are essential to building the creative, innovative and nurturing ethos that we pride ourselves on.
That’s why Inclusion forms one of our four core cultural values alongside Respect, Collaboration and Sustainability.
Support is available 24/7 to everyone in our community, no matter how you identify or what you’re going through.
Our specialist Student Wellbeing Services staff provide information, guidance, advice and practical support to students who identify as disabled (including specific learning difficulties, mental health conditions, medical conditions, physical/vision/hearing impairments and students who are neurodivergent), students who identify as trans or non-binary, and members of the LGBTQIA+ community.
Throughout the year we organise events to celebrate the diversity in our community, including Black History Month, LGBTQIA+ History Month and Equality Week.
We are also sponsors of the Bristol Pride Queer Vision Film Festival 2023.
Our Students' Union is home to a range of protected societies which exist to represent a range of liberation groups, including the Disabled Student Network, BAME Student Network, Women’s Network, Multi-Faith Network, LGBT+ Network, Mental Health Network and Afro Caribbean Society.
"The BSU community is a special group of people.
Our staff are passionate, dedicated and experts in their field.
Our learners are diverse, vibrant and change-makers for the future.
What unites us all is our creativity, curiosity and confidence and the desire to make a difference in the world."
- Professor Georgina Andrews, Vice-Chancellor
Whether you prefer to live in halls on our Newton Park campus, or in the vibrant city centre, you'll be able to find somewhere you'll be happy to call home.
At Bath Spa we care about you.
Our Student Wellbeing Services offer advice and support on mental health, disability, accessibility, coping with the cost of living , and more.
We even have Care Dogs for you to cuddle!
The Bath Spa Students’ Union (SU) is led by students for students.
It represents student views, runs student facilities, hosts events, organises campaigns, and is home to a variety of clubs and societies - from cosplay to cocktails.
Bath is a very special city.
Whether you're into culture or clubbing, festivals or fashion, Bath has something for everyone!
Plus, it's officially the second safest city for students in the UK.
Bath Spa University dates back to 1852 and the original Bath School of Art, so we’ve built our reputation on more than 160 years of tradition and success.
We’re growing steadily too, with exciting new courses and areas of research, and lecturers and academics who are leaders in their fields.
We offer a range of support services for students and recent Bath Spa graduates, from guiding you into employment and further study, to taking that next step in your career.
Whatever your degree, you can choose to take a Professional Placement Year between your second and third years.
You'll also have the opportunity to broaden your horizons by working or studying abroad .
BSU has partnered with Adobe to become an Adobe Creative Campuse .
This means that as a Bath Spa student you'll have full access to the entire Adobe Creative Suite to use throughout your studies.
At Bath Spa we're committed to sustainability.
From student allotments to helping hedgehogs, there are a range of environmental societies and activities that you can get involved in to help protect our environment.
Find out what it's like to study at Bath Spa at one of our Open Days.
You'll be able to meet students and lecturers, tour our campuses and see our amazing facilities first-hand, visit accommodation and ask any questions you have about being a student at Bath Spa.
Missed the Open Day?
You can also book a tour .
Make sure to follow us on Instagram , TikTok and Facebook for all the latest from the Bath Spa community!
Discover more about all our innovative courses and life at Bath Spa in our prospectus.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/why-bath-spa/bespoke-courses:
Whatever your goals or aspirations, we’ve got plenty of options for you.
We know everyone’s different – and value your individuality – so we’ll help you tailor your studies to what you want to do.
Search all courses
You can study in a wide range of locations around the world.
Our students have studied all over the world in countries including China, Denmark and Russia.
Head to our exchange opportunities pages for more information.
Get a fresh perspective by working towards the Global Citizenship Award , alongside studying for your undergraduate degree.
The programme includes lectures and seminars given by internationally renowned speakers.
Home and EU students will undertake an international placement and are eligible for a £1,000 Global Citizenship Scholarship.
This is an extra-curricular course that you have to apply for during the first week of term.
As well as offering specialist, single honours degrees, many of our undergraduate programmes can be studied as part of a combined award .
What does that mean?
If you don’t want to limit yourself to just one undergraduate programme, we’ll let you combine two.
Don’t have a degree and know you want to be a teacher?
Apply for our primary teaching pathway or secondary teaching pathway – you’ll move straight onto our ofsted outstanding rated PGCE once you’ve finished your undergraduate studies.
Be part of a school team from day one with School Direct.
Open to high quality graduates, you may be eligible for a bursary or scholarship.
Or, if you have at least three years’ work experience, you could even earn a salary while you train.
Got leadership potential?
Teach First combines teacher training and a fully-funded PGCE with one-to-one coaching.
You’ll develop the skills and qualities to be an inspirational teacher.
We work with partner colleges to provide foundation degree courses .
You’ll have the option of applying for a third year of study to " top-up " to an associated honours degree if you do well on your course.
Don’t have A-levels?
Don’t panic.
We have a number of different entry routes.
You may be able to secure a place on one of our courses with your experience or previous qualifications.
Thinking of returning to education after a break from studying?
You'll be in good company – many of our students are mature students .
You don't have to have traditional qualifications such as A-levels to be a student here, we have lots of different entry routes.
Our PMP is a flexible MA level programme with various routes for busy education professionals.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/why-bath-spa/why-postgraduate:
We offer a wide range of postgraduate specialisms – with new courses added regularly.
You'll be taught by renowned academics, and become part of an ecosystem of thriving research centres.
“I was welcomed into a community that fosters creativity, individuality, and self-development, while providing great opportunities to collaborate, record, and perform my work.”
Our roots can be traced back over 160 years to the Bath Academy of Art.
We have a strong (and growing) reputation that encompasses our many Schools:
Engaging.
Inspiring.
Approachable.
Responsive.
We’re proud to have talented tutors and practitioners who live and breathe their field of study.
They bring direct industry experience to their teaching.
Most are involved in research and many are renowned in their respective fields.
Postgraduate study is about pursuing your passion.
Whether that’s in arts, sciences, humanities, education, social sciences or business, you can develop your specialism with a broad range of courses that give you the freedom to follow your own path.
Period buildings, rolling parkland, cutting-edge creative spaces and independent shops.
Despite Bath's UNESCO world heritage status, it’s anything but stuck in the past.
This is a contemporary, dynamic, intimate city – small but perfectly formed.
And if you ever miss the bustle of the big city, you’re just a 15-minute train ride from Bristol and 90 minutes from London.
With tutors on-hand when you need them and advice every step of the way, a supportive, caring spirit is at the heart of everything we do.
For guidance on anything from your wellbeing to medical care, turn to our Student Wellbeing Services team.
Inspiring, fresh-faced buildings.
Vibrant collaborative spaces.
Well-stocked libraries and state-of-the-art technology.
You’ll have access to everything you need to study at the highest level.
Plus, our campuses offer great places to eat and drink, performance and creative spaces , all with an eco-friendly ethos.
We’re part of a global community.
We’re continually reaching out and forging links with organisations from around the world through, for example, our GALA network .
At the same time, we welcome international students from across the globe.
We understand that many of our applicants value their work-life balance.
Depending on your course, you can often pursue your postgraduate degree part-time, or adapt your modules and learning around current employment.
We'll work with you to get the most out of your postgraduate degree.
Bath is renowned for being a safe place to live.
We're committed to the safety and wellbeing of everyone in the Bath Spa community.
We provide a 24/7 security service – including emergency response, first aid, and comprehensive CCTV coverage – every day of the year.
Our campuses offer the best of both worlds – easy access to beautiful countryside and the best of the city.
Each campus makes for an inspiring setting for postgraduate study.
Newton Park is our main campus for classroom-based postgraduate courses.
Art and Design students will be based at Locksbrook Campus .
Check the key facts section of your chosen course's page to find out more.
Centuries-old architecture, a welcoming reputation and a lively creative scene.
Cleverly designed study spaces, coupled with a beautiful campus, make for an environment that lets you relax and focus on your studies.
This Grade-II listed former factory is now a one-of-a-kind home for our students.
It puts you close to the canal-side cycle path, walking distance to the city centre and within easy reach of popular student residential areas.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/why-bath-spa/life-in-bath:
As cool and creative as it is timelessly traditional, Bath is the perfect mix of old and new.
With its truly independent spirit and UNESCO World Heritage setting, Bath is a unique place to live and study.
Modern developments sit alongside elegant Georgian architecture.
Pop-up boutiques jostle for space alongside centuries-old pubs.
We guarantee there’s no city quite like it.
With more than 150 places to eat and drink, Bath is a food-lover's paradise.
Explore the city’s treasure trove of restaurants, with something to suit everyone’s palette.
Where else can you get a sandwich in a key location in a major Netflix show?
(The cute Abbey Deli doubles up as La Modiste’s dress shop in Bridgerton)
There’s something for every taste here.
In addition to specialist steak houses, award-winning fish and chips, and fabulous plant-based eateries, there are plenty of delicious surprises.
There’s on-the-go Indian bites at popular Chaiwalla and incredible Mexican takeaways at Mission Burrito.
We love: Never tried Nepalese cuisine?
Yak Yeti Yak is a popular mainstay on the Bath culinary scene.
After all, university is all about trying new things.
When you want to grab a cup of coffee (or tea - of course!) there are plenty of cafés to choose from in Bath.
The city’s coffee shops are always popular with students, both as somewhere to socialise, and as a place to work together off campus.
Dine in one of Bath’s oldest houses, Sally Lunn's, to try one of Bath's best-known delicacies, the Sally Lunn bun.
Or for an indulgent treat, enjoy afternoon tea at the Regency Tea Rooms at The Jane Austen Centre.
Pinkies up!
In addition to well-known chains, there are a wealth of independent coffee shops across the city.
Most are staffed by highly-trained baristas who are happy to share their expertise to help you find your perfect bean.
With several coffee roasters in and around Bath you might find your favourite cuppa is roasted just down the road.
We love: For something different, head to Good Day Cafe to try their pink beetroot, charcoal or green matcha lattes.
Bath really comes alive in the evenings – so there’s no shortage of things to do.
If you’re looking for a cosy drink with friends, there’s a load of traditional pubs to choose from like the heritage-listed Star Inn.
Beer fans will want to try some of the locally brewed beers - look out for Bath Ales, Electric Bear and Abbey Ales in many of the city’s pubs.
Plus, take the opportunity to drink beer brewed on-site at the Bath Brewhouse.
If spirits are more your jam, there’s the Bath Distillery Gin Bar plus a heap of other venues specialising in spirits and cocktails.
If you’re going ‘out out’, there are plenty of options.
While Bath may not seem like a buzzy place for nightlife, that’s because many of the city’s clubs are tucked away underground!
There are regular student nights across the week, including Labyrinth’s Skint Monday nights.
We love: Have a sip of history at the Saracen’s Head (Charles Dickens supposedly stayed there for a while, and it even gets a mention in the Pickwick Papers!).
Bath is part of a fast-moving creative and technology cluster which includes gaming, app and software development, animation, marketing, TV, publishing and much more.
There are plenty of exciting creative opportunities for students studying in this great city.
Bath’s a phenomenal place for live theatre, music and other forms of entertainment.
With galleries galore and big-name literature festivals, Bath’s rich in culture.
As a UNESCO World Heritage city, Bath is brimming with history - both in its streets and its museums.
Bath is an inclusive, gay-friendly city with a range of event spaces and societies.
With popular rugby teams and a world-famous spa, Bath’s got the best of both worlds.
Bath is surrounded by both green hills and quiet waterways, making it easy to relax in nature.
Fiercely independent, Bath has some really cool boutiques and bigger brand stores.
A good night out doesn't have to be forgotten the next morning.
There's plenty to do in Bath without alcohol.
Bath is a compact city, which means it’s easy to get around.
All our campuses are accessible by frequent bus services, which means students have the freedom to live wherever they want in the city.
There’s a dedicated bus route between the city centre and the Newton Park campus, with buses travelling the four-mile route every 10-15 minutes and until the early hours.
There’s student discount available too.
For students based in the Locksbrook area, there’s Oldfield Park Station nearby, a smaller train station with frequent services to Bath and Bristol.
In addition to great public transport, Bath is a cycling-friendly city and, despite the odd hill or two, it’s a very pleasant city for cycling.
We love: Cycling without the effort on the city’s rentable e-bike service, dott.
With some of the UK’s most exciting cities an hour away, Bath offers both big city adventure and smaller-scale community vibes.
For those days and nights when you want to stretch the wings and experience something new, Bristol, London and Cardiff are within easy reach.
Part of Bath’s appeal is that it really does have something for everyone.
If you prefer wild camping to wild nights out, Bath’s under 100 miles from some of the country’s most remote National Parks.
Tramp across Exmoor for a dark sky star gaze or clamber up the Brecon Beacons for a stunning sunrise.
Even better if you share the experience with your new friends-for-life...

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/why-bath-spa/life-in-bath/culture-in-bath:
From throwing shapes in underground clubs to battling your mates in boardgame cafes, you'll always be part of a community.
Bath’s one of the biggest indie film centres of the Southwest.
Catch some exclusive early screenings at the FilmBath Festival or join in at a sing-along screening at Bath's beloved Little Theatre Cinema (if it's good enough for Wes Anderson....) For a more luxurious cinematic experience, there’s the centrally-located Everyman Cinema.
Bath punches high when it comes to art, with a range of different privately-owned galleries in the city.
In addition to the Holburne Museum and the Museum of East Asian Art there’s also the Victoria Art Gallery , the council-run art museum with an interesting s collection of paintings, sculpture and decorative arts.
Literature students are also spoiled for choice, with famous authors visiting the city regularly at both the annual Bath Festival and local bookseller events.
We love: The Victoria Art Gallery is one of the best free art galleries in the country with some amazing touring exhibitions - filled with inspiration for anyone on a creative arts degree.
As the only UK’s only UNESCO World Heritage city, Bath is uniquely itself.
From the Roman Baths to the iconic regency-era Royal Crescent, a stroll around the city is like stepping back in time.
It’s no wonder it’s a firm favourite for film and TV productions like Bridgerton!
However, the city's heritage is not all carriages and gossip columns.
Aside from a whole host of independent eateries and quirky shops, Bath is a city rich in museums.
Whether it’s miniature art at the Holburne or the arts and cultures of East and South East Asia at the Museum of East Asian Art, Bath’s range of museums are as eclectic and charming as the city itself.
It’s a great place for studying History or Heritage Management for that very reason!
Bath may be synonymous with the work of Jane Austen, but it also inspired work of a distinctly more gothic tinge.
Did you know that a teenaged Mary Shelley wrote Frankenstein whilst living in Bath?
There are museums dedicated to both – surefire inspiration if you’re enrolled on one of our well-renowned Creative Writing courses.
Even better, most of Bath’s museums and galleries offer free entry to Bath Spa students.
We love: For fans of Americana, there’s the American Museum of Bath .
For the best views of the city, head up the Bath Abbey Tower on one of their tours.
With its gorgeous Georgian backdrop, Bath must be one of the country’s most stylish shopping destinations.
SouthGate is home to many big-name shops and the main thoroughfare through the centre is lined by familiar stores.
In summer, colourful decorations are strung along the streets and the central square becomes a cool hangout spot with deckchairs, and a big outdoor screen showing sports.
In winter, the centre is abuzz with the world-famous Christmas market, with lots of traditional wooden stalls selling giftware and unique pieces.
In keeping with its independent spirit, there are also plenty of quirky boutiques.
There are also some stunning arcades like The Corridor (reminiscent of a Parisian arcade) and the elegant Milsom Place .
The Guildhall Market is Bath’s oldest shopping venue and you can find almost everything you need there, including hardware, second-hand books and clothing.
There's also the charming Green Park Station with its markets and independent shops.
Bath has a reputation for its independent book shops, which are frequently used by our alumni and staff as venues for book launches.
Toppings has a wonderful range of regular events and Mr B’s Emporium is perfect for an afternoon browsing the shelves.
We love: bargain hunting in the Artisan Quarter.
Since the 1960s, the Walcot Street and London Road area has had a reputation as Bath’s Artisan Quarter with shops selling everything from vintage clothes and unusual homewares to delicious food and drink.
At BSU, we're committed to providing an environment that respects and celebrates all members of our community, and is free from discrimination, prejudice, harassment and bullying.
Bath is an inclusive, gay-friendly city.
Mandalyns is the city centre’s established and popular gay bar which hosts events such as quizzes to karaoke.
There are also regular queer cabarets and drag events in bars across the city.
Nearby Bristol has a very well-established and vibrant scene, with a whole host of LGBTQ+ pubs, clubs and events, plus the annual Bristol Pride, Trans Pride, Leather Pride and The Bear Fiesta celebrations.
We love: Drag Cabaret events at Komedia, Bath’s community-owned venue – and BSU partners, which means students can get discounted tickets for selected events!
Bath’s a fantastic city for arts and culture with a wide range of different venues.
Theatre fans and performing arts students will be in their element here.
For historical grandeur, there’s the small Mission Theatre or, for something particularly swanky, the Bath Theatre Royal is very much the grand dame in town.
Dating back to 1805, it’s home to three very different spaces, including the more avant-garde Ustinov.
If you’re looking for smaller, more locally-run affairs, the Rondo Theatre is both intimate and experimental.
There’s also the Chapel Arts, home to a vibrant community arts scene.
Best of all, there’s plenty of amateur theatre groups offering the opportunity to tread the boards as well as spectate.
Music and comedy fans can catch dinner and a show at Komedia , Bath’s live entertainment venue inspired by European cabaret theatre.
Don’t forget, there’s also a theatre and concert hall on our Newton Park Campus, where you can see performances both by students and visiting artistes.
Plus, as a Bath Spa student you’ll get free tickets thanks to our See It For Free offer.
We love: Enjoy some of the biggest names in theatre for as little as a fiver with the Theatre Royal’s bargain seat deals.
For those looking for an alcohol-free night on the town, there are many ways to let loose and enjoy yourself.
Catch your favourite acts at the Bath Forum or one of the smaller indie live music venues like The Bell .
Laugh till your belly hurts at Komedia ’s weekly comedy night or feel more high-brow at a performance at the Bath Theatre Royal .
Bath Spa University partners with many of the city's major venues which means more discounted rates for our students.
We love: For something a bit more interactive, Thirsty Meeples is the city’s board game cafe serving food, drinks and a library of nearly 3000 different board games!
In addition to the seven green hills circling the city, Bath is surrounded by stunning waterways – perfect for a trip into nature.
Leave the city behind with a walk along the tranquil Avon and Kennet canal with its narrowboats, viaducts and friendly country pubs.
If you’re really feeling energetic, you can walk the cycle path all 15 miles to Bristol!
On hot summer days, there’s something particularly glorious about diving into the cool water at Warleigh Weir.
This is a popular wild swimming spot in a stunning location along the canal.
Fancy keeping it local?
Bathonians are spoilt for choice with green spaces.
Whether it’s a stroll around Sydney Gardens (parasol optional) or a hike across the Bath Skyline (superb views guaranteed), there’s something for every nature lover.
Victoria Park is always a popular destination, with crazy golf, gardens to explore, duck ponds and areas for barbecues and picnics.
Wherever you look in the city, you’ll see green space, including our gorgeous Newton Park campus with its acres of parkland, a lake, woods and even sheep and cows.
We love: A little out of the city centre is Bath City Farm , where you can visit pigs, goats, sheep and ponies, and enjoy some spectacular views over the city.
It’s not just the buildings that have heritage in Bath - did you know that Bath Rugby is one of the oldest clubs in existence?
One of the country’s most successful clubs, the Bath team regularly plays to sell-out crowds.
The Recreational Ground is right in the centre, which means the city is a sea of blue, black and white on match days.
It’s a great atmosphere and just one of many things that gives the city its uniquely lively personality.
Not only is Bath home to one of the country’s best rugby teams, there are also several thriving cricket and football clubs.
In fact, BSU are proud sponsors of Twerton Park, the football ground for both the Bath City FC teams – which means discounted tickets for students.
Bath’s a great place to run, walk or cycle.
There are several cycle paths throughout the city and the Bath Half Marathon is a great event.
If you’re looking for something a little more leftfield, Bath has a strong tradition of French boules.
There are a few pitches and clubs dotted around the city.
In the summer, it's easy to transport yourself to the Mediterranean for a few hours.
For something a lot less strenuous, why not take the waters?
After all, Bath is a city built for relaxation.
Thanks to its natural springs, Bath has been a popular resort since Roman times – but there’s nothing old-fashioned about the city’s stunning Thermae Bath Spa .
We love: Group activities like boules can be a great way to bond with your new class or housemates.
Why not try some virtual sports, or a Frankenstein-themed escape room, or even go for a punt along the River Avon?

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/why-bath-spa/life-in-bath/exploring-the-area:
Ideally located for some of the UK’s most exciting cities, Bath gives major cosy community city vibes with the added bonus of being able to jump on a train for bigger brighter lights when you feel the urge.
With Bristol on its doorstep and two of the nation’s capitals within an hour by train, Bath really does have it all.
Well-known for its independent spirit, Bristol is a city rich in history and culture – both traditional and contemporary.
From Europe’s largest street-art festival to the English-speaking world’s longest-running theatre, there are plenty of reasons to make the 15 minute train trip from Bath to Bristol.
If you're looking for live music or big club nights, Bristol has an unbeatable music scene with lots of big acts playing at the city's venues and some legendary club nights.
Plus, there seems to be a different festival every weekend in summer.
It’s also firmly on any decent foodie map, with everything from street food markets  and traditional pubs to high-end restaurants and innovative cocktail bars.
When it comes to shops, you’ll find many independent stores and boutiques, as well as  the modern Cabot Circus shopping centre with designer and high street brands.
For more on what to do and what to see, there’s extensive information on the Visit Bristol website .
We love: Heading through to Bristol on sunny days for a day ferry-hopping along the harbour on the Bristol Ferry waterbus.
With a day pass, you can stop at all the major floating bars and restaurants and catch some incredible views of the city.
Nowhere does it better.
The Welsh capital is just over an hour away by train and is filled with culture, shops and live music – perfect for a busy day trip or city break.
If shopping is a priority, there’s the modern St David’s Shopping Centre for brands and the beautiful Victorian and Edwardian arcades with their independent shops.
Cardiff is famous for its nightlife and there’s a wealth of bars, restaurants and nightclubs dotted around the centre.
St Mary's Street in particular is legendary.
There are also plenty of venues for live shows - whether that’s comedy, music, or theatre, including the Principality Stadium which regularly hosts performances by international stars such as Beyonce and Ed Sheeran.
For more information, visit the Visit Cardiff website .
We love: Make sure you try and catch a game at the Principality Stadium - match day in Cardiff needs to be seen to be believed!
Red buses.
Big Ben.
The London Eye.
Culture-vulture at one of the city’s many world-famous galleries or museums like the Tate or the British Museum.
Spend an evening catching a show at the West End or a matinee at the unforgettable Globe Theatre.
Dive into the city’s famous food culture at places like Borough Market or Chinatown.
Whatever you’re looking for, you’re sure to find it in this 2,000 year old mega city.
Less than 100 miles away, it’s very accessible by public transport with trains and buses running regularly from central Bath.
Keep up-to-date with what’s on through one of the many, many listing sites that covers the city.
We love: Digging through Time Out for their recommendations on the coolest corners of the city.
The bustling market town of Frome is a favourite celeb haunt thanks to its quirky shops and proximity to the swanky Babington House!
You can catch live music and comedy at the Cheese and Grain (it’s where Paul McCartney did his secret Glasto warm-up gig) and browse all the fun little independent shops.
Best of all, it’s a very short hop away on the train.
We love: the monthly Independent Market - it always draws big crowds.
Nestled in the Somerset countryside, Bath is a haven for nature lovers.
In addition to the city’s wonderful parks and green spaces, Bath is also an easy jumping-off point for outdoor adventures further afield.
Take a trip along the tranquil canals and explore some of the quaint little market towns in the area like historic Bradford-on-Avon.
For a taste of bohemian Somerset, visit Frome’s weekly farmer's market and stroll round its cobbled streets filled with indie shops and delis.
For the perfect reel content, nearby Cotswold village Castle Coombe is often voted England’s most beautiful village.
With its medieval streets and lush green surroundings, it’s a gorgeous day away from the books.
Bannau Brycheiniog (Brecon Beacons) are less than 60 miles away for those with a hankering for some mountain wilderness.
From picnics in luscious valleys to sunrises atop Pen y Fan, there’s so much to explore in the stunning Welsh National Park.
Bath may be an inland city, but we’re less than 70 miles from the coast.
Blow away the cobwebs on the South West coastal path or spend the day fossil-hunting on the Jurassic Coast.
We love: Paddleboarding along the Avon and Kennet.
See the lush Bath countryside from the water with a day spent on the canal.
There are several options available in the local area with a lively social scene too.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/why-bath-spa/life-in-bath/getting-around:
Studying at Newton Park and living at Waterside Court?
Need to travel from your city centre accommodation to Locksbrook Campus for your studies?
Want to know about buses to the city centre, or how to hire a bike to get around Bath?
All our fantastic locations have their perks.
Whether you’re living on campus or commuting from outside Bath, we have all the information you need to make the most of our beautiful settings.
Looking for visitor information?
Find out how to get here or explore our campuses .
Can't see this content?
If you've set your cookie consent to 'Necessary' only, some content on the website may appear to be missing.
To fix this, you can either change your cookie consent to 'Allow all cookies' (you can change this back later if you prefer) or you can access this content on ISSUU .
The U5 service takes you from Bath Spa University takes you to the city centre and back.
Remember to bring your valid photo Student ID to get your student discount.
The U5 operates seven days a week, running until roughly 3am Monday-Saturday.
Monday-Friday there is a bus every 10-15 minutes and every 30 minutes on Saturdays.
During the Christmas and New Year holiday, assessment period and inter-semester break there will be a reduced service.
Staying at Waterside Court, Charlton Court or Twerton Mill?
Your closest bus stop for the U5 is at Twerton Mill.
The route also runs close to Locksbrook Campus.
For the latest timetables, please refer to the First Bus website.
Find out more about Bath Spa University bus services, timetables, and costs , or get the app .
First Bus are also currently offering up to a 30% discount on travel for any student in full time education with the use of a valid student ID.
Students attending Locksbrook Campus can park their vehicle at the BSU sportsground on Lower Bristol Road and catch the U5 to campus.
Eligible drivers will need to purchase a designated Sports Ground permit .
Once you have a permit, you'll need to apply for a unique code which entitles you to free travel between the BSU Sports Ground and Locksbrook on the U5 bus.
Please email transport@bathspa.ac.uk for the code.
Lansdown Park and Ride is just a short walk to Sion Hill Campus and both Bath Zone and West of England Zone tickets can be used on this service.
This is the best bus route for accessing Sion Hill campus.
While you're here, you'll probably want to visit Bristol, even if you're not studying at our film teaching site, Paintworks.
You can catch the X39 service from the centre of Bath, Windsor Bridge, or from the roundabout at the bottom of Newton Park's drive (near The Globe Inn).
Getting between Bath and Corsham couldn't be easier.
Catch the X31 bus from Bath Bus Station.
It's an eight-minute walk from Newlands Road to Corsham Court.
In addition to bicycle bays, Bath Spa offers shower facilities at Newton Park ( Commons ) and Sion Hill.
For more information please email: environment@bathspa.ac.uk .
See also our Bicycle parking terms and conditions.
There's a freely-accessible bike repair stand near the library, with a selection of tools and a pump allowing you to conduct easy repairs.
Electric bikes and scooters are a great way to get around the city itself.
Dott provide e-bikes and e-scooters for hire in the Bath area.
There's a 35% discount for students and staff.
For more information on the UK Access Scheme, visit the dott website .
Please note: the scheme does not extend as far as Newton Park.
Bristol Airport is 35 minutes from Bath Spa's Newton Park campus via car.
To get to and from the airport by bus, you can plan your journey with Air Decker .
Catch the bus from The Globe or central Bath.
Bath's main railway station, also named Bath Spa, is situated next to the main bus depot on Dorchester street.
It has great links with other main stations such as Bristol Temple Meads, Cardiff, London and Portsmouth.
Bath also has a second station at Oldfield Park, which is handy if your accommodation is nearby, for example at Twerton Mill, Charlton Court or Waterside.
Oldfield Park Station is just half a mile from Locksbrook Road campus.
Catch the train here for Bristol and Keynsham, to explore Bath's beautiful surrounding countryside, and to get you from Oldfield Park to the city centre in two to three minutes.
On-street parking in Bath is limited, with resident parking zones enforced and limited parking on all University campuses.
Students are therefore strongly encouraged not to bring a car to university and instead utilise public transport.
More information can be found in our Motor Vehicle Parking Terms and Conditions .
Disabled / Blue Badge parking
You'll need to apply for a parking permit through our Transport team, and you can park in the designated bays providing you display this permit and your Blue Badge.
Exceptional circumstances
If you don't have a Blue Badge but have a condition which means you may need to bring a vehicle to campus, you can apply for an Exceptional Circumstance Permit.
This would be suitable for students who wouldn't normally be eligible for a parking permit.
To apply for either of these permits you'll need to complete this Microsoft Form .
For more information, see our Motor Vehicle Parking Terms and Conditions .
The Safe Taxi Scheme is a Student Union initiative, backed by the University.
It's designed to keep you safe and secure if you’re alone or in an unsafe situation and are worried about getting back to your accommodation.
You can use the scheme without the immediate worry of payment.
Ring Veezu (formerly V Cars) on +44 (0)1225 46 46 46 and refer to the Safe Taxi Scheme.
When the taxi arrives, show the driver your valid student ID.
Head to the Finance Office in Main House over the next few days to pay the fare.
Still have questions?
Get in touch.
All enquiries: transport@bathspa.ac.uk
If you have any feedback on a specific bus journey please include the date, time and direction of travel.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/why-bath-spa/graduate-attributes:
With Bath Spa University, you are part of a Professionally Creative community.
You are challenged to realise your talent and thrive, not just for your own benefit, but for the wider good as well.
During your journey with BSU, the graduate attributes are your companions.
They are designed to inspire and guide your personal and professional growth.
You are encouraged to embrace, interpret and integrate these attributes in your own unique way.
With BSU, I will develop my ability to reflect on and recognise my unique skills, strengths, and values and be able to apply and articulate them in a range of different contexts.
With BSU, I will develop my ability to be mindful of how my actions and emotions impact those around me so I can better navigate difficult situations and build effective interpersonal relationships.
With BSU, I will develop my ability to contribute independently to collaborative projects while working effectively with others, valuing diversity and respecting individual differences.
With BSU, I will develop my ability to embrace challenges, taking risks where needed and applying individual and collective problem solving.
With BSU, I will develop my ability to keep an open mind, ask curious questions and think creatively to gain a deeper and broader understanding of global perspectives and the world around me.
With BSU, I will develop my ability to set goals, plan ahead and utilise resources to support my personal ambitions and achieve my own version of success.
With BSU, I will develop my ability to act with empathy, making decisions grounded in ethical principles while advocating for sustainability and positive social change.
With BSU, I will develop my ability to be accountable for my actions and decisions while demonstrating creativity, proactivity, and a focus on solutions.
With BSU, I will develop my ability to respond to setbacks with a reflective and positive attitude, flexibility and a self-caring approach.
With BSU, I will develop my ability to utilise and responsibly leverage existing and emerging technologies to solve problems and communicate.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/prospectus:
Our 2026 undergraduate prospectus showcases the exciting courses we offer, and the supportive community, inspiring spaces and services available to help our students thrive.
It’s a great introduction to BSU, and a useful guide to help you decide which university is right for you.
Request an undergraduate prospectus
Whether you're looking to further your skills or continue in academia, our postgraduate courses will help you go deeper into your chosen topic and give you the confidence to take the next step.
With a supportive environment, inspiring spaces and opportunities at BSU, we can help you achieve your goals.
Request a prospectus to be directed to our digital copy.
View the postgraduate prospectus
Our 2025 Teacher Training Guide has all the information you need about training at Bath Spa University.
Explore our exciting courses and find out about the supportive community.
This guide can help you decide if we're the right institution to help you take the next step in your journey to education.
You can choose to receive a physical Teacher Training guide in the post, or request a digital copy.
Request a Teacher Training guide
Are you considering applying to Bath Spa University?
Our Open Days are a great way to get a feel for the University, while discovering more about the course you're interested in, our accommodation and much more.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/schools-and-colleges:
Bath Spa University is more than just studies; it's about making, creating, thinking and doing.
Turning passion into a profession is our goal.
The world is rapidly changing and we encourage and support your students to explore their passion while developing the skills they need for tomorrow’s opportunities.
We’ll help inspire your students with creative workshops, presentations and tours to get them excited about the prospect of further study.
Our Schools and Colleges Engagement team have a wealth of knowledge and experience to support your school or college, and look forward to working with your students.
If you'd like us to deliver a presentation or workshop, please get in touch.
We look forward to hearing from you.
Email: educationliaison@bathspa.ac.uk
Our dedicated staff offer a range of workshops to your students so that they can learn what life is like in Higher Education.
Our aim is to complement the curriculum you’re currently teaching and to work with you to provide the best support and advice for your students.
Many of our activities may also help you meet your wider priorities in relation to Gatsby Benchmarks.
Teachers and Advisors Conference For more information, why not come along to our Teachers and Advisors Conference in November 2024?
Find out more here .
For more information, why not come along to our Teachers and Advisors Conference in November 2024?
Our guidance workshops are specifically designed to cover many aspects of your students' higher education journey.
Each session provides guidance and support across topics such as choosing the right university and course, writing personal statements and understanding student finance.
Aimed at sixth form and college students, these workshops are available for delivery at our Newton Park and Locksbrook campuses, as well as off-site.
We tailor our curriculum workshops to the needs of your students and will try to accommodate requests where possible.
Higher education fairs are a great way for students to learn more about the universities and courses available to them.
Your students may struggle to find the information they need online, especially when they’re considering different options.
Give them the chance to ask the experts.
By talking to university representatives in person, your students can make a more informed decision.
We attend a number of fairs throughout the year and would love to be invited to higher education or careers events at your school or college.
Give your students a chance to meet lots of universities in one place.
You’ll find us at UCAS and UK Uni Search exhibitions across the UK – drop by and say "hello".
Our friendly team is always happy to advise your students and answer any questions they may have.
University Visit Days are predominately aimed at students in Year 12 or 13, or those studying for a level 3 qualification.
Visiting the University gives an insight into what it's like to study at a Higher Education institution.
They’ll be able to see the University facilities, take part in interactive workshops, talk to Bath Spa students and, most importantly, ask lots of questions.
Visits can be arranged to suit the needs and interests of your students.
A typical day includes:
Give your students the chance to experience a day at a university campus.
They'll be able to tour the university facilities, take part in interactive workshops, and ask a lot of questions.
Visits can be tailored to suit the needs and interests of your students.
The Access and Participation Office works collaboratively with schools, colleges and community groups in Bath and North East Somerset and Wiltshire and the surrounding regions.
We deliver a targeted and structured programme of activities for young people – from primary school age to post-16 and adults - to support their progression to higher education.
If your school, college, or community group has a high number of people from groups that are recognised as under-represented in higher education and you would like to find out more, please contact us on ap@bathspa.ac.uk .
From Psychology to Drama, we have a wide range of subjects to suit your students' interests, passions and talents.
Our campuses boast beautiful scenic landscapes and are steeped in history.
This, combined with our ultramodern facilities, makes them a unique space for your students' journey into Higher Education.
From our specialist workshops to our multi-camera TV studios, our purpose-built facilities are here to help your students thrive.
Our supportive and dedicated staff are here to inspire your students throughout their academic journey.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/schools-and-colleges/interactive-curriculum-workshops:
Due to their popularity, we can't guarantee that we'll be able to accommodate every request, but we'll do our best!
Are your students destined to be entrepreneurs, CEOs, or marketing directors?
Whatever their aspirations, give them a taste of the range of skills they can develop to make their mark on the business world.
Workshop: Can Accounting Be Fun?
Accounting is often seen as a boring subject, but is it?
In this workshop, we'll focus on making accounting interesting, accessible, and yes, maybe even a little fun.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Business and Management (Accounting) course.
Workshop: Prototyping Solutions for Business Problems
Through "junk modelling" and a "build to think" approach, we'll use common materials to explore everyday problems, develop creativity, and form entrepreneurial ideas.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Business and Management (Entrepreneurship) course.
Workshop: Trend Analysis in Fashion
We want students to know that they can pursue their individual interests as part of a fashion career.
We'll gather a variety of visual materials to identify current fashion trends as a vital first step on the path to a career in fashion.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Business and Management (Fashion) course.
Workshop: Why is International Business Important?
What makes an internationally successful business?
How do businesses operate around the globe?
This workshop helps students understand the importance of global markets and how this knowledge can impact their career development.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Business and Management (International) course.
Workshop: The Art of Negotiation
Negotiation isn't just for lawyers – it's a highly transferable skill.
We'll explore the meaning of negotiation, different kinds of outcomes, and how to prepare for negotiation in this practical workshop.
Students will also get the chance to try some mini-negotiating exercises.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Business and Management (Law) course.
Could your students join the next generation of digital creatives?
If they've ever wondered how to code beautiful apps, bring stories to life through animation, or build intuitive smartphone games, this workshop is a must.
No coding experience required!
Workshop: Adventures in Virtual Reality – from Shaky Beginnings to the Future of Gaming
You might be surprised to know that virtual reality traces back to 1957.
This workshop reveals the key milestones that took virtual reality from science fiction to reality.
We'll also consider what the future has in store for this popular "new" technology.
Run by specialists from our BSc (Hons) Creative Computing courses: Animation, Gaming , and Web Technologies .
Our popular Criminology course enables students to investigate, scrutinise, and understand the causes and consequences of crime.
We explore issues at local, national, and transnational levels to challenge conventional notions of criminality.
Workshop: Dying for Justice – Uses of Capital Punishment
Though abolished in the UK, opinion polls often show that many are in favour of capital punishment.
This workshop looks at punishment in modern societies, how it's applied, and the debates around execution as a criminal penalty.
Run by specialists from our BSc (Hons) Criminology course.
We're committed to bringing the education professionals of the future together in a community of research and practice, and we've been training students to this end since the 1940s.
Set your students on the path to excellence in education with one of our workshops.
Workshop: What is Childhood?
Using video footage, we'll explore issues such as children’s voice, participation, creativity, and play, and ways that children engage with space and place.
We'll question and challenge perceptions of children and constructions of childhood.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies course.
Workshop: The Museum of Education
The education sector as a career option is great for educators, policy makers, activists and researchers.
In this workshop, we'll inspire curiosity and raise awareness of education and its implications.
Pupils will consider which artefact from their education they would add to a Museum of Education, and why.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Education Studies course.
It starts with a love of books.
Voracious reading becomes an exploration of shared worlds and - perhaps - a desire to craft stories to share in turn.
Our courses are concerned with developing this passion for literature and fiction into a profession.
How do writers experiment with philosophical and political ideas, history, and social justice?
Writing as a skill informs a range careers, from scriptwriting, to journalism, to teaching, and so much more.
Workshop 1: Storytelling in the Twenty-First Century
Have stories changed with the advent of new technologies?
Which aspects of storytelling have remained constant?
In this lively workshop, we'll create interactive, immersive stories using the latest platforms.
Workshop 2: Be a Creative Professional
The creative industries are the fastest-growing sector of the UK economy.
Publishing - one of the largest contributors - includes books and magazines, multiplatform journalism, digital content and social media.
Find out more about combining passions and interests with valuable, transferable skills in this expert-led workshop.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Creative Writing course.
Workshop 1: Gothic Literature and Dis-Ease
The undead, the uncanny, the inhuman, the infected, the diseased, the disturbing, the degenerate - Gothic texts propel us to the dark side of human nature.
This workshop introduce readers to the Gothic and its status as an index of cultural dis-ease.
Workshop 2: Literature in the World
Ocean plastics, #metoo, #blacklivesmatter - literature invents worlds, and is also intimately connected to the world "out there".
We'll engage with contemporary concerns about race, environment, gender, and social justice in this workshop.
Workshop 3: What is a Shakespeare Play?
Did Shakespeare create the works that bear his name?
We'll consider the various people and agencies that are involved in creating Shakespeare's plays, and reflect on how new knowledge might change our perceptions of them.
Workshop 4: So You Think You Know What a Book Is?
In the digital age, it’s increasingly tricky to define what a book is.
Is it words, or just a container of words?
How might we read the relationship between words and their physical form?
This hands-on workshop enables students to explore these and similar questions by examining rare books, experimental books, and electronic books.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) English Literature course.
Our courses offer students the chance to become multi-skilled and experienced in a wide range of related disciplines.
They can work alongside industry professionals to gain practical experience, and take a scholarly approach through the lens of media and production.
Workshop: Remakes and Remixes in a Transnational Context
Drawing on global examples such as the "Man with a Movie Camera" remake, this discussion workshop considers how the Internet has facilitated remakes.
We'll use the documentary "Remix, Remake, and Rip-Off," to consider intertextual borrowing in Hollywood and Turkey.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Film and Screen Studies course.
Workshop 1: Visual FX: An Introduction
This workshop looks at the incredible world of visual FX for film, and how to acquire the skills to design and create stunning visuals for productions.
Workshop 2: The World of Post-Production
We offer valuable insights into the post-production industry and what skills students need to flourish in this integral aspect of filmmaking.
Workshop 3: The Art of Foley
Foley has been an integral part of film and TV since the 1930s.
It’s an aspect of post-production audio that is creative, requires a keen imagination, and a sharp eye for detail.
This workshop delves into the mind of a Foley artist and how the process is carried out in TV and film.
Workshop 4: Stop-Motion Animation
Stop motion has been a key part of cinema for decades and with the recent success of 'Kubo and the Two Strings,’ stop motion has been going from strength to strength.
We'll delve into the full process of creating a stop motion production.
Workshop 5: Sound Design – Bringing Visuals to Life
Lightsabers, portal guns, dragons… all of these started life as an image on a screen.
This workshop picks apart iconic objects and creatures and demonstrates how sound designers work their craft to bring these to life.
Workshop 6: Colour Grading – an Introduction
Colour grading is a fundamental aspect of post-production.
This workshop looks at how colourists use their colour manipulation skills to enhance the final picture and aid storytelling.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Film, Media and Production course.
Workshop 1: Why Media Representations Matter
What we see and hear, and just as importantly, what is ignored and overlooked in the media, helps us make sense of our world.
This interactive workshop asks students to consider the people, places, and stories that are visible and invisible.
Workshop 2: Advertising in the Entertainment Industries
We'll explore the key practices associated with the role of advertising within and across entertainment forms, such as films and television, considering the question of why advertising changes and how it impacts its audiences.
Workshop 3:  Immersive Promotion: Marketing VR & AR Experiences to New Audiences
What is the future of virtual and augmented reality across the media industries - and who are these technologies for?
We'll explore the emerging creative sector of immersive media, including VR film, AR games and mixed reality art exhibitions, and consider how we can find and build a diverse audience for this emerging media form.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Media Communications course.
Are your students interested in how our lives vary across the globe, and yet are interconnected?
Are they keen to tackle environmental challenges?
We offer a taste of vital fieldwork that can create a positive impact.
Workshop: Geography Experience Day at Newton Park
Experience Geography fieldwork through digital mapping and geographical information systems in three key areas - Physical Geography, which focuses on the physical environment, Human Geography, which focuses on how people affect and are affected by the environment, and Global Development and Sustainability - the environmental, social, economic and geopolitical challenges facing the developed and developing world.
Run by specialists from our BSc (Hons) Geography courses: Physical Geography, Human Geography, and Global Development and Sustainability.
How is the past celebrated, obscured and recreated?
What about new forms of political debate and activism?
These workshops could propel your students into rewarding work in industries including development, charity and social enterprise, and PR.
Workshop: How Is the past Made Visible in the Present?
This workshop explores the ways in which we both encounter the past, and present it.
This is a great opportunity for young historians to get to grips with new kinds of material - not just written sources - and think about the ways in which we capture a sense of past lives and experiences.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) History course.
Workshop: For Some Time There's Been No History...
How Politicians Use the Past
All politicians make use of history in their appeal to different publics - but whose history?
How do they do this?
Are fake news and alternative facts really new phenomena?
This workshop explores these topical ideas, so be prepared for a lively debate!
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) History with Politics course.
Could your students bring stories to life, whether fictional, factual or historical?
Do they dream of a career as a writer, digital marketer, copywriter, bookstore owner, editor, blogger or journalist?
These workshops will help them get to grips with shaping stories for print and digital.
Workshop 1: Be a Creative Professional
Find out more about combining passions and interests with valuable, transferable skills in this expert-led workshop.
Workshop 2: Be a Publisher – How to Make Creative Decisions That Work
How do creatives come up with ideas?
And how do they turn those ideas into a commercial product, whether a book, magazine, online shop, or awareness campaign?
This hands-on workshop introduces students to the process of generating ideas for a publication and selecting content for a particular audience - two key skills used by publishers.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Creative Writing and Publishing course.
Workshop 1: So You Think You Know What a Book Is?
Workshop 3: Be a Publisher – How to Make Creative Decisions That Work
And how do they turn those ideas into a commercial product, whether a book, magazine, online shop, or awareness campaign?
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) English Literature and Publishing course.
Workshop 1: Be a creative professional
Workshop 2: Be a Publisher – How to Make Creative Decisions That Work
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) History and Publishing course.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Journalism and Publishing course.
Music at Bath Spa ranges from performance and composition to opportunities to work with film, new media and dance.
These workshops offer a taste of music production, music therapy, sound design, and careers in music.
Workshop: Portfolio Careers for Creative Musicians
The modern musician needs a wide range of skills to succeed in the digital world.
If your music stars are smart, flexible and prepared to work across disciplines, there has never been a better time for them to build the transferable skils they need for a sustainable career in the creative industries.
This workshop offers a taster on where to begin.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Commercial Music course.
Workshop: Creating Stories with Music Production
Great music productions are able to capture our imaginations and tell detailed stories through the use of skilful sound and production techniques - beyond lyrics or musical style.
This workshop introduces listening and interpretation skills, thus enabling students to enhance storytelling in their own music productions.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Creative Music Technology course.
Workshop: The Power of Music as Therapy
This practical workshop offers an introduction to the work we do in our Community Music modules - the power of music as a therapeutic intervention for a range of communities - from young pupils with special needs and learning difficulties, to the elderly with dementia.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Music course.
We immerse students in rigorous practical training to become versatile, creative and employable performers, directors, and writers, capable of working across a variety of genres and repertoires.
Workshop 1: Audition Preparation
From gaining a place on a course to securing the next acting job, auditions are the one certainty in the life of an actor.
This workshop will guide students through the dos and don'ts of a successful audition.
Workshop 2: The Moving Performer
This practical workshop gives an introduction to movement approaches useful for the performer, teacher or director.
We'll draw on various somatic, dynamic and partnering frameworks as tools for building performer-presence, trust, confidence, agility, and expressive range, and for devising performance work.
Workshop 3: The Text Detective (Student-Led) Run by our third year students, this workshop brings students to their feet to explore the rhythm and images in Shakespeare's plays.
It's designed to bring both a greater understanding and greater interest in the work by allowing students to physically explore the language.
Workshop 4: Shakespeare and Hip-Hop (Student-Led) Eminem and Shakespeare are not so different: both use rhythm and rhyme to communicate meaning and emotion.
Students will learn to break down Shakespearean texts using the conventions of hip-hop; they'll then have the opportunity to stage a short scene using these conventions.
This workshop is also run by our third years.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Acting course.
Workshop: The art of stand-up comedy
This practical workshop introduces a range of concepts, principles, structures and techniques that inform modern stand-up performance.
We'll draw on students' own unique comic personas to present short "scratch" solo performances generated from simple games and exercises.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Comedy course.
Workshop 1: Bespoke Workshop
Tailor your own contemporary workshop from a range of exciting options including performance skills, technique training, choreography, somatic practices, digital performance practice, and repertoire.
Get in touch with us to arrange the workshop of your choice.
Workshop 2: Create.
Perform.
Transform.
This fast-paced practical workshop gives students an opportunity to build their skills in contemporary dance techniques.
They'll learn a series of exciting new sequences and get the chance to develop their own material.
The workshop culminates in a live performance, showcasing what's been created.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Dance course.
Workshop: Performance Making
Musical theatre, physical theatre, devising, and ensemble work - take your pick!
We offer workshops in each area to demonstrate the possibilities for students creating exciting performance work that can challenge and entertain in equal measure.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Drama course.
Workshop: How to Survive the Elements When Your Event is in a Field
Discover the practical challenges of running an event in the great outdoors during a typical British summer!
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Festivals and Events course.
Workshop: How to Make Props, Costumes and Sets
Delivered by a team of practitioners with a wealth of industry experience, these interactive workshops are designed to give students a taste of basic prop making, making costumes, staging blood, set design, lighting and sound.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Theatre and Digital Production course.
Whether the focus is neural mechanisms or complex human relationships, understanding the mind and human behaviour from a range of perspectives and methodologies opens doors to employment in industries ranging from advertising to health.
Workshop: Human Memory
This workshop will explore the nature of human memory, especially in the context of how it differs from other types of memory (e.g.
that of computers).
The focus will largely be on the shortcomings of human memory and the possible reasons behind them.
Run by specialists from our BSc (Hons) Psychology course.
Challenge your students to reflect on their own beliefs, values and assumptions by exploring fundamentally different ways of seeing and explaining the world.
Our courses consider practical responses to current issues through projects with environmental charities, faith groups, and community organisations.
Workshop: Encounters with Ideas
How do key thinkers, past and present, help us analyse climate change, identity, or human rights?
This workshop explores ethical, religious and philosophical approaches to some of the major challenges of our age.
Run by specialists from our BA (Hons) Religions, Philosophies and Ethics course.
Do your students want to challenge the problems facing us as a species?
These workshops give them a taste of what they can achieve by exploring the natural world on our doorstep.
We offer a range of workshops either at school venues or on our campuses.
These could include:
Run by specialists from our BSc Biology programmes.
Designed for 6th form pupils at a Careers festival.
This will cover:
This short workshop offers an introduction to bee ecology and their importance as pollinators, along with a discussion of study and career opportunities in ecology.
Run by specialists from our BSc (Hons) Environmental Science course.
We'll deliver an introduction to food product development followed by interactive sessions on key topics such as sensory analysis and microbiological techniques.
We'll also explore the use of nutritional software to design foods.
Run by specialists from our BSc (Hons) Food with Nutrition course.
This workshop will take you through the stages of development of a product.
It will also discuss the challenges industry faces in the development of products that are low in fat, sugar and salt.
Sensory perception is the stimuli a person takes in, processes and understands through their five senses.
Sensory evaluation is a scientific discipline that analyses and measures human responses to the composition of food and drink, e.g.
appearance, touch, odour, texture, temperature and taste.
The interactive session will highlight the different sensory evaluation techniques that are used to evaluate foods.
In this practical workshop, we'll measure metabolic rate using spirometers, and compare our findings after the consumption of high carbohydrate, high protein and high fat snacks.
Run by specialists from our BSc (Hons) Human Nutrition course.
This workshop covers the principles of energy input and energy expenditure to test for energy balance.
We'll also look at the effect of body composition and physical activity on energy output, using specialist nutrition analysis software.
This will be an interactive lecture looking at the scientific evidence unpinning the role of nutrition and physical activity on the prevention, development and treatment of depression and anxiety.
This will be an interactive lecture looking at the scientific evidence unpinning the role of nutrition and physical activity on the prevention, development and treatment of obesity.
This will be an interactive lecture looking at the scientific evidence unpinning the role of nutrition and physical activity on the prevention, development and treatment of non-communicable diseases.
Are your students keen to explore societies, cultures, groups, and the social issues that can make the world a better place?
Sociology can inform an array of careers, including those in human resourcs, marketing and public relations, media and journalism, social, youth and community work, health, law, and policing.
Workshop: Selves of the Shelves – What Does Our Clothing Say About Us?
What we wear can have cultural and political implications.
This workshop considers the influences on the clothing and accessories we buy.
We'll explore if being 'in fashion' still has meaning in an era of globalised digital and social media, within the context of longstanding debates on taste, style and identity.
Run by specialists from our BSc (Hons) Sociology course.
If you'd like us to deliver a virtual presentation or workshop, please get in touch.
We look forward to hearing from you!
Email: educationliaison@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/schools-and-colleges/guidance-workshops:
Our sessions can be delivered in either a talk or workshop style.
Talks are ideal for assemblies and usually run for around 30 minutes, with extra time for any questions.
Our workshops are best suited in a classroom and can take up to an hour, with activities.
Students will explore the reasons why people choose Higher Education, understand the different types of qualifications they can study, and the wider skillset they can obtain as a university student.
Students will be given the opportunity to reflect on their personal priorities and interests, to guide them towards thinking about their Higher Education options.
Gatsby Benchmarks: 2, 7
We'll cover range of topics such as student accommodation, academic life, socialising and budgeting.
This session usually includes a question-and-answer session where your students can ask current Bath Spa students any questions they may have.
Gatsby Benchmarks: 3, 7
In this session, we'll show students how to effectively research and compare degrees.
Also covered are the different factors that students may prioritise when choosing a university, and how to use Open Days to their advantage.
Gatsby Benchmarks: 3, 4, 7
This session will outline the UCAS journey, including some brief guidance on choosing the right course/university, as well as the key deadlines.
We explore how to make the most of a UCAS Discovery Event (or similar exhibition).
This session can also be delivered to parents/carers, with tips on how to support their prospective student.
Gatsby Benchmark: 7
In this session, students will learn about the fundamentals of writing a personal statement, including top tips, the use of AI, and the structure of statements.
It's an interactive session with activities to help them understand and develop their own personal statements.
Gatsby Benchmarks: 3, 7, 8
Students will learn about the types of funding available to them, the differences between tuition fees and maintenance loans, and repayments.
We'll also cover how to apply for Student Finance and offer insights into budgeting.
Students will learn what to expect when they choose to study for a semester abroad (Exchange Programme) and the benefits of undertaking this opportunity.
They'll receive information on how to apply and learn about the support given by the University’s GoGlobal team.
We'll also briefly cover the other international opportunities available at university.
Gatsby Benchmarks: 4, 7
Students will learn what to expect from a Professional Placement Year (also know as a sandwich year or year in industry) and the benefits of undertaking one.
They'll receive information on how to apply, as well as the support given by the University’s Careers team.
We'll also briefly cover the other work experience possibilities available at university.
If you'd like us to deliver a talk or workshop, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/mature-students:
Over 21 years old and looking to start your journey into higher education?
You're not alone.
Find out what it's like to be a mature student at Bath Spa and what support is available to you.
Whether you’re returning to education after a break from studying or looking to start a new career, university could be for you.
You don’t have to have traditional qualifications such as A-levels to study with us - we'll accept qualifications such as the Access to Higher Education Diploma too.
We’ll also take your working life, your general educational background and your experiences into account.
We assess what’s known as ‘prior learning’ (APL) and ‘prior experiential learning’ (APEL) as a foundation for study in higher education.
For more information read our Accreditation of Prior Learning Policy .
We offer a range of courses that can help you to:
According to UCAS , the term 'mature students' refers to anyone going to university or college after a period of time out of full-time education.
A mature student:
"You might be thinking: will I be the only mature student?
Am I going to stand out?
I would say the answer to that is no.
I have found Bath Spa to be a really welcoming community with a range of different people."
We asked one of our undergraduates what it's like to be a mature student at university.
This is her story.
Studying on an Access to Higher Education Diploma course is another option if you'd like to go to university but don't currently have the qualifications needed to study at undergraduate level.
If you live in the South West, places like Bath College, Strode College and Weston College provide the option to study for this qualification in a variety of ways; part time, full time and distance learning.
Need specific advice about your qualifications or have a query about applying to Bath Spa University?
Please email your enquiry directly to our Admissions Service: admissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
Alternatively, you can contact our Access and Participation Team, who will be happy to help, at: ap@bathspa.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/adobe-creative-campus:
Bath Spa has partnered with Adobe to become one of the Adobe Creative Campuses in the UK.
The partnership brings with it access to the entire Adobe Creative Suite, available to Bath Spa students and staff.
We understand the importance of equipping our students with the digital skills necessary to help them make noise in the modern world.
Whatever the world of work throws your way, you’ll be ready.
Becoming part of Bath Spa’s creative community means access to a vault of elite industry-leading apps, including Photoshop, InDesign, Adobe Express and more.
And with access to millions of royalty-free Adobe Stock images, you’ll never have to scour the web for the perfect image again.
With the ability to amplify your digital fluency from the moment you join Bath Spa, you’ll have the space to develop a wealth of indispensable skills you can use in and outside of the classroom.
Find out more about each program and check out the tutorials to get started:
We’re committed to providing you with the tools you need to succeed in today’s competitive job market.
This means embedding the creative application of Adobe Creative Cloud into our curricula and translating your development of digital literacy into marketable skills.
We'll empower you to think outside the box and explore new avenues of learning.
From posters, infographics and video editing, to presentations and stand out CVs, our Adobe Creative Campus is for the many, not the few.
Whether you’re studying Graphic Design, Business or Biology, the Suite is guaranteed to elevate your time at Bath Spa, equipping you with skills otherwise undiscovered at university.
Your Adobe Creative Suite can be accessed by following a few simple steps.
Guidance differs for Staff installing on Bath Spa computers - you'll need to install using the Self Service Portal:
Before you graduate, you'll need to migrate your student account to a personal account, where you'll be able to make use of the benefits of a free account .
This can be done using Adobe's 'migration' process .
You will not be able to access your Adobe account using your Bath Spa email and password once you have graduated.
If you'd like to continue using the Adobe Creative Cloud, you can purchase a licence for one year at a 50% discounted student rate after you finish your studies.
The license for Adobe Creative Cloud does not currently extend to students studying with one of our partner institutions .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/student-life/tote-bag-competition:
You might have seen our BSU branded totes around campus at events, well now's your chance to get your own artwork on these bags!
We want you to create a design to use on our BSU tote bags for external events, including our Undergraduate Open Days, UCAS events and more.
Your design should show us what BSU means to you.
You might want to include images of the University, the City of Bath or not at all: it's up to you!
We want to see your own creativity and point of view.
T his competition is open to ALL BSU students, and you don’t need to be studying an art and design related course to enter.
We strongly encourage all entrants to use the Adobe Creative Cloud, free to all BSU students, to create their piece, but if you want to use another programme, that’s okay with us too.
Please do not use AI to in your design, we’re looking to see your own creativity.
You can see more about this in the competition Terms and Conditions .
All winners for this competition will be announced on Friday 11 April.
We want you to submit an entirely original, bold and striking design that sums up what BSU means to you as a student here with us .
It's also important to remember that your design will be mass printed on thousands of bags, so try to avoid making it too complex.
All submitted pieces need to under 10MB in size and either 21x30cm, or 30x30 , with a minimum resolution of 300DPI .
Please also submit your files as one of the following file types: JPEGS, PDF or PNG .
What kind of design you submit is entirely up to you!
We've included some examples of different entries down below:
This isn't an exhaustive list; we really want you to use your creativity to express your ideas.
If you have any questions about any of this, you can email the Marketing team at marketing@bathspa.ac.uk .
Along with your design, we would also like you to submit:
You can submit your design, blurb and information through the Microsoft Form linked below.
We are accepting one design submission per entrant.
We'll be selecting up to 3 winning submissions to be printed on the bags.
The winners will receive £150 in cash , and have their design printed on tote bags to be handed out at BSU events and sent all over the country for use at student recruitment fairs and events!
We’ll also frame a bag with your design on it for you and give you two more to use.
All winners will receive their prize upon the final printing of the tote bag design ready for our upcoming June Open Day.
In addition to the prize, we’ll also support you through a feedback and design review process to get the winning designs ready to print on the tote bags.
You’ll have the opportunity to work with the BSU Marketing team throughout, gaining great experience for the future.
The judging panel will consist of members of the BSU Marketing and Recruitment Events teams, and an external judge with expertise in student recruitment.
This competition is open to any current BSU student.
You can be studying at any of our sites, and be studying any degree (not just art and design related courses).
You'll need a valid student ID number to enter.
We’ll be announcing and contacting the winners on Friday 11 April , one week after the competition closes.
We’ll use the email provided on your submission to contact the winner(s), to let them know they have won.
To win the prize, all winners must respond within one week of receiving their email.
Please see the Terms and Conditions for more information.
Designs will be judged using the following criteria:
You can download the Terms and Conditions for this competition here .
If you have further questions about the competition, please email marketing@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/open-days/campus-tours:
If you've heard of Bath Spa University, you probably know about our amazing locations.
Newton Park is a breathtaking nature campus situated just outside Bath.
It's a blend of old and new: you'll learn in modern teaching and learning spaces and 18th-century buildings.
Locksbrook Campus is a beautiful redesign of a 1970s factory building.
Closer to the city centre but still at the edge of Bath, it's home to our Art, Design, Film, and Media students.
If you're interested in visiting these campuses, you can do so in a few ways, including virtual and guided, in-person tours.
Join one of our Student Ambassadors for a guided tour of the campus.
Dates for our upcoming Campus Tours will be confirmed soon.
You'll need to book your place if you'd like to attend a Campus Tour.
As soon as booking opens, we'll update this page with the booking link.
Which campus should I visit?
Check the key facts section of the course webpage to find out where most teaching takes place.
Can I view the accommodation?
We don’t open our accommodation during Campus Tours.
You can see our university halls in two ways:
You can also take an online tour of our accommodation.
Will I meet course tutors?
Course leaders aren’t available during Campus Tours.
You can meet our academic staff in two ways:
You can also email your course leader if you have questions about the course.
You’ll find their contact details on the course webpage for your chosen course.
Where is the meeting/registration point?
Our Newton Park tours start at Main House .
Locksbrook Campus visitors should register at the reception desk just inside the building’s main entrance.
What if I get lost on the day?
We’ll send you a map by email before you arrive.
Please use this to find your way back to your registration point, and our friendly receptionists can put you back in touch with us.
How can I contact the University?
If you have any questions about the tours, please contact us at campustours@bathspa.ac.uk .
Tours take place at either our Newton Park Campus or Locksbrook .
You won't need to pay for parking onsite if you arrive in the vehicle you registered on the booking form.
Blue Badge holders can park next to Main House , the Commons building and the main entrance to Locksbrook .
Please display your badge prominently.
You'll find the bus station next to Bath Spa Railway Station.
From here you can take the U5 bus which runs from the city centre to Newton Park Campus.
Alight at Lower Bristol Road for access to Locksbrook Campus (across the river).
You can access a personalised 360° virtual tour from the comfort of your home.
Choose your subject area to find the study spaces and facilities that you'd be using most as a BSU student.
Open Days are the best way to explore a university before you apply.
They're your chance to ask questions, see what the facilities include, and explore where you'll be living.
You can talk to tutors, current students and staff in other teams, such as Admissions and Student Finance .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/open-days/offer-holder-days:
There’s so much to look forward to at this stage of your university journey, and you might be wondering what comes next.
If you’ve applied to Bath Spa and we’ve made you an offer (either firm or conditional), you may be invited to one of our Offer Holder Days.
"I spoke with a couple of people about other services provided by the uni and everyone was very kind and patient with me.
By the end, I felt very welcome and I'm glad that Bath Spa is my first option"
"It was amazing being able to talk to students and staff to get a detailed understanding of my course"
Before your event, we'll email you some information to help you plan your day.
Here is some additional information you might find useful, including an example timetable, visitor information and links to other useful pages on our website.
You'll receive a full programme and timetable for your chosen course on the day when you register, and there'll be plenty of helpful Student Ambassadors around to help you find your way throughout your visit.
Here is an example timetable of what to expect on the day.
Please check your emails for more specific course information.
You'll receive a full programme of events on the day.
There'll be a Panel Session for parents and supporters during the Offer Holder Day.
This is an opportunity to meet with University services, support staff and the senior leadership team and find out more about how they can support their student through the university experience.
Your Offer Holder Day will take a place at one of our two campuses, depending on your chosen course: Newton Park or Locksbrook.
Our website has detailed information on how to find us , including public transport options.
Newton Park:
If you're arriving by car then parking is free at Newton Park campus .
Locksbrook:
Parking at our Locksbrook campus is free for Offer Holder Day visitors and there is dedicated Blue Badge parking available for visitors.
The campus is a 15-20 minute walk along the river from the main Bath Spa station, and is well-served by regular buses.
Due to limited parking, we may ask visitors to park at the nearby Bath Spa Sports Ground or Rotork carpark (weekend events) where you'll then be able to catch a regular, free shuttle bus to Locksbrook.
Before you arrive at your Offer Holder Day, think about some questions you want to ask our staff and students - this is your chance to find out the answers to everything important to you.
We'd love you to share your experience with us on social media, across TikTok, Instagram, X and Facebook, make sure to tag us to share the best bits of your day.
Please speak to them if you would prefer not to be photographed or filmed.
"It made me even more excited for a possible future here!"
Offer Holder Days are a great way to learn more about student life, meet course leaders and explore our facilities.
At an offer holder event you’ll have the opportunity to visit the University and explore your chosen course in detail by taking part in sessions or workshops that give you a taste of the university learning experience.
You’ll get to meet your future classmates and tutors, chat to current students, and tour the key facilities you’ll use during your time at BSU.
Open Days introduce you to what university life can offer in terms of expertise, facilities and location – they’re a great way to help you decide where to apply.
Offer Holder Days are more tailored to you.
They cover the kinds of things you’ll want to know once you’ve received an offer and can help you make your firm choice.
On an Offer Holder Day you can:
As Offer Holder Days are tailored events, attendance is by invitation only.
Students with a conditional or unconditional offer (offer holders) will be invited by email.
We'll email you via your UCAS registered email address, so keep an eye on this for updates.
We'll also call you on your UCAS registered phone number and send you an SMS to the same number.
Yes – our Student Ambassadors will be on-hand to answer your questions about Bath Spa and your chosen course .
You’ll also be able to explore our student accommodation and attend talks on topics such as:
Offer Holder events aren’t compulsory.
They’re designed to give you more information on your chosen university and course, to help you make your firm choice.
Most of our courses invite applicants to attend an Offer Holder Day at BSU.
If you've applied for a course that requires a portfolio viewing, interview or an audition, you won't be invited to an Offer Holder Day.
Our courses in Art, Design and Performance are known as 'interviewing courses', and if you've applied to one of these, you'll get the opportunity to explore our campuses and facilities, as well as meet your tutors, at your audition or interview.
This is your opportunity to show us what you can do by way of a performance or portfolio, and it's also your chance to learn more about what BSU has to offer.
Please email be@bathspa.ac.uk to get in touch.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply:
Think you might like to study with us?
We’re delighted.
We've got the information you need about how to apply, as well as what your next steps should be once you've submitted your application.
Applying for an undergraduate course?
If you want to study full-time and are from the UK, EU or Channel Islands, you’ll need to apply via the UCAS website.
Find out what you need to prepare.
If you have missed the UCAS deadline, you may still have a chance to apply.
Late applications may be considered if there are still places available on the course.
Choose your preferred course, then contact the Admissions team to discuss your situation (details below).
Our Open Days are a great way to get a feel of the University, while discovering more about the course you're interested in, our accommodation and much more.
Are you currently studying at a Higher Education Institution (HEI), and thinking of transferring to Bath Spa University?
We'd be happy to hear from you, and to answer your questions.
The Admissions team are available by phone or email.
You can get in touch on +44 (0)1225 876180 from 9.30am - 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, or alternatively contact them via one of the email addresses below.
International Application queries
internationaladmissions@bathspa.ac.uk
Application queries
admissions@bathspa.ac.uk
Interviews and auditions
DBS applications
UGDBS@bathspa.ac.uk
Application queries (PGCE)
Interviews (PGCE)
DBS applications (PGCE)
ttc@bathspa.ac.uk
Our Student Wellbeing Services team are happy to answer your questions, or visit our accessibility guide .
Find us at the Student Hub in Twiverton (opposite the Refectory) at Newton Park campus.
The space is open Monday to Friday for students to drop in and speak to staff from the Student Information Team and the IT Service Desk Team, and on select days, the Finance Fees Team and Student Wellbeing.
They'll be able to offer guidance and support with all course related enquiries and understanding your student record.
Term time opening hours Monday to Friday: 9:00am - 4:30pm
What we can help with
Current students can contact us through MyServices or phone +44 (0)1225 876115 .
Student Wellbeing Services drop-in is open from 10:00 to 16:00, please contact us if you would like to book an appointment.
Email: studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk
We know that writing a personal statement can feel intimidating.
That's why we've put together some key advice on what you should include, how to make the most of the wordcount, and how to make your personal statement stand out in the crowd.
We realise that AI tools are already reshaping the way we work and will become integral to many careers.
Tools such as ChatGPT can be helpful to you in helping to brainstorm ideas, improve the structure of your personal statements, and check readability; however, so can a trusted friend or supporter.
Remember, your personal statement is your chance to show us who you are – and we expect it to be written by you.
A personal statement written using generative AI is likely to be less personal and therefore less effective at conveying who you are and why you want to study the course.
If we find that a personal statement has been written using generative AI, we'll consider this plagiarism and your application may be rejected .
UCAS has a helpful guide on AI and personal statements that potential applicants at all stages of their studies could benefit from reading.
Are you from an EU/EEA country and concerned about applying to University in the UK?
We have put together some information about the EU Settlement Scheme and how to apply.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/undergraduate:
If you fit the following criteria, you’ll need to apply through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS):
You’ll need some information from your course's webpage, including Bath Spa University’s institution code: BASPA B20.
Read more about how to apply through UCAS or just get started.
You’ll need to register or login to the UCAS site.
Apply via UCAS
You can apply for one of our undergraduate courses online from the course’s webpage.
You’ll be asked to create an online account.
Don’t have time to complete your whole application?
Don’t worry, you can save your application and come back to it at anytime.
Alternatively, you can also apply via UCAS .
Please see our international webpages for more information for international students, including entry requirements and visa advice specific to your country.
Entry requirements are listed on the course pages.
As part of the process you will be required to provide evidence to support your application.
If you don’t meet the entry requirements listed, we may be able to accept your prior learning or experience from outside of formal education.
See our Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) page to learn more.
Search for your course
If you’d like to study part-time, you’ll need to apply online directly with us, rather than through UCAS.
Click the 'apply now' button on the webpage for the course you’d like to study.
Any module, study or voluntary experience that involves working with children and/or vulnerable adults will require a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance check to be carried out before you’ll be able to join.
If you will be teaching students, you will also need to carry out the Fitness to Train to Teach assessment .
If you already have a degree or higher qualification than that for which you are applying, your fee requirements may be different, due to the way government University funding is distributed.
Please check the Equivalent or Lower Qualification (ELQ) policy for more details.
This also applies to students who progress to the third year of study, following completion of a Foundation Degree.
Please note that Foundation Degrees are currently exempt from higher fees.
Need more information?
Want to meet us before you commit?
Of course!
That’s what Bath Spa University Open Days are for.
We’d love to meet you.
Application submitted?
Good luck!
Head to our applicants section if you want to know more about the application process; when you’re likely hear back from us; and opportunities to visit us.
If you’re applying directly to Bath Spa and not through UCAS, you’ll need to send copies of qualification certificates which you have previously received to the Admissions office.
Please send scanned copies by email to admissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
If you're applying through UCAS and are studying qualifications other than SQA, A Level or Irish qualifications, we will also require scanned copies of these certificates.
You’ll be informed of when these documents are to be received in your offer letter.
Not applied yet?
Head to our how to apply pages to get the information you need before submitting your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/undergraduate/how-to-apply-through-ucas:
If you apply before the deadline, you’ll receive equal consideration, regardless of how early or late you apply.
Your school or college may give you an earlier deadline to ensure you have time to arrange for your academic reference, write your personal statement and submit your application on time.
If your application is late, it may still be considered if there are still places available on the course.
If you applied after the deadline and you receive an 'unsuccessful' decision, even though you meet the entry requirements, it is likely that it’s because the course is full.
You may also receive a 'withdrawn due to course being full' notification.
Are you desperately seeking a gap year?
We totally understand.
Get your future self organised by applying now for a deferred entry.
Just like any other application, an application for a deferred start needs to meet the entry requirements for the year in which the application is made.
If you decide to defer after you’ve already applied, please get in touch .
Are you already studying at a different university, but would prefer to be studying with us?
You can apply to transfer to Bath Spa for your second or third year, by adding ‘2’ or ‘3’  to the ‘point of entry’ box.
We recommend that you contact us to discuss your situation, qualifications and experience before you make your application.
We’ll advise you on your best course of action.
Your application needs to include:
We want to hear why you’re applying, your ambitions, what makes you suitable for the course and any relevant skills and experience you can bring to your studies.
This is your opportunity to show your motivation, readiness and commitment to studying your chosen course at Bath Spa University.
Don’t be afraid to be your quirky self.
A strong personal statement should include:
If you need more guidance, please see the UCAS guide to writing a personal statement .
Your predicted grades will be used as part of our selection process.
It is essential that your referee includes all predicted grades for any qualifications which you have not yet completed.
Your referee should preferably be someone who knows you academically.
If you’re applying from a school of college, a teacher or tutor will be able to write you a reference.
If not, you should ask your employer or a school/college you recently attended.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/postgraduate:
To apply simply hit on the 'Apply Now' on the course’s webpage.
You'll need to create an online account.
Entry requirements are listed on the course's webpage.
If you don’t hold a first degree you may be required to provide additional evidence to support your application.
As part of the online application you’ll need to upload a variety of documents.
This may include:
Please contact us if you have any questions or concerns:
You may be required to attend an interview as part of the selection process for a postgraduate course.
This is usually a 30-minute discussion of your experience and any work submitted with the application.
Telephone or Skype interviews can usually be arranged for applicants applying from outside of the UK.
Wondering if Bath Spa's the best place for your postgraduate studies?
Find out how we could fit into your journey.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/teacher-training:
Postgraduate teacher training (PGCE) applications are handled through the Department for Education's Apply system .
You can apply online through the Department for Education's Apply system .
Once your application has been processed, you can check its progress and respond to offers through Apply.
If your application is successful you’ll be interviewed before you can be offered a place.
PGCE interviews are held throughout the year.
Please read the Get Into Teaching website carefully for full guidance on how to apply and chat with an advisor.
Each programme has a limited number of places – you should apply early to give yourself the best chance of being offered a place.
We close courses when all places have been filled.
Explore our Primary and Early Years PGCE and Secondary PGCE courses .
As part of the admissions process for all teacher training courses, you will need to complete the following:
In order to deal with the unique challenges of a career in teaching, it’s essential you demonstrate a commitment to working with your chosen age group.
Ideally, you should have at least two weeks' recent experience of working in a UK state school.
If you don’t have classroom experience, try to observe lessons and help out in the classroom at a local school before you apply.
The Department for Education offers support in gaining further experience.
Do you already have a teaching qualification?
You may already be eligible to apply for Qualified Teacher Status.
Depending on where you qualified, the subject you teach and your qualifications, you may be able to use the Department for Education’s professional recognition service, Apply for QTS in England.
For more information, visit the gov.uk website .
Please note that if you are eligible for the Department for Education’s professional recognition service, you will not be able to complete a PGCE in England.
All applications to our PGCE programmes are through Apply , even for international students.
When you complete your application, please state your actual qualification titles (not the UK qualifications you believe them to be equivalent to).
We'll ask you to obtain an ENIC Statement of Comparability for degree and GCSE international equivalent qualifications.
This is to ensure that applicants meet academic requirements for teacher training in the UK before their applications are assessed.
Please visit the Get Into Teaching website for details on obtaining an ENIC Statement of Comparability .
If English isn’t your first language, you may offer International English Language Testing System (IELTS) 7.0 overall, with no less than 6.0 in each component, as an equivalent to GCSE English Language.
If your application is selected, you’ll be interviewed before you can be offered a place.
Interviews for Early Years, Primary and Secondary are held throughout the year.
Already submitted your application to become a Bath Spa Teacher and wondering what your next steps should be?
Head to our applicants section to find out more.
We actively welcome applications from all.
This includes mature students (including career changers), as well as applicants straight from their first or higher degree.
We particularly welcome applications from groups underrepresented in teaching, including black and minority ethnic and disabled applicants.
Male teachers are also in short supply, particularly in Primary schools and Early Years settings.
We offer a range of undergraduate courses in Education that could help lay the foundations of your teaching career, before you embark on teacher training.
Explore our courses to see what you could study.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/teacher-training/fitness-to-train-to-teach:
Due to the vocational nature of Initial Teacher Training (ITT) courses and recognising that the fundamental principles of the profession of a teacher is the care and protection of children “in loco parentis”, it is a requirement under The Education Act (2002) for the health of all applicants to teaching courses to be assessed.
The standards used to assess against are specified in The Education (Health Standards) (England) Regulations 2003 and the current Initial teacher training (ITT): criteria and supporting advice .
The first concern of a teacher is the education of their pupils.
They are accountable for achieving the highest possible standards in work and conduct, and they'll be expected to forge positive professional relationships with parents and other professionals.
The aim of the Fitness to Train to Teach requirements is to ensure that a future teacher has both the physical and mental fitness to perform their duties without putting children and young people at risk.
However, there is a duty on Bath Spa University to ensure that health and safety or child protection requirements are not used to justify discrimination against a disabled student (Equality Act 2010) .
Each case will be looked at individually, on its merits and in the light of the particular circumstances.
For every applicant offered a place on one of our Teacher Training courses, it is important for everyone to establish whether they are fit to train to teach.
Applicants (and students where necessary), who have a conditional offer for a place on an ITT course will receive an email from registrycompliance@bathspa.ac.uk with a secure link to the Fitness to Train to Teach questionnaire - no Bath Spa account is required.
The Fitness to Train to Teach questionnaire should be completed as soon as possible - the link to the questionnaire will have a time limit of two weeks.
It can take up to eight weeks for clearance to be received by Bath Spa University.
All applicants for teacher training must complete a Fitness to Teach assessment to ensure that they meet the legal requirements to teach.
Teachers, and those training to become teachers, need a high standard of physical and mental fitness to enter the teaching profession.
Teaching is a demanding career and teachers have a duty of care towards the pupils in their charge.
The health, education, safety and welfare of pupils, is taken into account when your Fitness to Train to Teach Questionnaire is assessed.
The reasons for addressing the issue of your fitness to train to teach, centre around the following requirements:
Please complete the Fitness to Train to Teach questionnaire as soon as possible.
It can take up to eight weeks for clearance to be received by Bath Spa University, so please ensure you apply well in advance of your course start date.
Applicants will receive email confirmation once the University has been notified that their fitness to train to teach has been cleared.
Please note that you will not be able to enrol or start your course/school placement unless you have completed this questionnaire and you have been officially declared fit to train to teach.
Your answers are confidential and your completed questionnaire is assessed by Bath Spa University’s Medical Practitioner, Fairfield Park Health Centre and where relevant, the Occupational Health Team at Royal United Hospital.
Information is shared to enable consistency between all parties.
The information you provide and any information collected in reference to your Fitness to Train to Teach assessment may be shared with the following parties during the assessment process:
Information about you will not be shared with third parties without your consent unless the law allows this, or there is a serious risk to life.
You must complete the Fitness to Train to Teach questionnaire prior to starting your course at Bath Spa University.
The University has a responsibility to partnership schools and the pupils attending those schools that our trainees on placement are fit to train to teach and where appropriate, have in place reasonable adjustments to manage the impact of any disability, medical condition, or mental health issue on their teaching.
You must meet all conditions of entry before you can be fully registered on your course.
In addition, if they are not fully registered they will not be eligible to receive any funding – including the ITT bursary from the Department for Education (for PGCE students) and all loans and grants from Student Finance England or other relevant funding body.
The Fitness to Train to Teach assessment is a compulsory compliance check for admission to an initial teacher training course.
If applicants fail to satisfy this condition, they will be withdrawn from the admissions process/their studies.
The information contained within your Fitness to Train to Teach questionnaire will be assessed by a Medical Practitioner (MO) at Fairfield Health Centre and where necessary the Occupational Health Team at the Royal United Hospital and/or your own GP and/or consultant/specialist.
In some circumstances you may be asked to attend a medical assessment.
The final outcome will be assigned one of the following categories:
Category A: Assessed as being fit to train to teach
Category B: Assessed as being fit to train to teach.
The medical practitioner may advise that reasonable adjustments would be appropriate.
Category C: Assessed as not fit to train to teach at the current time.
Occupational Health will pass on information given ‘in confidence’ only if there is a significant identified risk to the candidate/trainee concerned, to pupils or others.
Following these classifications, Bath Spa University will email the applicant one of the following outcomes:
Category A: confirmation that they have been declared Fit to Train to Teach
Category B: confirmation that they have been declared Fit to Train to Teach.
Category C: confirmation that they have been assessed as not Fit to Train to Teach.
Applicants will be able to resubmit a new questionnaire after appropriate medical treatment, and/or recovery.
They will be required to submit with their application a satisfactory current medical report.
Under the Health & Safety at Work Act (1974) individuals have a responsibility to take reasonable care of their own and other people’s health and safety at work.
In addition, schools, academies, colleges and institutions have a statutory responsibility for ‘safeguarding and promoting the welfare of children and young people’ Education Act (2002) .
If you have a disability, long-term medical condition, or mental health issue which has a bearing on your occupational health, you are required to disclose these on the Fitness to Train to Teach questionnaire.
If you decline to disclose a condition which affects your fitness to train to teach, or give false information then it may result in your withdrawal from the course.
On a more practical level it also prevents you from accessing any support that you would be legally entitled to during your training under the (Equality Act 2010) .
According to this legislation, the University is required to make reasonable adjustments to support any students disclosing a disability, long term medical condition, or mental health issue.
If you have a disability, medical, or mental health condition then it’s possible that the Medical Practitioner will request further medical evidence of your condition from your GP or Consultant and refer you to the Occupational Health Team at RUH for further assessment before a final decision is made.
This is an opportunity to identify access requirements or support needs, including any reasonable adjustments, which may be required.
If you have access requirements or identify as disabled we strongly encourage you to disclose this as soon as possible so that we can assess and discuss with you any reasonable adjustments that may be helpful and to which you may be entitled.
Bath Spa University has a strong record of enabling students with disabilities to ensure they become successful teachers.
There are times when Bath Spa University may need the Course, or placement/school staff to be aware of a condition.
We have School Access Plans (SAP’s) which are created by Academic Tutors (ATs) and trainees, and trainees are encouraged to share or allow the AT to share relevant information with the school to support them on placements.
The support you can access will depend on your individual circumstances, so you should liaise with the Student Wellbeing Team at Bath Spa University about your needs.
You may also be eligible for Disabled Students’ Allowances (DSAs).
Examples of the type of support available are as follows:
If there is a change in your health or wellbeing after you have completed your Fitness to Train to Teach Questionnaire, you should contact registrycompliance@bathspa.ac.uk in the first instance.
If there is a change in your health or wellbeing once you have enrolled with the University, you should inform your Academic Tutor in the first instance and/or contact partnership@bathspa.ac.uk .
You may be required to engage with a referral to occupation health services following your or your Academic Tutors' declaration of a change in your health and/or wellbeing.
This is compulsory and failure to engage with the request would result in fitness to practice concerns governed by our Fitness to Practice policy / procedure.
It is a student's responsibility to inform their Academic Tutor if, following a change in their health, a GP or Health Professional advises them to take a break in their studies or employment.
Their Academic Tutor would then inform the Partnerships Team so that they can arrange a break or a delay in their placement, and a management referral to occupational health may be made.
A new Fitness to Train to Teach assessment will be required for students taking a study break and returning in a different academic year.
The student may also be advised to contact our Student Wellbeing Service for support/advice.
This is an opportunity to identify support requirements and/or the need for reasonable adjustments, following a change in their circumstances.
Our Student Wellbeing Service Team, can offer assistance and advice on available support, such as reasonable adjustments and accessing funding support that they could be legally entitled to during their training.
All returning Initial Teacher Training students from an official study break, where Bath Spa University is the accredited ITT provider, are required to complete an updated Fitness to Train to Teach assessment.
The Partnerships Team will liaise directly with registrycompliance@bathspa.uc.uk to request a new assessment, and arrange a return to study and placement at an appropriate time when the student has been cleared fit to train to teach again.
There is no specific list of conditions incompatible with teaching.
Any applicant with an offer for a Teacher Training course who has not been cleared as ‘Fit to Train to Teach’ by the beginning of the course will not be allowed to register and may have their offer of a place rescinded.
If you would like to discuss any aspect of this questionnaire in confidence, please send an email to the Teacher Training Compliance Checks Team at registrycompliance@bathspa.ac.uk .
Please email registrycompliance@bathspa.ac.uk if you have any questions.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/teacher-training/dbs-checks:
You may be required to do a DBS check if you're studying any course that requires you to attend a school for a placement.
The University will be in touch with you via email if a DBS is needed.
Your application must be made through Bath Spa University as the DBS (CRB) registered body.
If you don’t complete your DBS Enhanced Check application you won’t be allowed to enrol.
In addition to the above, any module, study or voluntary experience that involves working with children and/or vulnerable adults will also require you to apply for a DBS Enhanced Check.
If you have to make an application for a DBS through Bath Spa University, our teams will be in touch with details of the process you need to follow.
Please note, overseas applicants or those who have lived overseas for more than six months in the last five years will also require a police certificate of good conduct from the relevant country.
We can't accept a DBS Enhanced Check unless it is registered with the DBS update service.
If you’re registered with the update service you’ll be making an annual payment direct to the DBS.
If not then your DBS was not registered with them and you’ll need a new one.
A DBS application will be sent to you electronically if you firmly accept our offer, or with our offer letter to you.
We’ll send you details of applying for a DBS Enhanced Check once you have firmly accepted your offer to study with Bath Spa University.
If you wish to advise us of any changes to your contact details please email us, including your UCAS personal ID or Bath Spa application number at registrycompliance@bathspa.ac.uk .
You should send electronic copies of your documents, either scanned images or photographs to: registrycompliance@bathspa.ac.uk
Please ensure your email includes:
Please note: We can't verify your electronic application until you've provided the necessary and correct documents, together with the completed consent form.
Before you're able to take up your school placement, we must see the original copies of the documents you emailed to us.
An enhanced DBS application currently costs £49.50 (plus an administration fee and VAT).
You'll be asked to make an online payment before you're able to submit your application.
It usually takes between one and two weeks, but it can take longer if the details given for the check are incorrect or if several police forces need to be involved in the check.
The time of year can also affect the time it take for checks to be completed.
For example, it can take longer during the peak application period in August and September.
The progress of your DBS can be checked online using the reference number of the DBS application form and your date of birth.
The disclosure will be posted to the address you state in section B as your current address.
Your DBS enhanced disclosure is a valuable document and it is your responsibility to keep it safe.
The University can take no responsibility for disclosures that are lost or not collected from Post Office delivery offices.
The DBS will only issue reprints if the original disclosure has been lost in the post.
If this is the case, please contact them on +44 (0)870 9090811 .
You may be asked to bring the original DBS certificate with you to registration or any placements you attend.
We'll be in touch with you to arrange an opportunity to bring in your original documents; please wait for an email from us for further information.
We're unable to accept DBS applications that have been validated by post.
If you have any questions about DBS, please contact us by emailing registrycompliance@bathspa.ac.uk and we will be happy to help.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/international:
The way you’ll need to apply will vary depending on the type of course you want to study.
For undergraduate (Bachelor’s) courses, international students have two ways to apply.
You can either apply through the Universities and Colleges Admission Service ( UCAS ) or apply directly to us.
Either way, you apply using the "Apply now" button on from the course page.
If you’re interested in postgraduate courses, you’ll need to go to the webpage for the course you’re interested in and hit the "Apply Now" button.
To apply for a PGCE course international students follow the same application process as UK students.
You’ll need to apply through the Department for Education Get Into Teaching website .
If you’re interested in completing a research degree at Bath Spa University, you’ll need to apply through our Graduate College .
Make sure you meet your course's academic and English language requirements.
You can check this information on the following pages:
You'll also need to make sure you can finance your studies, including tuition fees and living costs.
If you have any questions regarding entry requirements please speak to your agent (if you have one) or contact the international admissions team on internationaladmissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
You may also need to obtain a Student Visa before coming to the UK to take up for studies.
We'll be able to support and guide you through this process.
Information can be found on our visa advice pages .
We'll contact you with further information as soon as your application has been processed.
Some of our courses, including subjects in our Music and Performing Arts and Art and Design departments, may require a selection interview (which if you're not in the UK will be online) and a portfolio .
You'll be contacted by the Admissions team if this is the case.
Please note that all interviews will be recorded.
If you have any further questions about your application, head to our applicants section, or contact the international admissions team on internationaladmissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
We offer a range of scholarships and bursaries , and once you have an offer, you may be eligible to apply for a Bath Spa University international scholarship .
You will need the Bath Spa student number from your application for admission.
If your application is successful, you'll receive a conditional or unconditional offer from us.
You'll then need to confirm your offer, so that we can provide you with all the information you need before you begin your studies with us.
It's simple and easy, and you can do this anytime after receiving your offer - just follow the instructions below.
Simply email or reply to your offer letter saying "I accept my offer of admissions" to internationaladmissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
You need to include your name, surname, date of birth, the course you have applied for and your Bath Spa University student number (this number consists of six digits, and you can find it on your offer letter).
If you're a UCAS applicant, you don't need to email us.
Simply accept your offer from Bath Spa University by following the guidelines and the deadline given to you by UCAS.
As a globally connected University, we operate a network of international advisers and agents who will be happy to assist you and provide help with your application in your country.
We have a number of scholarships and bursaries available to support your studies at Bath Spa.
Our scholarship programme provides a range of opportunities for full-fee paying international students studying on-campus who are applying for Pre-sessional, Undergraduate and Postgraduate courses.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/international/english-language-requirements:
If you're an international student who’s about to start studying with us, you may need to demonstrate that your English language skills are sufficient to study for a degree at a UK university.
Unless you’re a national of a majority English speaking country , you'll need to submit an English language qualification that's recognised by the University.
Your English language qualifications must have been achieved within two years of the course start date.
If you need to improve your English language score or you want to be more prepared before you start your studies, there are many opportunities to study English in your home country.
The British Council provides English language teaching and preparation for the IELTS examination.
Our Regional Offices can also help you find accredited IELTS examination centres in your country.
If you have a qualification that's not listed here, please contact our International Admissions team and we'll consider your qualifications on an individual basis: internationaladmissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
IELTS
You’ll need 6.0 overall.
This must include a minimum of 5.5 in Listening, Speaking, Reading and Writing.
We also accept the IELTS Online Test.
Please note that this test is only available in a few countries/regions.
We advise you to check the IELTS Online website to confirm if this test is available to you.
TOEFL iBT
A total of 72, to include a minimum 18 in Reading, 17 in Listening, 20 in Speaking, and 17 in Writing.
Please send your scores to the University through your TOEFL iBT account online account.
PTE Level B2
The required score is 59 overall with at least 55 each in Listening, Speaking, Reading and Writing.
Please send your scores to the University (Bath Spa University > All Departments > All Programs) through your Pearson online account.
The online results should then take 2 working days to come through to the University.
Duolingo
110 overall, with a minimum of 95 in each component, including sub-scores.
Kaplan Test of English
This must include a minimum overall score of 426 (Main Flight) with all four components at 396.
LanguageCert (Academic)
Overall 65 with no less than 60 in each component.
Depending on your course, you’ll need either IELTS 6.5 or 7.0.
For visa nationals this must include a minimum of 5.5 or 6.0 in Listening, Speaking, Reading and Writing.
Check the course page for more information.
We're now accepting the IELTS Online Test as well.
Please note that this test is only available in a few countries/regions, and we'll advise you to check the IELTS Online website to confirm if this test is available to you.
This must include a total of 75, to include a minimum of 18 in Reading, 17 in Listening, 20 in Speaking, and 17 in Writing.
PTE Level C1
Our postgraduate courses have differing requirements depending on the course.
For specific information please see the course webpage .
120 overall, with a minimum of 95 in each component, including sub-scores.
Please provide your Candidate ID Number and Candidate secret number to allow the results to be verified online.
This must include a minimum overall score of 459 (Main Flight) with all four components at 396 for courses that require an IELTS score of 6.5, and an overall score of 495 (Main Flight) with all four components at 396 for courses that require an IELTS score of 7.0.
Overall 70 with no less than 60 in each component.
A degree from a majority English speaking country
To qualify, you must hold a degree awarded by a recognised institution in a majority English speaking country , listed under 'Exceptions' on the Student Route visa page.
West African Examinations Council
This requires a minimum of 5 subjects (one of which must include English) at C6 level.
iGCSE
This requires a minimum of 6 subjects, at A*-C including English, at A*-C.
International Baccalaureate
This requires a score of 32 overall, and it must include English Language (Higher or Standard) with a minimum of Higher 5.
Foundation years and A-levels
These could have been studied in the UK or in a majority English speaking country .
Cambridge CAE and CPE
Undergraduate - 169 overall with no less than 162 in each skill.
If your qualification doesn't meet our English language requirements, you can join our Pre-Sessional English course before you begin your degree.
These courses improve your English language skills and confidence, so that you have the best chance to succeed.
Applicants applying for a Pre-Sessional English course will require a Home Office approved 'Secure English Language Test (SELT).
There are two qualifying qualifications:
Studying in a different language can be a challenge, adding to the pressure of completing your degree.
We can support you throughout your journey at Bath Spa University.
The English Language Unit is a free service that runs throughout the year, available to all students whose first language is not English.
Through one-to-one tutorials and short courses, the ELU can help you improve your English skills and confidence in writing and speaking.
The University’s Academic Skills service (ASk) offers individual sessions, workshops and courses to help you improve your academic skills.
They can help with the transition to university and returning to your studies after a break.
They cover a variety of topics, including:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/international/guardianship-advice:
A UK-based Guardian is required because:
Educational guardians fulfil the role of parents in their absence.
Most often, this is required during illness or emergency situations but can include, for example:
The University is not able to appoint, or assist in finding, a suitable guardian but provides the advice below to applicants and their parents.
The expected responsibilities of the UK-based guardian are to:
Under 18 offer-holders and their parent/s should discuss these responsibilities with the proposed guardian and ask for their consent before providing the University with their contact details.
The University requires that the proposed legal guardian must be a close relative living in the UK, ideally living in the vicinity of the University or BSU London as appropriate.
Applicants will not be allowed to register at the University unless they have provided details of a UK-based guardian and, for international students, a CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance to Study) cannot be issued until this information has been provided.
The guardian should:
Applicants who don't have a trusted contact in the UK who is willing and able to act as a guardian can access the services of Educational Guardianship agencies who will, for a fee, make guardianship arrangements for them.
When choosing a guardianship agency, applicants and their parents need to ensure that it's fully regulated by AEGIS , which is the UK Body that inspects guardianship organisations to ensure they meet UK government safeguarding guidelines.
Parents should expect to build a relationship with the applicant’s guardian and are encouraged to contact a number of AEGIS accredited guardian agencies in order to find the one with which they feel most comfortable.
Whichever type of guardian is chosen for the student, the University requires:
The University is aware that international students can be targeted by scammers and criminals who pretend to offer guardianship services, and this can result in applicants and their parents being defrauded and/or exploited in other ways.
As a result, the University strongly recommends that all U18s applicants (and their parents) intending to apply to Bath Spa University, make the following checks:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/research-degrees:
CHOOSE A RESEARCH DEGREE
FIND A SUPERVISOR
FEES AND FUNDING
APPLY NOW
A postgraduate research degree, such as a PhD, EdD or MPhil, involves independent study and requires you to develop new ideas and understanding in the context of existing knowledge.
This is achieved through your own initiative, planning, gathering of information, innovation, and analysis.
All research degrees involve conducting a substantial research project, leading to significant, original contributions to inquiry or creative practice.
As part of Thomas Rolfe's PhD in Museum and Heritage Management, he's investigating how museums act as representatives for local community groups and how they can ultimately be used as tools for social cohesion.
Through it, he aims to understand how museums reach new audiences and represent communities.
Misha Penton is a contemporary opera singer, experimental vocal composer, media artist, and director.
Her research seeks to redefine and re-describe female characters from the Western canon of myth and literature.
Through a poetic and creative process of examining and “unpacking” these works, she will unbind the imagery from its traditional and linear landscape of origin.
The Graduate College is here to support students and their supervisors through consultation, advice, training and development workshops.
Our aim is to enable you to achieve high standards in your postgraduate research.
We train and support our research supervisors, and work with University teams such as Library and Learning Services , Student Wellbeing Services and Student Finance to make sure you have everything you need to successfully complete your research degree at Bath Spa.
Explore our Research Centres and Groups , which span topics as diverse as art and wellbeing, culture and creativity, early childhood, and mitigating natural disaster risk in some of the world's most exposed communities.
Our research has touched on various areas including the wellbeing of social workers, supporting disadvantaged learners, engaging marginalised groups through art, assessing the effects of video games and emerging digital media technologies.
Nearly 60% of our research was ranked 'internationally excellent' or 'world-leading' according to the results of the most recent Research Excellence Framework .
Stephanie
          Harvey
PhD in Cultural and Disability Studies
David
          May
PhD in Music
Misha
          Penton
PhD in Voice
Rachel
          Beale
PhD in Community Music
Thomas
          Rolfe
PhD in Museum and Heritage Management
Chén
          Yin
Caitlin
          Rowley
PhD in Composition
Damir
          Yakubov
Emma 
          Davies
PhD in Environmental Humanities
Brandi
          Hall-Crossgrove
PhD in World Heritage Management
Sabrin
          Hasbun
Libby
          Ford
PhD Researcher
Nassos
          Polyzoidis
Samuel E
          Taylor
Pedro
          Duarte
Callum
          Anderson
PhD in Dance
Julie
          Askew
"I encourage you to take every opportunity to become involved in the research community at School and University level by joining appropriate research centres and groups and participating in workshops, seminars, study groups, conferences and other events arranged over the year."

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/research-degrees/choose-a-research-degree:
A qualification at this level could give you a distinct advantage in achieving your career goals, and also gives you the chance to dive deep into a topic that you're especially passionate about.
At Bath Spa, we offer a number of postgraduate research options:
Student-led research degrees Defined by you and your chosen topic, a PhD, PhD by Publication, PhD by Practice or MPhil can be undertaken in any subject for which we can provide research supervision.
We have a large number of research areas and specialisms.
You'll need to develop your research proposal and find a supervisor before submitting your application .
If you need support with this, please contact the relevant Higher Degrees tutor .
Defined by you and your chosen topic, a PhD, PhD by Publication, PhD by Practice or MPhil can be undertaken in any subject for which we can provide research supervision.
An MPhil is awarded to candidates who have engaged in critical investigation and evaluation of an approved topic and have demonstrated an understanding of research methods appropriate to the chosen field through the submission of a thesis.
The thesis should demonstrate familiarity with complex and specialised areas of knowledge and skills, engagement with research issues, the taking of responsibility for the research itself, and the capacity to work independently.
Your work is presented as a thesis, which must be defended by oral examination (viva voce) to the satisfaction of the examiners.
The thesis will be no more than 20,000 words if in science, art and design practice and practice-based music and performing arts subject areas.
In social sciences, humanities and education, history and theory of art and design, and history and theory of music and performing arts it will be no more than 40,000 words.
If accompanied by material in other than written form, or the research involves creative writing, then the thesis should normally be in the range 12-20,000 words.
Full-time students:
Part-time students:
The final viva voce exam should take place within the maximum registration period.
A PhD is awarded to candidates who have critically investigated and evaluated an approved topic and, by doing so, have made an independent and original contribution to knowledge.
It contains a major research, constructive or reflective component, which in sum, or part, is worthy of publication.
You’ll also need to demonstrate an understanding of research methods appropriate to your chosen field.
A doctoral thesis submitted in science, art and design practice and practice-based music and performing arts subject areas should not exceed 40,000 words .
In social sciences, humanities and education, history and theory of art and design, and history and theory of music and performing arts, the thesis should not exceed 80,000 words .
The PhD by Practice is as rigorous as the traditional route.
You'll produce a substantial body of new work (for example in art, creative writing, design or music) which demonstrates an original contribution to knowledge and is worthy of public presentation or publication.
There are two pathways for a PhD by Practice at Bath Spa:
You and your supervisory team should discuss the pathway and proposed means of research with the School Higher Degrees Tutor, particularly at the Research Plan stage.
You’ll produce a substantial body of new work (for example in art, design, curatorial practice, performance, or music) which demonstrates an original contribution to knowledge.
Your thesis will comprise an exhibition, performance or other, negotiated, form of presentation.
This is accompanied by documentation appropriate to the project and a written component.
Word length of the written component
Your work will be accompanied by a written component of approximately 20,000-40,000 words which explores your original research questions and demonstrates how the research is embodied in your practice.
Practice will be integral to the research methodology, but your results may be fully described in text form without the inclusion of a creative work.
You’ll produce a body of new work (for example in art, design, curatorial practice, performance, or music) which demonstrates an original contribution to knowledge.
This is accompanied by a thesis.
Word length of the thesis
Your thesis will comprise a written dissertation of 60,000-80,000 words, which explores the original research questions and demonstrates how the research advances knowledge about, or within practice.
This is accompanied by documentation appropriate to the project.
The PhD by Publication is no less rigorous than the traditional route.
No prior connection with the University is required, but you must be an active researcher who has developed your research skills to doctoral level.
You must demonstrate an independent and original contribution to knowledge, through a critical commentary and either an extensive portfolio of creative work or publications.
Your research outputs may have been produced inside or outside academia, but must have been published or publicly disseminated .
The length of the critical commentary should normally be a minimum of 10,000 words .
The maximum length is 20,000 words .
Defined and supported by our world-class academics, the courses below are University-led research degrees.
It’s not necessary to secure a supervisor before applying for one of these degrees, however if you have any questions, you’re welcome to contact our staff before you apply.
All the information about each programme can be found on the following pages:
You can study your postgraduate research (PGR) degree full-time or part-time.
Full-time students are expected to dedicate an average of 30-37 hours per week to their research, while part-time students are expected to dedicate an average of 15-18 hours.
These hours include self-directed study, contact time with supervisors, and scholarly/research related activities.
Your workload and working pattern will be unique to you, your research area, mode of study, the stage of your doctoral journey, and your other commitments.
At times, such as when you're approaching a deadline, your studies may become more intense.
You can study at one of our campuses or through distance learning if agreed with your supervisors and academic school .
For our student-led research degrees, you'll need to choose your research topic and find a supervisor before making your application.
You can explore our Schools of Study to find out more about individual departments and our staff.
If you've decided which route is best for you, you can apply now.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/research-degrees/find-a-supervisor:
If you want to develop your own research, you'll need to find an academic who is willing to supervise you.
You'll need to contact and secure a potential research supervisor before you make your application with us.
You don't need a supervisor if you apply for our University-led programmes , as you'll be assigned a supervisory team.
We recommend you explore:
We also have subject-specific research pages:
If you can't find a research supervisor who specialises in your chosen topic, please contact the relevant Higher Degrees Tutor for assistance.
Kendra
          McMahon
Reader in Education
Tracy
          Brain
Professor of Creative Writing and English Literature
James
          Newman
Research Professor and Senior University Teaching Fellow
Darren
          Garside
Senior Lecturer in Education Studies
James
          Baggott-Brown
Subject Coordinator for Critical Studies
Higher Degrees Tutors support research students, their supervisors, and postgraduate research activity.
They link you with your supervisor, School and the Graduate College .
In addition to your supervisor, they're your first point of contact if you experience any issues with your studies.
Darren Garside d.garside@bathspa.ac.uk
Dr Kendra McMahon k.mcmahon@bathspa.ac.uk
As a research student, your School will encourage your participation in its research culture.
You can do this by joining research centres and groups.
Doing so gives you a chance to attend seminars, workshops, and other events.
Key subject areas and contacts are listed in detail on the School's Research page.
Find a supervisor
If you're interested in pursuing a research degree within the field of Design, please contact our Higher Degrees Tutors:
Contacts for each subject area are listed below.
Please also see the related research centre, CLEPP - Centre for Leadership, Ethics, and Professional Practice .
Anca Baker
If you are interested in pursuing a research degree within the field of Education, please contact Dr Kendra McMahon , School of Education PhD/Research Student Leader, k.mcmahon@bathspa.ac.uk .
School of Writing, Publishing and the Humanities The School of Writing, Publishing and the Humanities is Bath Spa's focal point for teaching and research in Creative Writing, English Literature, History and Heritage, Politics, Religions, Philosophy and Ethics, Publishing and Environmental Humanities.
If you can't find what you need below, please contact Professor Tracy Brain , Director of Postgraduate Research for the School of Writing, Publishing and the Humanities.
The School of Writing, Publishing and the Humanities is Bath Spa's focal point for teaching and research in Creative Writing, English Literature, History and Heritage, Politics, Religions, Philosophy and Ethics, Publishing and Environmental Humanities.
Please see also the following related research centres and groups:
Please see also the following related research centres:
Please see the following related research centres:
Please see the following related research centre:
Key subject areas and contacts are listed in detail on the School's Research Degrees page .
If you're interested in pursuing a research degree within the field of Science, please contact our Higher Degrees Tutor for Sciences, Luke Roach : l.roach@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/research-degrees/fees-and-funding:
Funding and grants are also available from a variety of organisations such as businesses, charities and government bodies.
The tuition fee you pay will depend on your year of entry, study mode (full-time or part-time) and award (PhD, MPhil).
For an indication of course fees, see our postgraduate research degree tuition fees .
The fees quoted are annual fees.
Please note that fees are subject to an annual increase that's usually confirmed in March for the following academic year.
You incur fees until the date you submit your thesis for examination, at which point you move to 'continuation fee status'.
On submission of the thesis for examination, the annual tuition fee will be pro-rated in accordance with any month/part month studied and you'll be transferred to ‘continuation fee status’.
If the thesis is submitted at any point after the first of each month, you'll be charged the whole month fee.
At this point, the continuation fee will be applied, which covers the cost of your viva examination and continued access to university services and facilities.
This will be in addition to any pro-rata fee liability incurred.
Continuation fee status will apply until the end of your registration period e.g until you submit your final bound thesis and complete your course.
For postgraduate research students starting in March of the academic year, invoices are generated during the first month following the start date and fees are pro-rated by month to bring them in-line with annual invoicing in October.
The student will be invoiced for the annual fee, divided by 12 and multiplied by 7.
They'll then be invoiced again in October for the full annual fee for the new academic year.
Please see postgraduate tuition fees or the dedicated course page for your programme of study for more information on fees.
You can also email fees@bathspa.ac.uk if you have any queries.
If you're starting a doctoral degree, you could be eligible for a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan to help with course fees and living costs.
International students may be able to apply for a loan or funding from their home government.
The Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding is a resource for current and prospective postgraduate students (any subject, any nationality) who are looking to fund PhD, Master’s and PGCE study in the UK through grants from charities, trusts and foundations.
From time to time, studentships are offered by specific schools or funded projects.
If you’d like further information on these, please check this page or contact the relevant Higher Degrees tutor .
Each academic year, the Arts and Humanities Research Council South, West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership funds places for doctoral students across the arts and humanities.
Funding consists of a full fee waiver, and a stipend paid at UKRI rates current for the respective year.
Students may choose a 'primary' institution and a 'secondary' institution for their supervision, with the 'primary' institution being their 'home'.
They will have access to the resources of both institutions, and a dedicated suite of provision directly from the SWW DTP Hub itself - including events, training opportunities, placement opportunities and more.
Applications for 2025 funding are now closed.
See the SWWDTP website for further information.
Please check the SWWDTP website for eligibility.
If you need additional assistance, you are welcome to contact the Graduate College at pgradmissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
Each academic year, the Economic and Social Research Council South West Doctoral Training Partnership funds places for doctoral students across the social sciences.
For Bath Spa studentships, our eligible subject areas are:
The SWDTP supports doctoral students by developing not only their research skills, but by offering a wide range of training, placements, activities, and events as well.
They work in a collaborative way across nine institutions and have SWDTP students that will also form part of your cohort.
The application for funding window is currently closed and will reopen again later in the year.
See the SWDTP website for further information and for eligibility.
Students applying for ESRC funded studentships are encouraged to speak to their chosen supervisor at Bath Spa prior to application to discuss their research ideas with a suitable supervisor.
Here's where you can find details of the Bath Spa PhD application process .
Students are encouraged to look at ways of incorporating collaboration with external partners into their research proposal.
Collaboration does not always have to be a financial arrangement and could take the form of a placement, voluntary work, data sharing or other payment in kind opportunities.
Students considering overseas fieldwork, overseas institutional visits or difficult language training should also mention this in their application.
How to apply and deadlines
The application for funding window is currently closed.
Once you've identified a suitable supervisor,  you should submit your application through Bath Spa University admissions portal .
The deadline for submitting both your funding application to the ESRC and your PhD application to Bath Spa is anticipated to be the middle of January 2026.
Please note: If you intend to apply to either of the above Doctoral Training Partnerships for funding, you'll also need to submit a PhD application to Bath Spa in parallel.
If you have any questions on this process, please contact our Admissions team: pgradmissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
The Graduate College provides some financial support for current postgraduate research students wishing to present at conferences or undertake archive or fieldwork.
Before you apply through the Postgraduate Research Student Support Scheme, you must have successfully completed your Research Plan.
Please apply at least two months before the activity takes place.
For more information, please contact us: pgrcurrentstudents@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/research-degrees/apply-now:
We offer two enrolment dates per year, on 1 March and 1 October.
The exceptions to this are the Low Residency stream of the PhD Creative Writing , and the EdD Professional Doctorate in Education , which has a new intake every two years.
Applications for the October 2025 intake closed on 31 May 2025.
Please ensure you read the entry requirements carefully before submitting your application to ensure you've included all the necessary documents.
Not including all the required documents will delay our ability to process your application.
Our next intake will be for enrolment in March 2026, and applications will be open by the end of September 2025.
This page will be updated with further details.
To apply, you’ll usually hold at minimum a first or upper second-class honours degree from a UK Higher Education Institution, or its equivalent.
If you don’t have a relevant Master's degree, you’ll normally be required to undertake formal research training as part of your studies.
You’ll also need to supply the following documents with your application.
Your research proposal must be submitted using the Bath Spa University Research Proposal Form , linked below.
The research proposal form helps you to focus your research into a specific area or direction.
It may ask you questions such as:
This, along with a discussion with a potential research supervisor, will help you to decide what path your research degree may take, and help you plan for success with your application.
We do need copies of any of your previous degree certificates, such as:
We don't need to see documents relating to GCSEs, A-levels, Higher, or Advanced Higher.
We need transcripts of your results, which have been officially issued from the awarding body.
Please include a sample of your writing (for example, this may be your MA dissertation, or any other relevant coursework).
You'll need to secure 2 academic references , d ated within the last 6 months .
It’s your responsibility to contact your referees directly to request references from them.
Please download the Reference Request template and forward this onto your referees for them to use as a guide.
Academic references need to meet the following criteria:
If you’re in receipt of funding for your proposed study, for example a scholarship award, please be prepared to provide evidence if requested.
If you’re an international student, we’ll also need you to submit copies of your passport and any visas you already hold prior to your application.
If you're applying from a country not defined as ' Majority English-speaking ', you’ll also need to provide an English language qualification, i.e.
IELTS certificate, obtained in a test taken no more than two years prior to the point of application.
Please note that the minimum required for acceptance is an overall score of 6.5 with no lower than 5.5 in any one area.
Required scores will vary by course, and will often be higher.
In Creative Writing, the expectation is that candidates will achieve no lower than 7.0 overall and 6.0 in any one area.
For creative practice degrees, this is lowered to no lower than 6.0 overall, and 5.5 in any one area.
It’s your responsibility CAS letters (i f you’ve previously studied in the UK ) to ensure compliance with these criteria before applying.
International applicants who have previously studied in the UK will be asked to produce any prior CAS letters upon applying.
Applications for enrolment in March 2026 will open later in the year.
If you have any questions about applying, please email pgradmissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
Once all your documentation has been submitted, it’ll be assessed by the relevant academics who will then decide on whether you’ll be invited to interview.
Please note that interviews won’t be granted if any documentation is still left outstanding.
If you have any queries about this part of the process, please contact pgradmissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
If you’re applying for a student-led research degree, such as a PhD or MPhil in your chosen topic, you’ll need to make sure that we can supervise your research before submitting your application.
You don't need a supervisor if you apply for one of our University-led programmes, as these are defined and supported by us.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/portfolio-advice:
A digital portfolio is a file containing a collection of your creative work, that you've photographed, scanned or created digitally.
Once you've applied to us through UCAS and successfully been shortlisted, we'll ask you to provide a link to your portfolio.
It's important that the sharing settings are set to open to all, so that staff can easily access and review your work.
We can accept any working link; applicants often use Google Docs, Flickr, YouTube or their own website.
We expect portfolios to be around 15 to 20 pages/images of creative work.
You don't need to include all of your work; part of the portfolio process is the ability to edit.
Remember you are not submitting everything you have done, but what you consider to be your strongest work that shows your future potential.
Yes - images (scans or photographs) of sketchbook pages, ideas sheets and samples should be included to show how your ideas developed from initial research into final pieces.
If you have three dimensional garments, sculptures, installations or other objects they should be displayed in your portfolio photographically.
The content of your digital portfolio depends on the course you're applying for.
We're looking for a good range of work that demonstrates the subject area.
Don't worry if you don't have projects in all of the areas described; choose and select your best work that represents you and what you are most proud of.
Further information and specific advice for each course is availble below.
Your portfolio should evidence a curiosity and energy for your intended undergraduate programme in the Bath School of Art, Film and Media .
This will demonstrate your emerging research interests, your most resolved outcomes and current works in progress.
This might include examples of the following:
Please select your course below for specific advice around what staff will be looking for.
For the Integrated Foundation Year in Art and Design (Year 0) , please see the relevant guidance related to your chosen undergraduate programme.
We like to see how your work is informed by thorough research.
We are interested to know why you’ve made something, not just how.
Your supporting material should demonstrate a range of possible directions explored in the production of work.
This should include the work of artists/designers that have informed your practice.
We're interested in your engagement with contemporary art/design and culture in general.
What recent exhibitions have you attended?
What are you currently reading?
What are you interested in?
As we consider your portfolio, we'll be looking for evidence of:
We want to see evidence of your engagement and interest in your work as a maker of photographic images and a critically reflective thinker.
We'll look at supporting work to discover how you have resolved any problems you've encountered whilst making your images.
We'll look for examples of research into contemporary photographers and artists - this might be short excerpts from articles or essays, records of gallery visits or images of photographers' or artists' work that inspires you.
We want your portfolio to convey a sense of who you are - what are your wider interests?
What are you passionate about?
We're looking for a portfolio that demonstrates your passion for fashion photography.
Provide a carefully edited selection of photographic work that best reflects your enthusiasms; this may include experiments and work in progress.
We are very interested in how you make photographic work, but equally keen to learn why you want to be a fashion photographer - what motivates you?
This should be demonstrated in supporting research examples and may include reflections on gallery visits and sources of inspiration.
We recommend that your digital portfolio should contain approximately 15-20 images of your recent work, or links to online video works, or an online portfolio.
Try to include works that represent your range of your interests and also some of the areas that you would like to explore further during the Master’s programme.
Also keep in mind the idea of editing your works; we'd rather see quality over quantity.
You can also include experiments and works-in-progress, sometimes these can be useful indicators of the sort of areas that you might explore further during the Master's programme.
Think about how you document your work; you might need more than one image.
Including a detail might be important so that we can see what it's made from.
If you're working in artist’s moving image or animation, think carefully about the best way to show us your work.
We're happy to watch up to 15 minutes of video works (providing a link to a video on a streaming platform such as Vimeo or YouTube is a good way to show us your work).
We're looking for evidence of an exploratory and developing practice that would benefit from the rigorous MA Fine Art programme.
At interview, we'll ask for more details on the research process that has informed your works and evidence of your critical engagement with the wider contemporary art context.
We're looking to understand who you are as a designer, and to see something of your creative process.
Please show your initial and development work, including sketchbooks, maquettes, and working drawings, as well as final outcomes and finished pieces.
We are interested in seeing how you think and communicate in 2 and 3 dimensions.
This can be in any area of art or design including drawing, making, mixed-media work, and digital modelling and drawing.
This can be taken from creative work from school, college, professional practice, or any independent activity which gives us an idea of your abilities, values, and interests.
Please include a range of work that shows how you engage with architecture, art, and design along the following themes:
Please organise your ideas carefully, sometimes showing us your best work first is better than putting it in chronological order.
We're looking for a well-presented collection of work that is imaginative and shows your creative process.
Include pages that show an understanding of visual research and the design process (the development or ‘working out’ of your ideas), as well as your own individuality.
We'll be looking for both finished and in-progress work that shows:
We're looking for students who have flair and understanding of the creative process, and would like to see the progression of your initial ideas into a final design outcome.
The process is just as important as the outcome.
If your current course does not have a focus on fashion outcomes, set yourself a mini project so we can see your ideas for fashion/clothes; alternatively you could use existing project work (art, textiles, photography) to respond to and develop into ideas for fashion in the form of sketched ideas for outfits/ garments.
We're looking to understand who you are as a creator, so we want to see your creative process.
Try to show your preliminary work – sketch books, concept drawings (digital or hand rendered), prototypes and iterations – as well as your final outcomes and finished work.
We're interested in seeing photography (colour or black and white), illustration, drawing, painting, typography, 3D work which has been photographed, animated gifs, video or animation.
We're looking to understand who you are as a designer.
Typically, we would expect to see finished projects and work in progress that shows evidence of lively and engaging sketchbooks and working drawings that support the projects you are showing us.
Try to show your working process and your developing research interests and influences, including scans of your sketchbook pages, observational drawings, illustrations and digital outputs.
We're keen to see your engagement with making and how you think three-dimensionally.
This may be from any 3D area such as ceramics, wood, product  design, sculpture, mixed–media constructions and constructed textiles.
If you've done 3D models and sculptures, then including photos of these is a great idea.
Depending on your current course structure your portfolio may contain work from other disciplines.
We're also interested in seeing drawings, graphics, jewellery, photography, videos or animation.
We're looking to understand who you are as a designer and maker, so we want to see your creative process.
Try to show your working process and your developing research interests and influences, including scans of your sketchbook pages, observational, technical drawings and CAD renders.
This may be from any 3D area such as ceramics, wood, product design, sculpture and mixed–media constructions.
We're also interested in seeing drawings, jewellery, photography, illustration, textiles, videos or animation.
Please organise your ideas carefully; sometimes showing us your best work first is better than putting it in chronological order.
Typically, we would expect to see finished projects and work in progress with evidence of lively and engaging sketchbooks and working drawings that support the projects you are showing us.
Try to show your working process and your developing research interests and influences, including scans of your sketchbook pages, observational drawing, painting, collage, evidence of pattern, colour work and consideration of possible design outcomes.
If you've made textiles such as knit, embroidery, print, or 3D objects and large pieces, then including photos of these is a great idea.
We're also interested in seeing drawings, ceramics, jewellery, photography, illustration, videos or animation.
Don't worry if you haven't projects in all of these areas, choose and select your best work that represents you and what you are most proud of.
When looking at your portfolio we're looking to understand your creative process.
Try to show your preliminary work – sketch books, concept drawings (digital or hand rendered), prototypes and iterations, as well as final outcomes and finished work.
We are interested in seeing photography (colour or black and white), illustration, drawing, painting, typography, 3D work which has been photographed, animated gifs, video or animation.
We don’t expect to see works in all mediums, so choose and select the work that best represents you and what you are most interested in.
Include a good range of work that demonstrates the subject area.
We'll be looking for both finished and work in progress that shows:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/after-you-apply:
We’re delighted that you’ve applied to become a Bath Spa student.
Wondering what your next steps should be now that your application's out of the way?
Look no further.
There’s no better way to get a feel of Bath Spa University than visiting us.
We’d love to show you around, so you can see for yourself what all the fuss is about.
Make sure you secure your place, as our events fill up quickly.
Got a conditional offer?
Congratulations.
We know you’ve heard it all before but now’s the time to put the work in so you get the grades we’re looking for.
Good luck, we hope we’ll see you soon.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/after-you-apply/undergraduate-applicants:
Whether you've recently applied or already received your offer, this page provides details about the next steps of your journey to studying with us.
Find out about accommodation, student finance, wellbeing, and FAQs.
You might want to bookmark this page so that you can use easily look up the contact information of our helpful teams.
We’re really pleased that you’ve decided to apply for a place at Bath Spa!
Keep an eye on your UCAS Hub for any updates on a decision from us.
If you’ve applied for a course which requires an interview or audition for entry consideration, our Admissions team will contact you as soon as possible to arrange a date.
There are plenty of opportunities to visit us.
Our Open Days give you a chance to see our stunning facilities and learn more about your course first hand, and our Campus Tours offer the opportunity to explore our stunning campuses.
Take a look at our upcoming events page to find out more.
After you've received an offer, you’ll also be invited to one of our Offer Holder Days , to discover more about life at Bath Spa University.
If you’ve applied for an Art, Design, Music or Performing Arts course, you’ll be asked to attend an interview or audition prior to a decision being made on your application.
For more information on what your audition or interview may require of you, we encourage you to check your respective course page.
If Bath Spa University offer you a place and you are happy to accept, you can make us your firm (first) choice via UCAS Hub.
Once you have selected Bath Spa as your firm choice, you'll be invited to choose where you’d like to live.
We can guarantee you an offer of accommodation if you’re joining us as a full-time undergraduate student.
You can apply for finance to help fund your studies through Student Finance England (SFE).
Bath Spa also offers numerous scholarships and bursaries to students to help support them financially.
Find out more on our finance pages .
You’ll receive an email on the day from us or you can check your UCAS Hub to tell you if your place is confirmed at Bath Spa.
Congratulations!
We’re so excited to welcome you to our University.
We’ll send you everything you need to know about Bath Spa before your arrival to make sure that your move is as smooth as possible, including information on Welcome Week events.
Accommodation Everything you need to know about Bath Spa's accommodation options.
Everything you need to know about Bath Spa's accommodation options.
We have a range of accommodation to suit your needs.
From campus halls to city living, you’ll find everything you need to make living away from home comfortable, convenient and fun.
Our application portal opens in February, with room prices ranging from £77 to £280 a week.
Get a head start on what you need to know to apply.
Full-time undergraduate students who are in their first year of study and have chosen Bath Spa as their firm choice are guaranteed an offer of accommodation for their first year.
Terms and conditions apply.
Confused about how to apply for accommodation, or where to buy essential items for your room?
Find the answers on our handy FAQs page .
Life at Bath Spa Find out more about what it's like to study at our University.
Find out more about what it's like to study at our University.
As a UNESCO World Heritage site , Bath is a very special city.
Whether you’re into culture or clubbing, festivals or fashion, there’s something for everyone!
From medieval castles to cutting-edge art and design studios, our campuses balance history and modernity, and house state-of-the-art facilities to help you achieve your greatest ambitions.
The Students’ Union is here to represent you and your voice.
Join a society, hang out at the SU building, meet new people and explore life beyond your studies.
Finance and funding Find out about the support available to you to help you finance your studies.
Find out about the support available to you to help you finance your studies.
Make studying with us your reality.
Use our finance pages to find out more about tuition fees, budgeting as a student, and the support available to you to help fund your time at university, including a wide array of scholarships and bursaries.
We offer a range of scholarships and bursaries , from funding for laptops and sport to travel and entrepreneurial projects.
The Bath Spa University Access Fund also provides financial support to students struggling with the cost-of-living crisis.
Our Careers team are here to provide information about jobs, placements, part-time work, enterprise support and more.
Student wellbeing We provide student support in the form of professional advice and guidance, to help you make the most of your studies and university life.
We provide student support in the form of professional advice and guidance, to help you make the most of your studies and university life.
Our Student Wellbeing Services are on hand 24/7 from the moment you arrive at Bath Spa.
They can offer support both in person and online, to suit any of your needs.
We can provide confidential guidance and practical support if you have a disability or specific learning difference.
Relax and take a break from your studies by spending some time with our accredited Bath Spa care dogs , who can’t wait to meet you!
Visit us Explore our unique facilities and find out more about Bath Spa by visiting our campuses.
Explore our unique facilities and find out more about Bath Spa by visiting our campuses.
You can visit campus at one of our Open Days , which run throughout the year.
Once you have applied and have received an offer, you'll be invited to an Offer Holder Day , to explore campus and meet your future course mates.
Applicants can also book a guided or virtual tour of our campuses online.
We recognise that the cost of travelling to an Offer Holder Day, interview, or audition may be a barrier for our applicants.
So, if you live more than 10 miles away from the campus you are visiting, you can claim back some of your travel costs, after you've attended an Offer Holder Day, interview, or audition.
For distances between 10 and 20 miles (one way), you can claim back £15 towards your travel costs, and £30 if you've travelled further than 20 miles.
Bath Spa is located in the city of Bath.
The University's main campuses, Newton Park , Locksbrook and Sion Hill , are easy to reach by public transport or road.
The University is committed to its sustainability policy and encourages staff, students, and visitors to travel by public transport where possible.
International applicants If you are applying from outside the UK, you can find out more about the process, including key information about visas, English language requirements and funding.
If you are applying from outside the UK, you can find out more about the process, including key information about visas, English language requirements and funding.
If you're interested in an undergraduate course, you can still apply for a place via UCAS.
For postgraduate courses, you should use the Apply Now button located in the centre of the course webpage.
More information can be found on our International pages .
The funding that you're eligible for as an international student depends on your fee status, the type of course you're studying, and when you start your Bath Spa University studies.
Our International Funding pages provide information on financial aid, scholarships, and more for international applicants.
Offers and applications FAQs All you need to know about our application process, and what to do once you've received your offer.
All you need to know about our application process, and what to do once you've received your offer.
The Admissions team will consider every application individually so the timings of the process can vary and depends on when you apply.
If you apply close to the UCAS deadline at the end of January, there will be a backlog of applications and it can take up to several weeks for an offer, invitation to interview/audition or portfolio request to be made.
At other times, you could receive a decision in less than one week.
We are conscious that you want your decisions quickly, but we are also keen to ensure that our courses are your best fit.
If you already have your qualifications the Admissions team will automatically consider you for an unconditional offer.
In these circumstances we will contact you to provide scans of your certificates.
If you pass through our portfolio assessment/ interview and audition process, then we will in most cases make an unconditional offer.
Our academic teams assess you and your work, giving us a more accurate view of your potential than through your predicted grades alone.
This will give us the confidence to make an unconditional offer, as we will know you have what it takes to succeed.
UCAS sets deadlines for when you need to make up your mind.
View the dates on the UCAS website .
If you miss your offer, your entry depends on whether the course you hold a conditional offer for is full or not.
If it is full, there is a chance that you will be rejected or be offered a place on an alternative course through Clearing .
If the course is not full, the Admissions team will return to your application and reconsider whether your place could still be confirmed.
In most cases you can defer your application or offer until the next academic year.
If you would like to defer your confirmed place please email your request to admissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
Please make sure to include your UCAS Personal ID (or Bath Spa ID number), date of birth and your full name.
It isn’t too late to make changes to your application, but it does depend on what you want to change.
For specific guidance on changing your course please visit UCAS.
Remember, if you can't find what you're looking for, just use the search function at the top right of your screen.
Policies relevant to students are located in the Policies section of our website under the policy theme 'Academic and Student'.
There you'll find detailed documentation such as:
Reading these policies before you arrive will ensure that you're aware of your rights and also our expectations.
Visit the Policies section .
Student Fees
Tuition fees, tuition loans, sponsorship and accommodation payment queries:
Student Awards
Funding, bursaries and scholarships, and international funding:
Student Payments
How to pay fees, instalment dates, payment options and how to update card details:
If you achieve higher than your predicted grades or get AAB you could get £500 to boost your first year with us at Bath Spa University.
The Undergraduate Scholarship is a one-off payment that awards those who have met the application criteria.
You don't need to apply directly; once you've applied to study at Bath Spa through UCAS, and satisfy the requirements of the award, you will automatically qualify.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/after-you-apply/postgraduate-applicants:
Take a look at our courses and choose which Master’s course is right for you from a variety of in-person and distance learning options.
Why not book a campus tour (see below) or try one of our Open Days?
Be ready to upload any documents you may need to support your application, for example; qualification certificates, an academic or professional reference, English language certificates, visa information and a portfolio (if required).
Please check individual course pages for portfolio information.
Apply now through our dedicated course pages and submit your application.
Our courses have limited places and will close as soon as they are full so we recommend applying in good time.
We may need to contact you to request additional information or invite you to an interview so please make sure you regularly check your emails.
Once you have received a decision on your application please let us know if you wish to take up the place within 8 weeks.
If you require an extension, please do not hesitate to contact our Admissions team.
We will send you everything you need to know about coming to Bath Spa before your arrival.
Information regarding finance, accommodation and student wellbeing can also be found on our website (see below for useful links).
"You will grow and develop skills with your tutors, your peers and friends alongside you."
- Professor Sue Rigby, Vice-Chancellor
If your course requires an interview or audition, our Admissions team will contact you to make arrangements.
Check your course page for more details.
Returning to education after a break from studying can be daunting, but we're here to help.
Find out about our provisions for Mature Students and get in touch.
Some of our courses can be taken from the comfort of your own home, giving you flexibility and options around your commitments.
Join one of our Student Ambassadors for a guided tour of the campus and learn about student life at BSU.
"Bath Spa is more than just a university or a campus; it is a community of open-minded intellectual people who are striving to make the world a better place"
- Poppy Colbourne, MSc Psychology in Practice (Neuropsychology)
Find out more about how you can finance your studies.
Bath Spa University alumni/graduates progressing to a Taught Master’s in the 2023/24 academic year could be eligible to receive £2,000 towards the cost of tuition fees.
Use this guide to help you understand the financial support available to postgraduate students, as well as other useful tips to help you manage your money.
Questions about finance, or wondering about scholarship opportunities?
Our Student Wellbeing Services are on hand from the moment you arrive at Bath Spa and offer support in person and online.
Take some time to relax and have a break from studying to chill out with our accredited care dogs who can’t wait to meet you!
We provide confidential information, guidance, and practical support to students with a disability or specific learning difference.
We work with external partners to provide students with free access to a range of 24/7 digital platforms and services.
Bath is a beautiful and vibrant city with a rich artistic, creative and cultural scene.
Student Ambassador Charley shares her favourite places to visit in Bath.
The Students' Union is there to represent all students and the student voice.
There is a wide variety of societies and clubs for students to join.
From medieval castles to cutting-edge art and design facilities, our campuses balance history and modernity.
Welll-stocked libraries, modern laboratories, cutting-edge art and design studios and our own TV studios...
We're committed to making Bath Spa a green university and encouraging the local community to look after the environment.
Whatever your aspirations or stage of your career, we can support you with informatoin about jobs, placements, part-time work, enterprise support and more.
"The course continuously inspired me, boosted my existing skills, taught me many new ones, and gave me tremendous confidence going forward as a songwriter.
Although studying through distance learning, I still very much felt part of a group of like-minded university students, taking the journey together and learning a great deal from each other."
- Mike Flaherty, MA Songwriting (Distance Learning)
We will still consider your application if you do not hold a BA/BSc degree or equivalent as long as you have a minimum of two years relevant experience in that sector.
Please check our Accreditation of Experiential Learning policy for more information.
This varies from course to course, however we hope to have a decision for you within 4-6 weeks of applications being received.
You can apply directly for all our postgraduate courses on our website.
Make sure to check your chosen course page for more information and specific instructions.
If you’re unsure and would like to discuss this further please don’t hesitate to get in touch with our Admissions team .
In most cases you can defer your application to the next academic year.
To request a deferral, please email admissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
We ask that you let us know within 8 weeks if you would like to take up our offer.
If you require an extension please contact our Admissions team to let us know.
Some of our courses are very popular and unfortunately we’re unable to offer places to everyone.
We’re unable to accept applications for the same academic year but we hope that you will consider applying to us again in the future.
Applicants can book a guided or virtual tour of our campuses online.
Find out more about the funding options available to postgraduate students.
Student Funding
CAMPUSES
EVENTS
STUDENT WELLBEING SERVICES

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/after-you-apply/teacher-training-applicants:
It is your opportunity to share with us your personal qualities and experiences that will allow us to assess your suitability to teach and identify your personal training needs.
All interviews for our PGCEs and for BA (Hons) Primary Education with QTS (5-11 years) are carried out online using MS Teams.
A member of academic staff will deliver a degree presentation to all candidates being interviewed that day, ensuring that you have all the information about the course and giving you the opportunity to ask any questions that you may have.
This presentation will then be followed by individual interviews for candidates.
You’ll be expected to carry out tasks in preparation for and during your interview.
You’ll be notified of any requirements prior to interview.
Entry to some PGCE programmes is conditional upon completion of a Subject Knowledge Enhancement course.
These courses run in the year prior to the PGCE programme.
All our teacher training courses require you to be cleared as fit to train to teach.
If you've accepted an offer to study with us, Admissions will be in touch to start this process.
We've put together some detailed guidance to help you with this.
Congratulations – we hope you’re looking forward to becoming a Bath Spa Teacher.
We’ll send you a DBS application, a medical form and a suitability declaration which you’ll need to complete and return to us.
Keep an eye on your emails, as we’ll send you further information prior to the start of your course.
All our teacher training courses require you to undergo Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance checks.
Student Wellbeing provides professional advice and guidance for all applicants and students.
We're here to enable you to access your course and university life.
We encourage you to get in contact if you have any queries.
Visit our pages or contact us by email or phone to make the first step towards getting the support you need.
Email: studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1225 876543

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/after-you-apply/teacher-training-applicants/primary-interview-information:
This information is for applicants to:
Please read the information below carefully before your interview.
If you have any questions about this or about your interview in general, please contact us: teaching@bathspa.ac.uk .
The interview is your chance to demonstrate that you possess the appropriate qualities, attitudes and values expected of a Bath Spa Teacher.
It will allow us to assess your knowledge, skills, academic background and prior experience as well as your potential to meet the Teachers' Standards.
To prepare for a successful interview, we recommend that you gain some experience in a school/setting related to the age phase for which you're applying.
We're a friendly team and will do our best to help you feel at ease during your interview.
All interviews will be held online via Microsoft Teams.
We’ll invite you to your interview by email.
Please join a few minutes early so that you're ready to start on time.
If you're using a laptop, please ensure that you've tested your camera and microphone and that you have connectivity (we advise that you stay close to your Wi-Fi router).
If you don't have a laptop, you can use a mobile phone to join.
The day begins with a presentation delivered virtually by a Programme Leader which will give more information about the structure and nature of the course.
You'll also have the chance to ask questions.
This will last approximately one hour.
Please ensure you have your camera turned on throughout the presentation.
After the presentation, you'll be invited to take part in an individual interview.
We’ll communicate your allocated time slot to you separately.
This part of the day will also last approximately one hour.
You'll be asked to show some photo ID to confirm your identity at the start of the one-to-one interview.
This could be:
These activities are designed to evaluate: Your knowledge, skills, academic background and prior experience; Whether you have the capability and potential to meet the Teachers’ Standards by the end of your training.
You'll participate in a one-to-one virtual interview with an academic member of the course team, comprising:
These activities are designed to evaluate:
This section will last around 10 minutes.
You'll be asked a few questions at the start of the interview to help us explore why you want to become a teacher and some of the skills you'll bring to the profession.
Before the interview, you should watch two of the videos listed below which are examples of teaching and learning activities.
Take time to reflect on what you've observed and make some notes.
This will then be used as a stimulus for discussion with your interviewer.
PGCE Primary and Early Years video options:
BA (Hons) Primary Education (5-11) with QTS videos:
Before your interview, please read the list of attributes that are considered to make an effective teacher (below) and consider why the attributes are important.
During the interview, you'll be asked to discuss your views on the attributes.
You're encouraged to draw on your own experience and knowledge of education to justify, illustrate and support your views.
Effective teacher attributes:
This section will last around 5 minutes.
BA (Hons) Primary Education (5-11) with QTS:
Before the interview, please select one of the Schools Week articles below.
You'll be asked to introduce and summarise the article, while also explaining the impact that it has had on your understanding of education, teaching or learning.
Where possible, make links to any developments you're aware of in primary schools or the wider educational context in England.
PGCE Primary and Early Years:
Before the interview, you should identify and reflect on a piece of literature/research related to education, teaching or learning.
This should be something that has challenged your thinking, fuelled your passion for teaching and learning or contributed to your understanding of learning in a particular subject or age phase.
You may wish to source your research or literature from established sources such as Google Scholar , the Chartered College of Teaching or the Times Educational Supplement .
Similarly, if you're currently engaged in academic study related to education, you may like to draw on research that you're using for your dissertation, etc.
If you're applying to the 3-7 route (X110), please draw on a piece of research/literature that's relevant to the early years age phase.
You'll be asked to introduce and summarise the research, whilst also explaining the impact that it has had on your understanding of education, teaching or learning.
Where possible, make links to any developments you're aware of related to the relevant age-phase, subject, curriculum area or the wider educational context in England.
At the end of the interview, you’ll get a chance to ask any questions you may have about the course.
If you think of more questions after your interview, please contact the course leader by email.
You can find their contact details on the relevant course page.
We ask that you kindly complete an anonymous evaluation form at the end of the session.
We're very grateful for the feedback we receive – thank you.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/after-you-apply/teacher-training-applicants/secondary-interview-information:
If you have questions about this information or about your interview in general, please contact teaching@bathspa.ac.uk .
The documents below relate to your PGCE Secondary Interview.
It's important that you click on the links and check and read all of these documents, completing the audit and task ahead of time.
All of these should be completed and brought with you to the interview.
Discussion of your subject knowledge audit will form part of your subject interview.
We will also ask to see some photographic ID to confirm your identity.
Your interview will give you the opportunity to demonstrate that you possess the appropriate qualities, attitudes and values expected of a Bath Spa Teacher, (a Bath Spa PGCE trainee) and to enable us to assess your potential to meet the Teachers’ Standards by the end of the programme.
You'll be interviewed by a University tutor and school based colleagues.
All interviews will be held online for 2025 entry.
On the day, we ask all candidates to attend a Welcome Presentation from one of the Academic Tutors at 9:00am.
During the talk, they'll explain the interview process, outline of the Secondary course structure, and give an overview of our expectations of a Bath Spa Teacher.
During the day you'll be involved in:
This range of activities is designed to assess your passion for teaching and education, your ability to communicate and interact with an audience, your knowledge and understanding of your subject and your basic literacy skills.
We'd encourage you to have gained some experience in at least one school that is related to the Secondary age phase.
It would be helpful for you to have reflected on this experience as well as any other experience of working with young people you may have and be prepared to discuss it at your interview.
If you're unable to attend this interview, please email teaching@bathspa.ac.uk .
We'll also be able to assist you with any pre-interview queries that you may have.
Your interview will be scheduled to last a maximum of 90 minutes.
We don't need to see copies of your academic certificates ahead of your interview but please be aware that all offers will be conditional on the provision of certificates to confirm the qualifications declared on your application.
Y
ou’ll also be required to produce original certificates as part of our enrolment procedures so do make sure you have your certificates ready in plenty of time.
The University is seeking to improve support for students with additional needs and is committed to a programme of adaptations to enable full access to the learning environment.
If you'd like to discuss any additional needs you may have before visiting, please contact Student Wellbeing Services at studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk or telephone +44 (0)1225 876543 .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/after-you-apply/international-applicants:
Head to our how to apply pages to get the information you need before applying to study with us.
A Level and IB Diploma results
If you have taken A Levels or the IB Diploma, and require a Student Route Visa to study in the UK, you will be required to submit a print out of your qualification or transcript results from the awarding body’s online checking service which clearly shows:
In addition, IB Diploma results should be sent through to the University via the International Baccalaureate Organization’s IBIS portal.
Please read our instructions on how to do this.
Over the years, we have helped hundreds of international students understand the visa application process.
And our friendly International Liaison Team is here for you too, ensuring that you complete the visa process with ease.
We'll be happy to hear from you.
Once you’ve received an unconditional offer, you’ll be contacted by Student Accommodation to arrange your accommodation.
You’ll also be given pre-departure information.
We’ll give you an arrival date so make sure your flights are booked to coincide with that date.
We'll email you all the information you need well in advance of your arrival.
Included will be helpful information about booking flights, opening a UK bank account and available transportation services to Bath from both Bristol and London Heathrow airports.
You may have questions about your application, the visa process, or your arrival in the UK.
You can reach us on email at international@bathspa.ac.uk or by phone at +44 (0)1225 875777 .
You may find it useful to have your own bank account in the UK.
If you are planning on doing some part-time work during your studies, you’ll need a British bank account.
Due to banking restrictions, you’ll only be able to open a bank account in the UK, if you study here for six months or more.
Your own bank at home may have a relationship with a bank in the UK.
Find out what their advice is and what methods of transferring or accessing money abroad are available for you.
Make sure you find out the cost and security measures of each method.
After you’ve applied to open a bank account, it can take several weeks to set up.
We advise that you:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/transferring-to-bath-spa-university:
Transferring to Bath Spa Find out more about the process of transferring, including moving course credits, student finance and accommodation.
Find out more about the process of transferring, including moving course credits, student finance and accommodation.
You'll need to contact Bath Spa's Accommodation and Student Finance teams (see below for key contact details) for the next steps.
Once you've made your decision and have had your place at Bath Spa confirmed, you'll need to let your current provider know that you intend to move.
They should be able to help you with this process, however here are some key points to consider.
If you're currently studying or have studied at another Higher Education Institution (HEI), you may be able to transfer credits that you’ve already achieved to your new course at Bath Spa.
Our Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) Policy contains details of our processes and procedures for accepting APL.
If you're currently studying at another institution and you're considering transferring to Bath Spa University, we recommend contacting your current accommodation provider as soon as possible to enquire about any arrangements for ending your contract.
You’ll need to get in touch with the Bath Spa University Accommodation team to get advice on your options for moving to the University.
We can’t guarantee offers of accommodation, but we're here to support you with information, resources and guidance on alternative housing options if we can’t provide you with accommodation.
If you have any financial queries related to transferring to a course at Bath Spa University (tuition fees, maintenance support), please contact our Student Finance team .
We recommend contacting the Student Finance team at your current institution before you complete the transfer to Bath Spa University, to check any financial implications of the transfer.
You should also review the government’s Student Finance web pages .
If you’re an international student and you’re thinking of transferring to a different course at Bath Spa University, we recommend that you first contact our International team to discuss any implications of changing your course (particularly pertaining to any visa regulations ), before submitting your Transfer of Award form.
Changing course at Bath Spa Do you want to change your modules, or perhaps your degree?
We can support you with changes to your studies.
Do you want to change your modules, or perhaps your degree?
If you’re considering making module changes that don’t affect your award title, we’d advise looking at the Module Selection page on My Services to view the modules available to you and confirm which you want to swap to.
Once you’ve chosen the module you want to change to, please email the Timetabling team at timetables@bathspa.ac.uk with your student ID and the module titles and codes that you wish to change.
You may feel that you’ve chosen the wrong course and that you’d like to switch degrees within Bath Spa.
How we do this depends on:
If you wish to change your mode of study from full-time to part-time or from part-time to full-time, please complete the Transfer of Award form and ask all subject leaders affected by the change to your mode of study to sign the form.
This can be requested at any point in the academic year.
Find out more on MyServices .
While completing the form, please indicate which modules should remain on your record and which should be added or removed in the section provided on the form.
Once signed and completed, please return the form to the Student Information team in Twiverton building or via Student Services on MyServices .
The Student Information team will process your request and send this to the Assistant Registrars for approval.
If you’ve decided to transfer from Bath Spa to another university or provider , you’ll need to contact the institution(s) that you’re interested in joining.
There’s no system in place for transferring between universities; you may be required to reapply through UCAS or you may be accepted directly by the new institution.
You may be able to use the credits you’ve gained at Bath Spa University towards your new course.
The Withdrawals page on MyServices gives detailed instructions on how to complete the withdrawal process, as well as more details about the financial and administrative implications.
Your options If you’ve decided to change institutions, for whatever reason, we can support you.
There are many reasons why you may wish to transfer or leave Bath Spa, and they’re all valid.
Whether because of a disability, a bereavement, mental health reasons, health-related issues or you’re simply unhappy, we can provide you with support and guidance to help you make the right decision for you.
If you need time to reassess your situation we’re also here to support you.
If you’ve decided to change institutions, for whatever reason, we can support you.
It can be helpful to speak to people you trust about how you’re feeling.
This could be family, friends, your lecturer, a mentor, or other members of staff you trust.
Talking through your feelings and the issues you’re having may give you a different perspective on your situation.
If you decide to talk to a member of staff, they can help signpost you to relevant services and colleagues at Bath Spa who’ll be able to help.
Could things improve over time?
It’s important to remember that nothing is perfect, and that your experience and feelings may change over time.
Many students feel better after completing their first year, and it’s easier to transfer or take a break from your studies if you’ve already completed and passed your first year of study.
Always be honest with yourself and those who support you.
Your feelings are valid, and it’s important to think about whether leaving university or transferring to a new provider will solve your issues.
The university experience can be lonely, but it’s important to remember that there are many opportunities to make friends and meet other people.
You could join a society or sports team, or seek out volunteering or work opportunities.
Meeting like-minded people could help you to develop new confidence, interests and relationships.
If you need professional support from staff, the Student Wellbeing Services team is here to provide you with guidance and support, and be a listening ear.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/apl:
If you don't meet the standard entry requirements for a course at Bath Spa University, we may be able to accept your prior learning or experience from outside of education via our Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) policy.
For example, you might want to apply for a master’s degree and don’t have a bachelor’s degree, but have over three years relevant work experience instead.
With APL, we assess and can formally recognise learning which has taken place in the past.
It may have been:
The prior learning must be relevant to your course of study at Bath Spa University and at the same academic level or at the level required for entry to the course.
Once you've applied for the course, you'll be sent an APL application form to complete, outlining your experience, skills and knowledge and describe:
You might also be interviewed as part of the process.
The Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) process may also allow you to gain academic credits from prior learning or experience outside of education and avoids you repeating what you've already learnt.
This means you could be exempt from some modules or even whole levels/years, depending on the evidence of prior learning you are able to present to us.
The prior learning must be relevant to your course of study at Bath Spa University and at the same academic level.
Academic staff will then map your prior learning to the learning outcomes of the course you have applied for and will to consider whether any credit can be awarded.
For more information on APL please see:
The maximum credit that can be transferred into a standard three-year undergraduate degree or one-year taught postgraduate course is normally two thirds of an award.
This means that at least 120 credits of an undergraduate degree or 60 credits of a postgraduate degree must normally be achieved through modules studied at this University.
However, the maximum number of credits which can awarded under APL may be reduced for courses with professional accreditation or for non-standard courses.
For more information see section 4 of the Accreditation of Prior Learning Policy .
If credit is awarded under APL, only marks from courses studied at Bath Spa University will be counted towards your final degree classification.
No.
APL applications must be made before you start your course.
There is no charge for APL applications.
Once you've applied to Bath Spa University, you'll be asked for a range of evidence to support your APL claim:
For Prior certificated learning (APCL), you'll need to provide evidence of the qualification you've gained previously, in the form of a ‘transcript of results’ and module learning outcomes.
We need to assess the academic level, number of credits, date of award and syllabus information.
For Prior experiential learning (APEL), you'll be sent an application and asked to summarise your experiential learning that relates to the course.
You'll also need to explain how it has advanced your skills and knowledge, and reflect how it relates to the course as well as how the course will support your career learning and personal development goals.
You'll also be asked to complete an essay related to the course (500 words for undergraduate programmes; 1000 words for postgraduate) and submit a portfolio of evidence to support the APEL application, which might include:
Please see our guidance for students on the APL process .
In most cases of experiential learning, applicants will be at least 21 years of age to allow for sufficient learning at the right level to be accrued.
Applicants can normally only seek to claim prior learning accumulated within a maximum of five years prior to the start date of the course.
However, learning in subjects where there has been a rapid technological change may have a shorter “shelf life”.
In other cases, the five-year maximum may be extended if the applicants is working in a sector directly related to the proposed course of study and can show that their learning is up to date.
Claiming APL may have an impact on your eligibility for a postgraduate loan.
You should contact your funding council for further advice.
It's not normally possible to assess non-UK qualifications as part of APCL applications for advanced standing or exemption from individual modules unless it forms part of a formal articulation arrangement with your previous university.
Bath Spa University can only sponsor International students for full time courses at the University, therefore exemption from modules may also impact on the provision of a CAS for a Student Route Visa.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/how-to-apply/contextual-admissions:
This is known as ‘contextual admissions’ – where we use the information from your application to make sure your background and potential are fully considered alongside your academic achievements.
You don’t need to request a contextual offer; our Admissions team will automatically identify eligibility from your UCAS application and will let you know about next steps.
Contextual Admissions is available to all eligible UCAS applicants for Year 0 or Year 1 of undergraduate courses delivered by Bath Spa University in Bath.
Whatever your background or experiences, we encourage you to apply to study with us.
We're on-hand to offer support and advice, and we look forward to continuing to support you through your studies and into future employment.
“Our commitment to equity and inclusion led to us being awarded the Sunday Times University of the Year for Social Inclusion.”
Whether contextual admissions will apply to you depends on whether you meet one or more of the following criteria:
*To be eligible you must be domiciled in the UK and not require visa sponsorship on the Student Route to study.
If your application meets our criteria, we'll:
We have a wide range of support available for applicants currently studying:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/bath-business-school:
At Bath Business School, we develop tomorrow's business leaders and entrepreneurs.
We’re one of the UK's newest business schools.
Our ethos?
We're student centred, teaching led, research informed and business oriented.
How does Bath Spa equip its students with the creativity and innovation needed to succeed in the contemporary business market?
ITN recently interviewed our Business and Management students to find out how their course prepares them for the professional environment.
Bath Business School has been shortlisted in the Business School of the Year category of the Times Higher Education Awards 2020.
The awards are regarded as the 'Oscars' of Higher Education.
You’ll have fantastic opportunities to work closely with business and industry through placements, projects and internships.
This means by the time you come to graduate you'll be highly employable.
Our business graduates have been employed by companies including Logica, NHS, Liberty, Ocado, IBM, Marks and Spencer, American Express, Sky and Numatic.
Looking for distinctive business course?
Bath Business School offers courses and pathways for driven individuals with business brains.
You'll find that we highly regard creativity and enterprise, as well as recognising the importance of being entrepreneurial.
Bath Business School is delighted to have secured external professional recognition from several influential and industry-relevant organisations.
The Chartered Institute of Marketing is the world’s leading professional marketing body, with over 28,000 members worldwide and a Royal Charter.
Our BA (Hons) Business and Management students can gain exemption from the Marketing module of the CIM Level 4 Professional Certificate in Marketing.
Bath Business School is a member of CABS, and our Provost, Professor Georgina Andrews , is the Vice-Chair of CABS' Learning, Teaching and Student Experience Committee.
CABS holds a Royal Charter, and supports members to maintain world-class standards of teaching and research.
CABS is the voice of the UK’s business and management education sector.
Our Tourism Management and Festivals and Events graduates are eligible to apply for the Associate (AIH) grade of membership, and following an assessment may also meet requirements for the member (MIH) grade.
"Sage are pleased to be working with Bath Spa University.
We share their focus in enhancing students' employability skills.
Sage have helped over 22,000 students with a Sage qualification."
As an Adobe Creative Campus , all Bath Spa students have access to the entire Adobe Creative Suite of elite industry-leading apps, including Photoshop, InDesign, Adobe Express and more.
Steve is the Course Leader for our Law degree.
He explains the importance of supporting his students and helping them be prepared for life after university.
For information on upcoming events, top tips from alumnus and an insight into life at Bath Business School, you can find more on our social media:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/bath-business-school/collaboration-opportunities:
We are always on the look-out for practising lawyers and those in related fields including social, third-sector, business, recruitment/HR and governance roles, to enrich our academic programmes.
You could speak about your experiences, your journey to or from the law, your job or specialism, or your advice about careers and bring the law to life for the next generation.
Alternatively, perhaps you’d like to instruct our students in a particular skill, drawing on your own experience.
For instance, our students would relish the opportunity to conduct a moot in front of those who do sit or have sat as a judge.
Our students love to hear about local, national and international events hosted by our partners and our communities, and we would be pleased to pass on details of your event.
We hold a number of business network events, research seminars and public lectures at Bath Spa University.
If you’d like to be included on our guest list, please let us know.
The SQE route to qualification for new solicitors imposes a requirement that candidates for admission to the roll of solicitors have at least two years’ full-time (or equivalent) qualifying work experience.
If you would like to help the next generation on their journey to qualification and maintain the pipeline of qualified solicitors, please consider offering our students a work placement.
Placements can be in one of three formats:
More information on our Placements and internships page.
Equally, if you can offer even a short period of work shadowing to our students we would be very grateful.
During their third year, our law students engage in pro bono work, helping members of our community with their legal issues, gaining first-hand experience of legal work and developing their legal and professional skills.
If you have any activities, pro bono or otherwise, that our students could help you with, please let us know.
You could have our student's assistance with:
We are happy to assist with any recruitment processes you consider appropriate.
We will need to ensure our students are doing appropriate work within their competencies and are appropriately supervised at all times.
Naturally, our students have their eye on life after graduation from the earliest stages of their course and are encouraged to plan their career from the first year of our programme.
If you have a role that you think would be suitable for our graduates, or if you need for a part-time worker to help you during the academic year, please let us know by emailing careers@bathspa.ac.uk .
We’d be pleased to help advertise the role for you.
It is important to recognise, reward and celebrate achievement and we award prizes, commendations and the like to our students for outstanding performance.
If you would like to share in the celebrations please contact us about sponsoring a prize.
Complementing the pride of receiving a certificate declaring the student’s success, a prize helps towards the student’s future success by contributing towards the cost of new textbooks and the like.
If you would like to go further and sponsor a student via a scholarship , perhaps enhancing students' chances to realise their academic or professional dreams, please let us know.
We regularly advertise for part-time lecturing positions via our Current Vacancies page.
If you are interested in teaching our students please send us your CV with details of your specialisms, availability and any teaching or assessment experience.
Please email Course Leader, Steve Goulton at s.goulton@bathspa.ac.uk with questions or for more details.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/leadership-ethics-and-professional-practice:
CLEPP brings together colleagues from the Schools of Business, Education, and Sciences to address topics around leadership and professional integrity.
The Centre for Leadership, Ethics and Professional Practice (CLEPP) is an interdisciplinary research centre that works towards knowledge exchange between the fields of Business and Management, Education and the Sciences.
Through this dialogue, we are looking to explore and problem solve contemporary social, political and economical issues in such areas as ethics and integrity, professional conduct, leadership practice, and organisational transparency.
Using Bath Spa as a distinctive centre of knowledge and exchange, we aim to work with colleagues across uniformed services, education, professional development, tourism, knowledge management and corporate social responsibility to foster impact across the wider Southwest region and across the UK.
if you'd like to know more about what we do, or how to work with us, please contact us at clepp@bathspa.ac.uk .
Mahmoud
          Emira
Subject Lead for Postgraduate and International, and Programme Leader for MA Education (Leadership and Management)

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/bath-school-of-art-film-and-media:
Turn your creative curiosity into a career through study at the Bath School of Art, Film and Media
for Graduate Prospects – On Track in Art Design (Complete University Guide 2025)
for Teaching Quality in Communication and Media Studies (Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025)
The world is changing, and creative problem-solving is becoming an imperative.
At the Bath School of Art, Film and Media we will teach you how to harness method and imagination with technical skill to become a resilient and motivated maker.
You will become your own champion - translating your professional practice into industry through exhibitions, commissioned projects and performances.
Through our innovative Creative Arts Practice programme, you can explore your talent across disciplines, from sculpture to painting to the graphic arts, and choose a path that's right for you.
You'll be based at the purpose built Locksbrook Campus, our restored riverside Herman Miller factory that offers all the space you need for collaboration and inspiration.
“My Fine Art degree at Bath Spa meant the difference between collecting ideas in notepads, and seeing them realised on gallery walls and beyond.”
Get a sneak peek into our specialist workshops at Locksbrook, our purpose-built art and design campus.
We have a workshop for everything from ceramics to textiles.
Hear from our students and technicians about why our workshops are so fundamental to our art and design community.
BA (Hons) Photography alum Jake Ogden is a filmmaker, photographer and designer living in London.
The course helped him to understand what he truly enjoyed most, and to build his portfolio in the correct direction for future industry possibilities.
James Arthur
          Allen
Claire
          Loder
Ben
          Parry
Andrea
          Medjesi-Jones
Conrad
          Moriarty-Cole
Mariele
          Neudecker
Hannah K
          Chapman
Charlie
          Tweed
Lucy
          Gundry
Benjamin
          Thapa
30 April 2025
14 April 2025
4 April 2025
2 April 2025
We recognise talent, wherever it lies.
The Bath School of Art, Film and Media will challenge and encourage you to find your own voice, no matter the method of expression.
Our educators are makers, doers, and creators.
They have a wealth of personal and industry experience, and will give you the space to develop a professional practice that is individual to you.
“...stay determined, get your work out there, chat to everyone and make sure that people are aware of your name.”

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/bath-school-of-art-film-and-media/research:
If you're looking for a supervisor, or to discuss a proposal, you can contact the Higher Degrees Tutor for the School of Art, Film and Media :
Postgraduate research is one of the most demanding and rewarding experiences in higher education.
Curious about doing a research degree with us, but not sure where to start?
Get in touch with our Graduate College .
Get in touch with Dr James Baggott-Brown (j.baggott-brown@bathspa.ac.uk).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/bath-school-of-art-film-and-media/art-and-design-collection:
Bath Spa University has a unique collection that reflects historical and contemporary art, artefacts and archives related to its important history as the former Bath Academy of Art.
The collection is a valued resource representing art education, art practice and related creative endeavours, along with its landmark environs and the movable cultural heritage that is associated with it.
It is committed to retaining the singularity of its collection which encompasses the teaching, training, professional practice and history associated with art and design education since the mid-19th century.
This nationally significant art and heritage collection includes works on paper, paintings, sculptures, teaching aides, and archival material, as well as artefacts relating to the sites the institution has occupied.
The collection is also of significant value to the University as it represents the heritage and culture of our students, staff and alumni.
With significant holdings of British and international art dating back as early as the 15th century but with a special emphasis on twentieth-century works, the collection is a major resource within the University, both as a historical record as well as an aid to teaching and research.
There are four distinct groups of items within the Art and Design Collection, namely:
The collection is currently undergoing assessment and cataloguing but much of it is accessible for research and study by appointment.
To view a selection of our artworks, why not visit our Art UK page ?
For more information or to make an appointment, please contact collection@bathspa.ac.uk or follow us on Instagram @bsucollections

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/bath-school-of-design:
Design students are the professional problem-solvers of the future: creative, inspired, connected, collaborative and responsive.
Our courses ask you to define and challenge modern problems – and innovate to create effective solutions through brilliant design.
You'll be curious and resourceful.
You’ll learn to combine practical, hands-on making with creative thinking to turn your ideas into reality.
“Bath Spa University was a platform that gave me the confidence to push boundaries, with the aid of some amazing tutors, to turn my business into what it is today.
Creativity is implemented in everything we do.”
J
          Ponte
Ed
          Longford
Ian 
          Parkes
Ian
          Wills
Andy
          Gray
Milenne
           Tanganelli
Natalie Francis 
          Massong
Rachel
          Evans
Toby
          Smith
Ioannis
          Christopoulos
Greg 
          Jamieson
James 
          Sale
Funda
          Kemal
Lecturer in Architecture
Francis 
          Nwebonyi
Nancy
          Bakopoulou
Katharine
          Hillier
“Get involved, use the equipment and studio space to its fullest while it’s on offer to you.
Go to the group critiques, professional context sessions and guest lectures, they offer invaluable insight and can really help provide clarity to your work and future direction.”
With specialised space, staff, and specialised equipment, our dedicated art and design campus is the perfect place to explore your individual creativity.
Locksbrook is home to our state-of-the-art studios and workshops , and designed as a unique open-plan facility, built to emphasise collaboration and experimentation.
“Studying the course has allowed me to realise my own potential in developing my personal practice and the opportunities for creating and selling my own product ranges.”

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/bath-school-of-music-and-performing-arts:
Design.
Create.
The Bath School of Music and Performing Arts can turn your creative passion into a career.
From Acting to Stage Management, Circus to Opera, the Bath School of Music and Performing Arts offers you the right course to fulfil your creative career aspiration.
At our campuses in Bath, or through one of our excellent partners, we offer an unrivalled portfolio of undergraduate and postgraduate courses that will put you on the right path to the music and performing arts industry.
To find out more, explore our interest areas
Our staff are practitioners and researchers who work in the industry and can offer you a real-world understanding of the music and performing arts professions.
Through our teaching and practice we will give you the skills and knowledge to achieve this: we will develop your practice, encourage an enterprising and entrepreneurial mindset and nurture your creativity, preparing you for the demands of your chosen career and much more.
Jo
          Sercombe
Senior Lecturer in Singing and Musical Theatre
Sarah
          Holden-Boyd
Lecturer in Acting
Tobi
          Poster-Su
Lecturer in Drama
Chris
          Barham
Our approach to research in the performing arts connects inter-disciplinary practice with current theoretical contexts.
Our research specialisms within theatre, dance and music span a wide range of interests - from choreographic practices to screen dance and digital performance to performance and the medical humanities, to name a few.
Matthew
          Mazanek
Vicky
          Hunter
Visiting Research Fellow in Site Dance
Celeste
          Cantor-Stephens
Julian
          Jensen
Bath Spa Productions is a major producer of Dance, Music and Theatre events across the city.
This exciting innovation project links you with professional artists and companies from the real world.
SparkFest is our annual and ever-growing festival of new work.
Adam
          Bottomley
BA (Hons) Theatre Production
Naomi
          Hutchinson
Liam
          Wise
Through our network of professional, exchange and collaborative partners, Bath School of Music and Performing Arts link you to expert practitioners, educators and researchers in the UK and beyond.
This means we draw on a broad network of industry advisers, institutions and partners to underpin your learning.
So that everything you do always relates back to the profession for which you train.
We know that working in this industry is not just about talent, but also about your entrepreneurialism and how you enhance your professionalism, develop your networks and stimulate your creativity to make work, as much as find work.
See some of our collaborative partners below, or visit our Educational Partnerships page for more informaiton.
Students perform or work regularly at venues such as: Theatre Royal Bath, Wiltshire Live Music Centre, and the Bristol Old Vic.
We are committed to working with the city of Bath as part of its cultural life.
We work with many local companies and institutions, including: Bath Dance, The Bath Festival, Visit Bath, The Holburne Museum and The Southgate Centre.
Across all of our programmes we connect to industry through placement offers, co-production and advisory bodies.
A few examples are our work with Theatre Lab, Wiltshire Rural Music, Bay Productions and Salisbury Playhouse.
We offer international exchanges with universities such as Columbia College Chicago, SUNY Geneseo and Oklahoma City University.
We connect you to the global arts community.
"The support network is huge, and the course is always there to help you think about the next steps, creating contacts that will set you up with work straight out of your degree."
27 June 2025
26 June 2025

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/bsu-london:
Bath Spa University London is our new site in Hackney and is part of our higher education community.
Studying at our Bath Spa University London centre can be a career defining moment.
Our central and vibrant location, convenient transport links, and connections with the industries surrounding us will help you experience one of the world's best cities to study in.
With a key focus on your employability, we aim to provide you with access to a host of potential employers and careers.
We encourage our students to think big and outside of the box.
Our friendly academic guidance, top facilities and great location will equip you with the knowledge, opportunities and skills you need for a successful career.
Flexible timetables allow you to fit full time study around other commitments by studying two full days a week or three-four evenings a week.
Our teaching is interactive, practical and engaging and you'll benefit from the deep knowledge and industry experience of our academic staff.
Our students are diverse with a mix of backgrounds, ages and life experiences, giving you a dynamic peer-to-peer learning experience.
Our committed academics link theory with practice in a friendly and supportive environment and offer one-to-one support to students.
You'll join a community that is genuinely caring and have access to teams specialised to help you with admissions, wellbeing, careers and employability, finance, library services and more.
Studying in London has many perks including a thriving social scene, broad career and networking opportunities and with a great public transport system it's easy to get around.
London also offers the advantage of many part time jobs and discounts for students, meaning there are ways to make studying in London more affordable.
Our Silver rating for teaching excellence under the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) demonstrates our excellent student outcomes, excellent teaching and personalised learning.
Our courses are designed to help you become a creative thinker, doer and maker, and also to give you the skills and knowledge valued by employers.
We offer different routes into study depending on your current qualifications.
"For me, the decision to study at BSU London has been a very positive experience.
I feel that the foundation programme has given me the confidence and skills to achieve my goal of graduating with a degree in business and management."
Emily
          Downes
Digital Resources Centre Librarian
Jenny
          Williams
Employability Coach
Mohammed
          Hbubati
Senior Lecturer
Natassia
          Nascimento
Onyinyechi Joy
          Kingdom
Sheku
          Fofanah
Senior Lecturer in Business and Management, Research Lead at BSUL, Chair of the Fairer World Conference
Natalie
          Da Silva
Student Success Officer (Student Life)
Mehrunnisa
          Tariq
Employer Relationships Advisor
Mohammed Faruk
          Hossain
Lecturer in Human Resource Management
Dawn
          Calderwood
Course Director (Student Experience)
Priya
          Thapa
Course Director (Teaching and Learning), Co-Chair of the Fairer World Conference
Jagan
          Karki
Progamme Leader for the postgraduate programme at BSUL
Faiz
          Subhani
Lecturer in Business Management
"Studying at BSU London gave me the chance to develop myself enormously personally and professionally.
The teaching is always engaging while the courses have quality content, and we always have extra support available if needed."
Bath Spa University London, 50 Hoxton Street, Hoxton, London, N1 6LP
///decent.theme.else

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/education:
We’ve been inspiring students, teachers and other education professionals since 1946.
The School of Education is a leader in its field: we train, inspire, create and connect with educators in the region and all over the world.
We work in classrooms and educational settings across the world, providing the highest quality teaching and research.
We work with over 670 school partners, as well as with colleges, early years settings and anywhere learning takes place.
We promote excellence and expertise in educational research and practice across the globe.
From the UK to Australia, New York to Zambia, our educators make a difference to the lives of all children and young people everywhere.
The School of Education is the largest Initial Teacher Education provider in the South West.
We work in partnership with 300+ schools , both primary and secondary, and deliver research-informed training to 500+ teacher trainees every year.
It’s difficult to train and retain teachers into the profession.
We want to make an impact.
To do this, we engage with all possible government routes into teaching, we go into the community to inspire local people to become teachers, and work with charities to address teacher shortages in areas of great need.
Developing high-impact resources for the sector means we can support educators throughout their career.
Recently, we've created:
Working with government agencies and organisations locally, nationally and internationally, we’ve developed Department for Education-approved SENCO workload guidance , partnered with Universities in Egypt, Cyprus and Greece to develop a Refugee Teaching Certificate Programme , and Evaluated Ghana’s new teacher education curriculum .
Our Newton Park campus is a harmonious balance of the historical and the modern.
A former Georgian country house estate, it became home to our Teacher Training College after World War II, and continues to house our teacher training provision to this day.
We've changed a bit since those early days.
We now boast a range of state of the art facilities and buildings, including the eco-friendly Commons, the central heart of our campus with spacious teaching, social and digital facilities.
We also work in partnership with over 670 schools in the region.
We know a lot about education at Bath Spa – Newton Park first opened as Newton Park Teacher Training College in 1946, following the post-war shortage of teachers.
For over 70 years, we've been training the next generation of great teachers.
As well as becoming teachers, graduates from the Institute for Education go on to explore a diverse range of career paths in the field of education, with our undergraduate and postgraduate education programmes offering a broad, global context that will prepare you for whichever career path you choose to follow.
Our School of Education is a place where students, teachers, governors, researchers, support staff and everyone interested in education can come together in a community of research and practice.
We are committed to providing a creative space to encourage innovative educational practice, through the promotion of debate, professionalism, expertise and partnership that creates globally aware, socially responsible and successful learners.
Sarah
          Hayes
Shaddai
          Tembo
Caroline 
          Whiting
Kay
          Davies
Joy
          Cornthwaite
Emma
          Arblaster
Paul
          McLaughlin
Lisa
          Ziegler
Anne
          Parfitt
Research Fellow
Helena
          Thomas
Maggie
          Robbins
Claire
          Fletcher
Kyriaki
          Anagnostopoulou
Thomas Howard
          Morris
Programme Leader for Primary Education (5-11) with QTS
Caroline 
          Ormesher
Jane
          Flood
Beca
          Lansdowne
Andrew
          Psirides
Wendy
          Geens
John
          Bostock
Agnieszka
          Bates
William
          Akerman
Lorraine 
          Knibbs
Michael
          Mann
Christopher
          Collier
Katie
          Crouch
Dylan
          Gwyer-Roberts
Vandana
          Singh
Senior Lecturer in International Development Education
Eri
          Mountbatten-O'Malley
Michael
          Drayson
Yesid
          Paez
Nancy
          Widdowson
Kerry-Anne
          Barber
Katy
          Brickley
Postdoctoral Research Assistant
Steve
          Osborne
Jenny
          Hatley
Lou
          Riddoch
Mel
          McCree
Lauren Emery, BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies alumna, was a Student Academic Rep during the coronavirus pandemic.
She was an integral part of the School of Education community during a difficult time and her efforts saw her awarded Student of the Year in the 2020 Vice-Chancellor’s Awards.
Dr Penny Hay is a Bath Spa alum whose passion for arts education has led to her extensive work in creative pedagogy at Bath Spa and beyond.
She's dedicated to transformative teaching and learning, underpinned by a clear set of values and a focus on imagination and creativity.
Harry Mungala completed his MA in International Education at Bath Spa University.
He talks about why he became a teacher, his experience studying at Bath Spa and the differences between teaching in England and Zambia.
Dr Sarah Earle is a Reader in Education and focuses on supporting science teaching and leadership in primary schools.
In the last few years she’s supported over 8,000 teachers to develop their skills.
“We educate over 500 new teachers annually, and foster strong partnerships with hundreds of education settings in the local community.
Graduates from Bath Spa University are transforming children’s lives in our region and far beyond.”
Our research is evidence-based and education-focused.
It's aimed at providing practical solutions that have a real impact on the lives of children, young people and educators alike.
We've made a lasting impact in education policy and practice through our research and projects in fields including attachment awareness, diversity in teacher education and the National SENCO workload survey, to name but a few.
Project Trust has more than 50 years' experience in providing ethical, international volunteering placements for young people.
In 2022, it helped BA (Hons) Education Studies student Jasmine Raymond-Barker to complete a virtual placement.
Following in Jasmine's footsteps, two second-year BA Education Studies students embarked on their summer placements in Ghana.
Set on the beautiful campus at Newton Park, and part of an active early years research community through the School of Education, Oak Tree Day Nursery boasts a close-knit team of nursery practitioners and Forest School leaders who provide quality childcare.
7 April 2025
25 March 2025
24 January 2025
26 June 2024

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/education/research:
We welcome research students to our vibrant research community.
Explore the individual research centre pages below to read about our research and find potential supervisors.
Interested in pursuing research in education?
Find out more about our doctoral supervision in the School of Education.
We host regular research events in the School of Education and we welcome Bath Spa staff and students to these seminars and lectures.
Members of the public who share our interest in education are equally welcome to attend.
Join Philippa Gardom Hulme (independent consultant) and Kendra McMahon (BSU, CRiSTLE) with video recorded contribution from Mumui Kalisi La'akulu Tonga National University.
The event takes place on Wednesday 14 May 2025, 11:30am - 12:30pm.
online.
Learn more and book
Ashley Ogborn presents a scoping review of the rapidly evolving landscape regarding GenAI specifically related to education technologies.
The event takes place on Thursday 24 April 2025, 12pm-1pm, online.
In this seminar, Dr Cath Gristy and Dr Anne Parfitt discuss how classes with children from across a wide age range  are spaces for thinking and doing differently, offering innovation and change for pedagogy.
The event takes place on Thursday 20 March 2025, 1pm-2pm, online.
In this seminar, Professor Rusznyak from the University of Witwatersand draws on data from a South African study and uses tools from Legitimation Code Theory (LCT) to discuss the ways in which mentoring conversations support effective student teacher learning.
The event takes place on Monday 24 February 2025, 12pm-1pm, online.
In this seminar, Dr Paul McLaughlin debates whether there is a single educational aim (instrumental or intrinsic).
Indeed, a convincing argument can be made that there is in fact a plurality of more or less justifiable and potentially conflicting educational aims.
The event takes place on Thursday 20 February 2025, 1pm-2pm, online.
Professor Earle and Dr Read share findings from a Nuffield Foundation study on purposeful practical work in primary science, briefly considering the literature, a stakeholder survey and teacher interviews.
Find out more and book
In this seminar, Dr Yeh presents her recent work on the well-being cultivation practices of school leaders.
Her research identified the strategies employed by school leaders from diverse backgrounds and contexts as they navigated unprecedented global crises.
In this seminar Professor Suranjan Das MA(Cal) D.Phil (Oxon) will explore the changing scenario following the introduction of the National Education Policy, 2020.
The seminar will highlight the possibilities and challenges for Indian higher education, along with the implications for the internationalisation of the sector in a globalised world order.
Professor Das is Vice-Chancellor of Adamas University, Kolkata.
Dr Richard Parker shares his thoughts around the theoretical and policy context of the attachment aware schools project originating at Bath Spa, taken from his book Attachment Aware Schools – a Critical Perspective , published by Palgrave Macmillan in July.
The seminar is chaired by Dr Kate Brooks.
The event takes place on Wednesday 18 September 2024, 1pm-2pm, online.
In this seminar, Professor Sarah Hayes (Bath Spa University) and Professor Michael Jopling (University of Brighton) share the pleasures and challenges of the critically reflexive process necessary to bring together an extremely diverse set of chapters from authors working across different sectors.
The event takes place on Tuesday 10 October 2023, 1pm-2pm, online.
Find out more.
Professor Linda la Velle presents findings of a novel mapping exercise to assess the extent to which initial teacher education (ITE) focused research was returned in the 2014 Research Excellence Framework (REF).
The event takes place on Monday 30 October 2023, 12pm-1pm, online.
Dr Ben Simmons and Hazel Vernon present the links between several small projects related to accessibility for people with learning disabilities.
The event takes place on Tuesday 29 November 2023, 12pm-1pm, online.
Building on the ideas of Raymond Williams and Paulo Freire, Professor Ian Menter will draw on his comparative research on teacher education to identify key threats, opportunities and challenges for contemporary teacher education.
The event takes place on Monday 11 December 2023, and is a School of Education Staff Development session.
Dr Caroline Kuhn , Bath Spa University and Dr Juliana Raffaghelli , University of Padova, will present their scholarship on critical approaches to smart technologies and artificial intelligence in education.
The event takes place on Wednesday 24 January 2024, 12.30-1.30pm.
Find out more .
Vandana Singh and two Bath Spa alumni, Nathan Richardson and Rebecca Richardson, present their HEQR funded fieldwork in Nangi, Nepal.
The event takes place on Tuesday 14 February 2024, 1-2pm.
Dr Georgia Niolaki, Bath Spa University and Dr Aris Terzopoulos , Birmingham City University, present several projects that involved working with teachers and learners on increasing dyslexia awareness and supporting learners with dyslexia.
The event takes place on Tuesday 12 March 2024, 12-1pm.
Dr Thomas Ralph , Exeter University, presents his work investigating the motivations behind disruptive pupil behaviour.
Dr Kate Brooks , Bath Spa University, sets the scene by outlining the Attachment Research Community, its values and mission.
The event takes place on Tuesday 30 April, 2024, 1pm-2pm, online.
Dr Sally Riordan, UCL, discusses her work on randomised controlled trials and their use in education.
The event takes place on 7 May 2024, 1pm-2pm.
Find out more on the event page .
Katie Crouch, Annabelle Howard and Stuart Read discuss their recent community-based project 'Disability, Activism and Advocacy.'
The event takes place on 22 May 2024, 12pm-1pm.
In this seminar Dr Hordern unpacks the assumptions underpinning England’s new Core Content Framework (CCF) for Initial Teacher Education in respect of the educational research required for teacher expertise.
He will draw on his recent co-authored paper: ‘The core content framework and the ‘new science’ of educational research’.
The event takes place on Tuesday 23 May 2023, 12:00-1:00pm, Newton G08.
Dr Oksana Marchuk and Dr Margaryta Shkabarina present pedagogical creativity as an essential quality of the development of teachers.
Some theoretical and practical aspects of pre-service teachers’ pedagogical creativity formation will be discussed.
The event takes place on Friday 3 March 2023, 11:00am-12:00pm, online.
Dr Hania Salter-Dvorak reports on her ongoing study being carried out in the tradition of ‘linguistic ethnography’ (Copland and Creese, 2015).
It focuses on argumentation in the academic writing of second-language postgraduate students in our increasingly internationalised and diverse HE sector.
The study aims are to provide a pedagogic intervention in the form of optional workshops in order to develop argumentation in the academic writing of doctoral students and to complete a constructivist evaluation of the materials and activities used.
The event takes place on Wednesday 8 February, 1:00-2:00pm, online.
Richard Riddell outlines some of the thinking that has gone into his new book, out in February, for which the live research finished in late 2021.
He considers how the centralisation of Education governance in England and the narrowing of its focus have distanced schools from their communities and helped degrade public life in England.
He suggests possibilities for reintroducing democratic behaviour.
The event takes place Wednesday 11 January 2023, 1:00-2:00 PM, online.
Dr Santos presents an analysis of the complex dynamics emerging from the interactions between global, national, and local actors in policymaking processes.
In her paper she addresses how references to international organisations (such as the OECD), their tools of assessment and guidance (such as PISA), and practices of other countries are used in discussions about education taking place the Portuguese parliament and in the media.
The event takes place Tuesday 6 December 2022, 1:00-2:00 PM, online.
For Disability History Month 2022 a series of events will held to celebrate disability equality.
As part of this programme this Lunchtime Seminar is a presentation of some of the current disability research taking place in BSU.
Dr Stuart Read, Dr Tanvir Bush and the 'We Are The People' team members will discuss what inclusive research and public engagement can 'look like' in practice, by sharing their reflections regarding organising and running the recent ‘Festival of Inclusion, Disability and Community Action’.
The event takes place Thursday 1 December 2022, 1:00-2:00 PM , online.
Emeritus Professor of Education Nick Sorensen will introduce his research and discuss the journey of publishing his book.
The event takes place Wednesday 16 November 2022, 12:00-1:00 PM, online.
Grace Quantock shares her clinical and personal experiences of considering the boundaries of vulnerability.
The event takes place Wednesday 26 October 2022, 12:00-1:00 PM, online.
Bath Spa colleagues have opportunities to sign up to the Erasmus+ exchanges for learning mobilities with linked universities, thereby encouraging inclusion, creativity and innovation in the collaborating HE organisations.
Colleagues who have participated in Erasmus+ exchange mobilites to India and Kurdistan will discuss their experiences in this seminar.
Find out more and register to attend .
In this seminar Dr Agnieszka Bates invites exploration of human flourishing from a phenomenological perspective.
Taking Merleau-Ponty’s phenomenological theses of interdependence, embodiment and ambivalence as our points of departure, we will consider how human flourishing emerges in everyday interpersonal relations and how human suffering arises when relations of interdependence have been severed.
During this seminar we invite participants to reflect critically on the role of education in our HEI and more widely, across society, when thinking about future generations.
As reported by UNESCO (2021), it is meaningful to look at the future of education in challenging national and international contexts.
A new social contract for education requires us to think differently about learning and the relationships between students, teachers, knowledge and the world.
How are we going to think differently about learning and these fundamental relationships?
In this seminar Andrew Joyce-Gibbons presents studies linking individuals and groups of participants to explore non-collocated, synchronous, collaborative problem solving.
To date, investigations have explored the emergence of intra- and inter-group collaborative work in Primary age students.
More recent studies have explored time taken to task completion and retention of information amongst undergraduate participants engaging with SynergyNet (Haymay).
Dr Nick Clough and Dr Jane Tarr will explore the participatory action research (PAR) approaches enacted in classrooms to promote inter-professional learning between teachers, teacher trainers and music therapists.
They will report their findings from an ERASMUS+ funded project entitled "Learning in a New Key" which brought music therapists and teachers to work together to support the wellbeing and inclusion in learning of young people with social, emotional and mental health concerns.
The research seminar will also launch their book where their findings are documented: Addressing Issues of Mental Health in Schools through the Arts.
Teachers and Music Therapists Working Together (London: Routledge, 2022).
This presentation from Dr Georgia Niolaki will consist of two parts.
First, Georgia will explain why we need to research spelling practices for primary age children.
Then she will rationalise why the new interpretive spelling test she is currently developing with colleagues from UCL, NTU and BCU is needed for assessing spelling skill in primary education.
In the second part, Georgia will present the results from three research papers on spelling predictors and processes based on work supported by the British Academy (2017-2019) and the British Psychological Society (BPS, 2019-2020).
In this seminar, Eri Mountbatten-O'Malley will summarise his PhD research.
As he will suggest, if any concept is subject to the standards of nuanced and normative judgement, it is the related notions of what it is to ‘flourish’, be happy and well as a human being.
Yet what is clear is that in the understandable desire to improve happiness, well-being, success and satisfaction, researchers often neglect the importance of normativity and context.
Watch the full seminar online .
Caroline Kuhn and two co-researchers on this one-year EPSRC funded research project share their initial findings on designing and piloting an open educational resource (OER) aimed at fostering critical data literacy for HE educators.
Dr Tanvir Bush and Dr Stuart Read are disability activists and Research Fellows within the School for Education.
In this seminar, they'll share findings from their research exploring contemporary research issues in Disability Studies and Education, and introduce their Wellcome Disability Research Collective programme (2021-2026).
Watch the full seminar online
Enhance your career in education with our Professional Doctorate.
You'll learn how to analyse, critique and innovate in education practice, policy and research.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/education/teacher-education:
All children deserve the very best teachers.
At Bath Spa, you'll become an outstanding one.
We have over 70 years of experience in training the next generation of teachers, first operating as Newton Park Teacher Training College in 1946.
We deliver outstanding training by following four principles:
Our partnership is committed to the successful learning and progress of all children and young people.
As a trainee within our Teacher Education partnership, you'll undergo rigorous training that ensures children progress, and paves the way to your future success as a teacher.
Hania
          Salter-Dvorak
Giles
          Martin
Subject Leader for Higher Education Practice
Niamh
          McGrogan
Linda
          la Velle
Charlie
          Berney
Allyson
          Lascelle
Sarah
          Wilton-Rhead
Emily
          Asbury
Andrew
          Carr
Pat
          Black
Eleanor
          West
Georgina
          Normile
Fiona
          Hunt
Nataliya
          Rumyantseva
Caroline
          Kuhn
Jason
          Pearce
Theo
          Blackmore
Senior Research Fellow
Hazel
          Vernon
Project Manager for We Are The People
Sarah
          Earle
Fern
          Jest
Judith
          Holby
Phil
          Griffith
Arthur 
          Holt
Project Assistant for We Are The People
Please note, these events are most suited for individuals who have already completed an undergraduate degree.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/education/teacher-education/school-centred-initial-teacher-training:
SCITTs are networks of schools that have been approved to run school-centred training.
They provide practical, hands-on teacher education, delivered by experienced teachers in their own school or a school in their network.
Training towards the recommendation of QTS is delivered by each SCITT in their respective schools and SCITT centres, through practical work and taught sessions.
On successful completion of training, each SCITT recommends trainees for QTS to the Department for Education (DfE) and confirms this with Bath Spa University for the award of the SCITT PGCE.
Bath Spa University’s Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) for SCITTs is designed to ensure that critical thinking and reflection form an integrated part of both Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) and PGCE programmes and, as a result, an integrated part of each teacher’s practice.
We work with a growing number of Primary and Early Years, Secondary and cross-phase SCITTs to deliver the PGCE as part of their initial teacher training.
Learning in the classroom is placed at the heart of each assignment, in order to form explicit links with teacher practice, QTS and the Core Content Framework.
Bath Spa's School of Education can provide the SCITT PGCE through one of two pathways:
Both routes lead to the award of Bath Spa University’s SCITT PGCE through formal validation.
"As a teacher, your passion and creativity will inspire and shape future generations."
Are you a School-Centred Initial Teacher Training provider?
Want to get involved with us?
If you'd like to discuss working with Bath Spa, please contact us at scittadmin@bathspa.ac.uk .
We currently work with the following SCITTs:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/education/teacher-education/teach-first:
Bath Spa University is pleased to be working with Teach First to deliver the Teach First Programme.
In 2021–2023 we're the lead university for Teach First in the South West and London regions, responsible for the delivery of the Postgraduate Diploma in Education (PGDE) and subject development.
From September 2022 we're one of the two national university providers for Teach First, responsible for the assessment of the PGDE award for a national cohort in the subjects areas of:
Teach First is an education charity that believes no child’s educational success should be limited by their socio-economic background.
They work with people and organisations who share their vision towards the day when every child has the excellent education they're entitled to.
Developed in collaboration with leading schools and universities, the Teach First Training Programme combines world-class teacher and leadership training, and leads to a qualification that recognises your advanced skills in teaching and develops leadership attributes.
The two-year paid programme is based on global best practice and research and refined through more than 15 years of experience and feedback from leading employers, teaching experts and, of course, previous participants.
You'll be employed and receive a salary in a school setting as an unqualified teacher during year one of the programme, before gaining QTS at the end of the year and continuing into year two as an ECT (Early Career Teacher).
If successful on the programme, you'll achieve a Postgraduate Diploma in Education (PGDE) which is fully funded.
This is double the academic credits of a PGCE.
This academic work is closely aligned to the professional work you'll be involved in as you work towards achieving Qualified Teachers Status.
You’ll also acquire the key skills and personal qualities needed to develop into an effective leader – someone who can make a real impact.
Training commences in the summer prior to year one with an intensive ‘Summer Institute’, which focuses on the essentials of teaching theory and practice.
Interested in becoming a Teach First partner school?
You'll find more information on the Teach First website.
If you're interested in applying for the Teach First Training programme, please visit the Teach First website.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/education/professional-development:
Our six-year, part-time, Professional Doctorate in Education is a practice-based doctorate aimed at academic and teaching staff looking to enhance their pedagogical knowledge, research methods and analysis, and strengthen their scholarly writing.
See the course page for more information and key course contacts.
7 June 2024

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/education/professional-development/bsued-insights:
This series of ten twilight webinars offers education practitioners evidence-based insights on topics ranging from pupils’ oracy and retrieval skills to student and staff wellbeing.
Scheduled once a month between October 2024 and July 2025, this CPD series will enhance your practice and understanding of current issues in education.
The subscription of £250 per school per year will give webinar access to teachers and teaching support staff in your school.
All sessions take place on Wednesday evenings between 4pm-5.30pm.
This schedule may be subject to minor changes.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/education/educafe:
We're all members of our education community of practice (CoP) in the School of Education .
Engagement with others is key to becoming a full member of a CoP, and the aim of the EduCafe is to start this interaction.
We believe everyone who is committed to developing their experience and knowledge in education deserves a voice and a space to be heard, regardless of how much experience they have.
The EduCafe provides the perfect opportunity for engagement, and to strengthen and develop our community of practice.
EduCafe events are held several times during the academic year, with topics suggested and selected by the members of the group - both students and staff.
As we talk and share our knowledge and experiences - without judgement - we hope to strengthen our community, our confidence and our practice together.
A community of practice is a group of people who share a concern or a passion for something they do, and learn how to do it better as they interact regularly.* It comprises three characteristics:
Anyone within the School of Education is welcome to attend an EduCafe session - including staff, undergraduate and postgraduate students.
We meet several times during the academic year to explore pressing topics in Education.
We'll discuss two specific topics in each hourlong session, and if time allows, a third, 'wild card' topic may be introduced.
EduCafe offers an opportunity to enrich your creative and critical thinking skills, and the chance to discuss important issues in Education with other students and staff in our community.
If you'd like to join us for the next event, please fill in our registration form .
You can also suggest topics for future meetings by completing our suggestion form below.
Group members can suggest topics or ideas by filling in our form .
Ideas might start with a photograph, a quote, a newspaper headline, a vision or a word - no formal presentations are expected at this stage, and all ideas are welcome.
Topics/ideas are voted on by the group.
The most popular choices will be scheduled into the EduCafe programme of events after consultation with the proposer(s).
EduCafe is accessible on Ultra .
If you have any questions or want to find out more about the events, please email educafe@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/school-of-sciences:
Explore the influence of nature and culture on our world.
Through our teaching practices and research methodologies we question, explore, observe and investigate pressing issues and complex challenges in areas from creative social justice and environmental sustainability, to health and wellbeing for individuals groups and populations at local, national and global levels.
We collaborate with others to produce specialised and interdisciplinary evidence to implement, promote and inform solutions to create genuine impact.
We equip students with the theoretical and applied knowledge, experience, and skills to develop critically engaged, ethically-minded, and effective graduates.
Explore our teaching and research across our areas of speciality in Biology, Criminology, Geography and the Environment, Psychology, and Sociology.
Mark McGuinness m.mcguinness@bathspa.ac.uk
Our staff offer an unrivelled combination of expertise through both industry and academic experience.
Our teaching practice is balanced with engagement with the outside world, including international field trips, field work, and engagement with community projects.
You can’t explore the world without hands on practice.
That’s why over the past five years, we have invested in renovating and updating our Science laboratories to give you access to state of the art lab, workshop, and field equipment - everything you need to satisfy any curiosity and develop transferable skills for your future career.
Research within the School of Sciences engages with the outside world through continued partnership and funding with major research bodies and organisations, including the Wellcome Collections, ESRC (Economics and Social Research Council), UGC-UKIERI, and the NHS.
"The modules I chose gave me a great footing for going into consultancy; most of my colleagues have needed a Masters degree to get into consultancy, but clearly a BSc from Bath Spa is well thought of!"
Ailsa 
          Winton
David
           Simm
Senior Lecturer in Physical Geography
Matthew
          Law
Giovanna
          Gioli
Senior Lecturer in Human Geography
Margherita
          Scazza
Teaching Fellow in Geography
James
          Jeffers
Programme Leader for Geography
Kim 
          Davies
Lecturer in Physical Geography
Heather
          Winlow
Environmental Science graduate Angelica took part in the Quarry Life Awards (QLA), where she, along with other students and members of staff, investigated sand properties for sand lizard breeding in Dorset with the hope of informing the creation of receptor sites elsewhere.
Her valuable experience gave her a good insight into what working in the field as a research assistant is like.
Biology student Briony Carter won a competition, which is open to students returning to their institutions after a placement, or work experience, during the previous academic year.
She tells us why placement years are invaluable for helping decide if your chosen career is right for you.
Dr Stephanie Greson shares how her extensive industry experience has inspired her to mentor students, helping them to prepare for careers in ecology.
Norah
          El-Gohary
Agata
          Vitale
Senior Lecturer in Abnormal/Clinical Psychology
Ngosa
          Kambashi
Lecturer in Forensic Psychology
"The combination of creativity and systematic learning creates an atmosphere where learning can truly flourish."
Faye
          Vanstone
Programme Leader for Criminology
Rosalchen
          Whitecross
Andreea
          Neacsu
Franki
          Grant
Claire
          Edwards-Evans
Natalie
          Booth

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/school-of-sciences/research:
Academics and research topics for supervision
Dr Samantha Lane
Tracey Lewarne
Andrea Neascu
Dr Andrew Dunn
Dr Faye Vanstone
Dr Luke Roach
Paul Thornbury
Dr Rosa Whitecross
Dr Sophie Pike
Ailsa Winton
Dr David Simm
Dr Giovanna Gioli
Dr James Jeffers
Heather Winlow
Dr Lori Bystrom
Dr Matthew Baker
Matthew Law
Dr Miriam Thavarajah
Dr Ralph Thompson
Dr Stephanie Greshon
Agata Vitale
Dr Agnieszka Janik Mcerlean
Dr Andrew Bengry
Dr Charlotte Edmunds
Dr Eleni Anna Skoulikari
Dr Georgina Hughes
Dr Gerasimos Markopoulos
Dr Hannah Lewis
Dr Jessica Padgett
Dr Kate Hughes
Dr Kate Muir
Dr Mary Nikolaidou
Dr Natasha Clarke
Naomi Heffer
Dr Norah El-Gohary
Ngosa Kambashi
Peter Hills
Professor Peter Etchells
Dr Paulina Wegrzynek
Dr Renata Bongiorno
Sarah
          Lyster
Led by Professor Pete Etchells , the Centre for Research on Science and Society (CRoSS) is the flagship Research Centre within the School of Sciences.
It explores the interplay between scientific advances and their broader societal implications and impacts, and consists of six core Research Clusters:
If you have any questions about securing a research supervisor, you can contact our Higher Degrees Tutor for Sciences, Dr Luke Roach ( l.roach@bathspa.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/school-of-sciences/fieldwork-in-geography-and-environmental-sciences:
Experiential learning through fieldwork is an integral part of our Geography, Environmental Science, Wildlife Conservation and Biology courses.
Learn how to put theory into practice through field days on campus and across the South West, as well as on residential fieldtrips.
Our residential field course modules are often among the most inspirational and rewarding parts of the degree experience for our students.
These fieldtrips allow students to develop a range of career relevant skills including data collection and analysis, teamwork, project design, effective communication, health and safety awareness, and working in diverse and unfamiliar contexts.
Field courses are taught by our Geography and Biology academic staff teams who are experts in their fields and experienced in leading fieldtrips in a wide variety of environments.
We also collaborate with local experts, who can provide a novel perspective and site-specific expertise to our student’s experience and learning.
The field course modules available to you will depend on your chosen degree programme.
All f ieldtrip destinations and itineraries are regularly reviewed and may change in the future.
Southern Spain
This is a third-year optional module available to students on the following courses:
Southern Spain is a region at the forefront of the contemporary climate crisis.
It experiences a range of climate related hazards including drought, desertification, heatwaves, floods, and soil erosion.
These risks combine with the impacts of mass tourism, migration and other socio-economic changes to create a complex set of interconnected social and environmental challenges for local communities.
As Spain is the world’s leading producer of olive oil, Europe’s largest supplier of fruit and vegetables, and one of the world’s largest exporters of wine, the impacts of climate change on agriculture in Southern Spain also extend to communities across Europe and beyond.
This field course provides students with an opportunity to engage directly with contemporary global challenges and to understand their impacts on local communities.
Our Field Course in Climate Change, Water Resources and Sustainable Communities visits the Valencian Community in South-Eastern Spain to undertake fieldwork at sites in and around the cities of Elche and Alicante.
Fieldtrip themes may include:
Namibia
This is a third-year optional module designed for:
Limited places may also be available to students on the following courses:
The Wildlife Conservation Field Course takes students to the very different ecology and social environment of Namibia.
Situated in South-West Africa, Namibia is an arid country that is sparsely populated by humans, but home to fascinating and charismatic wildlife.
Namibia also champions community-based natural resource management and offers opportunities for eye-opening and horizon-broadening experiences of conservation issues to our students.
On this trip, students spend a fortnight visiting various conservation and research organisations and gaining firsthand experience of Namibia’s wildlife, ecology and society.
We set up camp at the Cheetah Conservation Fund (CCF) – a charity dedicated to working with local communities and passionate scientists to develop and implement holistic conservation strategies for cheetah and their habitats.
The group then moves on to visit the Etosha National Park, one of the world’s most impressive wildlife sanctuaries and Namibia’s Number One tourist attraction.
We finish the trip at the Gobabeb Namib Research Institute in the Namib-Naukluft National Park, situated on the boundary between the gravel desert and the dunes of the sand-sea.
Here, we learn about desert-adapted animals and spend time on the amazing red dunes.
Northern Italy
This is a second-year optional module available to students on the following courses:
The Po Valley in Northern Italy is one of the wealthiest and most developed regions in Europe, yet it is faced with significant challenges including pollution, multi-hazard disasters, mass tourism, and climate change.
The fieldtrip for our Geographical Fieldwork: Hazards, disasters and sustainable development module is based in Bologna, a vibrant city with a rich cultural life and home to the University of Bologna, the oldest university in continuous operation in the world.
While in Bologna students develop their field research skills by undertaking projects on topics such as air quality and pollution, food tourism and gentrification, and urban heat islands.
We also visit other locations across Northern Italy to learn about issues ranging from post-earthquake reconstruction to long term environmental change and sustainable development in delta lagoon environments.
Fieldwork locations vary from year to year but on past trips we have visited Venice, Comacchio, Crevalcore, Milan, Finale-Emilia, Forlì, Florence and Pisa.
This field course provides students with an opportunity to engage directly with a wide range of contemporary Geographical issues and to develop field research skills, while at the same time experiencing the rich culture and history of Northern Italy.
Dale Fort
Dale Fort is a historic coastal fortification located near the village of Dale in Pembrokeshire, Wales.
It is now used as an education centre offering residential fieldwork opportunities for schools, colleges, and universities.
It has an ideal location within the Pembrokeshire Coast National Park, which provides students with access to coastal habitats such as rocky shores and salt marshes.
Our residential trip to the field centre each spring is part of our Marine Biology and Conservation module.
It provides students with the opportunity to explore the concept of rocky shore biotopes, which are distinct ecological zones shaped by tidal movement and wave exposure.
Students venture out during low tide to survey marine life in both sheltered and exposed shores, where they can observe how species such as barnacles, limpets, seaweeds, and anemones dominate specific tidal zones.
These hands-on practical sessions help bring theory learned in the classroom to life and reinforces marine biology and conservation concepts.
In addition, the students can also take part in bird watching sessions along the coast, where they can search for seabirds and other wildlife, and they may also be lucky enough to spot marine mammals.
Additionally, they can take part in a photograph competition, where they compete for prizes for the best wildlife photos.
Back at the field centre, students can relax in the comfortable accommodation and make use of the labs and classrooms to analyse their data.
The experience helps them develop scientific skills, teamwork, critical thinking, and a stronger connection to the natural world.
Ultimately, we have found that students bond with their peers on the trip and leave Dale Fort with lasting memories.
"Seeing a spotted eagle owl as the sun rose, seeing cheetah and elephant in the wild, and watching the sun set over a sand dune are experiences I will never forget.
It was a privilege to learn from so many experts about the wildlife and conservation challenges and projects.
I have learnt so much."
Evie De Gruyther, BSc (Hons) Wildlife Conservation , Namibia 2024
"Being able to speak with local residents whilst conducting research in locations such as Finale Emilia, and hearing first-hand experiences of disaster recovery and resilience was truly an amazing and unforgettable experience."
Ellie John, BSc (Hons) Geography , Italy 2024
Our residential field courses are part subsidised by the University but include a student contribution which can vary from year to year depending on the total costs of delivering each field course.
More information on the student contribution and projected cost ranges for each fieldtrip module can be found in the Definitive Programme Documents available on the course webpages.
We are committed to keeping the student costs as low as possible, while also providing students with a high-quality learning experience.
The fieldtrips listed above reflect our current modules and destinations, but our field course provision is regularly reviewed.
Modules, destinations, itineraries and field course content may be subject to change in the future.
Our fieldtrip offer may change due to costs, logistics, field site access, health and safety, sustainability, staff expertise or academic content reasons.
The most up to date information about our field course provision can be found in the Definitive Programme Documents on the course webpages.
We strive to ensure that our fieldtrips are a supportive learning environment for all of our students.
Prior to each trip we provide comprehensive briefing information on travel arrangements, accommodation, food, logistics, and health and safety, as well as training in any equipment that students may need to use during the trips.
All our international trips include comprehensive travel insurance.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/schools/school-of-writing-publishing-and-the-humanities:
Making sense of the world and our interactions within it.
Explore the diversity of the human experience through our compelling programmes of study.
The School of Writing, Publishing and the Humanities is Bath Spa's focal point for teaching and research in Creative Writing, Publishing, English Literature, History and Heritage, Politics, Religions, Philosophy and Ethics and Environmental Humanities.
Based in a thriving world heritage city, our courses are taught by leaders in their respective fields.
They will encourage you to take an interdisciplinary and holistic approach to your own studies, whether you decide to focus on a single subject or to explore the connections between them.
Develop a passion for finding and telling stories through study in English Literature.
Explore the past to inform the future through study in History, Heritage and Politics, from both undergraduate to PhD.
How does our own set of beliefs influence how we interact with the world?
Our Religions, Philosophy and Ethics courses will help you to challenge your own values and assumptions through the study of other cultures and worldviews.
How do humanities scholars, artists, writers and scientists explore and respond to their environment?
How do we combine, explore and challenge how human creativity interacts with the science of the natural environment?
Staff in the School of Writing, Publishing and the Humanities are experienced teachers, passionate researchers, writers, broadcasters and practitioners.
Our students are engaged, energetic and imaginative.
Together, we form a thriving community of scholarship, learning and practice.
Jonathan 
          Lorie
Maria
          Nita
Rachel
          Bynoth
Mike
          Hannis
Gina
          Blaxill
Paul
          Reid-Bowen
Eleanor
          Barraclough
Gail
          Simmons
Kate
          Brooks
Allyson
          Edwards
Alex
          Campbell
Sian
          Sullivan
"The tutors were always friendly, encouraging and approachable.
It was a life changing experience, and the best thing I have ever done.”
Our research is world leading, innovative and both academic and applied.
It embraces traditional scholarship, practice and policy, and local, national and international collaboration.
Explore the work of our research centres:
"The passion the lecturers have for the course shines through in the breadth of the modules and assessments available, making you feel supported and confident at every stage of your degree."
9 April 2025
21 January 2025
19 December 2024
27 November 2024

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise:
BSU is an ambitious, enterprising and supportive university.
Our research strengths and expertise are focused around themes of Enterprise, Culture and Creativity.
We collaborate with academic faculty and project administrators across Europe, Africa, and Asia to support a variety of grant-funded projects.
Since 2016, we have been involved with Tempus and Erasmus+ projects, both as coordinator and partner.
Find out more about our international projects .
With nine dedicated research areas, Bath Spa University is a vibrant and well-connected centre for new ideas.
Nearly 60% of our research was ranked ‘internationally excellent’ or ‘world leading’ according to the results of the 2021 Research Excellence Framework .
Our research has touched on various areas including the wellbeing of social workers, supporting disadvantaged learners, engaging marginalised groups through art, assessing the effects of video games, and emerging digital media technologies.
Bath Spa University has retained its HR Excellence in Research Award after the submission of its ten-year review.
The HR Excellence in Research Award is an important mechanism for recognising the support that is offered to researchers throughout their careers.
15 July 2025
14 March 2025
Date: Wed 20 Mar 2024 01:00 PM
Date: Wed 28 Feb 2024 12:00 PM

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-strategy:
We aim to be a vibrant and well-connected centre for new ideas, with no internal boundaries and an international profile for creativity, culture and enterprise in research.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-strategy/strategy-overview:
1.
Enhance Research Excellence Significantly increase the amount of world-leading work submitted to the next Research Excellence Framework (REF).
2.
Boost Research and Enterprise Income Increase our research and enterprise income, particularly through collaborative networks with other UK and international higher education institutions (HEIs).
3.
Develop Thematic Research Areas Establish and promote research themes that develop and inspire our researchers, including:
4.
Foster Collaborative and Entrepreneurial Partnerships Act as a dynamic partner in the UK’s creative and cultural economy by shaping practice, driving innovation, and influencing policy through impactful research.
5.
Expand Global Research Networks Position ourselves as the UK gateway to a global network of partner research institutions, specializing in professional, creative, and critical practices.
6.
Attract and Support Emerging Researchers Become a university of choice for early career research staff (ECRs) and postgraduate research students within our research specialisations.
These objectives build on Bath Spa’s established research strengths while expanding the breadth and depth of our interdisciplinary expertise, ensuring a vibrant and dynamic research environment and ensuring that research underpins everything that we do.
Discover more in our Research Strategy 2030 .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-strategy/hr-excellence-in-research:
"A UK-wide process, incorporating both the QAA Code of Practice for Research Degree Programmes and the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, enables institutions to gain the European Commission's "HR excellence in research" badge acknowledging alignment with the principles of the European Charter for Researchers and Code of Conduct for their Recruitment."
This award reflects the University's current and on-going commitments to maintaining an active research portfolio.
This commitment extends to concentrating on developing the research environment for our staff and students and building on our areas of strength while also fostering new research areas.
The University offers a comprehensive Researcher Development Programme for all staff and research students.
In order to align ourselves with the European charter and code, the University has undertaken an audit of existing practice in relation to the support and career development of research staff across the University.
An Action Plan has been agreed on how we can align ourselves more closely with the principles of the Concordat, and this has been approved and acknowledged by the European Commission.
The Action Plan is a working document, and is updated regularly.
We undertake an annual self-assessment of our progress against the Action Plan through the University Research and Ethics Committee (REC) and the HR Excellence in Research Working Group, and submit a report to Vitae – the global leader in supporting the professional development of researchers and who manage the UK process – every two years for external evaluation.
A new Concordat was launched by Universities UK in 2019, with three clear Principles of environment and culture , employment , and professional and career development .
The principles are underpinned by obligations for the four key stakeholder groups, funders , institutions , researchers and managers of researchers , to realise the aims of the Concordat.
The University completes and annual report which sets out progress against its action plan to meet with the requirements of the Concordat.
Once approved by the Board of Governors, this is submitted to the Researcher Development Concordat secretariat at Universities UK.
The annual reports for 2022/23 and 2023/24 which have been approved by the University's Board of Governors can be found below.
Original documents submitted in 2011:
2011/12 annual review:
2012/13 review:
2013/14 review:
2014/15 review:
In May 2015, RKECC set up a Working Group to do a comprehensive review of the Action Plan over summer 2015 for consideration  at the November RKECC 2015 meeting.
2019/20 Action Plan and Gap Analysis:
The Action Plan and Gap Analysis undertaken against the three core principles of the new Concordat in academic year 2019/20 can be found below:
The HR Excellence in Research Working Group has reviewed our progress and action plan against the 2019 Concordat gap analysis that was undertaken when the University signed up to the new Concordat in July 2020.
Documents relating to this review can be found below:
The HR Excellence in Research working group has reviewed our progress and Action Plan for the implementation of the 2008 Concordat.
Documents relating to this review can be found below.
The HR Excellence in Research working group reviewed our progress and Action Plan for the implementation of the 2008 Concordat.
A six year review was submitted to RKECC for approval on 25 January 2018, and was subsequently sent to Vitae for external review.
RKECC undertakes an annual internal self-assessment of our progress in achieving the actions/outcomes set out in our action and implementation plan.
A successful two year evaluation of the Action Plan was undertaken in 2014, with progress subsequently monitored by RKECC against success measures.
A successful four-year evaluation was undertaken in January 2016.
The current Action Plan for the Implementation of the 2008 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers was approved by RKECC in January 2016.
Bath Spa University Four year Concordat Action Plan Evaluation Report
Appendix A - Bath Spa Research Statistics 2015-16
Appendix B - Progress against two year evaluation success measures
Appendix C - Terms of Reference and Membership of HR Excellence in Research Working Group
Appendix D - PIRLS 2015 Action Plan
Case Study 1 Early Stage Researcher Programme
Case Study 2 HEA Creative Writing Practitioners Report
Bath Spa University Concordant Action Plan - two year evaluation

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-strategy/integrity-and-ethics:
The University complies fully with the Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity .
Supplied here are our annual statements on compliance approved by the Board of Governors:
The Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research and Enterprise) – Professor John Strachan – is responsible for ensuring that the University's environment promotes and nurtures a commitment to research integrity, and that suitable processes are in place to deal with misconduct and for ensuring that the correct steps are taken to remedy any situations arising out of an investigation.
The Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Research and Enterprise is the first point of contact for all allegations of misconduct, and for whistleblowers or for any other person wishing to raise concerns about the integrity of research being conducted under the auspices of Bath Spa University.
The university also has a whistleblowing policy for staff which can be found on the University intranet (login required).
The University is committed to the following principles of good research practice which are laid out in our Approach to Research Integrity and Ethics and our Code of Good Practice for Research .
As set out in the handbook, the University has robust mechanisms in place for dealing with allegations of academic misconduct, and clearly defined ethical approval process for staff and students.
All academic staff are required to complete the on-line Stage 1 ethical approval process before submitting a research grant application.
Training on research ethics and integrity is available for all academic staff, and research students as part of our Researcher Development programme.
You can find out more about the procedures, training and documentation available to support you and your students with the Ethical Approval process at Bath Spa University here.
For questions about research ethics and integrity, please contact: researchsupportoffice@bathspa.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-strategy/open-research:
In-line with Government, research funding bodies and publisher requirements, Bath Spa University has developed both an Open Access Policy and a Research Data Policy that underpins our commitment to the principle that scholarly research should be made freely available online.
The University repository – ResearchSPAce – holds details of the research outputs of all academic staff, including links to the full text, video, audio file or image, where copyright and publisher regulations allow this.
These can be downloaded by visitors to the site.
All academic staff are required to deposit details of their research outputs on a regular basis, and ResearchSPAce allows the University to showcase its excellent research.
The content of the repository includes research outputs from academic staff such as journal articles, books, conference papers and commissioned reports as well as non-textual research outputs such as a digital representation of an image, artefact, or composition, or recordings of performances.
The University research data repository – BathSPAdata – enables academic staff to upload their research data into a secure space, and to share this data publicly where appropriate, or where funders or publishers require this as part of their conditions.
Resources and toolkits for external use can be made available through this forum, and can be used by Schools, policy makers, business and industry, and the cultural sector.
All staff are required to complete a Data Management Plan through the DMP online service before submitting a research grant application.
More information about research data management and a downloadable checklist specifically for Data Management Plans are available from CESSDA ERIC in their online guide for social scientists.
Transitional agreements, also referred to as transformative or “read and publish” agreements, are contracts negotiated between institutions and publishers that encourage scholarly publishing towards a fully open access model.
They currently represent a shift away from a subscription-only model to one which covers both subscription payments and article processing charges.
Bath Spa University Library has signed up to a number of these agreements.
This means that in some cases, corresponding authors affiliated to Bath Spa University are eligible to make their articles open access with the Library covering the cost of publication.
For more information please read the FAQs on Sharepoint.
Please email repositories@bathspa.ac.uk for further advice on open research.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-strategy/research-and-enterprise-team:
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research and Enterprise)
Dean of Graduate College
j.strachan@bathspa.ac.uk
+44 (0)1225 876292
Research Support Manager
s.priston@bathspa.ac.uk
+44 (0)1225 876396
Knowledge Exchange Officer
l.maythorne@bathspa.ac.uk
+44 (0)1225 875859
Impact Research Fellow
a.breel@bathspa.ac.uk
+44 (0)1225 876009
Research Bid Development Manager
b.humphries@bathspa.ac.uk
+44 (0)1225 876743
Research Projects and Governance Manager
j.fort@bathspa.ac.uk
+44 (0)1225 876155
Project Administrator
f.nix@bathspa.ac.uk
+44 (0)1225 876364

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-strategy/ref-2021:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions.
REF2021 is considered by the UK's funding bodies for Higher Education to have a threefold purpose:
A 2015 review of the 2014 REF, written by Lord Stern, identified three further roles of the exercise:
The REF assesses 34 subject-based units of assessment (UoAs) which are split into four main panels.
The submissions are assessed through peer-review by expert panels that are made up of senior academics in relevant fields, international members and research users who are made up of people outside of academia in the private, public and third sectors.
A submission is made containing three distinct elements:
The deadline for submissions to REF 2021 has been delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but details have yet to be confirmed.
Updates to Research England decisions can be found on the REF 2021 website.
The results of REF2021 will provide information about the quality of universities’ research and are expected to inform QR (quality-related) research funding from 2022 onwards.
All staff on teaching and research or research-only contracts who have ‘significant responsibility for research’ will be submitted to the REF, ‘provided they are independent researchers’.
Bath Spa's Code of Practice outlines in detail which eligible staff will submitted to REF 2021.
Outputs are eligible if produced by individuals who meet the following criteria on the census date in July 2020:
An output is the result of an investigation ‘leading to new insights effectively shared’ – such as a journal article, a book (written or edited), a book chapter, a performance, digital or visual media, a composition, a physical artefact, a digital artefact, an example of design, a conference paper, a public lecture, a conference workshop, or the organisation of an exhibition or a conference.
This makes up 60% of the assessment (a decrease from 65% in 2014) and consists of outputs produced by the University during the assessment period (1st January 2014 to 31st December 2020).
For individuals employed at BSU who have ‘significant responsibility for research’ on a census date in mid-2020, a minimum of one output and a maximum of five outputs per person may be submitted.
Outputs may also be submitted if their authors were employed at BSU since 01/01/2014, and at the time the output first became publicly available, but have since left.
In this case, there is no minimum number of outputs required, but the maximum of five still applies.
Impact is the effect on, change or benefit research makes to the economy, society, culture, public policy or services, health, the environment or quality of life beyond academia.
This makes up 25% of the assessment (an increase from 20% in 2014) and consists of case studies detailing the benefits from our research.
This makes up the remaining 15% of the assessment and describes the environment we have to support our research.
How will the University select the content for its submission?
The Vice-Chancellor has overall authority for the REF submission.
REF preparations are managed by REF Steering Group.
Unit of Assessment Leads and Advisory Groups make the principal academic judgements on submission content for units, guided by internal and external review.
This process will be governed by BSU’s REF code of practice.
REF Code of Practice
BSU has developed a Code of Practice on the fair and transparent identification of staff and outputs for submission to the 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021).
BSU staff and union delegates were consulted on during the drafting of this document.
REF Steering Group
The REF Steering Group was set up to manage and overview the University’s preparations for submission to REF.
UoA 4: Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience Dr.
Jermaine Ravalier
UoA 14: Geography and Environmental Studies Dr.
Richard Johnson
UoA 17: Business and Management Dr.
Mark Loon, Professor Allyson Macvean
UoA 23: Education Professor Charlotte Chadderton
UoA 27: English Language and Literature Richard Kerridge , Professor Ian Gadd
UoA 28: History Professor Astrid Swenson
UoA 32: Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory Professor Steve Dutton , Professor Hilary French
UoA 33: Music, Drama, Dance, Peforming Arts, Film and Screen Studies Dr.
Laura Purcell-Gates , Professor James Saunders
UoA 34: Communication, Cultural and Media Studies Dr.
Matthew Freeman.
For REF guidance and FAQs, please see their the REF 2021 website .
If you have any questions regarding REF at Bath Spa University, please contact our REF Manager, Dr.
Anna Simandiraki-Grimshaw.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/our-research-excellence:
At Bath Spa University our research strategy is centred around the following aims:
We will do this by building a rich, impactful and responsible research environment which develops our researchers, puts in place strong UK and global research partnerships and by diversifying and increasing our research and enterprise income streams.
Associated projects:
Read more at the Art and Design research area .
Read more at the Business and Management research area .
Love Letters
Read more at the Cultural, Communication Studies and Media Research Area .
Exploring Forests and Outdoor Experiences
Read more at the Education Research Area .
Read more at the English Language and Literature Research Area .
Read more at the Geography and Environment Research Area.
Read more at the History Research Area.
Read more at the Music and Performing Arts Research Area.
Bath Spa University welcomes Postdoctoral Fellows to its vibrant research community.
The BSU deadline for expressions of interest to the 2025/26 scheme has now passed.
We anticipate inviting applications to the 2026/27 scheme, subject to confirmation from the British Academy.
Interested applicants should carefully check the scheme guidance, eligibility criteria and FAQs before starting to develop an application.
As the British Academy do not allow unsuccessful applicants to reapply to this scheme, you should consider whether this is the best time for you to apply.
Those interested in applying are required to submit an Expression of Interest comprising a short outline proposal and summary CV to researchsupportoffice@bathspa.ac.uk .
The anticipated deadline is August 2026.
Late submissions will not be considered.
Your proposal should include a one page outline of your proposed research, including fit with research activities within the School and your proposed mentor.
Your CV (one page maximum) should include your publications to date along with your academic history, including the date your PhD was awarded.
If successful, the Research Support Office will work with you to develop your outline stage application to the funder.
You should make contact with your proposed mentor before you submit your outline and it would be beneficial if they commented on your proposal before submission.
If you do not have a mentor in mind, please have a look at our staff research profiles on the Areas of Research Excellence and our staff webpages .
You’ll then be able to find staff working in your area of research and make contact with them.
If you have any queries about the Fellowship scheme or the process of selection, please contact the Research Support Office, on researchsupportoffice@bathspa.ac.uk .
The Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions (MSCA) Postdoctoral Fellowships enhance the creative and innovative potential of researchers holding a PhD and who wish to acquire new skills through advanced training, international, interdisciplinary and inter-sectoral mobility.
There are two types of Postdoctoral Fellowships:
The 2025 MSCA call is currently open and closes on 10 September 2025.
Please carefully check the scheme guidance, eligibility criteria and FAQs before starting to develop an application.
As the MSCA have resubmission restrictions in place from 2022, you should consider whether this is the best time for you to apply.
Individual researchers submit proposals for funding in liaison with their planned host organisation.
BSU identifies a number of predefined research areas each year.
Proposals are judged on their research quality, the researcher's future career prospects and the support offered by the host organisation.
Applications are submitted jointly by the researcher and the UK academic supervisor.
It is essential that you make contact with your supervisor well in advance of the deadline.
If you do not have a supervisor in mind, please have a look at our staff research profiles on the Areas of Research Excellence and our staff webpages .
If you are interested in applying for the MSCA PF with Bath Spa University as your host institute, please contact the Research Support Office, on researchsupportoffice@bathspa.ac.uk , by 31 July 2025.
The International Fellowship Programme, delivered by the British Academy and the Royal Society , enables researchers to work for two years at a UK institution with the aim of fostering long-term international collaborations.
This scheme aims to attract the most promising early career postdoctoral researchers from overseas in the fields of natural sciences, social sciences and the humanities.
The BSU Expression of Interest deadline has now passed for the 2025 call.
We anticipate inviting applications for the 2026 call, subject to confirmation from the British Academy.
The information below is based on previous rounds.
We anticipate that the scheme will open for applications on the British Academy website in January 2026 and the funder application deadline will be mid-March.
Interested applicants will be asked to submit an outline proposal and short summary CV to the Research Support Office.
Your proposal should include a one-page outline of your proposed research, including fit with research activities within the School and your proposed UK academic co-applicant.
Please carefully check the scheme guidance and eligibility criteria before starting to develop an application.
You should make contact with your proposed UK co-applicant before you submit your outline and it would be beneficial if they commented on your proposal before submission.
If you do not have a co-applicant in mind, please have a look at our staff research profiles on the Areas of Research Excellence and our staff webpages .
You’ll then be able to find staff working in your area of research and make contact with them prior to submitting an outline proposal.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/our-research-excellence/art-and-design-research:
Recent years have seen unprecedented investment in Art and Design with the opening of the dedicated state of the art space at the city centre Locksbrook Campus , an anchor point in the regional creative industries.
An academic restructure has focused on separate but closely aligned subject areas, and research has been prioritised resulting in significant growth in the number of staff submitted to REF2021, which is up 50% since 2014.
Doctoral student numbers have increased, as has grant capture.
Art and Design has a long established reputation in the region with strong links to local educational, cultural and commercial sectors.
Our work covers a broad range of disciplines.
Art ranges from the more traditional fine arts such as painting and photography to applied arts, particularly ceramics, artists’ books and curatorial projects.
The design disciplines are largely aligned with fine art and include textiles and various forms of graphic and visual communication.
A growing number of staff are engaged in textual, historical and critical studies and much of the practice based work is supported by theoretical enquiry, in the form of journal articles and catalogue essays.
The work in Art and Design can be described in four established thematic strands through:
Alongside the Art Research Centre , staff are also working in collaboration with the university-wide Making Books Research Centre hosted by the School of Humanities, which explores the concept of the book as both a designed artefact and object of study with the University’s strategic Research Centre for Transcultural Creativity and Education on diverse ‘Creative Pedagogies’ emerging from creative practice.
There are also a series of more recently formed research clusters, reflecting emerging research strengths in animation, performance, product and interior design, and staff who continue to work independently.
Paul
          Edwards
Ron
          George
Go to ResearchSPAce
Dalwood, D  (2019)  'What is the history in contemporary history painting?'    In: Phillips, M.S and Bear, J, eds.
What was history painting and what is it now?
McGill-Queens University Press, Montreal, Canada, pp.
204-214.
ISBN 9780773558960
Withers, R  (2016)  'Bringing things down to Earth.'    In: Giusti, L, ed.
Roman Signer : a step towards the sea = un passo verso il mare.
Humboldt Books, Milan, pp.
121-135.
ISBN 9788899385132
Luzar, R  (2016)  'Turning around the written mark, opening from a weight of thought.'    In: Giunta, C and Janus, A, eds.
Nancy and visual culture.
Edinburgh University Press, Edinburgh, pp.
181-198.
ISBN 9781474407496
Whiting, M  (2021)  'Landandmybody ...
body from the stillness drinking in.'   Environment, Space, Place, 13 (1).
pp.
111-132.
ISSN 2066-5377
Luzar, R  (2020)  'Performative problems.'   Drawing: Research, Theory, Practice, 5 (1).
29-41.
ISSN 2057-0384
Turner, F.A  (2019)  'A quintessentially English glove legacy.'   The International Human Sciences Review, 1.
59-67.
ISSN 2659-7500
Evans, R  (2019)  'Leopard in kitten heels: the politics of Theresa May’s sartorial choices.'   Clothing Cultures, 6 (2).
199-213.
ISSN 2050-0742
Bodenham, P  (2018)  'Ceramics and locational identity: investigating the symbolism of material culture in relation to a sense of place.'   Craft Research, 9 (2).
287-310.
ISSN 2040-4689
Luzar, R  (2017)  'Rethinking the graphic trace in performative drawing.'   Theatre and Performance Design, 3 (1-2).
50-67.
ISSN 2332-2578
French, H  (2015)  'Glamorous spaces: public ballrooms and dance halls, 1890 – 1950.'   Interiors: Design/Architecture/Culture, 6 (1).
41-57.
ISSN 2041-9120
Vyner, T  (2021)  Reportage Illustration as Visual Journalism in Two World Cups (2018) [REF2021 collection].
Robinson, N  (2021)  Reimagining Post Punk: The Buzzcocks & The Fall (2017-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Curtis, K  (2021)  Dressing for Evacuation (2018-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Minott, P  (2021)  Pretty Abstract (2015-2018) [REF2021 collection].
Minott, P  (2021)  Fountain 17 (2015-2017) [REF2021 collection].
Howard, R  (2021)  Red Work & Wit of the Stitch (2014, 2016) [REF2021 collection].
Southall, A  (2021)  Formal Legacies (2016, 2017) [REF2021 collection].
Little, L  (2021)  Making Books: Character Design and Narrative in Illustration (2015-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Henley, S  (2021)  Redesigning Bath Choral Society (2016-2018) [REF2021 collection].
Vyner, T  (2021)  Mount Athos (2014-2015, 2018) [REF2021 collection].
Williamson, A  (2021)  USA Editorial Illustration and Untitled/Re-assembled Exhibition (2014-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Wood, J and Harrison, P  (2021)  Very clear instructions (2018) [REF2021 collection].
Wood, J and Harrison, P  (2021)  A film about a city (2015) [REF2021 collection].
Withers, R  (2021)  Roman Signer's Library of Marvels (2015, 2020) [REF2021 collection].
Wilson, C.J.R  (2021)  Making_Writing (2017-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Vaughan, S  (2021)  Kourion: Earthquake House (2018) [REF2021 collection].
Vaughan, S  (2021)  Zassho-Cascadia (2021) [REF2021 collection].
Turk, G  (2021)  Portrait of an Egg (2019) [REF2021 collection].
Tooby, M  (2021)  wavespeech (2015) [REF2021 collection].
Snell, R  (2021)  Cold War Anglia (2019) [REF2021 collection].
Wood, J and Harrison, P  (2021)  Erkunde: the study of the Earth (2015-16) [REF2021 collection].
Wilson, C.J.R  (2021)  Writing_Making (2015-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Wilson, C  (2021)  About the heads (2019) [REF2021 collection].
Tooby, M  (2021)  Journey's with 'The Waste Land' (2015-2018) [REF2021 collection].
Snell, R  (2021)  Outliers (2018-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Parry, B  (2021)  Rethinking waste and the logics of disposability: Compound 13 lab (2014-2021) [REF2021 collection].
Neudecker, M  (2021)  CERN (2020) [REF2021 collection].
Neudecker, M  (2021)  Plastic Vanitas and Amani Vanitas (2016-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Neudecker, M  (2021)  Arctic / Antarctic (2014-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Neudecker, M  (2021)  Deep sea (2017-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Neudecker, M  (2021)  Forests and trees (2015-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Medjesi-Jones, A  (2021)  The project of abstraction (2015-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Luzar, R  (2021)  Demonstrations (2016-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Luzar, R  (2021)  Sanded steps, standing over stones (2017, 2018) [REF2021 collection].
Kidd, N  (2021)  Curious about care (2014-2018) [REF2021 collection].
Kidd, N and Addison, J  (2021)  The Habits of Artists (2014-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Kelham, J  (2021)  UGO (2016-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Hong, Y  (2021)  The moon's trick (2016-2018) [REF2021 collection].
Hong, Y  (2021)  In her dream (2015) [REF2021 collection].
Hong, Y  (2021)  Let us dance (2014-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Hong, Y  (2021)  5100:Pentagon (2014, 2017) [REF2021 collection].
Harrison, K  (2021)  Jerwood Open Forest Commission: Joyride (2017) [REF2021 collection].
Harrison, K  (2021)  New expressions 3: heavy rock|Plymouth Sound (2015-2016) [REF2021 collection].
Harrison, K  (2021)  Material soundsystems (2015-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Harrison, K  (2021)  Social experiments (2017, 2018) [REF2021 collection].
Harrison, K  (2021)  Public acts (2015-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Dutton, S  (2021)  Writing, drawing, speaking (2015-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Dunseath, J  (2021)  Elbow (2015) [REF2021 collection].
Dalwood, D  (2021)  An inadequate painted history of Mexico (2021) [REF2021 collection].
Clarke, R  (2021)  Record player orchestra (2014-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Bonnell, M  (2021)  Fragile stories (2014-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Hong, Y  (2021)  Sadang B (2019) [REF2021 collection].
Dunseath, J  (2018)  Artist boss (2014-2017) [REF2021 collection].

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/our-research-excellence/business-and-management-research:
REF2021 represents the first time that business management is being submitted to the Research Excellence Framework assessment.
The unit’s strategic aim is to build upon its strong established networks at the local, regional and national levels, through collaboration with creative and professional practitioners.
The unit’s research happens through, on and with practice; including entrepreneurs, small and medium sized firms and professional practitioners e.g.
human resource management professionals.
The focus on collaboration is to ensure that impact is embedded and part of research at every stage.
The unit adopts a practice-led, innovation and creative enterprise-enabling, and regionally-focused strategy, and its strategic research objectives are:
Booth, N  (2020)  Maternal imprisonment and family life: from the caregiver's perspective.
Policy Press, Bristol.
ISBN 9781447352297
Dowson, P  (2015)  Personal and professional development for business students.
Sage, London.
ISBN 9781446282205
Booth, N  (2020)  'Maintaining family ties: how family practices are renegotiated to promote mother-child contact.'    In: Lockwood, K, ed.
Mothering from the inside: research on motherhood and imprisonment.
Emerald, Bingley, pp.
31-48.
ISBN 9781789733440
Brownsword, R and Wale, J  (2016)  'The development of non-invasive prenatal testing: some legal and ethical questions.'    In: Hruschka, J and Joerden, J.C, eds.
Jahrbuch für Recht und Ethik = Annual Review of Law and Ethics 24.
Duncker and Humblot, Berlin, pp.
ISBN 9783428150557
Loon, M  (2021)  'Practices for learning in early careers.'   Academy of Management Learning & Education, 20 (2).
182-202.
ISSN 1537-260X
Brownsword, R and Wale, J  (2021)  'In ordinary times, in extraordinary times: consent, newborn screening, genetics, and pandemics.'   BioLaw Journal - Rivista di BioDiritto, 1 (Sp).
129-153.
ISSN 2284-4503
Wang, Z and Crawford, I  (2021)  'Factors motivating destination decisions of Chinese study abroad students.'   International Journal of Educational Management, 35 (2).
408-425.
ISSN 0951-354X
Rowlands, S and Wale, J  (2020)  'A constructivist vision of the first-trimester abortion experience.'   Health and Human Rights Journal, 22 (1).
237-250.
ISSN 2150-4113
Booth, N  (2020)  'Disconnected: exploring provisions for mother–child telephone contact in female prisons serving England and Wales.'   Criminology & Criminal Justice, 20 (2).
150-168.
ISSN 1748-8958
Loon, M, Otaye-Ebede, L and Stewart, J  (2020)  'Thriving in the New Normal: the HR microfoundations of capabilities for business model innovation.
An integrated literature review.'   Journal of Management Studies, 57 (3).
698-726.
ISSN 0022-2380
Gavin, P and Kawałek, A  (2020)  'Viewing the Dublin Drug Treatment Court through the lens of therapeutic jurisprudence.'   International Journal for Court Administration, 11 (1).
05.
ISSN 2156-7964
Asimakopoulos, G, Revilla, A.J and Slavova, K  (2020)  'External knowledge sourcing and firm innovation efficiency.'   British Journal of Management, 31 (1).
123-140.
ISSN 1045-3172
Wang, Z and Crawford, I  (2019)  'Who are gaining the highly paid elite placements in UK higher education?'   Studies in Higher Education, 44 (11).
1960-1974.
ISSN 1470-174X
Loon, M and Chik, R  (2019)  'Efficiency-centered, innovation-enabling business models of high tech SMEs: evidence from Hong Kong.'   Asia Pacific Journal of Management, 36.
87-111.
ISSN 0217-4561
Loon, M, Otaye-Ebede, L and Stewart, J  (2019)  'The paradox of employee psychological well-being practices: an integrative literature review and new directions for research.'   The International Journal of Human Resource Management, 30 (1).
156-187.
ISSN 0958-5192
Li, L and Rivers, G.J  (2018)  'An inquiry into the delivering of a British curriculum in China.'   Teaching in Higher Education, 23 (7).
785-801.
ISSN 1356-2517
Brownsword, R and Wale, J  (2018)  'Testing times ahead: non-invasive prenatal testing and the kind of community we want to be.'   Modern Law Review, 81 (4).
646-672.
ISSN 0026-7961
Hudson Smith, M and Smith, D  (2018)  'Directing improvements in primary care patient experience through analysis of service quality.'   Health Services Research, 53 (6).
4647-4666.
ISSN 0017-9124
Wang, J and Li, L  (2018)  'The influence of social media on the socialization of Chinese tourists: an analysis of social media data.'   Tourism and Hospitality Prospects, 2 (2).
27-39.
ISSN 2096-3238
Smart, A and Weiner, K  (2018)  'Racialised prescribing: enacting race/ethnicity in clinical practice guidelines and in accounts of clinical practice.'   Sociology of Health and Illness, 40 (5).
843-858.
ISSN 0141-9889
Ellison, G.T.H, Aspinall, P.J, Smart, A and Salway, S  (2017)  'The ambiguities of "race" in UK science, social policy and political discourse.'   Journal of Anthropological Sciences = Rivista di antropologia : JASS, 95.
299-306.
ISSN 2037-0644
Revilla, A.J, Pérez-Luño, A and Nieto, M.J  (2016)  'Does family involvement in management reduce the risk of business failure?
The moderating role of entrepreneurial orientation.'   Family Business Review, 29 (4).
365-379.
ISSN 0894-4865
Crawford, I and Wang, Z  (2016)  'The impact of placements on the academic performance of UK and international students in higher education.'   Studies in Higher Education, 41 (4).
712-733.
Sadideen, H, Weldon, S-M, Saadeddin, M, Loon, M and Kneebone, R  (2016)  'A video analysis of intra- and interprofessional leadership behaviors within “The Burns Suite”: identifying key leadership models.'   Journal of Surgical Education, 73 (1).
31-39.
ISSN 1931-7204
Wale, J  (2015)  'Don’t forget the legal framework: the public provision of non-invasive prenatal testing in England and Wales.'   Medical Law International, 15 (4).
203-215.
ISSN 0968-5332
Salari, N and Shiu, E  (2015)  'Establishing a culturally transferrable consumer innovativeness scale for radical and really new innovations in new markets.'   Journal of Marketing Analytics, 3 (2).
47-68.
ISSN 2050-3326
Stirpe, L, Bonache, J and Revilla, A.J  (2014)  'Differentiating the workforce: the performance effects of using contingent labor in a context of high-performance work systems.'   Journal of Business Research, 67 (7).
1334-1341.
ISSN 0148-2963
Barton, A and Husk, K  (2014)  '“I don’t really like the pub […]”: reflections on young people and pre-loading alcohol.'   Drugs and Alcohol Today, 14 (2).
58-66.
ISSN 1745-9265
MacVean, A  (2018)  The ethical health and culture of the five arms of the Naval Service.
Naval Service, London.
MacVean, A and Read, C  (2017)  An evaluation of three One Team initiatives: Halcon, North Taunton and Wellington.
Bath Spa University and Somerset County Council, Bath.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/our-research-excellence/communication-cultural-and-media-research:
As the media industries continue to be transformed by social developments like #MeToo and recently, COVID-19, it is of utmost importance that a discipline such as Communication, Cultural and Media Studies plays a significant role in rethinking media as a force for change.
Our research focuses around the development of excellence and innovation in socially engaged media research.
We aim to creatively rethink what film, media and computing can achieve in diverse communities, driving forward innovative approaches to collaboration across theory and practice, public engagement, and community/industry impact.
Our areas of research strength are based around three new areas of strategic interdisciplinary focus:
These three themes have been transformed into active, operational research clusters within the Centre for Media Research , structuring the research activity of our established and early career researchers.
The Centre for Media Research , itself the unit’s structural mechanism for enabling research and impact strategy across Film, Media and Creative Computing at Bath Spa University, instills precisely this thinking in its approach to research excellence and innovation.
Based in the School of Creative Industries, the Centre positions film, media and creative computing at the heart of social and community dynamics that affect daily life, bringing together media artists and researchers, filmmakers, game and app developers; and benefitting from interdisciplinary engagement across the fields of Sociology, Theatre, Heritage and Environmental Humanities.
Feasey, R  (2019)  Infertility and non-traditional family building: from assisted reproduction to adoption in the media.
Palgrave Macmillan.
ISBN 9783030177867
Freeman, M  (2019)  The world of The Walking Dead.
Routledge, London.
ISBN 9781138303379
Steele, J  (2019)  Francophone Belgian cinema.
Edinburgh University Press, Edinburgh.
ISBN 9781474420761
Freeman, M and Proctor, W, eds.
(2018)  Global convergence cultures: transmedia earth.
ISBN 9781138732384
Turner, P  (2017)  Hip hop versus rap: the politics of droppin' knowledge.
Routledge, Abingdon.
ISBN 9781138679757
Freeman, M  (2016)  Historicising transmedia storytelling: early twentieth-century transmedia story worlds.
ISBN 9781138217690
Brown, A.R, Spracklen, K, Kahn-Harris, K and Scott, N.W.R, eds.
(2016)  Global metal music and culture: current directions in metal studies.
Routledge, New York, NY.
ISBN 9781138822382
Feasey, R  (2016)  Mothers on mothers: maternal readings of popular television.
Peter Lang.
ISBN 9783034318266
Steele, J  (2018)  'Cinema made in Liège: a ‘hub’ of francophone Belgian filmmaking.'    In: Gott, M and Schilt, T, eds.
Cinéma-monde: decentred perspectives on global filmmaking in French.
257-281.
ISBN 9781474414982
Newman, J  (2019)  'Wrong warping, sequence breaking and running through code: systemic contiguity and narrative architecture in 'The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time' any% speedrun.'   Journal of the Japanese Association for Digital Humanities, 4 (1).
7-36.
ISSN 2188-7276
Newman, J  (2019)  'Saving (and re-saving) videogames: rethinking emulation for preservation, exhibition and interpretation.'   The International Journal of Creative Media Research, 1.
ISSN 2631-6773
Freeman, M  (2019)  'Transmedia historiography as educational practice: narrativising Colombian cultural memory.'   The International Journal of Creative Media Research, 1.
Newman, J  (2018)  'The music of microswitches: preserving videogame sound — a proposal.'   The Computer Games Journal, 7.
261-278.
ISSN 2052-773X
Brown, A.R  (2018)  'A manifesto for metal studies: or putting the ‘politics of metal’ in its place.'   Metal Music Studies, 4 (2).
343-363.
ISSN 2052-3998
Newman, J  (2018)  'The Game Inspector: a case study in gameplay preservation.'   Kinephanos: Journal of Media Studies and Popular Culture, Spec.
(August).
120-148.
ISSN 1916-985X
Feasey, R  (2017)  'The hierarchy of celebrity childbirth stories.'   Celebrity Studies, 8 (2).
278-293.
ISSN 1939-2397
Cresswell, M and Karimova, Z  (2017)  'Ken Loach, 'Family life' and socialist realism: some historical and theoretical aspects.'   Journal of British Cinema and Television, 14 (1).
19-38.
ISSN 1743-4521
Newman, J  (2016)  'Mazes, monsters and multicursality.
Mastering Pac-Man 1980–2016.'   Cogent Arts & Humanities, 3 (1).
p.
1190439.
ISSN 2331-1983
Curry, J, Price, T and Sabin, P  (2016)  'Commercial-off-the-shelf-technology in UK military training.'   Simulation & Gaming, 47 (1).
7-30.
ISSN 1552-826X
Hobbs, J, Grigore, G and Molesworth, M  (2016)  'Success in the management of crowdfunding projects in the creative industries.'   Internet Research, 26 (1).
146-166.
ISSN 1066-2243
Freeman, M  (2015)  'Branding consumerism: cross-media characters and story-worlds at the turn of the 20th century.'   International Journal of Cultural Studies, 18 (6).
629-644.
ISSN 1460-356X
Brown, A.R  (2015)  'Explaining the naming of heavy metal from rock’s “Back Pages”: a dialogue with Deena Weinstein.'   Metal Music Studies, 1 (2).
233-261.
ISSN 2052-4005
Brown, A.R and Griffin, C.
(2014)  '‘A cockroach preserved in amber’: the significance of class in critics’ representations of heavy metal music and its’ fans.'   Sociological Review, 62 (4).
719-741.
ISSN 1467-954X
Ashton, D  (2014)  'Making media workers: contesting film and television industry career pathways.'   Television and New Media, 16 (3).
275-294.
ISSN 1527-4764
Wilkins, S  (2021)  Landscape/composite (2016-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Scott, L  (2021)  Opera for web and mobile media (2015-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Manton, C and Aga, B  (2021)  Conversational AI (technology that talks) and speculative design activism (2018-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Manton, C  (2021)  Shared pasts: decoding complexity (2018-2019) [REF2021 collection].
White, R  (2021)  (Dis)enchanted walking: walking/multimedia arts practice as interdisciplinary research (2015-2017) [REF2021 collection].
Clark, S  (2021)  Remodelling theatre narrative through digital technology (2015-2017) [REF2021 collection].
Levy, C and Farrar, R  (2021)  (In)fertility, the media & me (2018) [REF2021 collection].
Tweed, C  (2021)  Fiction machines (2016-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Tweed, C  (2021)  The signal and the noise (2016) [REF2021 collection].
Farrar, R  (2020)  Dear Carnegie Hall: utilising new media technologies to unlock multiple perspectives of the past (2015-2019) [REF2021 collection].
Farrar, R  (2020)  Shextreme: creating impact through participatory action research: a film festival framework case study (2014-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Tweed, C  (2019)  Re-writing the machinic anthropocene (2014-2017) [REF2021 collection].

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/our-research-excellence/education-research:
Bath Spa University’s School of Education has built an excellent local, national and international reputation in the fields of research in three cross-cutting areas of research, which define education research at Bath Spa:
With interdisciplinary engagement from art and design, creative writing, psychology, and environmental humanities, we produce creative, participatory and critical research that makes an impact on education practice and practitioners.
The socially-engaged and practice-relevant nature of our research impact strategy has been key to allowing us to develop research in partnership with community partners and research beneficiaries - many of whom we have long-standing partnerships with - who benefit from our research and put it into practice.
Current and recent research projects have been funded by the AHRC, the European Commission, the Wellcome Trust, the Education Endowment Foundation, the Primary Science Teaching Trust, NASEN, and Somerset County Council.
Strategic:
School based:
Chadderton, C  (2018)  Judith Butler, race and education.
Palgrave Macmillan, London.
ISBN 9783319733647
Simon, C.A  (2016)  Beyond Every Child Matters: neoliberal education and social policy in the new era.
ISBN 9781138918979
Riddell, R  (2016)  Equity, trust and the self-improving schools system.
Trentham Books, London.
ISBN 9781858566924
Whitty, G  (2016)  Research and policy in education: evidence, ideology and impact.
Bedford Way Papers .
UCL IOE Press, London.
ISBN 9781782770848
Simmons, B and Watson, D  (2014)  The PMLD ambiguity: articulating the life-worlds of children with profound and multiple learning disabilities.
Karnac Books, London.
ISBN 9781780490342
Read, S, Miles, C and Merchant, W  (2020)  'Dilemmas of self-identification and provision of disability support.'    In: Burke, C and Byrne, B, eds.
Social research and disability: developing inclusive research spaces for disabled researchers.
Routledge, Abingdon, pp.
64-77.
ISBN 9781138387652
McCree, M  (2020)  'Future shock, generational change and shifting eco-social identities: forest school leaders’ reasons to train.'    In: Cutter-Mackenzie, A, Malone, K and Barratt Hacking, E, eds.
Research handbook on childhoodnature: assemblages of childhood and nature research.
Springer, Cham, pp.
925-952.
ISBN 9783319672854
Duggan, M and la Velle, L  (2019)  'Embracing complexity: understanding the experiences of university-based teacher educators in England.'    In: Sorensen, N, ed.
Diversity in Teacher Education: perspectives on a school-led system.
UCL IOE Press, London, pp.
90-111.
ISBN 9781782772521
Simmons, B  (2018)  'The phenomenology of intersubjectivity and research with profoundly disabled children: developing an experiential framework for analysing lived social experiences.'    In: Twomey, M and Carroll, C, eds.
Seen and heard: exploring participation, engagement and voice for children with disabilities.
Peter Lang, Oxford, pp.
125-144.
ISBN 9781787075160
Georgis, R, Gokiert, R and Kirova, A  (2018)  'Researcher reflections on early childhood partnerships with immigrant and refugee communities.'    In: Madrid Akpovo, S, Moran, M.
J and Brookshire, R, eds.
Collaborative cross-cultural research methodologies in early care and education contexts.
Routledge, New York, NY, pp.
115-130.
ISBN 9781138207912
Furlong, J and Whitty, G  (2017)  'Knowledge traditions in the study of education.'    In: Whitty, G and Furlong, J, eds.
Knowledge and the study of education: an international exploration.
Symposium, Didcot, pp.
13-60.
ISBN 9781873927977
Earle, S and Turner, J  (2023)  'What has happened to teacher assessment of science in English primary schools?
Revisiting evidence from the Primary Science Quality Mark.'   Research in Science & Technological Education, 41 (1).
22-38.
ISSN 0263-5143
Duggan, M  (2022)  'Instilling positive attitudes to physical activity in childhood - challenges and opportunities for non-specialist PE teachers.'   Education 3-13: International Journal of Primary, Elementary and Early Years Education, 50 (1).
129-143.
ISSN 0300-4279
Parfitt, A  (2021)  'Turning around coast-based schools: an interpretive narrative analysis of a report on school reform in English coastal communities.'   Improving Schools, 24 (3).
245-260.
ISSN 1365-4802
Simmons, B  (2021)  'From living to lived and being-with: exploring the interaction styles of children and staff towards a child with profound and multiple learning disabilities.'   International Journal of Inclusive Education, 25 (6).
657-670.
ISSN 1360-3116
Macer, M and Chadderton, C  (2021)  'The reproduction of the gender regime: the military and education as state apparatuses constraining the military wife student.'   Gender and Education, 33 (3).
337-354.
ISSN 0954-0253
Bremner, N  (2021)  'The multiple meanings of ‘student-centred’ or ‘learner-centred’ education, and the case for a more flexible approach to defining it.'   Comparative Education, 57 (2).
159-186.
ISSN 0305-0068
Simon, C.A, James, C and Simon, A  (2021)  'The growth of multi-academy trusts in England: emergent structures and the sponsorship of underperforming schools.'   Educational Management Administration & Leadership, 49 (1).
112-127.
ISSN 1741-1432
Bremner, N  (2020)  'Time for timelines: the take-home timeline as a tool for exploring complex life histories.'   International Journal of Qualitative Methods, 19.
ISSN 1609-4069
la Velle, L, Newman, S, Montgomery, C and Hyatt, D  (2020)  'Initial teacher education in England and the Covid-19 pandemic: challenges and opportunities.'   Journal of Education for Teaching, 46 (4).
596-608.
ISSN 0260-7476
Merchant, W, Read, S, D’Evelyn, S, Miles, C and Williams, V  (2020)  'The insider view: tackling disabling practices in higher education institutions.'   Higher Education, 80 (2).
273-287.
ISSN 0018-1560
Earle, S  (2020)  'Balancing the demands of validity and reliability in practice: case study of a changing system of primary science summative assessment.'   London Review of Education, 18 (2).
221-235.
ISSN 1474-8460
Levinson, M.P  (2020)  'The quest for genuinely participatory and inclusive research approaches: exploring and expressing experience through cultural animation and transcription poetry.'   International Review of Qualitative Research, 13 (2).
182-199.
ISSN 1940-8447
Parfitt, A  (2020)  'Can the concept of the protean career help us to understand millennial pre-service teacher retention challenges?
A study of two pre-service teachers’ career pathways in England.'   Journal of Education for Teaching, 46 (3).
324-335.
Mitchell, B  (2020)  'Student-Led Improvement Science Projects: a praxiographic, actor-network theory study.'   Studies in Continuing Education, 42 (1).
133-146.
ISSN 0158-037X
Layen, S and Hattingh, L  (2020)  'Supporting students’ development through collaborative reflection: interrogating cultural practices and perceptions of good practice in the context of a field trip.'   Early Years, 40 (3).
306-318.
ISSN 0957-5146
Koopman, C and Garside, D  (2019)  'Transition, action and education: redirecting pragmatist philosophy of education.'   Journal of Philosophy of Education, 53 (4).
734-747.
ISSN 0309-8249
McMahon, K, Yeh, C.S.-H and Etchells, P.J  (2019)  'The impact of a modified initial teacher education on challenging trainees’ understanding of neuromyths.'   Mind, Brain and Education, 13 (4).
288-297.
ISSN 1751-2271
Lewis, A  (2019)  'Examining the concept of well-being and early childhood: adopting multi-disciplinary perspectives.'   Journal of Early Childhood Research, 17 (4).
294-308.
ISSN 1476-718X
Morris, T.H  (2019)  'Adaptivity through self-directed learning to meet the challenges of our ever-changing world.'   Adult Learning, 30 (2).
56-66.
ISSN 0955-2308
Riddell, R  (2019)  'System fluidity in English school governance: reflections on the implications for senior leaders of closed hierarchies.'   Management in Education, 33 (3).
126-133.
ISSN 0892-0206
Thomas, H  (2019)  'English teaching and imagination: a case for revisiting the value of imagination in teaching writing.'   English in Education, 53 (1).
49-60.
ISSN 0425-0494
Hordern, J  (2019)  'Higher expertise, pedagogic rights and the post-truth society.'   Teaching in Higher Education, 24 (3).
288-301.
la Velle, L, Stenhouse, E and Sutton, C  (2018)  'Masterliness: the challenge for professional development.'   Journal of Interdisciplinary Studies in Education, 7 (1).
54-66.
ISSN 2166-2681
Parker, R and Levinson, M.P  (2018)  'Student behaviour, motivation and the potential of attachment-aware schools to redefine the landscape.'   British Educational Research Journal, 44 (5).
875-896.
ISSN 0141-1926
la Velle, L and Flores, M.A  (2018)  'Perspectives on evidence-based knowledge for teachers: acquisition, mobilisation and utilisation.'   Journal of Education for Teaching, 44 (5).
524-538.
Whitehead, M.E, Durden-Myers, E.J and Pot, N  (2018)  'The value of fostering physical literacy.'   Journal of Teaching in Physical Education, 37 (3).
252-261.
ISSN 0273-5024
Morris, T.H  (2018)  'Vocational education of young adults in England: a systemic analysis of teaching–learning transactions that facilitate self-directed learning.'   Journal of Vocational Education & Training, 70 (4).
619-643.
ISSN 1363-6820
Hordern, J and Tatto, M.T  (2018)  'Conceptions of teaching and educational knowledge requirements.'   Oxford Review of Education, 44 (6).
686-701.
ISSN 0305-4985
Whiting, C, Whitty, G, Menter, I, Black, P, Hordern, J, Parfitt, A, Reynolds, K and Sorensen, N  (2018)  'Diversity and complexity: becoming a teacher in England in 2015-16.'   Review of Education, 6 (1).
69-96.
ISSN 2049-6613
Levinson, M.P  (2017)  'When participants don’t wish to participate in participatory action research, and when others participate on their behalf: the representation of communities by real and faux participants.'   Urban Review, 49 (3).
382-399.
ISSN 0042-0972
Davies, D.
J, Earle, S, McMahon, K, Howe, A and Collier, C  (2017)  'Development and exemplification of a model for Teacher Assessment in Primary Science.'   International Journal of Science Education, 39 (14).
1869-1890.
ISSN 0950-0693
Brewster, S, Duncan, N, Emira, M and Clifford, A  (2017)  'Personal sacrifice and corporate cultures: career progression for disabled staff in higher education.'   Disability & Society, 32 (7).
1027-1042.
ISSN 0968-7599
Hordern, J  (2017)  'Grammaticality and educational research.'   British Journal of Educational Studies, 65 (2).
201-217.
ISSN 0007-1005
Emira, M and Rahman, Z  (2017)  'Towards preparing young people for employment and further study: first evaluation of the City & Guilds TechBac.'   Research in Post-Compulsory Education, 22 (1).
49-67.
ISSN 1359-6748
Garside, D and Myskiw, K.J  (2017)  'Community of inquiry and underserved youth engagement: a reflective account of philosophy and method.'   Analytic Teaching and Philosophical Praxis, 37 (2).
13-25.
ISSN 2374-8257
Curran, H, Mortimore, T and Riddell, R  (2017)  'Special Educational Needs and Disabilities reforms 2014: SENCos’ perspectives of the first six months.'   British Journal of Special Education, 44 (1).
46-64.
ISSN 1467-8578
Jay, T, Rose, J and Simmons, B  (2017)  'Finding “mathematics”: parents questioning school-centered approaches to involvement in children’s mathematics learning.'   School Community Journal, 27 (1).
201-230.
ISSN 1059-308X
Gibson, H and Garside, D  (2017)  'The undergraduate Education Studies dissertation: philosophical reflections upon tacit empiricism in textbook guidance and the latent capacity of argumentation.'   Studies in Philosophy and Education, 36 (2).
ISSN 1573-191X
Duggan, M  (2017)  '‘People at the heart of our processes’, a case study of how a nursery school and children's centre promotes community cohesion.'   Education 3-13: International Journal of Primary, Elementary and Early Years Education, 45 (2).
135-150.
Hordern, J  (2016)  'Knowledge, practice, and the shaping of early childhood professionalism.'   European Early Childhood Education Research Journal, 24 (4).
508-520.
ISSN 1350-293X
Whitty, G and Wisby, E  (2016)  'Education in England – a testbed for network governance?'   Oxford Review of Education, 42 (3).
316-329.
Bianchi, J  (2016)  'STEAM Power: integrating art and technology through cultural heritage museum partnerships.'   The International Journal of the Inclusive Museum, 9 (2).
59-77.
ISSN 1835-2022
Yuan, T  (2015)  'Teaching to fish’ rather than ‘giving a fish’: is China contributing to the global sustainable futures?'   Academics in China, 12.
257-266.
ISSN 1002-1698
Levinson, M.P  (2015)  '‘What’s the plan?’ ‘What plan?’ Changing aspirations among Gypsy youngsters, and implications for future cultural identities and group membership.'   British Journal of Sociology of Education, 36 (8).
1149-1169.
ISSN 0142-5692
la Velle, L and Ovenden-Hope, T  (2015)  'Translational research in education for knowledge mobilisation: a study of use and teacher perception in primary schools in England, UK.'   Journal of Education for Teaching, 41 (5).
574-585.
McEachron, G and Bhatti, G  (2015)  'Teaching English as an additional language in the global classroom: a transnational study in the United States and United Kingdom.'   Global Education Review, 2 (2).
59-83.
ISSN 2325-663X
Chadderton, C and Edmonds, C  (2015)  'Refugees and access to vocational education and training across Europe: a case of protection of white privilege?'   Journal of Vocational Education & Training, 67 (2).
136-152.
Simmons, B and Watson, D  (2015)  'From individualism to co-construction and back again: rethinking research methodology for children with profound and multiple learning disabilities.'   Child Care in Practice, 21 (1).
50-66.
ISSN 1357-5279
Craft, A, Cremin, T, Hay, P and Clack, J  (2014)  'Creative primary schools: developing and maintaining pedagogy for creativity.'   Ethnography and Education, 9 (1).
16-34.
ISSN 1745-7831
Chadderton, C and Wischmann, A  (2014)  'Racialised norms in apprenticeship systems in England and Germany.'   Journal of Vocational Education & Training, 66 (3).
330-347.
Earle, S  (2014)  'Formative and summative assessment of science in English primary schools: evidence from the Primary Science Quality Mark.'   Research in Science & Technological Education, 32 (2).
216-228.
Hordern, J  (2014)  'How is vocational knowledge recontextualised?'   Journal of Vocational Education & Training, 66 (1).
Levinson, M.P and Hooley, N  (2014)  'Investigating networks of culture and knowledge: a critical discourse between UK Roma Gypsies, Indigenous Australians and education.'   The Australian Educational Researcher, 41 (2).
139-153.
ISSN 0311-6999
Preston, J, Chadderton, C and Kitagawa, K  (2014)  'The ‘state of exception’ and disaster education: a multilevel conceptual framework with implications for social justice.'   Globalisation, Societies and Education, 12 (4).
437-456.
ISSN 1476-7724
Chadderton, C  (2014)  'The militarisation of English schools: Troops to Teaching and the implications for Initial Teacher Education and race equality.'   Race Ethnicity and Education, 17 (3).
407-428.
ISSN 1361-3324

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/our-research-excellence/english-language-and-literature-research:
Creative Writing and English Literature at Bath Spa University have a deep and meaningful interdisciplinary relationship with one another, in which creative and critical practice are directly and vitally linked.
This enables a kind of innovative, rigorous, and socially engaged praxis that can be seen in individual research outputs and impact, collaboration through research centres and beyond, externally funded research projects, and coherent strategic planning across this research area.
The symbiosis between creative and critical practice is a distinctive feature of our individual outputs, research environment, and research impact, as is our commitment to producing innovative, rigorous and socially engaged research.
This has enabled us to extend and consolidate our position as research leaders in areas such as:
Our approach to research impact builds on our extensive and substantial track record of public outreach.
But it extends well beyond readings, lectures, and performances to demonstrate how creative writers and literary scholars are often uniquely placed to shape how individuals apprehend and articulate the complexities of their own lived experience.
Our shared commitment to the interrelationships between creative and critical practice has enabled us to develop distinctive and nuanced dialogues with communities outside of the university.
These qualities were evidenced in the 2014 impact submission, but the case studies highlighted here demonstrate how our understanding and management of impact has improved in sophistication and effect.
Walton, S  (2020)  The living world: Nan Shepherd and environmental thought.
Bloomsbury, London.
ISBN 9781350153226
Gregg, S.H  (2020)  Old books and digital publishing: Eighteenth-Century Collections Online.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.
ISBN 9781108767415
Ivic, C  (2020)  The subject of Britain: 1603-25.
Manchester University Press, Manchester.
ISBN 9780719088704
Glaser, E  (2020)  Elitism: a progressive defence.
Biteback Publishing, London.
ISBN 9781785906077
Pullinger, K  (2020)  Forest green.
Doubleday Canada, Toronto.
ISBN 9780385683043
Rigby, K  (2020)  Reclaiming Romanticism: towards an ecopoetics of decolonization.
Bloomsbury Academic, London.
ISBN 9781474290593
Harvey, S  (2020)  The shapeless unease: a year of not sleeping.
Jonathan Cape.
ISBN 9781787332027
Christopher, L and Suvorova, A  (2019)  Shadow.
Lantana, London.
ISBN 9781911373834
Morrison, R, ed.
(2019)  Thomas De Quincey: selected writings.
Oxford University Press, Oxford.
ISBN 9780199676897
Brayfield, C  (2019)  Rebel writers: the accidental feminists.
ISBN 9781448217496
Morrison, R  (2019)  The Regency revolution: Jane Austen, Napoleon, Lord Byron and the making of the modern world.
Atlantic Books, London.
ISBN 9781786491237
Filer, N  (2019)  The heartland: finding and losing schizophrenia.
Faber & Faber, London.
ISBN 9780571345953
Binckes, F and Snyder, C, eds.
(2019)  Women, periodicals and print culture in Britain, 1890s-1920s: the Modernist period.
ISBN 9781474450645
Binckes, F and Laing, K  (2019)  Hannah Lynch (1859-1904): Irish writer, cosmopolitan, New Woman.
Cork University Press, Cork.
ISBN 9781782053330
Walton, S  (2018)  Self heal.
Boiler House Press, Norwich.
ISBN 9781911343462
Etter, C  (2018)  The weather in Normal.
Seren, Bridgend.
ISBN 9781781724590
Moss, S  (2018)  The wren: a biography.
Square Peg, London.
ISBN 9781910931936
Hooper, E  (2018)  Our homesick songs.
Penguin, London.
ISBN 9780241273807
Almond, D  (2018)  The colour of the sun.
Hodder Children's Books, London.
ISBN 9781444919554
Woodward, G  (2018)  The paper lovers.
Picador, London.
ISBN 9781509847983
Reeve, N.H and Kerridge, R, eds.
(2018)  J.H.
Prynne, The oval window: a new annotated edition.
Bloodaxe Books, Hexham.
ISBN 9781780371269
Bentham, R and Hallett, A, eds.
(2018)  Project boast.
Triarchy Press, Axminster.
ISBN 9781911193418
Hensher, P  (2018)  The friendly ones.
Fourth Estate, London.
ISBN 9780008175641
Forna, A  (2018)  Happiness: a novel.
Grove Press, New York, NY.
ISBN 9780802127556
Harvey, S  (2018)  The western wind.
Jonathan Cape, London.
ISBN 9781787330597
Skuse, C.J  (2017)  Sweetpea.
HQ, London.
ISBN 9780008216719
Woodward, G  (2017)  Legoland.
ISBN 9781447288695
Alderman, N  (2016)  The power.
Viking, London.
ISBN 9780670919987
Mukherjee, R  (2016)  Hillstation.
Oldcastle Books, Harpenden.
ISBN 9781843447429
Hensher, P  (2016)  Tales of persuasion.
ISBN 9780007459636
Weldon, F  (2016)  Before the war.
Head of Zeus, London.
ISBN 9781784082086
Hadley, T  (2015)  The past.
ISBN 9780224101691
Nadin, J  (2015)  Joe all alone.
Little, Brown Books for Younger Readers, London.
ISBN 9780349124551
Liardet, T  (2015)  The world before snow.
Carcanet, Manchester.
ISBN 9781847772091
Rigby, K  (2015)  Dancing with disaster : environmental histories, narratives, and ethics for perilous times.
Under the sign of nature: explorations in ecocriticism .
University of Virginia Press, Charlottesville.
ISBN 9780813936901
Hughes, W  (2015)  That devil's trick: hypnotism and the Victorian popular imagination.
ISBN 9780719074837
Hooper, E  (2015)  Etta and Otto and Russell and James.
ISBN 9780241003329
Walton, S  (2015)  Guilty but insane: mind and law in golden age detective fiction.
ISBN 9780198723325
Harvey, S  (2014)  Dear thief.
ISBN 9780224101721
Almond, D  (2014)  The tightrope walkers.
ISBN 9780241003237
Hensher, P  (2014)  The emperor waltz.
ISBN 0007459572
Gee, M  (2014)  Virginia Woolf in Manhattan.
Telegram, London.
ISBN 9781846591884
Pullinger, K  (2014)  Landing gear: a novel.
Touchstone Books, New York: London.
ISBN 9781476751375
Kerridge, R  (2014)  Cold blood: adventures with reptiles and amphibians.
Chatto & Windus, London.
ISBN 9780701187958
Hewitt, J  (2014)  The dynamite room.
Simon & Schuster, London.
ISBN 9781471127427
Woodward, G  (2014)  Vanishing.
ISBN 9780330518642
Etter, C  (2014)  Imagined sons.
ISBN 9781781721513
Voake, S  (2014)  Hooey Higgins and the storm.
Walker Books.
ISBN 9781406343311
Brain, T  (2014)  Fiction published under a pseudonym.
Harper Collins, London.
Gadd, I  (2020)  'Ready reader one: recovering reading as an ambient practice.'    In: Abba, T, Dovey, J and Pullinger, K, eds.
Ambient literature: towards a new poetics of situated writing and reading practices.
Palgrave Macmillan, Cham, pp.
27-51.
ISBN 9783030414559
Stenning, A  (2020)  'Understanding empathy through a study of autistic life writing: on the importance of neurodiverse morality.'    In: Rosquvist, H, Chown, N and Stenning, A, eds.
Neurodiversity studies: a new critical paradigm.
108-124.
ISBN 9780367338312
Lloyd, N  (2020)  'Lady Morgan and "the babbling page of history": cultural transition as performance in the Irish national tale.'    In: Connolly, C, ed.
Irish literature in transition, 1780-1830.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, pp.
206-225.
ISBN 9781108492980
Stenning, A  (2019)  'Autism and cognitive embodiment: steps towards a non-ableist walking literature.'    In: Borthwick, D, Marland, P and Stenning, A, eds.
Walking, landscape and environment.
149-167.
ISBN 9781138630109
Walton, S  (2019)  'Body burdens: the materiality of work in Rita Wong's 'Forage'.'    In: Walton, J.L and Luker, E, eds.
Poetry and work: work in modern and contemporary Anglophone poetry.
Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, pp.
263-290.
ISBN 9783030261245
Goodman, H  (2019)  '‘A story of treasure, war, and wild adventure’: hero-worship, imperial masculinities, and inter-generational ideology in H.
Rider Haggard’s 1880s fiction.'    In: Brown, M, Barry, A.M and Begiato, J, eds.
Martial masculinities: imagining and experiencing the military in the long nineteenth century.
Manchester University Press, Manchester, pp.
232-254.
ISBN 9781526135629
Wright, E.H  (2019)  'Women, drama and print culture 1890–1929.'    In: Binckes, F and Snyder, C, eds.
Women, periodicals and print culture in Britain, 1890s-1920s: the modernist period.
92-105.
Gee, M  (2017)  'May Hobbs.'    In: Hunt, S, Kidd, D and Page, R, eds.
Protest!
Stories of resistance.
Comma Press, Manchester, pp.
237-265.
ISBN 9781905583737
Rigby, K  (2017)  'Deep sustainability: ecopoetics, enjoyment and ecstatic hospitality.'    In: Johns-Putra, A, Parham, J and Squire, L, eds.
Literature and sustainability: concept, text and culture.
52-75.
ISBN 9780719099670
Morrison, R  (2016)  'Aggressive intimacy: mass markets and the 'Blackwood’s Magazine' coterie.'    In: Bowers, W and H.L, Crummé, eds.
Re-evaluating the literary coterie, 1580–1830: from Sidney to Blackwood's.
181-200.
ISBN 9781137545527
Forna, A  (2016)  'Crossroads.'    In: Freeman, J, ed.
Freeman's: the best new writing on family.
Freeman's  (2).
Grove Press, New York, NY, pp.
31-53.
ISBN 9781611855401
Goodman, H  (2015)  ''Madness and masculinity': male patients in London asylums and Victorian culture.'    In: Trowbridge, S and Knowles, T, eds.
Insanity and the lunatic asylum in the nineteenth century.
149-166.
ISBN 9781848934528
Goodman, H  (2015)  'Masculinity, tourism and adventure in English nineteenth-century travel fiction.'    In: Thurnell-Read, T and Casey, M, eds.
Men, masculinities, travel and tourism.
Palgrave Macmillan, London, pp.
13-27.
ISBN 9781137341457
Kaznowska, H  (2020)  'Stories between storeys: the uses of stairs to gain domestic control.'   Early Modern Literary Studies, 29.
ISSN 1201-2459
Peters, F  (2020)  'True crime narratives.'   Crime Fiction Studies, 1 (1).
23-40.
ISSN 2517-7982
Walton, S  (2019)  'Nature trauma: ecology and the returning soldier in First World War English and Scottish fiction, 1918-1932’.'   Journal of Medical Humanities.
ISSN 1041-3545
Lewis, J  (2019)  '“From the slave’s point of view”: towards a phenomenology of witnessing in Frederick Douglass’ 1845 Narrative.'   ESQ: A Journal of Nineteenth-Century American Literature and Culture, 65 (2).
257-291.
ISSN 0093-8297
Lewis, J  (2019)  ''Careful living': Frederick Douglass's phenomenology of embodied experience.'   Textual Practice, 33 (10).
1657-1672.
ISSN 0950-236X
Strachan, J  (2019)  'Wordsworth among the fascists.'   Essays in Criticism, 69 (1).
37-50.
ISSN 0014-0856
Ivic, C  (2018)  'Bitter memories: Spenser’s 'A view of the present state of Ireland'.'   Éire-Ireland, 53 (3 & 4).
9-35.
ISSN 0013-2683
Presley, N  (2018)  '"A buried land and a blazing source": Ted Hughes and William Golding.'   Ted Hughes Society Journal, 7 (1).
77-88.
ISSN 2051-7270
Hill, T  (2017)  '"The grocers honour": or, taking the City seriously in 'The knight of the burning pestle'.'   Early Theatre, 20 (2).
159-178.
ISSN 2293-7609
Gadd, I  (2017)  'A companion to Blayney.'   The Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America, 111 (3).
379-406.
ISSN 0006-128X
Lloyd, N  (2017)  'Canals, commerce and the construction of nation in Sydney Owenson’s O’Donnel.'   Romantic Textualities: Literature and Print Culture, 1780–1840, 22.
52-65.
ISSN 1748-0116
Hill, T  (2017)  ''Euer Obedient in His Studies': Thomas Middleton and the City, 1620–1622.'   The London Journal, 42 (2).
137-150.
ISSN 0305-8034
Morrison, R  (2016)  'English bards and Scotch biography: John Galt’s 'Life of Lord Byron'.'   The Byron Journal, 44 (1).
27-40.
ISSN 0301-7257
Lloyd, N  (2016)  '“Rebellion in the Celestial Empire”: Sino-Irish sympathy in Sydney Owenson’s 'Florence Macarthy'.'   European Romantic Review, 27 (1).
39-54.
ISSN 1050-9585
Brain, T  (2014)  'Stitching a life, telling a story: sewing in 'Jane Eyre'.'   Women's Writing, 21 (4).
464-487.
ISSN 1747-5848
English, L  (2021)  The Book of Hours (2018) [REF2021 collection].
Liardet, T  (2021)  Subverting the Sonnet: Poems (2016-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Pullinger, K  (2021)  Breathe (2018) [REF2021 collection].
Hadjiafxendi, K  (2021)  Science at the seaside: pleasure hunts in North Devon (2014-2017) [REF2021 collection].

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/our-research-excellence/geography-and-environment-research:
The success of Geography and Environmental Studies research at BSU is showcased by our international portfolio, underpinned by major funding and extensive national and international partnership networks which facilitate significant contributions to global debates.
Our research deploys scientific, social-scientific, humanities and arts approaches to address societal and environmental challenges.
We work across traditional boundaries to embrace and pioneer interdisciplinary research.
Our research centres and groups include:
Significant institutional investment has transformed the School, and its unit’s interdisciplinary ethos both transcends and bridges subject boundaries across the School of Sciences.
Our areas of research expertise are:
Operating within the context of University-wide research strategies, the unit delivers vitality and sustainability through core commitments to research leadership, and the development of all our people.
The Research Centre for Environmental Humanities draws together scholars from across the University, in pursuit of new insights and creative responses in the face of deepening socio-environmental concerns and crises.
The Climate, Hazards and Environmental Change Research Cluster grouping brings together understandings of earth system process dynamics and societal policy responses to environmental hazards and disaster risk reduction, particularly in DAC-listed countries.
We have strengths in India, Kiribati and Mexico, and wider work in Guatemala and Ireland.
The Global Citizenship and Identities group explores global interconnections surrounding the mobility of capital, people and ideas.
We host, co-host and support research events at BSU and internationally.
Our research centre and group events are open to the Bath Spa community, external colleagues, as well as to the general public.
Take part in real-time or access our recordings.
We firmly believe in applying and translating our research for the benefit of society and environment; contributing to global challenges.
Our policy briefings and working papers provide cross-sectorial connectivity and drive impactful policy-practice change.
Film, as a creative medium, provides a universal means of connecting people and fostering valuable bonds between research and societal stakeholders.
We employ film in our research projects as a catalytic tool of engagement, to generate impactful outcomes.
Hannis, M  (2015)  Freedom and environment: autonomy, human flourishing and the political philosophy of sustainability.
Routledge, New York.
ISBN 9781138777279
Gioli, G, Thapa, G, Khan, F, Dasgupta, P, Nathan, D, Chhetri, N, Adhikari, L, Mohanty, S.K, Aurino, E and Mapstone Scott, L  (2019)  'Understanding and tackling poverty and vulnerability in mountain livelihoods in the Hindu Kush Himalaya.'    In: Wester, P, Mishra, A, Mukherji, A and Shrestha, A, eds.
The Hindu Kush Himalaya assessment.
421-455.
ISBN 9783319922874
Garde-Hansen, J, McEwen, L and Jones, O  (2016)  'Towards a memo-techno-ecology: mediating memories of extreme flooding in resilient communities.'    In: Hajek, A, Lohmeier, C and Pentzold, C, eds.
Memory in a mediated world: remembrance and reconstruction.
55-73.
ISBN 9781137470119
Moore, H  (2021)  'Perceptions of Eastern European migrants in an English village: the role of the rural place image.'   Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies, 47 (1).
267-283.
ISSN 1369-183X
Pauly, M, Helle, G, Büntgen, U, Wacker, L, Treydte, K, Reinig, F, Turney, C, Nievergelt, D, Kromer, B, Friedrich, M, Sookdeo, A, Heinrich, I, Riedel, F, Balting, D and Brauer, A  (2020)  'An annual-resolution stable isotope record from Swiss subfossil pine trees growing in the Late Glacial.'   Quaternary Science Reviews, 247.
e106550.
ISSN 0277-3791
Gaffney, V et al  (2020)  'Multi-proxy characterisation of the Storegga tsunami and its impact on the early Holocene landscapes of the southern North Sea.'   Geosciences, 10 (7).
e270.
ISSN 2076-3263
Bettini, G, Gioli, G and Felli, R  (2020)  'Clouded skies: how digital technologies could reshape "Loss and Damage" from climate change.'   WIREs Climate Change, 11 (4).
e650.
ISSN 1757-7799
Jeffers, J.M  (2020)  'Barriers to transformation towards participatory adaptation decision-making: lessons from the Cork flood defences dispute.'   Land Use Policy, 90.
e104333.
ISSN 0264-8377
Neimark, B, Childs, J, Nightingale, A.J, Cavanagh, C.J, Sullivan, S, Benjaminsen, T.A, Batterbury, S, Koot, S and Harcourt, W  (2019)  'Speaking power to ‘post-truth’: critical political ecology and the new authoritarianism.'   Annals of the American Association of Geographers, 109 (2).
613-623.
ISSN 2469-4452
Sullivan, S  (2019)  'Towards a metaphysics of the soul and a participatory aesthetics of life: mobilising Foucault, affect and animism for caring practices of existence.'   New Formations, 95.
5-21.
ISSN 0950-2378
Pauly, M, Helle, G, Miramont, C, Büntgen, U, Treydte, K, Reinig, F, Guibal, F, Sivan, O, Heinrich, I, Riedel, F, Kromer, B, Balanzategui, D, Wacker, L, Sookdeo, A and Brauer, A  (2018)  'Subfossil trees suggest enhanced Mediterranean hydroclimate variability at the onset of the Younger Dryas.'   Scientific Reports, 8 (1).
e13980.
ISSN 2045-2322
Sullivan, S  (2018)  'Making nature investable: from legibility to leverageability in fabricating 'nature' as 'natural capital'.'   Science and Technology Studies, 31 (3).
47-76.
ISSN 2243-4690
Thornhill, I, Biggs, J, Hill, M, Briers, R, Gledhill, D, Wood, P, Gee, J and Hassall, C  (2018)  'The functional response and resilience in small waterbodies along land-use and environmental gradients.'   Global Change Biology, 24 (7).
3079-3092.
ISSN 1354-1013
Sullivan, S and Hannis, M  (2017)  '“Mathematics maybe, but not money”: on balance sheets, numbers and nature in ecological accounting.'   Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, 30 (7).
1459-1480.
ISSN 0951-3574
Thornhill, I, Batty, L, Death, R.G, Friberg, N.R and Ledger, M.E  (2017)  'Local and landscape scale determinants of macroinvertebrate assemblages and their conservation value in ponds across an urban land-use gradient.'   Biodiversity and Conservation, 26 (5).
1065-1086.
ISSN 0960-3115
Sullivan, S  (2017)  'What's ontology got to do with it?
On nature and knowledge in a political ecology of the 'green economy'.'   Journal of Political Ecology, 24.
217-242.
ISSN 1073-0451
Słowakiewicz, M, Whitaker, F, Thomas, L, Tucker, M.E, Zheng, Y, Gedl, P and Pancost, R.D  (2016)  'Biogeochemistry of intertidal microbial mats from Qatar: new insights from organic matter characterisation.'   Organic Geochemistry, 102.
14-29.
ISSN 0146-6380
Anderson, L.G, Rocliffe, S, Haddaway, N.R and Dunn, A.M  (2015)  'The role of tourism and recreation in the spread of non-native species: a systematic review and meta-analysis.'   PLoS ONE, 10 (10).
e0140833.
ISSN 1932-6203
Simm, D and Marvell, A  (2015)  'Gaining a “sense of place”: students’ affective experiences of place leading to transformative learning on international fieldwork.'   Journal of Geography in Higher Education, 39 (4).
595-616.
ISSN 0309-8265
Johnson, R.M and Warburton, J  (2015)  'Sediment erosion dynamics of a gullied debris slide: a medium-term record.'   Catena, 127.
152-169.
ISSN 0341-8162
Pauly, M, Kamenos, N.A, Donohue, P and LeDrew, E  (2015)  'Coralline algal Mg-O bond strength as a marine pCO2 proxy.'   Geology, 43 (3).
267-270.
ISSN 0091-7613
Penrhyn Jones, S  (2021)  Broadening understanding of environmental communication through transdisciplinary narratives on climate change - a creative & critical exploration (2017, 2019) [REF2021 collection].
Johnson, R.M and Edwards, E  (2020)  Pathways to Resilience [webpage].

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/our-research-excellence/history-research:
Our small, but highly research active hub brings together historians within the School of Humanities, the History and Heritage Subject Group, which is in charge of undergraduate and postgraduate teaching in History, as well as staff working in the Subject Group of Philosophy, Study of Religion and Ethics.
All researchers are brought together in the History and Heritage Research Centre with the wider History and Heritage community of doctoral and postdoctoral scholars across the University.
The Centre provides a rigorous, supportive intellectual environment, employs exceptional historical resources locally available, and interacts extensively with scholars and stakeholders nationally and internationally.
Its key aim is to provide a common space for all scholars interested in understanding the past, and in developing together with external partners its cultural, social and economic importance for the present.
Our research focuses on developing a critical understanding of the modern world by looking at the interplay of people, place, belief and memory.
Chronologically, we cover Early Modern, Modern and Contemporary history; geographically, we all work on the British Isles in some ways, mostly in comparative and transnational perspective in connection to Irish, European (in particular French & German), Mediterranean, South and Central Asian, Chinese, Australasian, African, Caribbean & Transatlantic history, and ‘the Muslim World’.
Perspectives are local, national and global.
We are particularly interested in how these levels interrelate to understand an increasingly interconnected world.
Thematically, work clusters on Early Modern and Modern British political culture; imperialism and post-imperialism with particular emphasis on migration; global intellectual history; and the history, theory and practice of heritage and public history.
Together, our research and impact activities respond to major contemporary challenges linked to the rise of populism and fake news, and the regaining of strength of nationalism, racism and islamophobia.
We have had an active research community in history for half a century and our research structure has been shaped since to encourage greater cross- and interdisciplinary working among both students and staff, facilitate internationalisation, strengthen student choice, enhance employability, and support Bath Spa’s wider ambitions to be a ‘leading university in creativity, culture and enterprise’.
Together, they form the background for the development of History and Heritage as an important cluster of excellence for learning, teaching and research.
Underpinned by strategic hiring, Heritage has been closely integrated with History in terms of teaching, research and impact.
To this end, we took the initiative of bringing together scholars from other disciplines with an interest in the past and its contemporary uses to form the History and Heritage Research Centre.
Malik, I.H  (2020)  The silk road and beyond: narratives of a Muslim historian.
Oxford University Press, Karachi.
ISBN 9780199405961
Hackett, S  (2020)  Britain’s rural Muslims: rethinking integration.
ISBN 9781526110145
Malik, I.H  (2016)  Pashtun identity and geopolitics in Southwest Asia: Pakistan and Afghanistan since 9/11.
Anthem, London.
ISBN 9781783084944
Williamson, C  (2016)  The history of Catholic intellectual life in Scotland, 1918–1965.
ISBN 9781137333469
Re Manning, R, ed.
(2015)  Retrieving the radical Tillich: his legacy and contemporary importance.
Radical theologies .
Palgrave Macmillan, New York.
ISBN 9781137380838
Coast, D  (2014)  News and rumour in Jacobean England: information, court politics and diplomacy, 1618-25.
Politics, culture and society in early modern Britain .
ISBN 9780719089480
Newland, C  (2020)  'Economic objects.'    In: White, C.L, ed.
A cultural history of objects: in the age of industry - volume 5.
Bloomsbury, London, pp.
57-76.
ISBN 9781474298797
Morton, S  (2020)  'Inside the human remains store: the impact of repatriation on museum practice in the United Kingdom.'    In: Fforde, C, Keeler, H and McKeown, T, eds.
The Routledge companion to indigenous repatriation: return, reconcile, renew.
902-917.
ISBN 9781138303584
Coast, D  (2018)  'Secrecy, counsel and public opinion during the Spanish and French matches.'    In: Caldari, V and Wolfson, S.J, eds.
Stuart marriage diplomacy: dynastic politics in their European context, 1604-1630.
Boydell & Brewer, Suffolk, pp.
189-202.
ISBN 9781783271436
Re Manning, R  (2017)  'Faith and reason.'    In: Rasmussen, J, Wolfe, J and Zachhuber, J, eds.
The Oxford handbook of nineteenth-century Christian thought.
Oxford University Press, Oxford, pp.
160-176.
ISBN 9780198718406
Swenson, A  (2016)  ''To every landless man, woman and child in England’: Octavia Hill and the preservation movement.'    In: Baigent, E and Cowell, B, eds.
'Nobler imaginings and mightier struggles': Octavia Hill, social activism and the remaking of British society.
Institute for Historical Research, London, pp.
187-208.
ISBN 9781909646001
Swenson, A  (2015)  'Cologne Cathedral as an international monument.'    In: Rüger, J and Wachsmann, N, eds.
Rewriting German history: new perspectives on modern Germany.
29-51.
ISBN 9781137347787
Otele, O  (2014)  'Resisting imperial governance in Canada: from trade and religious kinship to black narrative pedagogy in Ontario.'    In: Reid-Maroney, N, Wright, H and Ebanda De B'béri, B, eds.
The promised land : history and historiography of the Black experience in Chatham-Kent's settlements and beyond.
African and diasporic studies .
University of Toronto Press, Toronto, Canada, pp.
131-148.
ISBN 9781442647176
Coast, D  (2019)  'Speaking for the people in early modern England.'   Past and Present, 244 (1).
51-88.
ISSN 0031-2746
Swenson, A  (2018)  'Historic preservation, the state and nationalism in Britain.'   Nations and Nationalism, 24 (1).
43-63.
ISSN 1354-5078
Coast, D  (2017)  ''Reformation’ or ‘ruin’?
The impeachment of the duke of Buckingham and early Stuart politics.'   Historical Research, 90 (250).
704-725.
ISSN 1468-2281
Flavel, S  (2017)  'Affirming fate and incorporating death: the role of 'amor fati' in Nishitani's 'Religion and nothingness'.'   Philosophy East and West, 67 (4).
1248-1272.
ISSN 1529-1898
Berry, C  (2017)  '‘To Avoide All Envye, Malys, Grudge and Displeasure’: sociability and social networking at the London wardmote inquest, c.1470–1540.'   The London Journal, 42 (3).
Re Manning, R  (2017)  'Natural theology reconsidered (again).'   Theology and Science, 15 (3).
289-301.
ISSN 1474-6700
Hackett, S  (2017)  'The 'local turn' in historical perspective: two city case studies in Britain & Germany.'   International Review of Administrative Sciences, 83 (2).
340-357.
ISSN 1461-7226
Swenson, A  (2016)  'The first heritage international(s): conceptualising global networks before UNESCO.'   Future Anterior: Journal of Historic Preservation, History, Theory, and Criticism, 13 (1).
1-15.
ISSN 1549-9715
Coast, D  (2016)  'Rumor and "common fame": the impeachment of the Duke of Buckingham and public opinion in early Stuart England.'   Journal of British Studies, 55 (2).
241-267.
ISSN 1545-6986
Williamson, C  (2015)  'The quiet time?
Pay-beds and private practice in the National Health Service: 1948–1970.'   Social History of Medicine, 28 (3).
576-595.
ISSN 1477-4666
Swenson, A  (2015)  'Crusader heritages and imperial preservation.'   Past and Present, 226 (Sup.10).
27-56.
Marshall, A  (2015)  '“Memorialls for Mrs Affora”: Aphra Behn and the Restoration intelligence world.'   Women's Writing, 22 (1).
13-33.
Hackett, S  (2014)  'From rags to restaurants: self-determination, entrepreneurship and integration amongst Muslim immigrants in Newcastle upon Tyne in comparative perspective, 1960s–1990s.'   Twentieth Century British History, 25 (1).
132-154.
ISSN 0955-2359
Williamson, C  (2014)  ''To remove the stigma of the poor law': the 'Comprehensive' ideal and patient access to the municipal hospital service in the city of Glasgow 1918-1939.'   History: the Journal of the Historical Association, 99 (334).
73-99.
ISSN 0018-2648
Newland, C  (2021)  Victorians decoded: art and telegraphy (2017) [REF2021 collection].

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/our-research-excellence/music-and-performing-arts-research:
Music and Performing Arts research is centred on the Bath School of Music and Performing Arts and makes connections with researchers in other disciplines, both within the University and externally.
Our research is driven by three themes which address current societal challenges:
The three themes encompass our six research groups, providing a context and framework for our research:
The groups organise ongoing events, symposia and conferences.
They bring together senior and early career researchers, including PhDs (as well as taught postgraduate and undergraduate students), and visiting researchers and practitioners.
They aim to create a forum for sharing research, supporting the vitality and sustainability of our research community and its external contexts.
The groups are all interdisciplinary, working beyond academic school structures to bring together perspectives from different fields in order to challenge ideas within individual disciplines.
McCormack, J  (2018)  Choreography and verbatim theatre: dancing words.
Palgrave Pivot, Cham.
ISBN 9783319920184
Dickinson, J  (2020)  'Mechanical – magical: the shared creative vision of Harrison Birtwistle and Paul Klee.'    In: Gartmann, T, ed.
Von der Fuge in Rot bis zur Zwischermaschine: Klee und die Musik.
Schwabe, Basel, pp.
123-139.
ISBN 9783796542558
Purcell-Gates, L  (2020)  'Spectacular bodies, unsettling objects: material performance as intervention in stereotypes of refugees.'    In: Meerzon, Y, Dean, D and McNeil, D, eds.
Migration and stereotypes in performance and culture.
39-55.
ISBN 9783030399146
Hyde, J  (2020)  'The new analogue: media archaeology as creative practice in 21st century audiovisual art.'    In: Knight-Hill, A, ed.
Sound and image: aesthetics and practices.
188-205.
ISBN 9780367271466
Kampe, T and Batson, G  (2020)  'Dancing critical somatics – an emancipatory education for the future?'    In: David, A.R, Huxley, M and Whatley, S, eds.
Dance fields: staking a claim for dance studies in the twenty-first century.
Dance Books, Binsted, pp.
154-184.
ISBN 9781852731816
Regan, J  (2020)  'Three pronged attack: the pincer movement of gender allies, tempered radicals and pioneers.'    In: Hepworth-Sawyer, R, Hodgson, J, King, L and Marrington, M, eds.
Gender in music production.
187-198.
ISBN 9781138613362
Purcell-Gates, L  (2019)  'The monster and the corpse: puppetry and the uncanniness of gender performance.'    In: Astles, C, Mello, A and Orenstein, C, eds.
Women and puppetry: critical and historical investigations.
19-34.
ISBN 9780415787390
Knox, S and Cassidy, G  (2019)  'Game of Thrones: investigating British acting.'    In: Hilmes, M, Hills, M and Pearson, R, eds.
Transatlantic television drama: industries, programs and fans.
ISBN 9780190663131
Bayley, A  (2018)  'Cross-cultural collaborations with the Kronos Quartet.'    In: Clarke, E and Doffman, M, eds.
Distributed creativity: collaboration and improvisation in contemporary music.
Oxford University Press, New York, NY, pp.
93-113.
ISBN 9780199355914
Lundskaer-Nielsen, M  (2017)  '“In this England, in these times” : redefining the British musical from 1970-present.'    In: Everett, W.A and Laird, P.R, eds.
The Cambridge companion to the musical.
3rd ed.
323-338.
ISBN 9781107535299
Cassidy, G  (2017)  'In good company: the authorial process of Anthony Neilson.'    In: Reid, T, ed.
The theatre of Anthony Neilson.
159-170.
ISBN 9781472570307
Lundskaer-Nielsen, M  (2017)  'Cameron Mackintosh: control, collaboration and the creative producer.'    In: Gordon, R and Jubin, O, eds.
The Oxford handbook of the British musical.
537-560.
ISBN 9780199988747
Bayley, A and Dutiro, C  (2016)  'Developing dialogues in intercultural music-making.'    In: Burnard, P, Mackinlay, E and Powell, K, eds.
The Routledge international handbook of intercultural arts research.
391-403.
ISBN 9781138909939
Hugill, A  (2015)  'Percy Grainger: pioneer of electronic music.'    In: Robinson, S and Dreyfus, K, eds.
Grainger the modernist.
Ashgate, Farnham, pp.
231-254.
ISBN 9781472420220
Lundskaer-Nielsen, M  (2014)  'The Prince-Sondheim legacy.'    In: Gordon, R, ed.
The Oxford handbook of Sondheim studies.
97-116.
ISBN 9780195391374
McCormack, J  (2020)  'Dancing diffraction: many bodies make light work in Sasha Milavic Davies and Lucy Railton's 'everything that rises must dance' (2018).'   Performance Research, 25 (5).
77-83.
ISSN 1352-8165
Nixon, E  (2019)  'Embodied correspondences with the material world: Marcel Jousse’s ‘laboratory of the self’ as a force for creative practice in performer training.'   Theatre, Dance and Performance Training, 10 (1).
97-112.
ISSN 1944-3927
Kampe, T  (2017)  'Entangled histories, part 2: releasing the de-generate body.'   Journal of Dance & Somatic Practices, 9 (1).
75-93.
ISSN 1757-1871
Bayley, A and Heyde, N  (2017)  'Communicating through notation: Michael Finnissy’s Second String Quartet from composition to performance.'   Music Performance Research, 8.
80-97.
ISSN 1755-9219
Purcell-Gates, L  (2017)  'Puppet bodies: reflections and revisions of marionette movement theories in Philippe Gaulier’s Neutral Mask pedagogy.'   Theatre, Dance and Performance Training, 8 (1).
46-60.
Purcell-Gates, L  (2017)  'Automata and bêtise: contamination anxieties in late nineteenth-century French mime.'   Popular Entertainment Studies, 8 (1).
21-35.
ISSN 1837-9303
Krauthaker, M and Connolly, R  (2017)  'Gazing at Medusa: adaptation as phallocentric appropriation in 'Blue is the warmest color'.'   European Comic Art, 10 (1).
24-40.
ISSN 1754-3797
Kampe, T  (2016)  '‘crossing/weaving’: somatic interventions in choreographic practices.'   Feldenkrais Research Journal, 5.
ISSN 1817-4000
Bayley, A and Lizée, N  (2016)  'Creative layers and continuities: a case study of Nicole Lizée and the Kronos Quartet.'   Musicae Scientiae, 20 (3).
392-412.
ISSN 1029-8649
Breel, A  (2015)  'Audience agency in participatory performance: a methodology for examining aesthetic experience.'   Participations: Journal of Audience & Reception Studies, 12 (1).
368-387.
ISSN 1749-8716
Herrema, R  (2021)  Code as Prosthesis (2020) [REF2021 collection].
Soyinka, B  (2021)  The Great Margin (2020) [REF2021 collection].
Steadman, M  (2021)  Borderland (2016) [REF2021 collection].
Steadman, M  (2021)  Dramaturgies of Hauntology through practice-based research methodologies in Dwelling and The Strange Geometry of Time (2018-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Hyde, J  (2021)  Wild Places: Mountain (2015) [REF2021 collection].
Hyde, J  (2021)  danceroom Spectroscopy 2.0 (2014 - 2018) [REF2021 collection].
Hyde, J  (2021)  Molecular Music (2014) [REF2021 collection].
Hyde, J  (2021)  Collective Reality (2016, 2017) [REF2021 collection].
Saunders, J  (2021)  things to do (2014-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Saunders, J  (2021)  you are required to split your attention between multiple sources of information (2018) [REF2021 collection].
Saunders, J  (2021)  it is impossible for everyone to achieve everything they want (2018) [REF2021 collection].
Saunders, J  (2021)  know that your actions reflect within the group (2017) [REF2021 collection].
Saunders, J  (2021)  alternate between attention and ease (2017) [REF2021 collection].
Sergeant, M  (2021)  The Velvet Rage (for flute, voice, cello, and electronics) (2017) [REF2021 collection].
Sergeant, M  (2021)  bête gabriel-rufael (for tenor saxophone, percussion, and computer-controlled click-track) (2015) [REF2021 collection].
Sergeant, M  (2021)  KISS (for solo violin and twine bow) (2014) [REF2021 collection].
Sergeant, M  (2021)  Lichen (for solo electric lap-steel guitar) (2016) [REF2021 collection].
Sergeant, M  (2021)  Meeting the Universe Halfway (for instruments and three custom-made apparatuses) (2018) [REF2021 collection].
Simpson, E  (2021)  Criminal Research: Creating Communities of Practice (2017-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Purcell-Gates, L  (2021)  The Depraved Appetite of Tarrare the Freak: puppetry as a practice-based analytic within the medical humanities (2014-2017) [REF2021 collection].
Ramsay, B  (2021)  Waypoints (2014-2015) [REF2021 collection].
Moor, D  (2021)  Original Artist Identity in Song (2015-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Lewis-Smith, C  (2021)  SIX (2014) [REF2021 collection].
Kampe, T  (2021)  Releasing the Archive (2014-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Kampe, T  (2021)  Performance / Exile / Heritage (2015-2020) [REF2021 collection].
Jebanasam, P  (2021)  Polymorphism in audio-visual composition (2016, 2020) [REF2021 collection].
Herrema, R  (2021)  Coding the Contemplative Collective (2014, 2017) [REF2-2021 collection].
Semerciyan, S  (2021)  I and the Village (2015) [REF2021 collection].
Calvert-Ennals, S  (2021)  Tarrare (2015-2017) [REF2021 collection].
Enright, H  (2021)  The River Shannon Project (2014) [REF2021 collection].
Enright, H  (2021)  100 Years Later: RISING (2015-2016) [REF2021 collection].
Semerciyan, S  (2021)  Witches can't be burned (2020) [REF2021 collection].
Enright, H  (2021)  On the Inside (2017-2019) [REF2021 collection].

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/art-research-centre:
The Art Research Centre (ARC) is comprised of artists, artistic researchers, makers, curators and critical writers working across the field of contemporary art practice and theory.
Our academic staff exhibit and/or publish their work internationally in varied forms ranging from solo and group exhibitions, live performances, and curatorial projects, to the more usual conference presentations, journal articles, book chapters and monographs.
Our research lies at the centre of our intellectual, artistic and operational framework.
Through it, we demonstrate our values of imagination, criticality, creativity, innovation and enterprise.
At the heart of our approach to research of all forms is a continuing enquiry into the manner in which knowledge can be seen to be produced through both material and immaterial forms; to this extent it is an enquiry into the nature of human knowledge and experience.
Our aim is to ensure that this enquiry is of worth and significance to society.
Our research is pursued within a culture of creative curiosity that values equally the contribution of hand skill, machine and digital technologies, and theoretical contexts as means towards this end.
Through the research centre, the relationships within the broader subject area within the School of Art, Film and Media and also its relations to the wider cultural, social and political milieu will continue to be subject to interrogation in informal dialogue running alongside more disciplined and structured engagements.
The Art Research Centre operates formally through scheduled presentations and seminars to support all staff.
In addition there are opportunities for informal exchange and discussion across a broad range of subjects in contemporary art focused on staff specialisms such as curatorial practice, artists’ pedagogies, ceramics, and drawing.
Members of the centre provide supervision for our PhD students .
For enquiries about the Art Research Centre and postgraduate study please contact Dr Conor Wilson ( c.wilson3@bathspa.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/art-research-centre/material-art-science-environment-research:
Bringing together artists, scientists, curators and researchers from across Bath Spa University and beyond, including from Royal Holloway University, Polar Aspect, Bristol Experimental Expanded Film (BEEF), and University of Brighton, as well as independent practitioners, the group discusses ideas which straddle the disciplines of Art and Science.
They consider how we might understand methods of working in both fields and how and where these overlapping approaches might fit into our lives.
Where do Art and Science cross over and influence each other and us?
How does our imagination help us to understand and describe the world around us?
Dr Anthony Speca is Managing Principal of Polar Aspect, a consultancy he founded in 2012.
He has advised government particularly on issues of Arctic governance and fiscal policy.
He has also published articles on Arctic issues, and he has spoken about the Arctic to various organisations and universities.
He has lived and worked in Arctic Canada, and he has travelled elsewhere in the North American and European Arctic.
Anthony views the Arctic first and foremost as a homeland, especially for its indigenous peoples, where human development and environmental sustainability both matter.
Inspired to share this vision of the Arctic with younger generations, in 2016 Anthony created and launched the world’s only secondary-school Model Arctic Council (MAC) programme.
Polar Aspect have since offered numerous MAC conferences in collaboration with schools in the UK and Spain, as well as undergraduate MAC conferences in collaboration with universities in the UK and Canada.
Polar Aspect have also launched an online MAC delegate training and conference programme for schools around the world.
Anthony combines this innovative educational work with appointments to Norwich School in the UK, where he teaches Philosophy, Politics, Economics and Geography, and to Trent University in Canada, where he is Adjunct Professor of Canadian Studies.
He also serves as Managing Director of the Læra Institute for Circumpolar Studies, a part of the international University of the Arctic.
Anthony is a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society and the Royal Society of Arts.
He serves on the Council of Polar Educators International, and he is a member of the British Association for Canadian Studies and the International Arctic Social Sciences Association.
polaraspect.com
chasingpolaris.com
Ariane Koek is an independent international arts/science/technology consultant, director, producer and writer specialising in transdisciplinary working and artist residency programmes.
She is internationally known for initiating in 2009 Arts at CERN – based at the world’s largest particle physics public research laboratory outside Geneva, Switzerland.
She designed and directed the three strands of Arts at CERN until January 2015 – Collide , Accelerate and Visiting Artists , now known as Guest Artists.
Today Ariane Koek works with various international institutions in the arts/science/nexus as a strategic and artistic advisor including this year The Exploratorium San Francisco, USA and Cavendish Arts Science programme at Cambridge University UK.
She is also the founder, curator and creative producer of the Earth Water Sky 3 year environmental arts and science residency programme at Science Gallery Venice, Italy.
Her latest curatorial work includes ‘Real Feelings: Emotion and Technology’ (HEK, Basel, Switzerland 2020 and MU, Eindhoven, Netherlands 2021) ‘Backlight: Related Realities – the Nordic Photography Triennale 2020’, Tampere, Finland; ‘Keith Tyson: The Matter of Painting’ (Musée Marmottan Monet, Paris 2019-2020) and ‘Entangle: Physics and the Artistic Imagination’ (Bildmuseet, Umea, Sweden 2018-2019).
She was until recently policy advisor to the European Commission’s ICT Directorate DG-CONNECT and is on the cultural board of the European Commission's environmental science and knowledge service, the Joint Research Centre (JRC) and Science Gallery Venice.
She lectures internationally on arts/science and creativity.
Commissioned writing includes editor/writer ‘Entangle: Physics and the Artistic Imagination’ (Hatje Cantz, 2019) and ‘Real Feelings: Emotion and Technology’ (Christoph Merian Verlag, 2020) with keynote essays in Goshka Macuga: To the Son of Man who Ate the Scroll (Fondazione Prada), Pipilotti Rist: Your Saliva is the Diving Suit of My Pain (Kunsthaus Zurich), Bill Fontana Shadow Soundings (MAAT 2017) and Keith Tyson: The Matter of Painting (Musée Marmottan Monet, Paris) with forthcoming essays on arts/science in various artist’s monographs including Sediment: The work of Mariele Neudecker (Anomie 2021), Thought Experiments: The Art of Jonathan Keats (Hirmer Publishers/University of Chicago Press 2021) and Iris Van Herpen: Visualising the Invisible (Rizzoli 2022).
ariane@arianekoek.com
arianekoek.com
Emma Critchley is an artist who uses a combination of photography, film, sound and installation to continually explore the human relationship with the underwater environment as a political, philosophical and environmental space.
She is Royal College of Art alumni and has developed works funded by organisations including Arts Council England, British Council, Singapore International Foundation and the European Regional Development Fund.
Her work has been shown extensively in galleries and institutions nationally and internationally.
Recent works, residencies and exhibitions include:
Common Heritage (2019, funded by Jerwood Charitable Foundation), a film about the imminent threat of deep-sea mining for rare earth minerals for which Emma worked with deep-sea ecology scientists at the National Oceanography Centre and the University of Plymouth.
The Space Below (2020), a large-scale public soundscape about underwater acoustic pollution, created in collaboration with artist Lee Berwick and a number of scientific organisations including the British Antarctic Survey and the Californian Ocean Alliance.
Originally installed in the Greenwich Foot Tunnel with the National Maritime Museum.
Earth Water Sky Residency winner 2019, (with Science Gallery Venice in collaboration with the Ice Memory Project).
The resulting 2-screen film installation Witness will launch in the Italian Pavilion of the Venice Architecture Biennale 2021 and be exhibited with The Science Gallery Venice in late Summer 2021.
emmacritchley.com
info@emmacritchley.com
@critchley_emma (Instagram)
@EmmaJCritchley (Twitter)
Emma Stibbon is an artist who works primarily on paper, producing large-scale drawing and prints.
She depicts environments that are undergoing dynamic change and travels widely with her work.
Stibbon’s research has led her to undertake residencies including Artist Placement in Antarctica, organised by the Scott Polar Research Institute; the Arctic Circle.org expedition to Svalbard in the High Arctic; Artist in Residence at Hawai‘i Volcanoes National Park; and to document receding glaciers in Ecuador with Project Pressure.
Stibbon has recently exhibited her work at Cristea Roberts Gallery, London; Galerie Bastian, Berlin; the New Art gallery, Walsall; Towner Art Gallery, Eastbourne; The Polar Museum, Cambridge; the Royal Academy, London; York Museum and Art Gallery; and Abbot Hall Art gallery, Kendal.
Her work is held in private and public collections including the Laing Art Gallery, Newcastle upon Tyne; New Art Gallery, Walsall; Pallant House Gallery, Chichester; Bristol City Museum and Art Gallery; Russell-Cotes Art Gallery and Museum, Bournemouth; and the V&A, London.
Emma Stibbon was born in 1962 in Münster, Germany and lives and works in Bristol, UK.
She studied a Fine Art BA at Goldsmiths, University of London, and a Research Fine Art MA at the University of the West of England, Bristol.
She is Senior Lecturer at the University of Brighton, and was elected Royal Academician in 2013.
Greer Crawley is a senior lecturer in BA Spatial Design and MA Art and Design Practice at Buckinghamshire New University, UK.
Her research concerns the staging of the landscape of war.
Publications include: Fatal Strategies in the work of Michael Ashkin and Wafa Hourani and ‘Seduction Chaff’ in Mariele Neudecker’s The Air is One Vast Library in Monitoring Scenography 3 - Space and Desire (2011).
‘Acting Out-Illusion and Representation in the Wartime Landscape’ in Monitoring Scenography 2 – Space and Truth (2009) and Staging Exhibitions: Atmospheres of Imagination in Museum Making: Narratives, Architectures, Exhibitions (2012); and ‘Soundings’ in In the Collection: Mariele Neudecker – Hinterland , Kunstmuseum Trondheim, Norway (2014).
Kathy Hinde is an audio-visual artist whose practice embraces open methods and evolving processes.
Through installations, performances and site-specific experiences, she aims to nurture a deeper and more embodied connection to other species and the earth’s systems.
Composed of hand-made objects, electronics and a blend of digital and analogue systems, Hinde's work represents a cross between kinetic sound sculptures and newly invented instruments.
She frequently works in collaboration with other practitioners and scientists and often actively involves the audience in the creative process.
Hinde has toured work across Europe, USA, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Russia, China, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Colombia, Australia and New Zealand.
Awards include an Ivor Novello Award, an Honorary Mention at Prix Ars Electronica, a British Composer Award, an ORAM award, and a Scottish Award for New Music.
Kathy joined the Cryptic Artist programme in 2015, was a selected artist for European SHAPE Platform for innovative music and audio-visual art in 2018, is a member of Bristol Experimental Expanded Film (BEEF), a fellow at South West Creative Technology Network and a member of the Rabbit Holes Collective.
kathy@kathyhinde.co.uk
Lydia Halcrow is an artist and researcher.
She was recently awarded the Burton Environmental Artist Award and her work is held in public and private collections in the UK and Internationally.
She has an MFA in Fine Art and is in the final stage of a Practice-Based PhD in Fine Art at Bath Spa linked to Environmental Humanities.
lydiahalcrow.com
@lydiahalcrow
Siobhán McDonald's practice draws attention to contemporary topics dealing with air, breath and atmospheric phenomena, weaving scientific knowledge into her art in a poetic and thoughtful manner.
In 2020 she was selected to work with European Cultural Institutions such as the Center for Fine Arts BOZAR and Ars Electronica on a new project about environmental change.
The commissioned artworks will be presented at BOZAR and Ars Electronica in 2022.
Siobhan is artist in residence in the School of Natural Sciences at Trinity College Dublin (2020-2023), working with world-leading research facilities such as The European Space Agency (ESA) and The JRC European Commission to explore ecology in light of current ecological concerns.
Across research labs, she pursues knowledge to ask questions about the structure and history of the earth.
She calls on notions of what is still unknown to science, exploring the Anthropocene and the recent consequences of our treatment of nature.
Siobhan’s work with water and glaciers deploys a unique artistic language that gives form to intangible and richly varied processes including painting, drawing, film and sound.
Recent awards include: Visual Arts Bursary 2020, Creative Ireland Award 2020 and Climate Whirl Arts Programme Helsinki 2020.
Recent shows include: Bozar, Brussels, 2020; Deutsches Hygiene-Museum DHMD, 2020; Volta, Basel 2019; Limerick City Art Gallery, 2019; Deutsches Hygiene-Museum DHMD, 2019; The National Trust Fox Talbot Museum, UK, 2018; Centre Culturel Irlandais, Paris, 2018, among others.
Her work is represented in many collections, both public and private, such as The Arts Council of Ireland, Allied Irish Banks, Bank of Ireland, The Ulster Museum and Trinity College Dublin.
siobhanmcdonald.com
Settemsdal is a multi-disciplinary artist working across mediums including sculpture, video, photography, drawing and sound.
She was born in Norway, did her art foundation at Strykejernet Art School in Oslo and has been based in the UK since 2007.
She completed a BA in Painting and Printmaking at the Glasgow School of Art in 2010 and an MFA in Sculpture at the Slade School of Fine Art in 2018.
She won the Jerwood Drawing Price for her video work Singularity in 2016, the first video to win the award.
She is currently based in Hackney, London.
Selected exhibitions include ZEITGEBER, Gossamer Fog, 2020; Pool, Solo Residency exhibition at Unit 1 Gallery, 2019; ENTANGLE, Bildmuseet, Umeå, Sweden 2018; Ars Electronica, Linz, Austria 2017; Sonica at CCA, Glasgow 2017; Imagine, Gippsland Art Gallery, Sale, Australia 2017; Drawing Biennial at Drawing Room, London.
solveig@settemsdal.com
settemsdal.com
Tamsin Relly’s multi-disciplinary practice includes painting, printmaking and photography.
South Africa born, she moved to London in 2009 and received her MA in Fine Art at City & Guilds of London Art School in 2011.
Relly’s work reflects on the increasingly disrupted environmental conditions of a shifting global climate, and considers the erasure and construction of wilderness, whether for industry or leisure.
Recent projects explore the preservation of arboreal and botanical environments through conservation, urban parks, and memory – be it personal, collective or held within the land.
Drawing on both found media imagery and first-hand observations, Relly works with the fluid and unpredictable qualities of her materials and processes to present impressions of natural and urban spaces in states of uncertainty or impermanence.
As part of her research, she has visited and studied diverse locations such as Svalbard in the Arctic Circle, The Eden Project in Cornwall, and the fabricated oasis of the Las Vegas Strip.
Relly’s work has been exhibited and collected widely in the UK and internationally, appearing in group exhibitions at The Royal Academy of Arts, The National Maritime Museum and Oliver Projects in London, SMITH in Cape Town and Galerie Rue Visconti, Paris.
Her work is held in collections such as Spier and Ellerman House in South Africa, and Hogan Lovells, Dentons and the National Maritime Museum in London.
She has had solo exhibitions hosted by The House of St Barnabas, The Place Downstairs and Brocket Gallery in London.
Artist residencies include Arteles, Finland (2016), RE·THINK: Environment, National Maritime Museum, London (2015), Pocantico, Rockefeller Brother Fund, New York (2015), and The Arctic Circle, Svalbard (2014).
If you are interested in getting involved with Material : Art : Science : Environment : Research (MASER), or have questions, please get in touch with Professor Mariele Neudecker ( m.neudecker@bathspa.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/art-research-centre/material-making:
We approach making as a fluid concept, an ongoing conversation.
As individual research practitioners, we take an artist-based approach to examining questions of art practice as research.
As a group, we seek to develop rigour about our methodologies, research propositions and what constitutes data.
Making is a complex engagement between body, space, and material; research into, or through, making often results in dense, subjective projects.
One aim of the group is to explore how we might create a ‘frame’ for an audience; to get their attention and open up these projects.
Rather than explaining what we did, we aim to attend to the experience of our audience now.
In this spirit, we explore how our research propositions are made explicit through the form of the presentation, rather than through what we say.
Presentations by group members are seen as forms of production – presentation as making.
Can we approach presentation as reflection?
Can we approach making as reflection?
In the spirit of trying not to fetishise, or take for granted what we think we mean by ‘making’, can we re-make making?
If you are interested in getting involved with Material : Making, or have questions, please get in touch with Dr Conor Wilson ( c.wilson3@bathspa.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/art-research-centre/space-place-practice-network:
The Space Place Practice Network is a research collective where visual artists and multi-disciplinary artist researchers meet to engage with issues of space and place.
Its dimensions are defined through interaction and critical discourse which act as points of departure for individual practice and collaborative projects.
Together we challenge and explore the interstices between embodied practice and theoretical enquiry, where there are no hierarchical distinctions between making, thinking, and doing.
Our expanded practice is expressed in image, word, and action.
Details of our members can be found on our website .
If you are interested in getting involved with Space Place Practice, or have questions, please get in touch with Dr Michele Whiting ( m.whiting@bathspa.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/art-research-centre/postgraduate-research-art:
We have regular points of contact with supervising teams and also come together as a community through the Art Research Centre, associated research groups and, importantly, as a cohort.
We foster discussions and share research through regular forums and more relaxed drop in sessions.
Our researchers are invited to share papers and projects and to discuss and develop their research ideas, supported by a richly focussed, friendly, and nurturing environment.
Within the School of Art, Film and Media we have excellent dedicated technicians and workshop facilities, opportunities to exhibit and develop the work and, most of all, the support to enable our researchers to make the most of their artistic research and its impacts.
There are key application dates available on the university website as well as funding and cost information .
Before submitting an application it is advisable to contact Dr Conor Wilson, Higher Degrees Tutor ( c.wilson3@bathspa.ac.uk ), to discuss the research opportunities available and your developing ideas.
Working project title: An examination of the elements and processes involved in a painting and exploration of how they effectively work together, reflecting the transitional space between the artist’s inner reality and the outer world.
With particular reference to abstract art, this study is an exploration into the duality of structural, intentional mark making and the intuitive or instinctive components of artistic practice.
The research will examine how both are required for effective communication, as well as how in combination the two distinct modes indicate the Transitional Space (Winnicott, 1971) between an individual’s inner self and the social world.
The research will investigate how the artwork is created in this space, being informed by the creator’s intention and subjective reality while drawing on the use of a shared objective code or systems of symbols, therefore enabling it accessible to the viewer while remaining true to the artist’s intent.
This investigation requires an understanding of both the artist’s thinking and the compositional components used to manifest this, as well as an exploration of the interaction between them.
To demonstrate the pertinence of this interplay, consideration of other artists’ processes of creation and work is included as well as drawing on my own practice.
Therefore, although being practice led, this investigation includes discussion and interviews with other artists.
It incorporates commentary and analysis of works; gathering information regarding the underlying intent, the decisions made, the awareness of these and how the work demonstrates the process.
Alongside this syntagmatic analyses of the individual constituents of an image, and how they are combined, is used to explore and compare what is expressed and how a finished piece is understood.
Lockdown 2
Having worked as a paediatric Speech and Language Therapist for many years, Anna Kot has in-depth knowledge of language and communication.
Her previous work included developing training packages to enhance the language learning environment in pre-schools and she completed an MSc investigating the therapeutic impact of parental involvement.
She brings these interests to her now full-time art practice.
Her paintings and photography reflect an interest in the structural layout of images and the nuances and possibilities behind these.
Kot completed an MFA in 2019.
She is involved in various community organisations and curates the annual Bath Open Prize.
Project title: A Provocation of Painterly Representation; How do Paintings Represent in an Atemporal, Image-Laden, Western Society?
My research involves questioning how our perception of images, and our recognition of the iconography of images can lead to multiple layers of meaning by changing the type, scale, and material of a painting using a hybrid of different painterly styles, mark making and manners.
Specifically, how might it be possible, by altering and playing with these elements, to clarify some of the idiosyncrasies of painterly representation, and help refine the relationship between what I see and what I know?
David Joselit writes, "Painting from Impressionism onward represents a spirited investigation into how marks, or gestures, occupy the space between subjects and objects, or between persons and things.
The historical and philosophical task of modern painting is to remap and reorder these relationships" (Ammer M., et al, 2016: 169).
The aim of my research is to clarify and develop new knowledge of how, by remapping and reordering these relationships, paintings are able to represent within the current post-industrial, post-modern, post-pandemic, post-truth, image-led, media-obsessed, and internet-reliant culture.
In doing so I hope to successfully perform a theoretical cataract operation on myself and in turn find ways to make paintings which are able to refine how we see.
In 2015 Tom Mence fulfilled his long-held wish to continue his painting studies by enrolling on the MFA at Bath School of Art.
Using as primary source material an extensive library of "aide-memoire" photographs collated during his fifteen-year role as a probate valuer for a firm of provincial auctioneers, his practice and research (after a somewhat circuitous route) eventually led him to consider and meditate on the construction of painting itself whilst taking a considered and analytical approach to the nature of representation, specifically painterly representation.
He is now examining these ideas further through his PhD studies.
tom.mence14@bathspa.ac.uk
@mence.tom
Project title: The Dark Side of the Projected Screen - Matter of the Gap in-between Double Frontality This practice-based research project mainly explores the question ‘what is a projected screen?’.
Focusing on the question of the screen's ontology, this project considers the screen as having the potential transformation beyond its apparent configuration: a 2-D surface that receives light from a projector within a space that surrounds this surface.
By seeing the projected screen as having a 'body,' which implies a sense of position and orientation, I will introduce such a surface that can somehow alter the projection’s intrinsic orientation through its material opacity and semi-transparency.
By exploiting two sides of one screen, of what might be called an ontological double, the ‘body’ of the screen is not only investigated as a one-sided surface to reflect or to support the projected imagery but also a two-sided surface.
I claim that this surface acts to divide, transform or multiply the projection into two identical but somehow asymmetric doubles.
From this approach, there seems to be a gap, or more specifically a void that is between the two sides of one screen.
By proposing that the screen (as double) could constitute a gap, or void in-between, my hypothesis is that the screen ontologically has, what I call, a dark side.
This dark side of the screen, I claim, also has a hidden frontal.
This means that the location of the projected-image is not necessarily fixed on its apparent frontal but rather in a nomadic state of being indeterminate, at least, awaiting the viewer's gaze to perceive and cognise.
In this sense, the screen seems to play a more crucial role to be bound up with not only the light of the projection, in a physical sense, to reflect or be penetrated, but also the images of the projection in a perceptual sense.
OX, 2020-21
Within my practical and research approaches in the development of any artistic praxis, I feel somehow anxious to designate an identity to reflect or unfold my biographical or professional information, especially in a linguistic format.
If the role of my own identity is like a temporal frontal of screening, the matter of the gap hidden in-between this gesticulation is probably more interesting than what I could enunciate myself.
In this regard, the uncertainty to cognize or categorize my own identity is probably the most pertinent to this query.
Through making/writing, the unknown is my motivation to go between or beyond.
Project title: Every Contact Leaves a Trace: An investigation into the potential of ceramic and print process to extend understanding of the temporal, material and transient in landscape.
My PhD research explores the potential of ceramic and print processes to further understanding of the formation of landscape, developing knowledge of landscape through making, and knowledge about ceramic process through landscape exploration.
The research investigates the capacity of ceramics, photoetching and photography to understand materiality, temporality and memory, as embodied within the Mendip landscape of Litton, where I live.
My engagement, through photographic processes, with light, weather, season, shadow and transience, and engagement with earth, ground, buildings, the archaeological and the temporal, through the material of clay and ceramic process, seeks not to represent, but rather to present an accumulation of processes found within landscape, assigning “primacy to processes of formation as against their final products'' (Ingold 2014: 182).
The research also explores the capacity of studio and workshop practice to be analogous to processes of landscape creation and temporality.
Concomitant with this technical, material and conceptual research is a reflective, written examination of my embodied presence in landscape.
This is shaped by my understanding of transience, loss, and dislocation - engendered by a peripatetic childhood.
This ‘otherness’ or outsider status underpinning my fascination with, and sensitivity to, what makes place; my wish to belong in a place and perception of the current precariousness and fragility of this place - the ancient domestic landscape of Litton.
Through my intimate knowledge of a small section of landscape, I hope to create an “aperture: a space through which the world (can) be seen…” (Kavanagh in Macfarlane 2015: 62-63).
Interweaving technical and material investigation - archaeological, historical and narrative research and embodied understanding of a particular landscape - I ask how research methods can enable understanding of a living landscape and whether such awareness and knowledge has the potential to reanimate and re-enchant.
Aperture Series, 2020
Sally Wetherall completed a degree in History at Durham University, a PGCE in Art Education at Cambridge, and a Masters in Ceramics at UWIC before beginning her PhD at Bath Spa University.
She was previously a teacher of Ceramics in Cheltenham and London, Artist in Residence at Harrow School, London, and has exhibited work in galleries in the UK and France.
sallywetherall.com
@sallywetherall

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/art-research-centre/material-performing:
Formed in 2019, the group brings together artists, researchers, and creative writers working internationally across diverse disciplines and methods.
Members practise, research and teach art within and beyond higher education, and the group forges external links with art professionals and institutions.
The group investigates the role of the viewer as well as the importance of experimental processes.
Members work on individual and collaborative research projects across diverse topics and media including performance, material/immaterial enquiry, site-specificity, virtual space, internet/social media, text and time-based work.
They welcome new forms of enquiry into art and unsettled questions ready to take form.
More information about the group and their work can be found on the Material : Performing blog .
If you are interested in getting involved with Material/Performing, or have questions, please get in touch with Young In Hong ( y.hong@bathspa.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/art-research-centre/material-participant:
Embracing practice-based research, the group asks: How do the making, exhibiting and interpreting of material works and objects in public contexts engage with people as active participants?
Other lines of enquiry include:
As well as presentations from its own members, the group has hosted talks by practitioners from beyond the School, including Astrid Breel on her work in participatory performance and Dr Trish Scott (Goldsmiths).
If you're interested in research (theory or practice-led) and the relationship between research and participation in projects with a material outcome, such as new artwork, exhibitions, performances and so on, or have questions, please get in touch with Professor Michael Tooby ( m.tooby@bathspa.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/art-research-centre/material-pedagogy-future:
Through inter-institutional dialogue and collaboration, we seek to establish an international network of transdisciplinary, practice-based researchers dedicated to querying our positions and agencies as artist-teachers in contributing to the form and context of the art of tomorrow.
By examining the hierarchies, systems, and relations which form its present, we engage in practice and theory based research to critique and develop greater understanding around the function of HE art education from the current and future manifestations of what is defined as an ‘art school’ in relation to broader social, cultural and economic ecosystems.
Through establishing a wide network of researchers across multiple institutions, we hope to enable discussions to emerge from a space in-between our respective institutional contexts, and in which we are enabled to navigate new art-based methodologies for teaching-as-practice and practice-as-research that could exist in a speculative alternative.
The teaching of Fine Art at Higher Education level is predicated on the idea that artists teach artists.
But what happens here?
How do artists educate?
What pedagogies are applied and how might understanding them offer broader debates around creative industry, resilience and change making?
Art schools are said to produce critical, resilient thinkers but how is this enabled through their education?
How do artists learn?
What is the purpose of an art school education now?
The complexities of an art practice – often incorporating latent methods, questions and influences – can be hard to make sense of, even by artists themselves.
This group sets out to understand this distinct type of learning.
At Bath Spa University, Material:Pedagogy:Future is convened by Jenny Dunseath , Reader in Fine Art, and Dr Natasha Kidd, both artists and researchers within the School of Art, Film & Media.
Astrid
          Breel
Hannah Sackett has a PhD in Education from Bath Spa University.
Her research interests include making-as-learning and non-hierarchical, open-ended education.
She is also interested in the dissemination of research to non-academic audiences.
She has written texts and created research-based comics for academics in the disciplines of art and design, history, archaeology and creative writing.
h.sackett@bathspa.ac.uk
hannahkatesackett.co.uk
In her process-orientated studio practice, Joanne Addison tries to let my decisions be governed by the behaviour of materials, individually and in relation to one another.
Drawing on contemporary theories around objecthood and making, individual works assimilate the conditions in which they are made.
During short studio sessions she works with components and materials that she keeps deliberately close to hand, in order to enable a responsive approach to the thing she is making.
In work that is apparently casually and speedily made, the legacy of a repetitive and therefore paradoxically slow process is disclosed.
With the goal of loosening familiar objects and motifs from their bearings in everyday life, she often remakes each sculpture numerous times, paring down to locate and condense its essence.
Joanne enjoys the relationship between teaching and making and believes in working towards a more inclusive and dynamic learning environment for fine artists in higher education.
In collaboration with artist and teacher Natasha Kidd, she explores how learning is manifested in form.
Often working with their students to explore the challenges and opportunities that arise from teaching and learning about art practice, they are keen to relate to other disciplines when reflecting on their own.
To date, this collaboration has resulted in the production of a number of significant educational resources, objects and events, participation in educational research groups, and contributions to books, national and international conferences and symposia.
Joanne studied for a BA in Fine Art at Norfolk Institute of Art & Design, after which she spent some time living and working in Glasgow.
Post-graduate study at the Slade brought her to London and she has been living and working here since.
She is represented by Tintype Gallery, where as well as exhibiting her work she has curated projects including Work Work, a group show about the synthesis of teaching and making.
Joanne is School Head of Department at Kingston School of Art, Kingston University, London.
joanne.addison@kingston.ac.uk
Kate Squires is an artist and researcher, living in London.
She is a Lecturer in Fine Art at University of Westminster.
She works as an associate artist and education consultant (Tate Learning, Whitstable Biennial, Backlit, The British Library.) She is working towards a PhD in Fine Art (practice based) at UCA, Canterbury.
In 2019 she was Resident Artist in the Materials Cupboard, Tate Modern, in collaboration with Tate Learning.
In 2015 she was Artist in Residence in Learning and was commissioned to develop an Open Studio at Tate Modern.
Between 2009 and 2014 she founded and organised Centrum, Berlin, an artist project space in Berlin, Germany.
She has worked in gallery education for over fifteen years both as an artist and curator.
Roles have included Communities Curator and Head of Education and Public Programmes at Whitechapel Gallery and she was Head of Education at Camden Arts Centre between 2003-2008 and 2014-2017.
She has exhibited in the UK and Berlin including the Herbert Read Gallery, Canterbury; Tintype, London and the online platform, Skelf.
She is a trustee for Action Space which supports artists with learning disabilities.
katewsquires.co.uk
Katrine Hjelde is an artist, lecturer, curator and researcher.
She is Head of Department at University of Bergen.
She was Course Leader for Graduate Diploma Fine Art and Senior Lecturer BA Fine Art at Chelsea College of Arts.
She is a UAL Senior Teaching Scholar and Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
As an artist she exhibits in Great Britain and Europe.
She collaborates with Oslo based b+r architects, where outputs include the permanent Holocaust Exhibition at Villa Grande, Oslo.
Further collaborations include FLΔG collective, a group of artists, researchers and art students who explore the relationship between art practices, art education, and pedagogy, looking at forms of knowledge production and dissemination in the art school and beyond.
Katrine’s PhD ‘Constructing a Reflective Site: Practice between art and pedagogy in the art school’ considers the relationship between art practice and teaching through a critical examination of reflection in art, in pedagogy and in philosophy.
Post PhD, she was awarded an AHRC Cultural Collaboration Grant which enabled further expansion of the research connecting the art educational institution with other cultural bodies like publicly funded galleries.
Ongoing research focuses on the student exhibition, the role of the art school in society and developing critical connections between the art school and society.
k.hjelde@chelsea.arts.ac.uk
If you are interested in getting involved with Material : Pedagogy : Future, or have questions, please get in touch with Dr Natasha Kidd ( n.kidd@bathspa.ac.uk ) and Jenny Dunseath, Reader in Fine Art ( j.dunseath@bathspa.ac.uk ).
Visit our website materialpedagogyfuture.net for more information.
Follow us on Twitter and Instagram: @mpf_network
For updates on our events and activities, join our mailing list .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/art-research-centre/art-and-technology:
The group draws its membership from the across the School of Art, Film and Media as well as from the wider University and across other institutions.
We're interested in working with artists and curators who are interrogating and utilising new technologies in experimental ways to develop critical and cutting edge practice research.
This includes critical responses to the ecological impacts of digital technologies and infrastructures from a material and waste perspective, work that interrogates machine learning and notions of immersion, plus work that considers speculative technologies futures and the potential of fictioning as a critical tool.
We aim to develop symposia, live events, exhibitions, workshops and funding bids, that emerge from individual’s practices and shared concerns.
The group organises the ongoing symposia series Fiction Machines which explores the use of fictional methods within art practice and has included two symposia, a live online performance event, exploratory workshops and a journal special issue.
Dave
          Webb
If you're interested in getting involved with Material: Art and Technology please contact the group leaders Dr Charlie Tweed or Sam Wilkins.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/arts-and-social-change:
Our membership is drawn from researchers working across the University, with diverse interests and a shared commitment to social justice.
Creative practitioners, educators, anthropologists, geographers, criminologists and social scientists work in collaboration with international, national and local community and societal partners to enable better understanding of how we can facilitate social change and justice through artistic and creative means.
We are engaged in research which promotes visibility and representation of diverse individuals, groups, identities, bodies and voices while simultaneously challenging and questioning existing structures around power and representation.
Our researchers seek to negotiate complex territories in the areas of instrumentalism and efficacy by also questioning ethical and methodological practices.
Professor Martin Levinson is currently leading the D4D project about disability, community and inclusion/exclusion.
Involving seven universities in the UK and one in the USA, as well as several community arts groups, grassroots organisations, theatres and other partners, this project is part of the AHRC Connected Communities programme.
Dr Tanvir Bush is an Associate Research Fellow on the D4D project about disability and exclusion.
She is also a writer and the instigator of SenseAbility and the Creative Writing Laboratory, local community initiatives.
Her novel CULL has recently been published by Unbound to critical acclaim.
Dr Helena Enright is currently working with local charity VOICES , a survivor-led charity which deals with domestic abuse and violence to develop a creative training programme for legal professionals in the Southwest drawing on survivor’s experiences.
This is a new theatre of testimony piece by Dr Helena Enright which documents the contemporary lived experiences of mothers in prison against the backdrop of 100 years of maternal incarceration.
The play is the result of Helena's research undertaken with mothers in prison, in association with Geese Theatre and the University of Warwick.
Dr Agata Vitale is conducting research on Assessing the effectiveness of the Tree of Life (ToL) intervention in promoting resilience and integration in refugee women with HIV; this study is done in collaboration with Professor Nigar Khawaja (School of Clinical Psychology, Queensland Institute of Technology, Australia) and Dr Judy Ryde (Trauma Foundation South West).
In addition, Agata and Helena Enright are currently exploring opportunities to develop a drama based intervention to support resilience and integration in refugee women living with HIV.
June Bianchi is currently leading the UK aspect of the project ‘ArtsTogether: integrating migrant children through the arts’, funded by the European Commission’s Asylum Migration and Integration Fund (AMIF).
ArtsTogether, a partnership with five European countries, promotes development and implementation of innovative expressive arts educational activities to foster societal integration, challenge discrimination, and increase third country nationals’ participation in education, social activities, cultural life, and representation frameworks.
Bath Spa University, the UK partner, is creating the ArtsTogether Inclusive Curriculum, a collection of expressive arts educational materials, resources and strategies to be piloted in Greece and Italy then made available across Europe, providing policy recommendations at all educational levels.
Owain
          Jones
Ben
          Simmons
Reader in Inclusive Education and Disability Research

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-cultural-and-creative-industries:
The Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries (CCCI) works across both academia and industry, supporting and amplifying research and practice across multiple sectors.
The Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries (CCCI) is a strategic research centre, drawing together academics and practitioners, both within Bath Spa University, as well as facing outward, engaging our city, our region, and our world.
Since first established by Professor Kate Pullinger in 2017, CCCI has served as a focal point for interdisciplinary research that engages arts, culture, humanities, science, and technology.
BSU is a creative university where traditional subjects sit alongside a strong culture of creative practice research.
As a result, CCCI is profoundly engaged with making and makers, writing and writers, painting and pixels, the hand-made and the automated.
Through our array of interdisciplinary projects, public engagement events and research publications, we seek to challenge and redefine what it means to be creative.
Since 2023, CCCI has been co-directed by Professor Kate Pullinger and Dr Ruth Farrar.
They are joined by our CCCI Research Fellows who have some or all of their work week allocated to collaborating with the Centre and its associated projects.
Eleanor
          Rowley
Postdoctoral Impact Research Fellow
Since its inception, CCCI has been awarded three large-scale multi-partner research grants.
These programmes have enabled multiple colleagues from BSU to participate in cutting-edge collaborative research and this, in turn, has benefitted their ability to teach and innovate in their chosen fields.
Since teaching and learning are at the absolute core of everything the university does, this relationship between research and curriculum development is vital.
South West Creative Technology Network
The South West Creative Technology Network (SWCTN) brought together four South West universities and two cultural organisations across the themes of Immersion, Automation, and Data, enabling cross-disciplinary research and funding a series of creative industries prototypes.
SWCTN received £6.5m of funding from Research England’s Connecting Capabilities Fund and ran from 2018-2021.
Seven BSU academics were awarded Fellowships worth between £12-15k through this programme, from across theatre, creative writing, visual arts, creative computing, biology, and music, and several academics worked on the prototyping projects SWCTN supported.
Bristol and Bath Creative Research and Development
The Bristol and Bath Creative Research and Development partnership (B+B Creative R+D) brought together the four universities in Bristol and Bath with Watershed in Bristol to fund research into new technologies and the creative industries.
This £7.5m Arts and Humanities Research Council funded creative industries cluster partnership programme ran from 2018-2023, enabling research and prototyping on the themes of Digital Placemaking, Expanded Performance, and Amplified Publishing.
BSU academics were engaged across this programme, including leading on the development and roll-out of the Amplified Publishing programme.
MyWorld
This £30m UKRI-funded Strength in Places programme brings together the four universities in Bristol and Bath, alongside global and local creative industries companies for cutting-edge research into immersive media.
Running from 2021 through 2026, this programme will enable academic researchers who lead on new forms of narrative, computer vision, motion capture, AI and understanding audiences, to work with the screen and live performance industries to maximise our visual media research and production capabilities across the region.
This project supports students through the MyWorld Scholars programme, and industry partners through industry-focused training opportunities, MyWorld Fellowships and R&D prototyping programmes.
MyWorld has brought more than £250,000 of investment into BSU’s film, tv, immersive audio and XR facilities.
One thing these three large-scale projects have in common is that they bring together industry and academia in a manner that ensures that the research taking place within universities can make a difference in the wider world.
Historically this has been called 'Technology Transfer', 'Knowledge Transfer', and more recently 'Knowledge Exchange'.
The team behind SWCTN co-wrote a set of Knowledge Exchange principles whose key message is: ‘If knowledge is power, then knowledge exchange is sharing power.’
These projects have a strong commitment to inclusion and diversity, providing research fellowships to a broad range of non-academic participants, enabling our academics to work on industry-focused shared research interests and technology-led prototyping projects.
CCCI works to support BSU colleagues in a number of other ways, including funding multiple fellowships and PhDs, providing funding for events, supporting the development of research bids and running symposia and lectures.
Creative enterprise is also one of our core principles.
The success of these research grants has enabled Bath Spa University to open its first town centre innovation hub, The Studio at Palace Yard Mews, where we offer space to researchers and innovators in the creative technology sector.
CCCI is here to foster creative cross-disciplinary conversations, based on the principle that shared research leads to new research, and new research leads to better, more engaging, teaching and learning.
Claire Loder reflects on a new student residency for MA Fine Art students at Bath City Farm.
Dr Lori Bystrom reflects on creating an event with Bath Medical Museum.
Gabby Shiner-Hill discusses unveiling new narratives while digitising fashion assets at the Fashion Museum Bath.
Dr Kerrie Reading shares her experience of attending the Embodied Voices Conference at the University of Warwick.
Rosalchen Whitecross reflects on the international Narrative Matters Conference 2025 in Paris.
Dr Sevra Guzel discusses performers’ rights for video game actors under UK intellectual property law.
Claire Levy presents interactive documentary ‘Teen Diaries’ at the BSA Conference 2025 in Manchester.
Professor Vicky Hunter outlines her experience at the University of Malta’s annual School of Performing Arts Conference.
Dr Simon Strange discusses The Rural Music Project at the Night Time Economy Summit 2025.
Rachel Pownall talks immersive storytelling and historically-based narratives.
Stacey Pottinger shares how she finds hope in community and connection.
CCCI is open to all Bath Spa University research staff.
One of the best ways to become involved is to subscribe to our monthly newsletter.
If you would like to receive the newsletter with information about our Affiliate Scheme and other projects and events, email CCCI@bathspa.ac.uk .
The Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries runs an Affiliate Scheme which offers members access to the extensive experience and resources of the CCCI team.
We welcome members at all stages of their careers.
Curious to learn more?
To apply for a PhD with us, or to become a CCCI Affiliate, please send an email to CCCI@bathspa.ac.uk .
We'd love to hear from you.
To see what we're up to, follow @CCCIBathSpa on X (formerly Twitter).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-cultural-and-creative-industries/doing-together:
doing together is a yearly two-day making and sharing practice symposium at Locksbrook Campus , hosted by the Art Research Centre ( Bath School of Art, Film and Media ) in collaboration with Bath School of Design and the Centre of Cultural and Creative Industries .
doing together is a platform to connect staff, students, and the community through making, collaboration and experimentation.
Workshops, delivered by staff and PGR students from across the University, share practice-based research methods and a broad range of approaches to practice.
doing together is proposed as a generous space to make/do/share and discuss practice with colleagues from a range of different Schools.
Throughout the symposium, facilitators – alongside participants – test out ways of doing together in an effort to make their practice-based research explicit, rather than simply describe it.
doing together has taken the place of the Issues in Creative Practice Research yearly symposium.
doing together also maintains a cross-disciplinary reading list relevant to creative practice research, which will be updated each year throughout the symposium.
More information for each iteration of doing together can be found on BathSpaData:
Find out more about doing together 2023
Find out more about doing together 2024
Are you interested in practice research?
We’re interested in hearing from staff and students who want to have a voice in shaping the future of practice research at BSU.
You can be from any discipline and at any place in your career, from student to professor.
If you are interested in taking part in doing together or you’d like to find out more, please email s.hesselberg@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-cultural-and-creative-industries/southwest-creative-technology-network:
In 2018, the South West’s plan to be a world leader in the creative use of digital technology received a significant boost, with the Government announcing a major funding award to strengthen the region-wide creative technology sector – and Bath Spa University was one of the lead project partners.
The Government award came via Research England’s Connecting Capability Fund (CCF), which encourages collaborative projects between universities and other partners to drive forward world-class commercialisation of higher education research and practice.
The South West project was one of just 18 selected for support from across England, and the only one which included a focus on the creative industries.
£4.6m was awarded to the networking project from the CCF, with universities and other partners contributing an additional £1.8m.
The three-year project focused on building better links between researchers, businesses and investors through activities such as joint research, seed funding for new business ideas, consultancy and training, the creation of new companies and social enterprises, and public and community engagement.
For further information and to read the final project report, please visit our website.
"We were delighted to be working with organisations across the South West on this innovative project which played to our region's world-leading strengths.
This funding helped initiate and strengthen collaborative projects between higher education and the wider community, generating new opportunities to transform how people engage with digital technology.”
How does Bath Spa equip its students with creative media skills?
In this podcast, director of the Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries, Kate Pullinger, discusses how our involvement in the Southwest Creative Technology Network will create a wealth of new opportunities for Bath Spa students.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-cultural-and-creative-industries/narrative-and-emerging-technologies:
Based across the Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries at Bath Spa University, the Narrative and Emerging Technologies (NET) Lab explores the role of emerging technologies in developing new forms of experiential storytelling and audience engagement, from digital fiction, audio and performance through to film, games and immersive media technologies.
Other themes have included expanded performance, amplified publishing, immersive audio and the ethics of technology, which is key to our research, including issues around gender and embodiment in VR, the use of historical sources in AR, how immersive technologies can engage students and prospective students, the growing impact of AI on writing and publishing and others.
Bringing together academics and creative practitioners from Bath Spa University, residents from The Studio at Palace Yard Mews, plus PhD students and Research Fellows, NET has closely linked to a number of major creative industry R&D partnerships in the South West.
These include the £46 million MyWorld project and, previously, the £6.8 million Bristol+Bath Creative R+D programme.
We are always interested in hearing from researchers, makers and businesses interested in the role of emerging technologies in developing new forms of experiential storytelling and audience engagement.
Please get in touch with the NET Lab's director, Dr Amy Spencer , by emailing a.spencer@bathspa.ac.uk .
Funded as part of the Expanded Performance pathway within the Bristol+Bath Creative R+D Partnership, Sharon Clark developed an innovative prototype based on an augmented reality umbrella that communicates storyworld and narrative mood, functioning as an immersive lead-in for audiences about to attend The Undrowned, a theatre production produced by Sharon’s immersive theatre company, Raucous .
Funded as part of the Expanded Performance pathway within the Bristol+Bath Creative R+D Partnership, Astrid Breel partnered with Coney to develop a new toolkit for better understanding how to communicate with audiences about the needs and expectations for participatory and experiential performance.
Funded as part of the Amplified Publishing pathway within the Bristol+Bath Creative R+D Partnership, Agnieszka Janik McErlean is conducted psychology and audience research into the role of Autonomous Sensory Meridian Response (ASMR), a cross-sensory phenomenon in which individuals experience a pleasant tingling sensation which usually originates on the scalp and spreads throughout the body in response to specific audio-visual triggers, in new forms of digital communication.
The project examined how ASMR-experiencers responded to various realistic videos and audio recordings of human (whisper, tapping, handling crinkly objects) and non-human sounds (e.g.
rain drops or bird song).
Funded through the Narrative & Emerging Technology cross-cutting strand within the Bristol+Bath Creative R+D Partnership, Andrew Joyce-Gibbons created HayMay – a new app aimed at facilitating collaboration amongst school, college and university students, making use of an innovative ‘flicking’ gesture that allowed students to transport digital artefacts from one screen to another in the aim of collaborative learning.
Funded through the Narrative & Emerging Technology cross-cutting strand within the Bristol+Bath Creative R+D Partnership, the team used emerging technologies to create new forms of communication between the current student body and future students,  investigating how data capture, curation and creative visualisation can communicate narratives of connectedness and community across the university, and to prospective students through Open Days and Experience Days.
Funded through the Narrative & Emerging Technology cross-cutting strand within the Bristol+Bath Creative R+D Partnership, Ron Herrema created an audio-based mobile application that engages the questions and concerns that students and parents typically have when they arrive on Open Days.
Funded through the Narrative and Emerging Technology cross-cutting strand within the Bristol+Bath Creative R+D Partnership, Rachel Pownall undertook research into how best to use immersive/emerging technology to create a narrative that uses historical documents including letters and diaries.
Funded through the Narrative & Emerging Technology cross-cutting strand within the Bristol+Bath Creative R+D Partnership, the Sound of the Seahorse will innovatively applied audionarratology to the emerging field of immersive audio to create an immersive audio story designed to amplify the relaxing therapeutic benefits of a massage.
Funded through the Narrative & Emerging Technology cross-cutting strand within the Bristol+Bath Creative R+D Partnership and in collaboration with the Immersive Audio Network, Ximena Alarcón worked in collaboration with Oslo-based composer and spatial audio researcher Ulf A.
S.
Holbrook, to develop their sound work: Unravelling.
The work was based on recordings of eight different Colombian migrant women expressing their own migratory journeys in Spanish and English and responded to fragments of an oral archive with testimonies collected by the organisation Diaspora Women in 2018.
Associated projects include The Writing Platform , a website unique in its focus on providing digital knowledge for writers across both industry and academia; MIX , the biennial international conference on creative writing and technology; and The Writing with Technologies webinar series.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-cultural-and-creative-industries/bristol-bath-creative-rd:
This first-of-a-kind collaboration between Bath Spa University, its neighbouring universities – University of Bath, University of Bristol and UWE Bristol – and Watershed connected the worlds of university research and creative business to develop a shared vision for tomorrow’s creative industries.
Bristol+Bath Creative R+D was an exciting £6.8m innovation programme funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council.
Its goal was to make a real and lasting impact, attracting new talent and fostering the next generation of original, diverse, creative minds.
The aim was for Bristol and Bath to carry the torch for jaw-dropping innovation, creating the most inventive, compelling new products, services and experiences in an inclusive and sustainable way, working to create positive economic, social and cultural impact.
"We are delighted to be a part of this exciting collaboration.
This partnership between Bristol and Bath’s four Universities, together with Watershed and key business partners, will create the conditions for a real step-change in activity, enabling the use of creative technologies to be better harnessed alongside the region’s burgeoning creative and cultural sector."
For more information, visit the Bristol+Bath Creative R+D website .
Pathfinders were themed, creative R+D projects designed to lead the Bristol+Bath cluster into the future, engage with emergent technologies and develop a diverse new talent base.
The first Pathfinders were:
Digital Placemaking aimed to enhance and deepen the relationship between people and places.
We believe the best examples of digital placemaking are co-designed by different kinds of communities, using digital technology and creative solutions to improve or enhance the public experience of place.
The Digital Placemaking R&D Production call asked for ideas that explore questions of belonging, safety, hope and power in public spaces.
We funded prototype projects with  POPMAP, Everything is Music, Stupid Cities and Narratives.
Our industry partners were:
Read more about the full cohort .
The Expanded Performance Pathfinder explored the concept of liveness and togetherness in the context of current innovations in technology.
Looking across the theatre and live music sectors, our research and development considered how shows are made and marketed to how they are captured and distributed.
Our cohort of nine Fellows were selected across Academia, Industry, New Talent and Inclusion.
Our six Industry Partners were:
We also worked with Senheiser as our Technology Partner, Real World Studios and MAYK as Showcasing Partners and Knowle West Media Centre as our Inclusion Partner.
Amplified Publishing explored future models of content creation, distribution, discovery and consumption.
With content made ever more accessible through a proliferation of new broadcasting and streaming platforms and associated business models, this pathfinder asked what "publishing" means today.
How will synchronous visual and audio media through 5G and other technologies enhance and expand print-based media?
What will voice actuivation and personalisation offer?
With the rise of visual storytelling, what is the future of reading?
And, most importantly of all, who are our audiences, where are our audiences, and what does our audience want?
Amplified Publishing brought media companies, games, trade, music and broadcast publishers together with tech innovators to see what kinds of responses to these challenges can be created.
Read more about the pathfinder .
Creative Ecologies explored creativity as a networked, connected practice, not something that happens in isolation in studios, offices or labs.
Working with experts across our region and the world, we considered how we can make these networks more resilient, dynamic and inclusive, ensuring they are future proofed to withstand systematic shocks, and can respond to the pressing emergencies of our time.
We asked a range of questions: what can we learn from how creative economies are designed in other parts of the world?
How can the models we use to build our businesses or the way we run our cities be developed to make them more sustainable, inclusive and progressive?
How can we ensure that people – not technology – are put at the heart of a better future?
Our creative ecology spreads far beyond industrial sectors and fixed geographies, to encompass whole communities that stretch all over the world.
We explored how to make this ecology healthy, equitable and strong, and show how creative and cultural value is everywhere, and is vital to our futures.
We drew together experts from across Bath, Bristol and the world to explore sustainable growth, inclusion, climate emergencies and responsible innovation through seminars and development labs.
We spoke to activists, artists, technologies, social enterprises, civic bodies, academics and more.
We trialled new ways to promote, support and resource a dynamic, creative future in our local economy.
We sought eout ideas that relate to creative technology and offered advice on inclusion, businesses and production, brokered connections to universities, and used small injections of money to unlock opportunity.
Bristol+Bath Creative R+D was part of the Creative Industries Cluster Programme, funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-cultural-and-creative-industries/ai-story-lab:
CCCI are joining creative writing incubator Paper Nations , in partnership with Bristol+Bath Creative R+D , and To Play For to host AI Story Lab, a fully-funded, two-day workshop at The Studio at Palace Yard Mews in Bath in 2020 to explore interactive, immersive storytelling powered by AI.
Using their AI platform charisma.ai , To Play For are creating a new way of telling stories, by giving audiences the ability to talk to characters, build relationships with them, and have the story itself adapt and react to how audiences play through it.
AI Story Lab brings an opportunity to experiment with this new form of storytelling to ten writers across the upper south-west (Somerset, Gloucestershire, South Gloucestershire and Wiltshire) who are from backgrounds under-represented in the writing, publishing, gaming and theatre industries.
There is also the possibility for up to three of these writers to then undertake five-week-long paid placements at To Play For.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-cultural-and-creative-industries/my-world:
MyWorld is an engineering-led R&D project, focusing on creative technologies and their use in immersive media and screen industries, including, for example, volumetric video, virtual production, and the use of AI to improve digital film shot in low-light conditions.
The project will also focus on areas such as the development of new intelligent visual and interactive technologies, enabling new forms of storytelling, visual effects, gaming and other immersive experiences, and conduct research into audience and user understanding.
Investment in accessible facilities and equipment is part of MyWorld's remit and Bath Spa University has been given £190K to help upgrade and improve facilities on site both for use within the MyWorld project and Bath Spa students, including 360 cameras, VR and ambisonic sound recording equipment, computer equipment, VR headsets, and MoCap and Haptic suits.
Bath Spa University is co-leading the Experimental Productions strand of the project.
This is the storytelling heart of the programme that will engage with the public, bringing big stories and storytellers together to test technologies developed across the MyWorld programme, creating new ways of delivering and telling stories.
With a remit to test and showcase the results of the programme through production of award-winning content by world-leading creatives, our research aims to highlight and understand the challenges that will inform the MyWorld R&D priorities.
Our partners in Experimental Productions include Aardman , BDH Immersive , and Bristol Old Vic .
Our research themes include, for example, venues of the future, soundscaping the metaverse, and storytelling in immersive media.
We hope to be able to support colleagues in applying for MyWorld fund in collaboration with industry.
MyWorld draws together multiple partners including Bath Spa University, UWE, Watershed and the Universities of Bath and Bristol, as well as a range of industry partners.
MyWorld’s aim is to build on the production, technology and research strengths of the Bristol and Bath creative cluster developing R+D pipelines into production, accessible facilities and a framework for talent development, driving international development and inward investment.
To find out more about MyWorld news and events, visit the website .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-cultural-and-creative-industries/ccci-affiliates:
As part of the CCCI Affiliate Scheme, our affiliates have access to:
If you're interested in finding out more about becoming an affiliate and taking advantage of these benefits, please email ccci@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-cultural-and-creative-industries/immersive-audio-network:
Listening to industry and community needs, CCCI Co-Director Dr Ruth Farrar from Bath Spa University and MyWorld established an Immersive Audio Network for practitioners, educators and enthusiasts based in the West of England.
The Immersive Audio Network (IAN) provides training and consultation.
We also host funded sound artist residencies and immersive audio events using our Mobile Immersive Audio Lab of 25 Genelec speakers and 3 subwoofers.
The Immersive Audio Network provides bespoke training and consultation for organisations applying immersive audio to projects.
We also offer a suite of short courses including our popular ' Introduction to Immersive Audio ' weekend short course.
Our most recent iteration of this short course involved participants binaurally recording a Mbira performance and gaining expert advice from our Industry Guest Speaker Hans-Martin Buff who won 'Best Immersive Audio Album' at the Grammys in 2025.
Feedback from our short course participants:
To champion sound artists working in immersive audio, the Immersive Audio Network hosts funded residencies.
These annual residencies fund a Sound Artist-in-Residence to spend five days in Bath developing their practice in our Mobile Immersive Audio Lab of 25 Genelec speakers and 3 subwoofers followed by a public exhibition of their final work.
Previous recipients include Ximena Alarcón-Díaz and Ulf A.
Holbrook who co-developed and exhibited ' Unravelling ' at the Arnolfini in Bristol and Nikki Sheth's 'Visualising Nocturnal Soundscapes' project.
The Immersive Audio Network hosts in-person immersive audio events including our sold out Collective Immersive Listening Event, showcase programme at Bath Digital Festival and our Immersive Audio Network Meet ups.
Sign up to our newsletter to stay updated on future events.
You can also find further details about the Immersive Audio Network founder Dr Ruth Farrar .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-cultural-and-creative-industries/bsu-boost:
BSU Boost offers practical support on the grant application process up to submission and beyond; furthers your knowledge of how to access funds you may have previously deemed unattainable; and helps to streamline the funding distribution timeline of successful grant applications.
Do you:
We want to hear from you.
Apply now .
We are currently open to applications for our 2025 BSU Boost cohort.
Applicants must:
Register your interest now .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-media-research:
The Centre for Media Research supports socially engaged media research, putting film, media and creative computing at the heart of today’s social, community and environmental issues.
We Make Podcasts is a collaborative venture that has a dual purpose: to work with Bath Spa academics to help them create podcasts that reflect upon their own research, and also to gain insight into subjects relevant to young people now.
Led by Dr Charlie Tweed, the Digital Ecologies cluster develops experimental and arts-based forms of practice-as-research interrogating the environmental and social conditions of contemporary digital culture.
Led by Dr Ruth Farrar, the Film and Social Context cluster aims to creatively examine contemporary transnational questions of gender, community and culture, translating social content via documentary and environmental film practice.
The Play and Multiplatform cluster focuses on the creation of innovative, community-targeted multiplatform and game-centric media content and strategies.
Date: Fri 7 Jul 2023 09:00 AM
Date: Thu 10 Nov 2022 10:00 AM

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-media-research/about:
As today’s media industries become steadily transformed by social movements like #MeToo – with public debate and policy increasingly recognising interrelationships between issues of gender, the environment, and the media – it is crucial that film and media play a significant role in rethinking the media as a force for change.
The Centre for Media Research instils precisely this thinking in its approach to research excellence and innovation.
Based in the Bath School of Art, Film and Media and Bath School of Design and comprising staff from its subject areas of Film, Media and Computing and Digital Creativity , the Centre puts film, media and computing at the heart of social, community and environmental dynamics that affect daily life.
Its core membership brings together media artists and researchers, filmmakers, game and app developers, and well as researchers from Sociology, Theatre and Heritage.
Promote collaborative, multi-perspectival and interdisciplinary research between scholarly academics and practice-based researchers.
Develop excellence in research-led digital media practice, specifically by bringing practitioners and scholarly researchers together in meaningful collaborations and partnerships.
Foster connections with the media industries and with other universities with a view to developing the profile and activities of our research centre as an instrument of socially engaged collaboration across theory and practice, public engagement, and related industry/community impact.
Attract external research funding by consolidating collaborative, multi-perspectival and interdisciplinary interests around themes related to digital materialities, film and social context, and play and multiplatform.
Contribute to the training of postgraduate students by fostering cross-disciplinary and creative practice-led supervisory teams across the wider University.
“The unit’s research strategy until 2030 focuses around the development of excellence and innovation in socially engaged media research.
We aim to creatively rethink what film, media and computing can achieve in diverse communities, driving forward innovative approaches to collaboration across theory and practice, public engagement, and community/industry impact.”
The Centre operates around three distinct research clusters, each of which serve as smaller collaborative hubs whose objectives are defined and overseen by different members.
The Digital Ecologies cluster, led by Dr Charlie Tweed , develops practice-based research interrogating the environmental and social conditions of contemporary digital culture.
The cluster explores the connection between the physical and the virtual using experimental arts practices and creative technologies.
Explore the Digital Ecologies symposia series , a biennial symposium exploring relationships between contemporary digital technologies and human life.
The Film and Social Context cluster, led by Dr Ruth Farrar , aims to creatively examine contemporary transnational questions of gender, community and culture.
Seeking to unearth the sorts of representations that go beyond the reach of the mass media, such as research into small nation cinemas and diversity in the global film industry, researchers in this cluster also explore the shifting relationships between such representations and filmmaking, translating social content via documentary and environmental film.
Read about the cluster’s multimedia (In)fertility and the Media project in In Media Res .
The Play and Multiplatform cluster, led by Dr Matthew Freeman, concentrates on the development of innovative, community-targeted multiplatform and game-centric media strategies.
This cluster explores the creative and technological opportunities arising from participatory and playable convergences between multiplatform storytelling and gameplay interfaces, between social media channels, story apps and mobile media, for example in multimedia histories.
Watch the cluster’s Prof James Newman presenting on issues of videogame preservation at Stanford University.
In order to facilitate our research activity, the Centre runs a highly innovative three-stage ‘research production process’ for driving forward collaborative projects that encompass socially engaged collaboration across theory and practice, public engagement, and impact.
An example of this Centre-led activity includes our partnership with Bathscape, a Heritage Lottery-funded organisation who attended an earlier We Make Stuff event about new ways of using multiplatform media to narrate stories of place and community.
Staff and students then came together for a two-day Let’s Make Stuff hackathon at Bath City Farm in 2019 to prototype research-informed film, 360-degree video and social media content, all of which was published on the Bathscape website.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-media-research/standard-content-no-image:
The Centre benefits from a number of specialist research clusters made up of a variety of theoretical and practice-based researchers, and as a research student you will have the opportunity to join these clusters and take part in a range of our research activities, including symposia, conferences and public engagement events.
Our research clusters comprise: Digital Materialities, Film & Social Context, and Play & Multiplatform.
Proposals are therefore welcome from prospective PhD students interested in the Research Centre's core areas of specialism, including:
We also welcome proposals that have an interdisciplinary and collaborative approach embedded that draw on the expertise across Bath Spa University, for example within the University’s other fields such as Environmental Humanities or Creative Writing.
Bath Spa University is part of the South, West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW2), a consortium of universities  funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council to provide postgraduate studentships and training.
The programme offers 200 awards across five student cohorts.
Film, Television and Media is one of the subject areas covered by SWW2.
Find out more about the SWW2 scheme .
We're very happy to discuss your research proposal and potential routes for securing funding.
Please direct initial enquiries to Dr Charlie Tweed ( c.tweed@bathspa.ac.uk ), Higher Degrees Tutor for Film and Media a t Bath Spa University.
Indeterminate Mix: Exploring Ways of Incorporating Indeterminacy in the Context of Mixed Media Performances
A Study into Innovation Resistance toward Autonomous Cars in the UK
Spontaneously Realising the Unspontaneous: Developing a Compositional Strategy that Exploits Reduced Exposure between Performers and Scores
Beyond Chord Symbols: An Exploration of Alternative Ways of Integrating the Improvising Soloist into Notated Big Band Jazz Compositions
Evaluating the Impact of Crowdsourcing and Crowdfunding in Nigeria's Film Industry
Reflections of History, Culture and Society in Japanese Animation
Unravelling Cleopatra: Sensationalism and the Collapse of a Studio
Embodiment and Vigilance in the Notation, Rehearsal and Performance of Improvised and Indeterminate Music
Models of compositional approach for contemporary musical theatre: A practice-led study of the artistic and pragmatic constraints faced by the composer-collaborator, and how these shape process and product
Super Mario (Un)Making: Mapping the Ephemerality of Videogames
Videogames as a Primary Source: Collective Memory and Representations of Britain and War
Materials, Systems and Autonomy in Electromechanical Sound Art

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-media-research/we-make-stuff:
We Make Stuff is a public engagement event series organised by the The Centre for Media Research .
It serves the dual purpose of exposing publicly a diverse set of research from a range of subject areas and approaches, while also serving as a public platform for networking and forging collaborative links between Bath Spa’s researchers and the South West’s creative sector and local communities.
Events have taken place across Bath and Bristol, either at Burdall’s Yard, the University’s venue for music and performing arts located in the centre of Bath, or Artswork Media, the University’s student-led media production company and digital agency based at Paintworks, Bristol.
Each revolve around a dynamic theme emerging from the focus and interests of one of the Centre’s three research clusters: Digital Materialities, Film and Social Context, or Play and Multiplatform.
Open to all, We Make Stuff is an interactive, early evening event series that mixes showcases with hands-on, industry-led workshops and discussion, and also includes a welcome wine reception.
Held at Burdall's Yard
How can we utilise gaming and multiplatform strategies to create new digital methodologies for narrating the journeys of place and community?
Exploring how rich digital methods can be fathomed out of apps, gaming and multiplatform media to tell the personal stories of community and sense of place, We Make Stuff: Play and Multiplatform was a collaboration with Create Studios, an award-winning hub of digital creatives, and is the third in the Centre for Media Research’s public engagement event series.
The event consisted of presentations delving into different ways in which playable media – such as gaming and apps – and transmedia storytelling can be used to empower communities in different contexts, spanning education in Latin America, the UK’s political groups, and questions of public place in Lancaster.
Find out more on our event page .
Held at The Holburne Museum, Bath
Seeking to shine a light on contemporary questions of how film and creative practice can be used to understand connections between time and place, the inaugural We Make Stuff event took place on Monday 27th March 2017, and sought to explore the relationship between our past and our everyday understanding of place - and in turn between those understandings and the art of filmmaking or creative practice.
Grappling with this question, filmmakers, artists and researchers came together to showcase a range of short films, exhibitions and art installations.
Dr Patrick Turner (chair) - Patrick's field of interest lies in urban expressive multi-cultures, their cultural politics and globality.
At once rooted and ‘mundanely’ cosmopolitan, how do they traverse, mediate, reproduce and subvert contexts of social turbulence, privilege, stasis, regulation and transgression?
Patrick’s forthcoming book is based on his research on UK post hip hop culture: Hip Hop Versus Rap: The Politics of Droppin’ Knowledge , published by Routledge.
Claire Levy introduced her latest documentary as producer.
Some Will Forget (2016) reflects on the lives of a family living in a small mining village in South Yorkshire, as the mine is finally closed, 30 years after the end of the miners’ strike.
The past and the future are located through the miner Les Moore and his son, exploring their relationship with the village and the mine - both of which, through a tragic event, have become dislocated.
Richard White previewed media work from his exhibition, Forced Walks: Honouring Esther, re-working archive, documentation and social media to produce gallery film and soundscape.
In collaboration with installation artist Lorna Brunstein, the exhibition presents new work from Richard’s series of participatory performative walks-in-witness, following a Nazi Death March transposed to Somerset and returned to Germany.
Charlie Tweed presented his experimental film Grain (2013), which materialises as a machinic poem to the Isle of Grain in Kent.
The film outlines a proposal for the island’s future focusing in on its non-human population and exposing its history as a ‘non-place’ used to provide resources and support economies of supply.
It explores recent proposals to remove the human population along with 350,000 rare birds to make way for a new airport.
The film was developed from a performance at Whitechapel Gallery in 2012.
Sam Wilkins also presented a series of new digital collages exploring our relationship with the painted landscape as projected and disturbed idyll.
Utilising digital visual effects and compositing techniques to combine contemporary elements into existing British landscape paintings, the collages explore the dissonance of the post-pastoral and our complex and continued relationship with the idealised pastoral landscape.
The work showcased during the event emerged from the Media Convergence Research’s Film and Social Context research cluster.
The cluster aims to uncover and to critically interrogate a range of social, environmental and political issues and debates that permeate across our everyday social and natural world.
How can digital technologies create new experiences and storytelling opportunities across physical and virtual worlds?
Showcasing the power of digital and locative technologies to create new stories and experiences that exist between and across physical and virtual environments, We Make Stuff: Digital Materialities was the second in the series of public engagement events organised by the Centre for Media Research .
The event consisted of presentations investigating the use of digital technology as modes of storytelling in theatre, art, and online opera, followed by a Q&A discussion panel.
The conference included an interactive digital storytelling workshop run by Rosie Poebright, Creative in Chief at Splash and Ripple production agency, based in the Pervasive Media Studio, Bristol.
This workshop enabled event attendees to learn more about creating dynamic stories that traverse both physical and digital spaces and create new working relationships with other organisations and creative practitioners.
Lee Scott presented Fragments , a locative ‘digital’ opera.
As an opera for smartphones, Fragments is rooted in non-linear storytelling and adaptive music, revealing the creative possibilities and limitations of this emerging operatic form.
Sharon Clark presented Raucous , an ever-evolving collective of theatre makers, scientists and technologists who investigate how theatre stories can be made more immediate, urgent and immersive for an audience.
The presentation explored how to harness different creative cultures and practices to create theatre stories that have digital technology sewn into their narrative fabric, underscored by original music, film and performance, and with audiences invited into an unexpected, surprising space.
Anthony Head and Leila Sujir from Concordia University presented Elastic Space , an international research project exploring art practices in relation to human movement through the use of technological media such as stereoscopy, including 3D, VR and AR, as well older media approaches.
Rosie Poebright ’s interactive workshop allowed for participants to engage in processes which connect their daily physical experiences with a game interface or site specific performance, creating rich story strands as a result.
The workshop asks: In what ways can digital technologies affect and create opportunities for new forms of storytelling that connect physical and virtual worlds together?

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-media-research/previous-symposiums:
Transmedia UK: Sector by Sector Friday 24 November 2017
Transmedia Earth Conference 11 - 13 October 2017
Journal of Media Practice and MeCCSA Practice Network Annual Symposium 2017 Thursday 8 June 2017
Digital Ecologies and the Anthropocene Friday 28 April 2017
Kick-Starting Media: Cultures of Funding in Contemporary Media Industries Thursday 8 June 2016

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-media-research/previous-symposiums/kickstarting-media:
Recent public debates over funding in the media industries seem tied to the impact of digitisation, which has provided a catalyst for change in terms of how media is now produced and consumed across multiple platforms.
As such, business models for funding media are changing too.
Trends such as crowdfunding and co-creation – as well as subscription-based platforms like Netflix and video-on-demand services such as iTunes – have all made media more sharable and personal in the digital age, but all of these trends and services also raise further questions about the funding priorities, strategies and policies in the arts, media and culture sectors.
It is thus timely to take stock of cultures of funding in contemporary media industries, and this symposium provides a platform for analysing impacts of these contemporary funding trends, be it on texts, audiences, technologies, cultures or industries.
It is with these broader aims and questions in mind that Kick-Starting Media: Cultures of Funding in Contemporary Media Industries examined cultures of funding in different media sectors, with panels cutting across everything from global cinema and television funding to public service broadcasting, from transmedia and transnational production cultures to the crowdfunding strategies of videogames, comics and anime, and from radio and music business models to funding priorities in global journalism sectors.
A number of papers from the symposium have subsequently been published in a special issue of The International Journal on Media Management .
Guest Edited by Matthew Freeman, the special issue, titled ‘ Funding and Management in the Media Convergence Era ’, is available to read online.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-media-research/previous-symposiums/transmedia-earth-conference:
In an age where the production, distribution and sharing of content across multiple platforms is increasingly accessible, transmedia has emerged as a key strategy for engaging audiences across media.
But while understandings of the transmedia phenomenon are often tied to the Hollywood setting and to commercial forms of franchise and branding in Anglo-American contexts, different countries, cultures and peoples around the world are now beginning to define additional uses for transmedia, adapting this phenomenon in unique ways to different cultures, communities, technologies and industries – be it in sectors of film, television, publishing, journalism, leisure, radio, politics and beyond, emerging in arenas as diverse as creative writing, museums, apps, virtual reality, activism and education.
With this in mind, the Transmedia Earth Conference provides a global platform for showcasing and exploring the many manifestations of contemporary and historical transmedia around the world.
“The Transmedia Earth Conference seeks to internationalise both the study and the practice of transmedia.”
The inaugural conference – hosted by EAFIT University in Colombia – seeks to map emerging understandings of transmedia and global convergence cultures.
It will feature presentations by an international array of speakers from a total of seventeen countries, comprising: USA, Italy, China, Brazil, Turkey, Argentina, Colombia, Russia, UK, Ireland, Australia, Mexico, Spain, Portugal, France, Panama and Estonia.
The Transmedia Earth Conference is a formal collaboration between four institutions:
Carlos A.
Scolari is a Professor at Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona with expertise in communication and media, social theory, communication design and transmedia.
Dan Hassler-Forest is Assistant Professor in the Department of Media and Cultural Studies at Utrecht University.
Dr Matthew Freeman was a Senior Lecturer in Media and Communications and former Director of the Media Convergence Research Centre at Bath Spa University.
We are also hosting an Adaptive Storyworld Challenge in partnership with Conducttr , the world’s favourite transmedia storytelling engine for the creation of adaptive, interactive, multi-channel experiences.
We are looking for people that understand how to build storyworlds, and we invite submissions for an altered reality storyworld experience that is delivered to audiences across multiple media platforms.
In return, Conducttr will award three winners with a 1-year Conducttr Indie subscription, 2 hours mentorship on your project via Skype, and the projects showcased in Conducttr's transmedia Newsletter.
Full competition details and submission instructions for Conducttr's Adaptive Storyworld Challenge can be found below.
You have until 30 September 2017 to complete your work and submit your presentation for consideration.
Winners will be announced at the Transmedia Earth Conference, taking place at EAFIT University in Medellin, Colombia between 11th – 13th October 2017.
How do I enter?
You will need to submit two things:
A working experience
1 to 3 PowerPoint slides that describe the thinking behind the experience
Next, sign up to use Conducttr with the code #transmediaearthconference
Please direct any questions regarding the conference to Camilo Andrés Tamayo Gómez (ctamay12@eafit.edu.co).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-media-research/previous-symposiums/meccsa-practice-network-symposium-2017:
The symposium explored the theme of ‘Practice and/as Media Industry Research’ and took place on Thursday 8th June 2017 .
The study of media industries is now a focal point at many universities, promising rich dialogues between academia and industry.
Media, communications and cultural studies (including film, television, publishing, music, digital and social media) are central to the pursuits of media industry studies, with scholars seeking to investigate and to theorise the workings of these industries – be it their macro social, economic and political influences or their micro production cultures, distribution practices and professional ideologies (Caldwell 2008; McDonald 2013; Freeman 2016).
While the study of media industries itself indicates a bridging between theory and practice – between the study of media forms and the pragmatics of media making – far less attention has been paid to what the study of media industries looks like as practice-based or practice-led research, or how collaboration between academia and the media industries actively shapes practice.
As such, the symposium theme provided the opportunity for MeCCSA to focus on questions of practice and/as media industry research and aimed to showcase both scholarly and practice-based research that considered the complex relationships between the theoretical study of media industries and creative forms of practice and practice-based research.
The MeCCSA Practice Network champions practice within the Media, Communications and Cultural Studies Association, ensuring that those that teach and research practice have a strong voice within the subject association and beyond.
It is dedicated to developing links with the creative industries and with national and international networks and associations.
The symposium featured keynote lectures and plenaries by Prof Kerstin Stutterheim (Bournemouth University), John Mateer (University of York), and Prof Bambo Soyinka (Bath Spa University).
The day also featured interactive workshops about practices of Documentary Ethics, Media Practice Research, and Information Game Narratives, as well as panels featuring a truly international roster of academics and creative practitioners devoted to the following topics: Screen Cultures & Collaborative Practices; Digital & Media Art Practices; Film & Documentary Practices; and Media Education Practices.
We also showcased the winning entry of our MediaWall competition, which sought to attract screen-based media artworks that creatively examine and interrogate questions related to the workings of the media industries.
Professor Kerstin Stutterheim is Professor of Media and Cultural Studies and Program Leader for MA Directing Film and Television at Bournemouth University.
Professor Bambo Soyinka is an award-winning creative producer and Director of the Centre for Transnational Creativity and Education at Bath Spa University.
John Mateer is Senior Lecturer in Film and Television Production at the University of York.
The symposium, hosted by the Media Convergence Research Centre and supported by the Journal of Media Practice and MeCCSA Practice Network , took place in Commons building located at Bath Spa University’s Newton Park campus, taking full advantage of its interactive digital spaces and state-of-the-art studios and teaching facilitates.
Please direct any questions regarding the symposium to Matthew Freeman ( m.freeman@bathspa.ac.uk) .
09:00 – 09:45 Coffee and Registration (Atrium)
09:45 – 09:55 Welcome and Introduction: Matthew Freeman (CM.G24)
09:55 – 10:30 Opening Plenary Address (CM.G24):
Bambo Soyinka (Bath Spa University): ‘TBC’
10:30 – 10:50 Coffee Break (Atrium)
10:50 – 12:30 Parallel Panels:
Panel 1: Screen Cultures & Collaborative Practices (CM.134):
Beatriz Bartolomé Herrera (Concordia University, Montreal): ‘Behind the Scenes: Networked Collaborations and Museum Exhibition Design’
Helen Littleboy (Royal Holloway, University of London): ‘Murder on the Factory Floor: “Death of the Author” and Industrialised Television Production’
Anna Potter (University of the Sunshine Coast): ‘Researching Screen Production Cultures: Insights from a Three-year Study into Global Trends in the Production of Children’s Television’
Florian Krauß (Universität Siegen): ‘Discourses on “Quality Series” within the German Television Industry’
Panel 2: Digital & Media Art Practices (CM.135):
Mark Bond (Bournemouth University): ‘Digital Transitions: Creeps in the Trees: A Study of Form, Trauma and Decay’
Guli Silberstein (independent artist): ‘The Schizophrenic State Project: War, Media and Appropriation’
Ron Herrema (Bath Spa University): ‘Infínity: An Experiment in User-Centred Poiesis’
Lizzie Thynne (University of Sussex): ‘The ‘City Symphony’ Revisited: Brighton Symphony of a City (2016)’
12:30 – 13:30 Keynote Lecture 1: Practice and Media Industry Research (CM.G24):
John Mateer (University of York): 'The Good, The Bad and The Ugly: Exploring Relationships between Commercial Film and Television Practice and Academic Media Research'
13:30 – 14:15 Lunch (Atrium)
13:30 – 15:00 Journal of Media Practice Editorial Board Meeting (CM.110)
14:15 – 14:55 Parellel Workshops:
Workshop 1 (CM.133): Bambo Soyinka (Bath Spa University): 'TBC’
Workshop 2 (CM.134): John Curry (Bath Spa University): ‘Dominating the Information Narrative in Times of International Crises: A Practical Game Workshop’
Workshop 3 (CM.135): Pratap Rughani (University of the Arts, London): ‘Justine Interactive: The Dance of Documentary Ethics’
14:55 – 15:15 Coffee Break (Atrium)
15:15 – 16:55 Parallel Panels:
Panel 3: Film & Documentary Practices (CM.134):
Jill Daniels (University of East London): ‘Inside the Academy: Experiments in Documentary Film Practice’
Alex Nevill (University of the West of England): ‘New Concepts in Moving Image Lighting: A Practice-Research Enquiry’
Jimmy Hay (University of Bristol): ‘Practice Research and Media Industry Collaboration Through Narrative Filmmaking’
Dominique Webb (University of Lincoln): ‘The Knock 2016 – A Model of Industry-Academia Collaboration: Producing Fiction with Creative England and the British Film Institute’
Panel 4: Media Education Practices (CM.135):
Alex Kocic (Edinburgh Napier University): ‘Theory Vs Practice in Journalism Education: A False Dilemma?’
Neil Fox (Falmouth University): ‘Where Next?
Envisioning a Layered and Cohesive Future for Academic/Industry Media Projects’
Carl Schoenfeld (Coventry University): ‘From Horror to RomCom: The Theory/Practice Relationship in UK Filmmaker Education’
Shane O’Sullivan (Kingston University): ‘The Creative Reuse of BFI Archive Films in Student Video Essays’
17:00 – 18:00 Keynote Lecture 2: Practice as Media Industry Research (CM.G24):
Kerstin Stutterheim (Bournemouth University): ‘TBC’
18:00 – 19:30 Evening Wine Reception & MediaWall Competition Winner (Atrium):
Simon Ellis, Katrina McPherson, Owa Barua and Natalia Barua: ‘We Record Ourselves’
Sponsored by the Media Convergence Research Centre

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-media-research/previous-symposiums/digital-ecologies-and-the-anthropocene:
Media Convergence Research Centre, Commons (CM119) Newton Park Campus Bath Spa University Newton St Loe, Bath BA2 9BN
One-Day Symposium: Friday April 28th 2017 09:30 - 18.00
The symposium included a dynamic range of theoretical and practice based responses from researchers, artists, filmmakers, writers and theorists.
In August 2016 the International Geological Congress said that a new geological epoch known as the Anthropocene needs to be declared due to the fact that the human impact on the earth is now so profound.
Timothy Morton uses the term hyperobjects to discuss some of the characteristics of the anthropocene and why it is often invisible to the human: he notes that hyperobjects are ‘so massively distributed in time, space and dimensionality’ that they defy our perception, let alone our comprehension, therefore the condition of the anthropocene is easily ignored.
Among the examples Morton gives are climate change and radioactive plutonium.
‘In one sense [hyperobjects] are abstractions,’ he notes, ‘in another they are ferociously, catastrophically real.’
Another of these hyperobjects relates to the human relationship with machines and we can trace their impact on the earth back to the invention of the steam engine in 1781 by James Watt and its deposits of carbon on the earth’s crust.
Today’s contemporary technologies appear to be different and are crucial to enabling human life and culture to function as well as realising the production and distribution processes of capital.
They also provide us with useful tools for visualising processes such as climate change and tracking the earth’s own movements and seismic activity.
However the notion of these technologies being ‘clean’ or ‘virtual’ is soon unraveled by tracing their material realities which are made up of complex meshes of human and non-human moving parts.
Today’s machines are heavily enabled by the extraction of raw materials, the use of fossil fuels and the production of material waste at sites such as Guiyu, China which has been called ‘the electronic graveyard of the world’.
In her book Digital Rubbish Jennifer Gabrys notes that the electronic extends from technologies to markets and to modes of waste, decay and disintegration, articulating the relation between the signal and the thing and how they are bound into a shared material process.
The history of the internet and today’s pervasive media technologies is also closely tied to the study of the earth and an observation of the ecological.
It emerges from the development of military and nuclear technologies, the conception of cybernetics and the design of self-governing computer systems with built in feedback loops.
These machines and systems end up as actors within a complex mesh of networks, hyperobjects, production processes, waste disposal and notions of deep time.
In terms of responses to these conditions Christophe Bonneuil describes the ‘shock of the Anthropocene’ as a space for generating new political arguments, new modes of behaviour, new narratives, new languages and new creative forms and this symposium is focused on bringing some of these emerging discourses to the surface across theory and practice.
Ele Carpenter is a curator.
Her Nuclear Culture curatorial research project is a partnership between Arts Catalyst and Goldsmiths University of London, where she is Senior Lecturer in MFA Curating and convenor of the Nuclear Culture Research Group.
The Nuclear Culture project involves field trips, commissioning new work and curating film screenings, roundtable discussions and exhibitions including: Perpetual Uncertainty Bildmuseet, Sweden (2016-17); Material Nuclear Culture KARST Gallery, Plymouth (2016); Actinium, S-Air, Sapporo (2014).
Carpenter is editor of The Nuclear Culture Source Book published by Black Dog Publishing in partnership with Bildmuseet and Arts Catalyst.
Charlie Gere is Professor of Media Theory and History in the Lancaster Institute for Contemporary Arts, Lancaster University.
He is the author of Digital Culture (2002), Art, Time and Technology (2006), Non-relational Aesthetics, with Michael Corris (2009), and Community without Community in Digital Culture (2012), as well as co-editor of White Heat Cold Technology (2009), Art Practice in a Digital Culture (2010), and Unnatural Theology: Religion, Art, and Media after the Death of God (Bloomsbury, forthcoming), as well as many papers on questions of technology, media and art.
His current project is tentatively entitled I Hate the Lake District, and is a kind of anti-travel book.
In 2007 he co-curated Feedback, a major exhibition on art responsive to instructions, input, or its environment, in Gijon, Northern Spain, and was co-curator of FutureEverybody, the 2012FutureEverything exhibition, in Manchester.
For more information about this symposium please contact: Charlie Tweed ( c.tweed@bathspa.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-media-research/previous-symposiums/transmedia-uk:
Media Convergence Research Centre and Centre for Culture and Creative Industries, Corsham Court Campus
One-Day Academic-Industry Workshop: Friday 24 November 2017
Audiences now engage with media across multiple platforms, following the fictions of films and books across social media and video games, exploring brand universes and publishing enterprises across television, comics, websites, apps, etc.
The transmedia phenomenon is now a defining strategy across the media industries for generating multiple revenue streams and for building closer relationships between content, brands and audiences.
But when looking across online gaming, publishing, mobile media and digital marketing, which transmedia practices really make up the UK's multiplatform landscape?
It can be claimed that the creative strategies used for producing content across multiple platforms are typically characterised by the sector in which they operate - conceptualised as ‘storytelling’ in film and television, as 'content marketing' in advertising, as ‘engagement’ in publishing, for example.
These sector-specific understandings limit the innovative potential for stories, worlds and brands to be crafted as transmedia entities for the digital age.
Transmedia UK: Sector by Sector tackles this problem by beginning to map the ways in which different UK media sectors are now responding to ideas, concepts and pressures of transmediality.
This academic-industry workshop aims to identify the strategies and principles that now make up the transmedia practices in and across online gaming, publishing, mobile media, digital marketing and beyond, examining which practices operate across these various sectors while exploring what it means to distinguish between storytelling, publishing, interactivity and marketing in today's transmedia environment.
Exemplifying current approaches to transmediality in their respective sectors of online gaming, publishing, mobile media and digital marketing – as well as in sector-spanning transmedia consultancy contexts – the organisations involved in the workshop comprise:
This academic-industry workshop will feature presentations from staff representatives from all of these five industry partners, who will each discuss exactly what 'transmedia' or 'multiplatform' now means in their own sector-context.
09:30 – 10:15 Registration and Coffee
10:15 – 10:30 Welcome and Introducing the Media Convergence Research Centre and the Centre for Creative and Cultural Industries:
Matthew Freeman and Kate Pullinger (Bath Spa University)
10:30 – 11:15 Plenary Address:
‘The Present and Future of Transmedia Storytelling’
Alison Norrington (StoryCentral Ltd.)
11:20 – 12:20 Panel 1: Transmedia Film and Television
Robert Stenson:
'Transmedia to trans-channel: Film Trailers and the Television Ad-break'
Matthew Freeman:
'Searching for the Feminist Ethos: Captain Marvel and her Fan Community across Media'
Meng Liang:
'Transmedia Narrative work in Neoliberal Hollywood'
12:20 – 13:00 Lunch
13:00 – 14:20 Panel 2: Industry Perspectives on Transmedia Strategies
Nataly Rios Goico (Conducttr)
Lana Beckwith (HarperCollins)
Kate Fitzpatrick (e3 Media)
Tim Kindberg (Matter 2 Media Ltd.)
14:20 – 14:50 Roundtable Discussion
14:50 – 15:15 Coffee Break
15:15 – 16:15 Panel 3: New Approaches to Researching Transmedia
Jenny Kidd:
'Transmedia Heritage'
Simona Spinelli:
'Multidimensional Storytelling: A New Framework for Analysing Transmedia and Digital Storytelling'
Isabel Vincent:
'The Quest for Reality: Transmedia Storytelling as Religious Experience'
16:15 – 17:30 Panel 4: New Approaches to Producing Transmedia
Anna Zaluczkowska:
'Whose Story is it Anyway?'
Charlie Tweed:
'Transmediatising Media Art'
Laura Little:
'TBC"
Sara Sylvester:
'The Art of Creative Learning in the Transmediascape: Participation, Engagement and Pedagogy'
17:30 – 18:00 Plenary Discussion: Understanding Today’s Transmedia Landscape

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-media-research/artswork-media-roundtables:
Each Artswork Media Roundtable includes a guest speaker talk, a group discussion and an opportunity for you to receive direct feedback on questions you may have using immersive technologies in your own practice.
9 May 2019
The first Artswork Media Roundtable focused on engaging audiences.
Guest speaker Barney Heywood from Stand + Stare shared his interactive designs for clients including Dreadnought South West, the Royal Shakespeare Company and Carnegie Hall.
The group discussion examined barriers, which may exist for audiences engaging in a show or piece that uses immersive technologies.
We also shared best practices on how to overcome such challenges to enhance audience engagement.
23 May 2019
Our Artswork Media Roundtable discussion ventured behind the scenes.
We explored the delicate balance of creative vision and practical feasibility when designing immersive technological solutions.
Guest speaker Sharon Clark, Creative Director of Raucous , shared her experiences of creating immersive theatre.
Each Roundtable takes place at Artswork Media - Bath Spa University's production company:
Unit 7.02 Paintworks, Bath Road, Bristol BS4 3EH
Artswork Media Roundtables are kindly supported by Bath Spa University's The Centre for Media Research.
For further questions, please contact Dr Ruth Farrar ( r.farrar@bathspa.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-policy-pedagogy-and-practice:
The Policy, Pedagogy and Practice (PPP) research centre provides new disciplinary and interdisciplinary spaces within which innovative research ideas emerge, develop and flourish in the context of education.
We draw on the philosophy, sociology and psychology of education to underpin our research.
Situated in our teaching-led School of Education and aimed at greater inter-disciplinary collaboration, PPP gives excellent opportunities to share skills and develop our internal and external reputation for pedagogy.
Through support and collaboration we enable such work to happen and subsequently be disseminated, to achieve powerful impacts.
Our research focuses on questioning knowledge and practice across four strands:
Pedagogy is broadly defined to include a wide range of educational relationships and interactions in various settings, both formal and informal.
This strand focuses on creative and effective pedagogy at all phases of education and draws on the expertise of members who are interested in researching and developing new pedagogical approaches.
We reconceptualise methodologies of teaching and learning through innovative approaches to pedagogy and practice.
Contact: Penny Hay
Our research interests focus on how we view education discourse and practice, nationally and internationally.
We see it as a development tool; how cultural, political and economic globalisation influences national education policy and educational practices among nation states.
We explore the epistemic challenges of conducting research on education policies in the UK and global contexts.
Particular attention is paid to the role of education in national and international development by looking at 'norms', 'alternatives', as well as the ways through which education can be decolonised.
We define education broadly to include all levels of education and training, formal, informal and incidental learning as well as capacity building, community organising and knowledge creation and translation.
Our broad scope encompasses researchers interested in understanding how education, when done well, can contribute to social justice, conceived as recognition, representation and redistribution.
Contact: Jenny Hatley
Higher Education is our sector and our profession, across the disciplines of the University.
The Higher Education strand aims to develop the evidence base for our work, supporting and informing an evidence-based approach.
We're creating a university-level central home for, primarily, pedagogic and practice-based research and support, across all the disciplines and Schools.
Our interests are driven by our own work as educators and the context of our institution, with both an external and internal focus.
Contact: Giles Martin
We encourage and facilitate collaboration between teacher-practitioners, training mentors, academics and all members of the educational arena who are keen to undertake innovative and ethical research.
We are particularly focused on establishing a supportive research network for those who are interested in working towards social justice, with improved outcomes for all learners seen as an ideal vehicle to achieve this end.
Contact: Caroline Whiting
We welcome expressions of interest in postgraduate studies and support study at masters and at doctoral levels.
Our cross-disciplinary and collaborative ethos ensures that we draw on expertise from research communities that are local, national and international.
We offer two doctoral routes: the EdD (Professional Doctorate in Education) and the PhD that engage with research and high level professional practice.
The School of Education is a centre for the ESRC South West Doctoral Partnership education pathway.
Whatever your interest in education, please contact the relevant strand leader to start a potentially life-changing conversation.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-research-in-early-childhood:
REACH is concerned with issues of social justice, participation and voice in early childhood.
Sharon
          Colilles
Reader, Early Childhood Studies

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-research-in-early-childhood/about-reach:
The Centre for Research in Early Childhood focuses on children’s relationships with the human and more-than-human world and how this shapes identities and lived experiences.
There is a strong commitment to raising the visibility and status of both children and practitioners working within early childhood contexts, and an aim to influence local and national early childhood policy.
Researchers within the centre draw on innovative methodologies to disrupt dominant discourses and cultural assumptions which underpin pedagogy and practices within early childhood.
There is particular interest in interdisciplinary research and videography.
Theoretical focuses include New Materialism and Posthumanism; Praxeology, Sociocultural and Cultural-Historical perspectives, and Participatory studies.
Raise the visibility and status of research in the field of Early Childhood through rigorous, interdisciplinary and collaborative projects across national and transnational contexts.
Contribute new knowledge to the existing body of theory and practice within the field Early Childhood.
Disseminate findings from research through conferences, open access journals, and quality academic and professional publications.
Impact on policy and practice in Early Childhood, in a range of settings.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-research-in-early-childhood/research-and-projects:
Members of the centre are early stage researchers and take a ‘ground up’ approach to research.
We meet regularly to peer review working papers, debate research and policy development and lobby on current issues within the early childhood education and care sector.
We also work on a number of funded projects.
Our areas of expertise include:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-research-in-early-childhood/engagement-and-collaboration:
We engage with students, practitioners, researchers, academics, policy-makers and community-stakeholders to mobilize research to inform policy and professional practice.
Past REACH engagement events included:
Collaborative writing: Research centre members have the opportunity to present their work in a supportive environment and gain constructive feedback in preparation for publication.
Students from our undergraduate and postgraduate programmes engage in critical writing on their professional practice and current research in early childhood.
Examples of some of our students’ work:
Lauren Emery : Lauren has published two pieces of her writing in professional magazines/websites while completing her early childhood studies undergraduate degree.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-research-in-early-childhood/studying-early-childhood:
We offer doctoral supervision across a range of topics within the context of early years and childhood.
Find out how to apply

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-research-in-early-childhood/reach-publications:
Davies, D, Howe, A, Collier, C, Digby, R, Earle, S and McMahon, K  (2019)  Teaching science and technology in the early years (3-7).
ISBN 9781138613058
Rekers, A and McCree, M  (2022)  'The role of the adult in supporting play.'    In: Waters-Davies, J, ed.
Introduction to play.
Sage, London, pp.
146-156.
ISBN 9781529743562
McCree, M  (2022)  'The scenic route to academic attainment via emotional wellbeing outdoors.'    In: Cutting, R and Passy, R, eds.
Contemporary approaches to outdoor learning: animals, the environment and new methods.
117-130.
ISBN 9783030850944
Worthington, M, Carruthers, E and Hattingh, L  (2020)  '"This is the safe.
It has a number and no one else knows it": playing with mathematics.'    In: Thiel, O, Severina, E and Perry, B, eds.
Mathematics in early childhood: research, reflexive practice and innovative pedagogy.
167-186.
ISBN 9780367370503
Rose, J, Hattingh, L and McInnes, K  (2019)  'Young children as scientists, designers and technologists – theories of learning.'    In: Davies, D, Howe, A, Collier, C, Digby, R, Earle, S and McMahon, K, eds.
Teaching science and technology in the early years (3-7).
17-35.
Hattingh, L  (2024)  'Time to play, time to think: meaningful moments in the forest.'   European Early Childhood Education Research Journal, 32 (1).
22-33.
Yohani, S, Kirova, A, Georgis, R, Gokiert, R, Mejia, T and Chiu, M  (2019)  'Cultural brokering with Syrian refugee families with young children: an exploration of challenges and best practices in psychosocial adaptation.'   Journal of International Migration and Integration, 20.
1181-1202.
ISSN 1488-3473

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-research-on-science-and-society:
CRoSS explores the interplay between scientific advances and their broader societal implications and impacts.
Through knowledge development and exchange, we aim to navigate, and answer, complex contemporary scientific challenges in society.
The Centre for Research on Science and Society (CRoSS) is the flagship Research Centre sitting within the School of Sciences.
Its work focuses on the following:
Interdisciplinary research
We bring together researchers across Psychology, Sociology, Criminology, Geography and Biology to explore the interactions between science, technology and society.
Public engagement
We promote public understanding and involvement in scientific issues such as digital literacy, mental health, climate change and more through public events and participation in outreach programmes, media engagement and popular science writing.
Policy engagement
Our work provides insights as to how scientific developments impact society, and we regularly interact with policymakers within government.
Collaboration
We enjoy strong collaborations with other academic institutions, as well as government and industry, with the aim of fostering knowledge exchange on contemporary science-relevant societal issues.
The Centre consists of six core Research Clusters, representing the breadth and depth of research and knowledge exchange undertaken by staff within the School.
Engaging in multi-disciplinary research on climate change, hazards, disasters and sustainability.
Providing a collaborative space for impactful research on crime, criminal justice, penal systems, and terrorism.
Studying ecosystem function, human impacts and habitat restoration to advance conservation efforts.
Exploring intersections of identities such as gender, race, and sexuality, addressing inequalities through interdisciplinary research to drive social change.
Promoting interdisciplinary collaboration to advance critical scholarship and research focused on social justice.
Exploring the connections between mental and physical health, wellbeing and cognitive processes through impactful and interdisciplinary research.
If you're interested in the research, knowledge exchange and public engagement activities we do, please contact the Centre Director, Professor Pete Etchells.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-research-on-science-and-society/climate-hazards-and-environmental-change-research:
The Climate, Hazards and Environmental Change Research Cluster draws on perspectives from multiple disciplines including human geography, physical geography, archaeology, biology, nutritional sciences and philosophy.
Our research has focused on a variety of topics, including:
Our researchers have experience of working in numerous locations including the UK, Ireland, India, Nepal, Pakistan, Bhutan, Italy, Germany, Russia, Ecuador, the Dominican Republic and the United States.
Simon
          Haslett
Pro Vice-Chancellor (Partnership Strategy)
We are committed to research with impact and to collaborations with local communities, policy makers and industry.
As university teachers and researchers, we are also committed to research-informed teaching, and to providing our students with opportunities to engage with and participate in research.
Our research informs our teaching contributions to degree programmes across the School of Sciences , including in Geography , Environmental Science , Wildlife Conservation and Biology .
We are also affiliated with the University's Centre for Research on Science and Society and the Research Centre for Environmental Humanities .
Our international research aims to deepen understandings of complex social, environmental and sustainability challenges.
Our online research lecture series is open to the public.
To find out more or register to attend an online lecture, please visit our events page.
Recordings of some of our past events are also available on YouTube .
If you're interested in our research, please contact our Cluster Director, Dr Jim Jeffers .
Alternatively, speak to any member of our group.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-research-on-science-and-society/criminal-justice-research:
Providing a collaborative space for impactful research on crime, criminal justice, penal systems and terrorism.
The Criminal Justice Research Cluster aims to provide a collegial and supportive space for researchers examining crime, criminal justice, penal systems, terrorism and hybridity from a national and international perspective.
It includes those with interests in producing impactful research on criminological, psychological, legal and sociological perspectives of crime and criminal justice.
If you're interested in our research, please contact our Cluster Director, Dr Faye Vanstone .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-research-on-science-and-society/ecology-biodiversity-and-conservation-research:
Research within the Ecology, Biodiversity and Conservation Research Cluster is focused on the living world – how it functions, how we are changing it and how preserving it can benefit us.
Our members have backgrounds and interests in environmental assessment and management, from understanding the functioning of degraded ecosystems, quantifying ecotoxicology & pollution, to restoration and reconstruction of habitats and rewilding.
We are working to understand and monitor wildlife behaviour, ecology and population trends, and to understand how human perceptions of and interactions with the natural world affect our environment.
Our research applies established and emerging methods in lab and field, and considers the contributions members of the public can make as “citizen scientists”.
Utilising the living resources on our doorstep and further afield to support our students’ learning, and bringing the natural world closer to them pervades our work.
Darrell
          Watts
Technical Demonstrator – Lead in Ecology and Data Analysis
If you're interested in our research, please contact our Cluster Director, Dr Miriam Thavarajah .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-research-on-science-and-society/identities-and-equalities-research:
We are a community of researchers working across a range of disciplines in the School of Sciences , and we welcome researchers from other Schools whose research aligns with this group.
We also work with a range of external research collaborators, both within the UK and internationally.
Our members have expertise in gender, sexuality, race/ethnicity, migrant, religious, national, class-based and other identities and their intersections.
We examine implications for social, economic, political, health, education, environmental, organizational and other inequalities.
We use a variety of methodologies spanning quantitative and qualitative approaches, including large-scale surveys and experiments, to archival work and ethnographic methods.
We investigate themes such as:
If you're interested in our research, please contact our Cluster Director, Dr Renata Bongiorno .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-research-on-science-and-society/social-justice-research:
The Social Justice Research Cluster provides a collegial space for critical scholarship and research practice centred in working towards social change through social justice.
As well as supporting existing research, the cluster also aims to develop new and generative connections between the range of disciplines in the School of Sciences .
It connects researchers with a diverse range of interests in the field of psychology, sociology, criminal justice, health and wellbeing, identities and equalities, and ecology.
If you're interested in our research, please contact our Cluster Director, Dr Rosalchen Whitecross .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/centre-for-research-on-science-and-society/wellbeing-health-and-cognition-research:
Exploring the connections between mental and physical health, wellbeing and cognitive processes through interdisciplinary and impactful research.
The Wellbeing, Health and Cognition Research Cluster draws together the expertise of academics from the School of Sciences and related disciplines at Bath Spa University.
Our research focuses on the health and wellbeing of individuals, groups and populations, as well as influences of (and influences on) cognition.
We aim to conduct interdisciplinary research that takes a creative approach to respond both globally and locally to societal challenges.
Our key areas of research include technology and wellbeing, health behaviours (including alcohol consumption, nutrition, and exercise), the role of multisensory perception on emotions and wider cognition, and help seeking after sexual assault.
If you're interested in our research, please contact our Cluster Directors, Dr Tash Clarke and Dr Charlotte Edmunds.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/creative-corporealities:
Creative Corporealities has evolved.
It is now known as the Creative Practice and Embodied Knowledge Research Group .
Creative Corporealities is an interdisciplinary research group that responds to a contemporary revision in notions of humanity, felt both viscerally and intellectually, for which the predominant answer is embodiment and creativity.
We are practitioners and academics working across a wide range of disciplines, based at Bath Spa University, with research themes accommodated under the banner of the Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries .
Creative Corporealities concerns itself with embodiment as a source of creative practice, with its own causalities and politics.
We develop and observe disciplinary practices that engage and affect a body that is generative of creative processes.
We are also on the steering group for the Research Centre for the Environmental Humanities , representing performance and arts research.
Below are a series of presentations by members of the Creative Corporealites research group and outside guest speakers, supported by Bath Spa's Quality Research funding.
Please also see our Past Events page for an archive of these performances.
Unless otherwise stated, our events are free and open to staff, students and members of the public.
Our public lectures are likely to be of broadest interest, while research seminars are intended primarily for staff and postgraduate students.
For further information about our events, please contact group co-convenors Mary Steadman and Thomas Kampe.
Objects Without Borders: Exploring how objects connect across borders, boundaries and difference
Thursday 20 January, 6:00pm - 8:00pm GMT , online presentation.
In this presentation, Bath Spa University's Dr Laura Purcell-Gates and PhD student Husam Abed will discuss Objects Without Borders , a practice-based research project that investigates the role of puppetry and object performance in connecting people across borders, boundaries and differences.
The project draws on the knowledge and experience of people living on and between the borders and boundaries of society including refugees and people from deprived communities.
‘Performing Ecologies’ – collective embodied arts practices
Thursday 10 March 6:00pm-8:00pm BST, online presentation.
View the recording of these presentations .
This CCRG artist talk brings together dance artists and scholars Olive Bieringa (NZ/NO) and Minou Tsambika Polleros (AT/UK) to discuss their work with dance and somatic arts processes as critical and collective practices of resistance and care in times of ecological crisis.
Olive Bieringa reflects on more than two decades of work with the BodyCartography Project which aims to engage with the vital materiality of our bodies and minds to create live performance that facilitates a re-enchantment of embodiment, relationship, and presence.
They create dance in urban, domestic, wild, and social landscapes.
Their work is rooted in experimental dance, somatic and socially engaged practice.
Their current project, Resisting Extinction , offers practices for living and dying together on a damaged earth.
It invites us to not only look forward but to look around and notice what we are losing, to hone our skills and practice embodied knowing to repair our relational field.
Minou Tsambika Polleros will introduce her work with the arts organisation art.earth and their upcoming symposium Sentient Performativities: Thinking Alongside the Human (2022).
Her outdoor performance practice homing-in: radical capacities of the sensate is an ongoing work in outdoor natural environments that activates a mode of sensing - a Visceral Empathy - as a potentially remedial practice to the increasing symptoms of environmental apathy, increasing sensory deprivation, the intellectually thought and bodily felt separateness from the rest of the animate world.
Her work with the art organisation art.earth creates a platform to investigate the manifold dialogues between the human and natural worlds.
The 2022 art.earth symposium investigate how somatic practices can foster embodied ecological awareness and communication between the human and other than human worlds.
Olive Bieringa is a dance, performance and visual artist working at the intersection of social and creative practice, pedagogy, and healing.
She is a teacher, and practitioner of Body-Mind Centering and a program director of Somatic Education Australasia.
She collaborates with Otto Ramstad as the BodyCartography Project whose mission is to engage with the vital materiality of our bodies and minds to create live performance that facilitates a re-enchantment of embodiment, relationship, and presence.
She is a doctoral candidate at the Theatre Academy, Uniarts Arts, Helsinki.
Minou Tsambika Polleros
As dance practitioner, choreographer and Social Sculpture practitioner, Minou has been researching the capacity of "visceral empathy" and embodied cognition as essential antidote to an increasing collective disembodiment and separation from an ecological self.
She is developing practices for inner and outer homemaking, as processes that cultivate literacy in being viscerally empathetic with what is alive in and around the human experience.
Minou is interested in an expanded perspective on the dance practitioner who is actively cultivating connective capacities and choreographic forms, essential in the endeavour to create an embodied system change in both environmental and social arenas.
Minou is currently working as art.earth assistant director.
Minou has been a member of the Institute of the Study of Somatic Communication steered by Nita Little since 2019.
She is passionate about her own arts practice and increasingly aims to create platforms for social, environmental and artistic practice dialogues.
Image credit: BodyCartography "Resisting Extinction"; Performer: Hanna Filomen Mjåvatn; Photographer: Otto Ramstad
This is the Land at the Rondo Theatre, Bath , 7.30pm on 22 and 23 April 2022.
Find out more about This is the Land
What exists in the ‘thin’ places where the distance between the living and the non-living is closer?
Resisting narrative, This is the Land takes us on a mysterious journey of the British Isles and beyond – with its layers, sediments, joys, sorrows and weather!
The show explores the wild within us through quirky movement and dance, vocal-looping, atmospheric soundtrack and five shapeshifting performers.
Directed by Mary Steadman in collaboration with performers Leeza Jessie, Alice Barton, Xavier De Santos, Samuel De La Torre and Sofia Velez, with an original soundtrack by John Baggott.
A PhD practice-based research project, developed th rough the lens of Hauntology, this research has led to an investigation of the 'Eerie', as defined by the late cultural theorist Mark Fisher as something where there should be nothing, or, nothing where there should be something (2016).
Through an embodied, interdisciplinary methodology, the practice aims to develop a dramaturgy of the eerie in devised performance.
The production has been supported through Bath Spa's QR funding and Bath Spa Productions.
Photo credit: Xavier De Santos
Our researchers are engaged in projects that have been funded by organisations such as the Arts Council England and the National Lottery Heritage Fund.
Somatische Akademie Berlin
From a collaboration that started at the Talent Development online workshops part of the SWCTN , Movement Artist Silvia Carderelli-Gronau and Computer Scientist Swen E.
Gaudl have been developing a sound based framework that enables dancers to move and improvise with each other from different locations, creating a network of presence, connection and touch beyond the visual sphere.
View the performance .
Silvia Carderelli-Gronau is a dancer, filmmaker, teacher in HE, researcher and movement therapist in Bristol and Bath.
She has been developing a sound-based framework called "Sonic Dancer" that enables dancers to move and improvise with each other from different locations, creating a network of presence, connection and touch beyond the visual sphere.
Silvia will be using the Bath Spa Studio Recovery funding to take the project to the next phase of development and testing.
Silvia is a Studio resident.
Bath Spa's Ellie Nixon is currently writing a monograph titled The Imagining Body in Performer Training: The Legacy of Jacques Lecoq and Gaston Bachelard as part of the Perspectives on Performer Training Book Series, to be published by Routledge in 2019.
It aims to explore how embodied interdisciplinary processes of making performance proceed through a dramaturgy of haunting.
This is the Land takes the premise that the UK is haunted by the past and by possible futures that never came to be.
The figure of the ghost is a regarded as a disruptive force, its act of haunting reveals that which is hidden or excluded from history.
The research questions notions of heritage and inheritance, identity, and belonging in turbulent times.
What has been lost or exluded in the past, which returns as spectral presence as a reminder or remainder of how we can live differently, imagining a future beyond the ones we are given?
The project is a creative collaboration with five professional performers, all of whom are Bath Spa University Alumni across the disciplines of Music, Dance, and Theatre.
A professional musician is involved in the creation of the soundtrack for the performance.
The outcome of the research will be a performance presented in collaboration with Bath Spa Productions.
Artistic direction: Thomas Kampe Editorial direction: Manuela Jara Choreographic direction and research: Carol Brown Sound: Russell Scoones Video artist: Meek Zuiderwyk Video assistant: Freddie Errazo The New Zealand Dance Company: Carl Tolentino, Lucy Lynch, Chris Ofanoa, Katie Rudd
This performance was featured as part of a major exhibition at the Theatre Museum Vienna in March 2019.
Displaced/displayed re-activates the legacy of Viennese choreographer Gertrud Bodenwieser (Vienna 1890 – Sydney 1959) and her dancers within a context of global transmission of dance knowledge through crisis, diaspora and exile.
This installation coincides with the 80th anniversary of Bodenwieser’s exile from Europe and celebrates the possibility of a nearly lost avant-garde to remain.
It builds on artistic research undertaken by Kampe and Brown between 2014 and 2017 (‘Releasing the Archive’, Auckland, Berlin, Hannover, Bath, Tel Aviv and Vienna) in collaboration with The New Zealand Dance Company and international scholars.
The installation draws on video footage of choreographic work developed through the re-enacting of archival material of ex-Bodenwieser dancers Shona Dunlop-McTavish, Hillary Napier and Hilde Holger.
The installation explores practices of displacement, doubling and fragmenting of recorded material to echo and honour the labour of lost modernist dancers and dances of exile.
With thanks to Shona Dunlop-MacTavish, Shona McCullagh, Barbara Cuckson, Laure Guilbert, Neil Glen, Anthony Head, Kirsten Seeligmüller.
The project was supported through Bath Spa University and University of Auckland.
Basement Dances is a research project that aims to document, archive and disseminate traces of creative practice of the late choreographer, dancer and pedagogue Hilde Holger (Vienna 1905 – London 2001).
Holger was a prominent Jewish choreographer and educator.
Holger’s choreographic work has been archived through reconstructions by Aggiss, Stange, Kampe and Kappenberg (1990 -2006), and her work has been critically discussed  in academic contexts (Aggiss 2006, Kappenberg 2006, Kampe 2006, 2013 , 2019 , Waltz 2019 ) in relation to Jewish diaspora dance practices and the development of UK Contemporary Dance.
Basement Dances draws on up to 50 hours of video recordings filmed by Kampe, Kappenberg and others in Holger’s basement studio during the 1990’s recording her pedagogy, creative practice and reflections, on personal recollections of her students including Kappenberg and Kampe who worked with Holger over a period of 13 years until her death in 2001.
Projected outcomes over the next three years will be a series of published articles or video essays, an interactive website honouring the nearly lost legacy of the pedagogy and creative process knowledge of Holger, and screen-dance installation based on the archival footage.
The project builds on Kampe’s recent research on the work of choreographer Gertrud Bodenwieser (1890-1959) who was Holger’s mentor in Vienna up to 1938, and on Kappenberg’s research into the mediation of dance and discourses in screendance.
The project has been funded with BSU HQR seedfunding.
Photo : Hilde Holger and students in her basement studio in the 1990s.
copyright Hilde Holger archives

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/creative-practice-and-embodied-knowledge:
The Creative Practice and Embodied Knowledge Research Group draws on research from (but is not limited to) the fields of dance, performing arts, music, theatre, creative writing and interdisciplinary artmaking.
Through the enmeshed, intermingling of ideas across and through domains it is concerned with the diverse forms of knowledge which reside in our practising, moving, creative bodies and aims to find ways in which this can be explored and shared across different disciplines and contexts.
The participants embrace collaborative dialogue and shared exchange working in post disciplinary spaces; unknowing and uncertainty are central components of speculative research enquiry.
We are interested in pushing at the edges and borders, traversing boundaries, sharing processes and practices, creative play and inventive modes of research enquiry both inside and outside the academy that place creative and embodied knowledge in motion.
The group’s research activities and modes of working explore and respond to pressing socio-political, environmental and economic concerns that inform and shape the conditions in which our research endeavours, creative work and institutional responsibilities are located.
Its working practices and ethos are underpinned by a concern for collegiality, listening with care, decolonisation and shared responsibility as we collectively work to reframe notions of achievement, competition and comparison through practices of speculation, relating otherwise, slowness, and deep listening.
The group's activities are open to artists, academics and the public, from aligned and unaligned disciplines, who are interested in how different approaches to knowledge production and exchange can inform practices and reflection on creativity, composition, cohabitation, collaboration, porosity and being in the world.
We hope to open discourses around creative practices, what constitutes a body, different and multiple ways of and approaches to embodiment to ‘undiscipline’ bodily knowledges and share insights and experiences across both human and nonhuman domains.
Louisa
          Clark
School Employability Partner
Silvia Carderelli-Gronau reflects on a Somatic Communication research day facilitated by Nita Little and hosted at BSU.
Professor Vicky Hunter reflects on her experience at the University of Malta’s annual School of Performing Arts Conference in Valetta, where she contributed to a curated panel on the theme of Embodiment, Experience and Participation.
Join Maymana Arefin for an introductory talk exploring the fascinating world of fungi, mycelial networks, and the "wood wide web" and what they can teach us about mutual aid and collective care.
In this talk, Maymana will share insights from their research on mycorrhizal fungi and explore what these underground networks can teach us about activism and grassroots organising.
The presentation will be followed by an open Q+A.
Together, we’ll reflect on themes of social justice – including mutual aid and community organising – through the lens of fungi and nature connection.
Everyone is welcome, regardless of background or prior knowledge.
The event is free to attend, but booking is required .
Zoom details will be circulated one week before the event.
This workshop offers an experiential exploration of Focusing, a practice developed by Eugene Gendlin that invites participants to tune into their “felt sense” – a subtle, embodied awareness that holds implicit meaning.
Through verbal and non-verbal practices, we will delve into ways of being with the felt sense, uncovering its capacity to reveal new insights.
Stefan Jovanović Kaasa is an artist, teacher and somatic traumatologist whose work bridges performance and therapy to explore trauma, myth, and transformation.
His artistic practice spans dance-theatre, installation, drawing, and sculpture, often unfolding as immersive rituals that blur the boundaries between art and healing.
This event is designed to bring PhD researchers together (and anyone who is thinking about embarking on a PhD) to share their practice, network and exchange strategies, methods, ideas, and approaches to researching creative and embodied practices.
This informal gathering will be shaped around exchange, sharing, and exploring in a collegiate and supportive environment.
It will be hosted by Michelle Elliott and Professor Vicky Hunter .
For further details please email:
This event took place on Wednesday 26 February at Newton Park.
If you are planning a research paper, preparing a funding application, writing your PhD thesis, preparing a conference presentation or embarking on your first novel, come and join in this session for inspiration and motivation.
This event took place on Monday 25 November 2024.
This event took place on 4 July 2024.
If you missed it, you can watch some of the key moments on YouTube .
What can we learn, in moving together, about how we make decisions, how we listen, how we can move others and be moved by them (in all the ways)?
This workshop is open to anyone curious to engage in movement explorations and with choreographic ideas.
There is no need for formal dance training.
It will be playful.
We will walk, stand in stillness, and move as we like.
We will notice what emerges from our moving together and alongside, and share some of this with one another.
The session will be practical but there will also be space for reflection and conversation.
This event took place on 3 July 2024.
If you missed it, you can watch some of the key moments on Vimeo .
This research project raises intriguing questions: How do we navigate and embrace changes in our lives?
How can we flow through life’s twists and turns with grace and resilience?
How do body memories influence the process of creating technology-involved dance compositions?
Zhi Xu is a choreographer, dancer, researcher and Senior Lecturer in Dance at Bath Spa University.
He completed a PhD focusing on dance technology and cultural identity at Brunel University London in 2021.
As a choreographer and dancer, he has created more than 20 works touring world-wide in China, the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Canada, Belgium, Malaysia and Israel.
This event took place on 24 June 2024.
The walk will culminate in a movement workshop in the dance studio where we will draw on the walk to create a collaborative movement ‘score’ for participants to collectively engage in and share their experiences of the day’s events.
No specialist dance or movement experience is required – this workshop is inclusive, adaptable and open to all.
Workshop leaders:
This event took place on 21 June 2024.
Sonic Dancer is an innovative creative technology project aiming to develop human connection and interaction through movement and sound when physical presence is not possible.
Silvia Carderelli–Gronau is a movement artist and dance-movement therapist.
She has been consolidating her practice and research in somatics, embodiment, improvisation, relational practices (Ensemble and Contact Improvisation) and the dialogue with creative technologies, and is interested in how they can support/enhance human experiences.
Silvia is a resident at The Studio in Bath and a member of The Creative Practice and Embodied Knowledge Research Group at Bath Spa University.
Swen E.
Gaudl is a Senior Lecturer of Interaction Design at the University of Gothenburg and Computer Science Lecturer at the University of Plymouth.
He is interested in human behaviour and agent design.
He works with novel interaction mechanisms to engage users from various also non technical backgrounds; this includes robotic movement expression for social signals such as using auditory information to identify users.
This event took place on 14 June 2024.
Participants will include invited researchers, PGR students, artists and practitioners interested in exploring the themes of 'being otherwise', learning from ecological systems and structures (such as growth, degrowth, and composting), nonhuman and organic ways of organising and relating, learning from nature and the interdisciplinary possibilities that may arise from Pluriversal thinking.
This event took place on 21 March 2024.
As ecological breakdown continues to accelerate, how can we find ways to cope with the information we are receiving and to share our anxieties?
Whether it is through a sense of hope, hopelessness, or somewhere in between, this event provided a space for creative practice as a form of embodied knowledge, greater understanding and awareness, and exchange.
If you would like to get in touch with us, please email:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/creative-writing-centre:
We aim to support members in their research by providing opportunities for collaboration, discussion and exchange of ideas both within and beyond their specialist form or genre.
The Centre advances the University’s strategic research themes in critical thinking and effective expression, with the specific aim of bringing together academic and industry perspectives.
We are one of the largest research centres at Bath Spa University and operate on two campuses.
The Centre celebrates a wide range of talent, in fiction, non-fiction, poetry, spoken word, scriptwriting, writing for theatre, writing for young people, writing digital, nature writing, professional writing and pedagogical research.
Many of the writers who belong to The Centre are producing work that is transnational in various ways, and there's strong interest in trans-cultural dialogues and collaborations.
Our teaching staff have either won or been shortlisted for:
The Research Centre hosts a dynamic programme of events, lectures and public readings, featuring a wide range of distinguished writers and practitioners.
We also host conferences and symposia at the forefront of literary and research developments in the UK and internationally.
Everything we do starts from our excellence as writers and the excellence of our student writers.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/earth:
With eARTh we want to address the eco emergency by reimagining hopeful futures through artistic, educational and environmental activities.
The eARTh research group encourages imaginative and creative approaches to the climate crisis, working with children, young people and adults in cultural and educational settings and the community.
We encourage a creative, reflective approach to teaching and learning so that everyone is invited to participate in creating solutions to the climate crisis.
eARTh facilitates conversations and catalyses collaborations in research and creative practice at the intersection of:
We have strong links with other research groups, projects and organisations including:
Online event, 2.00pm to 4.00pm.
Find out more
Lydia Halcrow – Rust Recordings (abandoned ships Taw Estuary), 2019

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/environmental-humanities:
How can humanities scholars, artists, writers, natural and social scientists work with each other and public communities to produce ethical, creative, historically informed and culturally sensitive responses to environmental problems?
The Environmental Humanities is a new interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary field of research addressed to the cultural dimensions of today's pressing socio-environmental problems, such as resource depletion, environmental injustice, oceanic pollution and acidification, anthropogenic climate change, and escalating extinctions.
Fostering dialogue and debate across the disciplinary divides that separate the arts, humanities, 'social' and 'natural' sciences, Environmental Humanities examine the underlying socio-cultural assumptions, values, and practices that both shape, and are in turn shaped by, particular patterns of human interaction with beyond-human others and our physical environs.
The Bath Spa Research Centre for Environmental Humanities draws together scholars from across the University, including conservation biologists, geographers, anthropologists, philosophers, historians, literary critics, creative writers, film-makers, and visual and performance artists, in pursuit of new insights and creative responses in the face of deepening socio-environmental concerns and crises.
Vision:
The aim of Bath Spa University’s Research Centre for Environmental Humanities is to foster multi-, inter- and transdisciplinary research projects and public engagement activities that bring methodologies and understandings from the arts and humanities into dialogue with social and natural sciences to find ethical, creative, historically informed and culturally sensitive solutions to today’s pressing environmental problems.
Mission:
We seek to create an inclusive and convivial research environment, and to support individual and collaborative research endeavours and public engagement activities among academic staff and graduate students across the University and at all stages of their career development who wish to contribute to advancing the vision of the Centre.
Objectives:
We intend to realise this mission in the following ways:
Mariele Neudecker, 400 Thousand Generations, 2009, Mixed media incl.
steel, fibre-glass, water, salt.
55 cm x 113 cm x 153 cm (h).
Date: Wed 1 May 2024 03:00 PM
Date: Wed 24 Apr 2024 02:00 PM
Date: Wed 24 Jan 2024 03:00 PM
Date: Thu 14 Dec 2023 07:00 PM

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/environmental-humanities/people:
Our centre draws scholars together from across Bath Spa University in pursuit of new insights and creative responses to deepening socio-environmental concerns and crises.
Our research and teaching specialisms are listed below.
Find out more about our inter- and trans- disciplinary collaboration and research strengths .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/environmental-humanities/projects:
"Resilient people need resilient ecosystems" (RESPiRES)
ESRC (via the Newton Fund and the Mexican Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia)
2019-2022: £540,000.
Principal Investigator: Dr.
Ian Thornhill.
"Indian Himalayan Flood Database for Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR)"
University Grants Commission (UGC) and UK-India Education and Research Initiative (UKIERI)
2018-2020, £21,281 + Rs 1,533,233.
Bath Spa investigators, Richard Johnson and James Jeffers .
See project website .
"Historicising Natures, Cultures and Laws in the Etosha-Konune Conservation Territories of Namibia"
Arts and Humanities Research Council and German Research Council (DFG)
2020-2023, £320,027 (fEC £390,098).
Principal Investigator, Sian Sullivan .
Recipient of the Bath Spa Research Centre for Environmental Humanities inaugural PhD studentship
My practice-led research asks - what are the parameters of an arts practice which seeks to articulate located subjectivities that can disrupt dominant discourses surrounding climate change?
The overall research seeks to critically develop creative language which might successfully embody the feminist subject-as-process as a critical testimony, and to ask of those embodiments how they can impact upon our capacity to address the political bias that defines the climate change narrative.
How can different subjectivities be articulated within practice in ways that are specific, dynamic and with the potential to disrupt dominant discourses surrounding climate change?
If the global-scale, technocratic perspective marginalises a plethora of significant issues and dimensions, can arts practices which focus on the subject and the location intervene?
What is meant by location and locatedness that is expressed through practice and that is significant in the discourses surrounding climate change?
I trained as a painter and now work in moving image and sound, creating (sometimes silent) films and sonic drawings.
My work has been exhibited widely, particularly over the last 2 years.
Following inclusion in Raw Catalyst (Cambridge Sustainability Residency at Anglia Ruskin University July 2015) a sonic piece entitled ‘Underheard’ was selected by Theaster Gates to form part of Sanctum Bristol (Oct 15).
I undertook a month long residency at Arts Quarter Budapest (Nov 15) to harvest material at the various thermal baths in Budapest.
This work was screened at Fringe Arts Bath, Language, Landscape and Sublime (Schumacher College), Journeys and Transmission at University of Plymouth, Place Ecology & the Digital (University of Brighton) and as part of the Korean Biennale.
The Fringe Arts Bath screening formed part of an exhibition I guest-curated bringing UK and Hungarian artists together on the theme of Liquid.
(All 2016).
Liquid will be shown in Budapest in February 2017.
In the Spring of 2016 I was commissioned by the Media Wall at Bath Spa University to produce a moving image piece entitled Submersive Testimonies.
From December 2015 to July 2016 I was Artist in Residence at Plymouth School of Creative Art.
I made contributions to Balance-Unbalance International Conference (May 2016), and Language Landscape and the Sublime at Schumacher College (June 2016) and Place Ecology & the Digital (University of Brighton Sept 16).
A showcase of my sonic work was broadcast on Radio Revolten as part of the International Radio Art Festival, Germany, October 2016.
I broadcast regularly on Soundart Radio with two shows:
Artdotearth.fm – monthly broadcast bringing Artdotearth (Arts & Ecology at Schumacher College), CCANW (Centre for Contemporary Art and the natural world) and RANE (Research in Art, Nature and Environment, Falmouth University) together to explore threads and themes which bring the 3 institutes together.
Sonic Drawing – monthly broadcast exploring sonic arts and acoustic ecology.
From January 2017 I start a 3 month residency in the town of Burry Port, Carmarthenshire.
Working with teachers and students at Ysgol Glan Y Mor to develop digital creativity within the school, I will also produce a substantial body of work relating to the tidal environment of the town.
Exhibitions 2015-2017
Imagining Networks
Patricia Brien is the Principal Lecturer and Academic Manager of Fashion and 3D Design at the University of South Wales.
Apart from working in Higher Education for the past 15 years, she has continued to be a freelance writer in the fashion and lifestyle area during this period.
Her MA Design (Textiles) included the participatory and collaborative project Spiritus Loci which looked at fashion, textiles, ecophilosophy and ecofeminism during a span of one season in 2012-13 in Melbourne.
Working with seven other practitioners the group worked individually with a chosen and meaningful ‘nature place’ as muse to create a body of work made from hemp and found materials.
All participants observed and shared their experiences and outcomes with the group in self-designed rituals.
The premise of this collaborative and reflexive practice with place and design informs the current PhD direction.
This research approaches material culture, in particular garments and textiles, seeking to develop and/or re-establish ‘invisible’ networks and interfaces as articulated in the fields of new materialism, ecofeminism, ecophilosophy, ecophenomenology and alternative spiritualities.
Working within social-action and reflexive practice-led methodologies this project aims to craft and nurture an understanding of the more-than-human world and establish networks that respond and formulate deeper understanding of place, identity and being.
The project will investigate specific human and non-human networks that converge in the development of textiles, dress and decoration, across time and geographies.
These investigations will generate approaches for understanding experiences within a sentient environment where stuff (stoff: fabric) is an interface not purely surface.
This body of research explores narratives of visible and invisible networks that exist around or create a textile interface that are intergenerational, intercultural, interspecies and interwoven into our experience of being and identity.
It is acknowledged that there is a gap between our current experience of garments and textiles and themes of mythology, cosmology, ecospirituality, this project aims to reinterpret these networks.
Awarded the Environmental Humanities Fee Waiver 3-year Postgraduate PhD studentship
Charlotte's thesis explores the ways narratives about flooding provide an examination of environmental relations within the Anthropocene, defined here as the current epoch in which human activity has determined the Earth's geology.
She terms ‘flood narratives’ as fictional novelistic and filmic accounts of flooding and flood related disasters that speak to the experience of climate and environmental change, while also developing questions around human vulnerability and culpability with respect to environmental catastrophe.
She considers late twentieth and twenty-first century Anglophone flood narratives, which includes a list of British, Australian and American authors such as Megan Hunter’s The End We Start From , Maggie Gee’s The Flood , George Turner’s The Sea and Summer , James Bradley’s Clade , Ruth Ozeki’s A Tale for the Time Being and Jesmyn Ward’s Salvage the Bones .
By investigating the relationships between contemporary flood narratives, she attempts to answer the following research questions:
She has presented on flood narratives at the ‘H20: Life & Death’ conference at the University of Adelaide, organized as part of GALA’s Lost Water series in 2017, and at the ASLE-UKI Conference to be held at Plymouth University (forthcoming).
She also plans to publish articles as the project progresses.
The Research Centre for the Environmental Humanities has been the recipient of a number of awards and grants from such funding bodies as the British Academy, the Arts and Humanities Research Council, and the Templeton Foundation.
Find out more below how we used those funds to institute dialogue and change in our discipline.
Arts and Humanities Research Council November 2016 – October 2017 £80,643 Mentor to early career researchers -
Leverhulme Trust September 2012 – June 2017 £587,269 Co-Investigator -
For further information, see our project website and blog .
Towards hydrocitizenship.
Connecting communities with and through responses to interdependent, multiple water issues
Arts and Humanities Research Council, Connected Communities Environments and Sustainability Large Grant 2014 – 2017 £1,477,202.
Principal Investigator.
For more information, see our project website .
Templeton Foundation 2017 Principal Investigator - Ian Todd
"Cultures of Nature and Wellbeing: Connecting Health and the Environment through Literature"
Arts and Humanities Research Council, Early Career Fellowship Leadership Award;
2016 – 2018; £131,114.
Principal Investigator .
"Disrupted Histories, Recovered Pasts: A Cross-Disciplinary Analysis and Cross-Case Synthesis of Oral Histories and History in Post-Conflict and Postcolonial Contexts"
Funded jointly: Arts and Humanities Research Council, Care for the Future and LABEX Past in the Present research programmes;
May 2016 – October 2018; £99,743 and €79,661.
Principal Investigator and Project Coordinator .
"Enduring Connections"
Arts and Humanities Research Council / Global Challenges Research Fund;
November 2016 – April 2018; £79,960.
"Future Pasts: Sustainabilities and Cultural Landscapes in West Namibia"
Arts and Humanities Research Council, Care for the Future;
2014 – 2018; £766,260.
"Troubled Waters – Reaching Out"
Funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council
February 2017 – January 2018; £67,887.
Prinicpal Investigator .
See project website .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/environmental-humanities/events:
Our public lectures feature a range of speakers from Bath Spa University and other organisations.
They are free to attend and include light refreshments to follow.
Please visit the links for full information and to book your place.
Marine Transgressions was a two-day Environmental Humanities conference that took place on the 7 and 8 June 2018, at the Create Centre, Bristol.
It was a collaboration between the Research Centre for Environmental Humanities of the University of Bristol and Bath Spa University.
The Association of Commonwealth Universities Summer School provides an opportunity for talented university students from around the Commonwealth to come together for an exciting week of expert lectures, group work, field trips, skills development and social events.
The 2017 Summer School was held at Bath Spa University from 5 - 13 August.
It explored interrelationships between humans and other living beings, and between cultural practices and environmental problems – and looked at how these can be examined through different academic disciplines and creative arts.
Bath Spa University is a world leader in research and teaching in these areas.
The first Environmental Humanities Postgraduate Forum, Environmental Humanities: Perspectives in Practice , took place on 14 July 2017.
It was a student-led event, providing an opportunity for presentations on work-in-progress, to which staff were warmly invited.
Speakers included:
As part of the British Academy’s Festival of the Humanities in 2016, Bath Spa presented three public engagement events concerning peoples’ hopes and fears in relation to environmental change.
Changing Landscapes, Rising Waters: Kate Rigby, Owain Jones and Sam Walton presented a series of short talks and film screenings arising from their current research projects, all of which concerned peoples relationships with the watery worlds of ocean, estuaries and rivers during a time of rapid climatic and environmental change.
Environmental Literature Reading and Discussion: Three of Bath Spa’s creative writers, Stephen Moss, Maggie Gee, and Samantha Walton, read from their work and discussed how it explores the hopes and fears that are inextricably entangled with the living landscapes we inhabit at a time of rapid environmental change and biodiversity loss.
“Gobaith ac ofn; Dwy sgriniad / Hope and fear: two screenings” : A screening of two short films - Timeline and Y Gors - that explored extreme weather in West Wales, challenging the idea that climate change only happens in far-flung places or in the future.
The Inaugural Symposium for the Research Centre for Environmental Humanities was held 15-16 December 2016 at Bath Spa University.
Based around the title, The Environmental Humanities: Doing Interdisciplinarity with Depth , the symposium sought to explore the challenges involved in doing interdisciplinarity well and 'at depth' across the Environmental Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences, and to consider the impediments and opportunities that might line our potential pathways to impact.
Follow the links to view videos of the presentations.
5.15 – 7.00pm: Opening plenary: Bridging the Great Divide
7.00 – 8.00pm: Official launch by Vice-Provost John Strachan
9.00 – 10.30am: Onto-epistemologies and ethics – Chair, Paul Reid-Bowen
10.50am – 12.20pm: Spatio-temporalities – Chair, Rebecca Schaaf
1.20 – 2.50pm: Inter-species connectivities – Chair, Stephen Moss
2.50 – 4.20pm: NaturalCultural calamities – Chair, James Jeffers
4.40 – 6.20pm: Eco-poetries and ecopoetics – Chair, Terry Gifford
6.20 – 7.00pm: Concluding discussion

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/environmental-humanities/research-strengths:
Ben Parry, Charlie Tweed
Lori Bystrom, Stephanie Greshon, Ralph Thompson, Miriam Thavarajah
Kyriaki Hadjiafxendi, Richard Kerridge, Nicky Lloyd, Samantha Walton
Lucy English, Penny Hay, Mel McCree, Samantha Walton
Richard Kerridge, Samantha Walton
Eleanor Barraclough, Sara Penrhyn Jones, Matthew Law, Heather Winlow, Sian Sullivan
Paul Reid-Bowen, Mike Hannis
Sarah Alexander, Mel McCree, Sara Penrhyn Jones, Rew Lowe, Mariele Neudecker, Charlie Tweed, Stephen Vaughan
Giovanna Gioli, Sara Penrhyn Jones, Sian Sullivan, James Jeffers, Matthew Law
Giovanna Gioli, James Jeffers, Stephen Vaughan
Richard Kerridge, Sian Sullivan, Charlie Tweed
Giovanna Gioli, James Jeffers, Rew Lowe, Sara Penrhyn Jones, Matthew Law, Sian Sullivan

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/equity-inclusion-and-community:
The Centre for Research into Equity, Inclusion and Community (CREIC) interrogates the conditions that lead to marginalisation and exclusion from education, and our research aims to develop theories and practices of inclusion, equity and social justice.
Our work focuses on issues such as disability, race, gender and sexuality, as well as looked-after children and children who have experienced trauma.
Our members draw from a variety of disciplines such as sociology, anthropology and philosophy, and we utilise a broad array of methodologies in our research.
We often conduct research in partnership with local communities and our work has significant impact on the lives of disadvantaged individuals and groups.
Please contact Dr Stuart Read on s.read@bathspa.ac.uk for more information.
Mitchell, B  (2021)  Engaging with actor-network theory as a methodology in medical education research.
ISBN 9780367332242
Simon, C.A and Downes, G, eds.
(2020)  Sociology for education studies: connecting theory, settings and everyday experiences.
ISBN 9780367028404
Curran, H  (2019)  How to be a brilliant SENCO : practical strategies for developing and leading inclusive provision.
NASEN Spotlight .
Routledge, Abingdon, Oxon.
ISBN 9781138489653
Bhatti, G, Levinson, M and Simmons, B  (2024)  'Doubly-disadvantaged or even hidden away: the situation of migrant and refugee children with special educational needs and disabilities.'    In: Hammarén, N, Ivemark, B and Stretmo, L, eds.
Migrant youth, schooling and identity: perspectives and experiences from Northern Europe.
127-141.
ISBN 9783031633447
Simmons, B  (2022)  'Social embodiment in early childhood education for children with PMLD.'    In: Conn, C and Murphy, A, eds.
Inclusive pedagogies for early childhood education: respecting and responding to differences in learning.
94-110.
ISBN 9780367756130
Curran, H  (2021)  'Developing SENCO resilience: understanding and meeting the challenge of the role.'    In: Beaton, M.C, Codina, G.N and Wharton, J.C, eds.
Leading on inclusion: the role of the SENCO.
171-180.
ISBN 9780367420505
Simmons, B  (2020)  'Exploring the situated social being of children with profound and multiple learning difficulties across educational contexts: a study of belonging.'    In: Nind, M and Strnadova, I, eds.
Belonging for people with profound intellectual and multiple disabilities: pushing the boundaries of inclusion.
ISBN 9780367202958
Levinson, M.P  (2020)  'Spaces of invisibility and marginalisation in schools.'    In: Simon, C.A and Downes, G, eds.
Sociology for education studies: connecting theory, settings and everyday experiences.
38-47.
Simmons, B  (2020)  'Enacting the international vision of inclusive education: a UK case study of profound and multiple learning difficulties.'    In: Simon, C.A and Downes, G, eds.
135-149.
Parfitt, A  (2020)  'Pre-service teacher education in English secondary schools: opportunities for intergenerational learning through mentoring.'    In: Dorczak, R and Portela Pruaño, A, eds.
Generational diversity and intergenerational collaboration among teachers: perspectives and experience.
Jagiellonian University Institute of Public Affairs, Kraków, pp.
45-60.
ISBN 9788365688651
Simon, C.A  (2019)  'Work-based learning.'    In: Simon, C.A and Ward, S, eds.
A student's guide to education studies.
4th ed.
235-245.
ISBN 9780367276690
Mitchell, B  (2019)  'Health education and behaviour.'    In: Simon, C.A and Ward, S, eds.
224-232.
Simon, C.A  (2019)  'Education and social justice.'    In: Simon, C.A and Ward, S, eds.
20-28.
Chadderton, C  (2019)  'Race, ethnicity and education in England.'    In: Simon, C.A and Ward, S, eds.
29-39.
Spina, N, Harris, J, Parfitt, A and Yue, Y  (2019)  'Quality in an audit society: the work of teacher-educators.'    In: Peters, M.A, ed.
Encyclopedia of teacher education.
Springer, Singapore.
ISBN 9789811311796
Simon, C.A  (2019)  'Diversity in Teacher Education: policy contexts.'    In: Sorensen, N, ed.
Bhatti, G  (2019)  'Students’ experiences in EDIC+ intensive programmes.'    In: Veugelers, W, ed.
Education for democratic intercultural citizenship.
Brill, Leiden, pp.
184-190.
ISBN 9789004411944
Bhatti, G  (2019)  'Social and educational inclusion in schools and their communities.'    In: Veugelers, W, ed.
61-80.
Ralph, T and Levinson, M.P  (2019)  'Conflicting communication about the ownership and meaning of places in a school in south west England.'    In: Collins, P, Igreja, V and Danaher, P.A, eds.
The nexus among place, conflict and communication in a globalising world.
Palgrave Macmillan, Singapore, pp.
79-98.
ISBN 9789811359248
Niolaki, G.Z  (2015)  'Spelling difficulty in a 10-year-old trilingual child: a case study and report of an effective intervention programme.'    In: Safont Jordà, M.P and Portolés Falomir, L, eds.
Learning and using multiple languages: current findings from research on multilingualism.
Cambridge Scholars Publishing, Newcastle upon Tyne, pp.
82-110.
ISBN 9781443871822
Simmons, B and Read, S  (2024)  'What does it mean to be a ‘person’ with profound and multiple learning disabilities?
Interviews with family members and allies.'   PMLD Link, 36 (2).
2-4.
ISSN 2042-5619
Simmons, B  (2023)  'Mainstream placements for children with PMLD: the perspective of teaching staff and parents.'   PMLD Link, 35.2 (105).
15-17.
Williams, V, Gall, M, Mason-Angelow, V, Read, S and Webb, J  (2023)  'Misfitting and social practice theory: incorporating disability into the performance and (re)enactment of social practices.'   Disability & Society, 38 (5).
776-797.
Niolaki, G.Z, Negoita, A, Vousden, J.I, Terzopoulos, A.R, Taylor, L and Masterson, J  (2023)  'What spelling errors can tell us about the development of processes involved in children’s spelling.'   Frontiers in Psychology, 14.
e1178427.
ISSN 1664-1078
Read, S, Simmons, B and Parfitt, A  (2023)  'Creating authentic and positive stories about personhood for people with profound and multiple learning disabilities: a call for reader expressions of interest.'   PMLD Link, 35.1 (104).
37-38.
Opara, V, Ryan, M.K, Sealy, R and Begeny, C.T  (2023)  '“Fitting in whilst standing out”: identity flexing strategies of professional British women of African, Asian, and Caribbean ethnicities.'   Frontiers in Sociology, 8.
e820975.
ISSN 2297-7775
Jackson-Cole, D and Chadderton, C  (2023)  'White supremacy in postgraduate education at elite universities in England: the role of the gatekeepers.'   Whiteness and Education, 8 (1).
101-119.
ISSN 2379-3406
Chadderton, C  (2023)  'Covid, schooling and race in England: a case of necropolitics.'   Race, Ethnicity and Education, 26 (1).
112-128.
Simmons, B, Read, S, Parfitt, A and Bush, T  (2022)  'What constitutes 'ethical' research for people with PMLD?
A call for reader responses.'   PMLD Link, 34.3 (103).
38-40.
Marku, B, Niolaki, G.Z, Terzopoulos, A and Wood, C  (2022)  'Eastern European parents' experiences of parenting a child with SEN in England.'   Educational Psychology in Practice, 38 (3).
297-316.
ISSN 0266-7363
Niolaki, G.Z, Vousden, J, Terzopoulos, A, Shepherd, D-L, Debney, L and Masterson, J  (2022)  'Spelling predictors; investigating the role of phonological ability and rapid naming in a large cross-sectional British study.'   Learning and Instruction, 80.
e101635.
ISSN 0959-4752
Boddison, A and Curran, H  (2022)  'The experience of SENCOs in England during the COVID-19 pandemic: the amplification and exposure of pre-existing strengths and challenges and the prioritisation of mental health and wellbeing in schools.'   Journal of Research in Special Educational Needs, 22 (2).
126-136.
ISSN 1471-3802
Spruhan, H, Niolaki, G.Z, Vousden, J, Terzopoulos, A and Masterson, J  (2022)  'Spelling performance of 6- and 8-year-old Irish children: is it or ?'   The Journal of Educational Research, 115 (1).
87-97.
ISSN 1940-0675
Simmons, B  (2021)  'How special are mainstream schools?
Reflections on social spaces for children with profound and multiple learning difficulties.'   PMLD Link, 33.3 (100).
36-38.
Read, S, Simmons, B, Levinson, M.P and Bush, T  (2021)  'A call to action for conducting research with people with profound and multiple learning disabilities.'   PMLD Link, 33.3 (100).
6-7.
Clarke, Z, Darley, S, Wright, A, Surridge, J, Martindale, A, Simmons, B, Hunnisett, S and Dukas, T  (2021)  'Where next for people with cognitive disabilities and electronic assistive technology?'   Communication Matters Journal, 35 (3).
32-34.
ISSN 2756-1011
Simmons, B  (2021)  'The production of social spaces for children with profound and multiple learning difficulties: a Lefebvrian analysis.'   British Journal of Sociology of Education, 42 (5-6).
828-844.
Parfitt, A, Read, S and Bush, T  (2021)  'Can compassion provide a lifeline for navigating Coronavirus (COVID-19) in higher education?'   Pastoral Care in Education, 39 (3).
178-191.
ISSN 0264-3944
Niolaki, G.Z, Terzopoulos, A.R and Masterson, J  (2021)  'More than phonics: visual imagery and flashcard interventions for bilingual learners with spelling difficulties.'   Patoss Bulletin, 34 (2).
14-25.
ISSN 1476-1521
Curran, H  (2021)  'Discovering ‘what works’.'   Early Years Educator, 22 (10).
ISSN 1465-931X
Niolaki, G.Z, Vousden, J, Terzopoulos, A, Taylor, L and Masterson, J  (2021)  'A linguistic awareness intervention targeting spelling and written expression in a 10-year-old dyslexic child.'   Προσχολική & Σχολική Εκπαίδευση = Preschool and Primary Education, 9 (1).
1-27.
ISSN 2241-7206
Curran, H and Boddison, A  (2021)  ''It's the best job in the world, but one of the hardest, loneliest, most misunderstood roles in a school'.
Understanding the complexity of the SENCO role post-SEND reform.'   Journal of Research in Special Educational Needs, 21 (1).
39-48.
Niolaki, G.Z, Vousden, J, Terzopoulos, A.R, Taylor, L.M, Sephton, S and Masterson, J  (2020)  'Predictors of single word spelling in English speaking children: a cross sectional study.'   Journal of Research in Reading, 43 (4).
577-596.
ISSN 0141-0423
Chadderton, C  (2020)  'School-to-work transitions support: ‘cruel optimism’ for young people in ‘the state of insecurity'.'   Power and Education, 12 (2).
173-188.
ISSN 1757-7438
Niolaki, G.Z, Taylor, L.M, Terzopoulos, A and Davies, R  (2020)  'Literacy difficulties in higher education: identifying students’ needs with a hybrid model.'   Educational & Child Psychology, 37 (2).
ISSN 0267-1611
Niolaki, G.Z, Terzopoulos, A and Masterson, J  (2020)  'Intervention for a visual attention span processing deficit in a Greek-speaking child with slow reading speed.'   Προσχολική & Σχολική Εκπαίδευση = Preschool and Primary Education, 8 (1).
1-30.
Terzopoulos, A.R, Niolaki, G.Z and Masterson, J  (2020)  'Intervention for a lexical reading and spelling difficulty in two Greek-speaking primary age children.'   Neuropsychological Rehabilitation, 30 (3).
371-392.
ISSN 0960-2011
Mortimore, T  (2019)  'Learning style: snake oil or solid strategy?'   Patoss Bulletin, 32 (2).
22-40.
Ralph, T and Levinson, M.P  (2019)  'Survival in the badlands: an exploration of disaffected students’ uses of space in a UK secondary school.'   British Journal of Sociology of Education, 40 (8).
1188-1203.
Simmons, B  (2019)  'Variations in interaction: examining how social engagement is contingent upon context.'   PMLD Link, 31.2 (90).
7-9.
Curran, H  (2019)  'Are good intentions enough?
The role of the policy implementer during educational reform.'   PRACTICE, 1 (1).
88-93.
ISSN 2578-3858
Heslop, P, Turner, S, Read, S, Tucker, J, Seaton, S and Evans, B  (2019)  'Implementing reasonable adjustments for disabled people in healthcare services.'   Nursing Standard.
ISSN 0029-6570
Cavaliero, T and Levinson, M.P  (2019)  'Criss-crossing the Irish Sea: shifting Traveller womens’ identities in home and school environments.'   Diaspora, Indigenous, and Minority Education, 13 (1).
26-39.
ISSN 1559-5692
Curran, H  (2019)  '"The SEND Code of Practice has given me clout": a phenomenological study illustrating how SENCos managed the introduction of the SEND reforms.'   British Journal of Special Education, 46 (1).
76-93.
Terzopoulos, A.R, Duncan, L.G, Wilson, M.A.J, Niolaki, G.Z and Masterson, J  (2017)  'HelexKids: a word frequency database for Greek and Cypriot primary school children.'   Behavior Research Methods, 49 (1).
83-96.
ISSN 1554-3528
Niolaki, G.Z, Terzopoulos, A.R and Masterson, J  (2017)  'A sublexical training study for spelling in a biliterate Greek- and English-speaking child.'   Neuropsychological Rehabilitation, 27 (4).
540-562.
Niolaki, G.Z, Masterson, J and Terzopoulos, A.R  (2014)  'Spelling improvement through letter-sound and whole-word training in two multilingual Greek- and English- speaking children.'   Multilingual Education, 4.
e20.
ISSN 2191-5059
Niolaki, G.Z, Terzopoulos, A.R and Masterson, J  (2014)  'Varieties of developmental dyslexia in Greek children.'   Writing Systems Research, 6 (2).
230-256.
ISSN 1758-6801
Niolaki, G.Z and Masterson, J  (2013)  'Intervention for a multi-character processing deficit in a Greek-speaking child with surface dyslexia.'   Cognitive Neuropsychology, 30 (4).
208-232.
ISSN 0264-3294
Niolaki, G.Z and Masterson, J  (2012)  'Transfer effects in spelling from transparent Greek to opaque English in seven-to-ten-year-old children.'   Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 15 (4).
757-770.
ISSN 1366-7289
Read, S  (2023)  Disabled people’s experiences of higher education during the time of the Coronavirus pandemic: pasts, presents, and futures.
Research report.
Society for Research into Higher Education, London.
Curran, H, Boddison, A and Moloney, H  (2021)  National SENCO Workforce Survey 2020.
Supporting children and young people with special educational needs and their families during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic: a national survey of SENCOs.
Bath Spa University and nasen, Bath.
Chadderton, C  (2020)  A longitudinal study of young women’s transitions in Tower Hamlets in an age of austerity.
Aldgate and Allhallows Foundation, London.
ISBN 9781998991419
Read, S, Macer, M and Parfitt, A  (2020)  Effective use of Pupil Premium Plus to improve educational outcomes for looked after children.
Bath Spa University, Bath, UK.
Curran, H, Moloney, H, Heavey, A and Boddison, A  (2020)  The time is now: addressing missed opportunities for Special Educational Needs Support and Coordination in our schools.
Bath Spa University, Bath.
Simmons, B  (2022)  Narrowed lives: meaning, moral value and profound intellectual disability [book review].
British Journal of Learning Disabilities, 50 (3).
448-449.
ISSN 1354-4187
McFadden, J and Niolaki, G.Z  (2022)  Dyslexia's diagnostic lottery: a call for better parent-school partnerships.
BPS West Midlands Newsletter, Jan.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/history-and-heritage-research-centre:
History and Heritage is a thriving research community whose members pursue scholarly and practice-based research on a broad range of topics, periods and regions.
Our research is underpinned by a number of strong, coherent themes and by a commitment to addressing contemporary as well as historic issues.
We are particularly interested in the relationships between the local, national and international spheres, and how they offer a way of understanding an increasingly globalised and interconnected world.
Our academic staff and doctoral researchers foster a stimulating research community by:
Our staff and students have a variety of research interests with particular strengths in heritage and material culture, British, Irish and European history, intelligence and espionage, and the contemporary Muslim world.
Our researchers have a proven track record of securing external funding for innovative new projects, including grants from the Arts and Humanities Research Council, the Laboratoire d'Excellence, and Horizon 2020, the EU's €77 billion research and innovation programme.
Our researchers work closely with museums, heritage organisations, policymakers, educators, and charities in Bath and the wider region to produce and disseminate research that inspires change beyond academia.
History and Heritage is a active research community whose members are committed to sharing their knowledge and expertise through lectures, conferences, research seminars and other public engagement activities.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/leadership-ethics-and-professional-practice/projects:
CLEPP's research projects use a number of quantitative and qualitative methods to examine cross-disciplinary subjects around ideas of ethics and professional practice.
They work across subjects in Higher Education, military and police forces, as well as within international contexts.
Further details of individual member projects can also be found via the relevant staff profiles.
Key centre participants: Allyson MacVean
This project considers the views and perceptions of police officers and staff from a local police force in England, on the training provided in, and use of, restorative justice.
These views were obtained through the use of an online questionnaire as well as the recording of comments made by police officers and staff after one training session.
This study adds to the literature on restorative justice as police views in this area are underresearched in England and Wales.
Key centre participants: Professor Allyson MacVean
This study, commissioned by the Naval Service, examined the ethical health and culture across the Five Arms of the Naval Service.
Drawing on a unique theoretical framework designed to examine ethical leadership, behaviour and decision-making across a range of roles and ranks provided an insight into areas of good practice and vulnerability in a variety of settings.
Drawing on models of ethical professional practice from medical and law enforcement organisations, the research highlighted similar issues and challenges encountered by those operating in the public service sector.
In particular, the inter-related themes of autonomy, empowerment of lethal and non-lethal force and the concept of operating in remote environments were considered in relation to ethical leadership and ethical drift.
Key centre participants: Professor Allyson MacVean and Charlotte Read
The award One-Team approach pioneered in Halcon, Somerset, offered a unique partnership approach which focussed on addressing the causes the crime and criminality as much as crime itself.
The evaluation provides evidence that the One Team philosophy, ‘Think Differently; Do Differently’, was extremely successful in achieving its aims.
This philosophy takes an all-inclusive people and residential approach to recognising issues that impact upon the wellbeing of the community.
It seeks to innovate through creative initiatives that enable the community as part of the solution.
The community members, whose voices, further articulated the achievements of the One-Team and sentiments were expressed throughout the research.
Key centre participants: Mahmoud Emira
This small-scale project, conducted at an English university, aimed to examine leadership, the barriers to becoming a leader and the support needed to overcome them, from the perspectives of disabled staff.
An online questionnaire was sent to all 66 members of staff, from which twelve participants were then interviewed as two focus groups to discuss their views on leadership and its relation to their role.
This work was supported by six additional face-to-face interviews.
The findings indicated that over half of the respondents were already engaged in ‘formal’ leadership and even more exercised ‘informal’ leadership.
This key finding seems to contradict the under-representation of disabled academics in leadership reported in the literature, while also suggesting that an impairment might not necessarily deter disabled staff from exercising leadership.
A number of support strategies are recommended to facilitate their participation in (formal) leadership.
Despite the UK government increasing efforts to tackle unemployment, young people face a number of barriers when finding work.
As a leading awarding body, City & Guilds launched the TechBac in 2014 to address some of these barriers and provide learners with a balanced programme of vocational study.
Using a mixed-method approach, the research involved qualitative interviews with learners, tutors and employers and a quantitative learner survey.
It aimed to understand the experiences of learners doing, and tutors delivering, the TechBac; identify mediating and moderating factors in this process and suggest improvements.
Overall, the findings indicated a positive impact on learners’ knowledge, skills and their attitude to learning, which increased their demand with employers.
This project argues that engaging support staff in leadership is likely to develop their role informally and complement teacher leadership.
It examined the views of a group of teaching assistants (TAs) and higher level teaching assistants (HLTAs) in the English Midlands on leadership, the barriers to participation in leadership and the ways to improve their role.
It also examines the extent to which their levels of experience should be taken into account when engaging support staff in leadership.
The findings indicated that leadership, among other things, should focus on creating an atmosphere conducive to fostering collaboration and participation in decision-making.
This project aims to co-develop, implement, and evaluate app-based mental health interventions for social workers to prevent mental ill health, absence, and attrition.
The app intends to provide information on the signs and symptoms of negative mental health in self and others.
By spotting signs/symptoms in self and others, and early signposting toward appropriate from employing organisations, cases will be identified before leading to sickness absence.
The notion of self-directed learning is being increasingly embraced by organisations, as evidenced by the rise in popularity of curation and the development of ‘personal learning environments’.
However, the question remains; how well have tertiary education institutions prepared students to be independent and self-directed learners?
Such a question is important given the increasing complexity of work life especially that of careers that graduates will embark upon as soon as they leave their institutions.
The only constant is change.
Numerous studies have reported that the external environment is volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous (VUCA).
This project takes stock of the situation by identifying the trends and trajectories of change drivers.
The aim of this study is to explore how these changes are impacting organisations and the critical capabilities Learning and Development needs to develop in this evolving context.
From its emergence 40 years ago, management information systems (MIS) have been a less developed topic due to little attention paid by higher education researchers.
Although knowledge management has increased in popularity and credibility as a management tool as well as a research discipline in business practice and studies, within the higher education, this topic is still under slow development.
This study attempts to advance current thinking about MIS and knowledge management system (KMS) by proposing integration into one holistic information system – Knowledge-based Management Information System.
The aim of launching this KBMIS is to build an effective, time-saving and change adaptive information system for the HEIs to improve communications, enhance information precision, speed up information flow, cope with changes, systemically manage the knowledge, and eventually flattening the organisational structure.
Scholars argue of the importance of the interaction between international students and domestic students to achieve better learning outcomes for both sides.
However, research has shown that due to cultural, language and other issues, international students tend to keep themselves within a community of their fellow countrymen on and off campus - the same with domestic students.
This research aims to identify and practice strategies to encourage and facilitate engagement with between international and domestic students.
Taking an International Business module as a case study, this research identifies the strategies to be used to design and deliver classes that better help international students and domestic students to interact.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/leadership-ethics-and-professional-practice/expertise:
CLEPP members hold a diverse range of skills and experience across the business and management spectrum, specifically within the areas of professional practice, policing, criminology and ethics, and change management.
Below are a list of our members and their areas of expertise.
Professor Allyson MacVean a.macvean@bathspa.ac.uk
Allyson's scholarly interests are motivated by her previous role in the Serious and Organised Crime Directorate at the Home Office.
She focuses specifically on intelligence, covert policing and ethics in operational practice.
Mahmoud Emira m.emira@bathspa.ac.uk
In addition to his main focus on leadership and management, Mahmoud's other research interests includ educational assessment, disability and inclusion and vocational education.
Mahmoud is interested in supervising students or providing consultancy in the field of educational leadership and management.
Lu Liu l.liu@bathspa.ac.uk
Lu's research interest includes integrating knowledge management activities into the management information systems for the SMEs and non-profit organisations; international new ventures and their post-entry performance; regional economic development in ethnic minority and less-developed areas; and business ethics.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/leadership-ethics-and-professional-practice/consultancy:
CLEPP provides a wide range of consultancy services in the area of leadership development, knowledge management, ethics training and organisation development for both public and private sector organisations.
Through this service, we will help you to rethink, rebuild, and reinvigorate your organisational culture and behaviour.
Areas in which we can provide consultation include:
For further information on the areas of expertise of our staff, visit our People page , or contact us at clepp@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/making-books-research-centre:
The Making Books research centre brings together scholars, creative practitioners, and cultural professionals to explore the concept of the book as both a created artefact and object of study.
We are interested in readers and reading practices, in print and digital culture, in technology and remediation, in book design and the book arts, in issues of access and preservation, and in the broader intellectual, cultural, social, economic, legal, and political frameworks that shape the world of the book and book futures.
Bringing together a diversity of perspectives including book history and bibliography; typography, design and the book arts; theories of creative practice; the digital humanities; digital writing and new forms of literature and storytelling; and contemporary publishing practices, the centre explores the book’s past, present, and future.
Each research centre at Bath Spa University has a named Public Engagement (PE) Champion.
Our co-director, Laura Little, has taken on this role for the Making Books research centre.
PE will be a major factor as we move toward the next REF, recording and developing the types of public engagement we are undertaking.
Professor Ian Gadd.
English, College of Liberal Arts.
Academic Director of GALA.
Ian specialises in the literature and history of the sixteenth, seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries.
He considers himself to be both a bibliographer and book historian.
Dr Laura Little.
Publishing, College of Liberal Arts.
Laura is an editor, illustrator and designer.
Her research specialisms are in children’s picturebooks and artists' books.
30 September-19 October Corsham Court campus
An exhibition celebrating one of printing's most famous visual icons: the printer's fist or ‘manicule’
Letterpress Printing: Past, Present, Future was an AHRC-funded Research Network that explored the survival and use of historical printing equipment, and what it has to tell us about the textual cultures of past, present and future.
The Digital Humanities Travelling Roadshow (13 April 2018) was an AHRC funded collaboration between Professor Gabriel Egan (Director of the Centre for Textual Studies , De Montfort University) and the universities of Oxford, Leeds, Strathclyde, Liverpool John Moores, and Bath Spa.
It demonstrates state of the art computational methods for textual studies, offering hands-on development for personal field expertise.
Organised as part of the AHRC funded Ambient Literature research project and celebrating the launch of the Making Books: Creativity, Print Culture, and the Digital research center, this public seminar featured Dr.
Alice Bell, Dr.
Edmund King, and Professor Maggie Gee.
"The centre is interested in the diverse forms that books can take, the people who make them, the act of making itself, and the places in which books are created, made, disseminated, and accessed."

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/mental-health-wellbeing-and-creativity:
Recognising the complex and often contested landscape of mental health, we acknowledge its significant impact on society, including its particular relevance to our student population.
Recent observations highlight a growing need for support, with a notable rise in the demand for counselling services across higher education institutions.
Our approach is rooted in exploration and openness, advocating for a cross-disciplinary dialogue that leverages the arts and social sciences.
This enables us to cultivate new perspectives and methodologies aimed at enhancing both individual and collective states of mind, moving beyond traditional definitions and treatments.
Creativity plays a pivotal role in supporting mental health, offering unique avenues for sharing and reframing personal stories, fostering empathy and strengthening resilience.
We support a rich collaborative environment by uniting scholars, creative practitioners, mental health professionals, and individuals with lived experience.
Our community draws on the expertise of colleagues in Psychology, English Literature, Creative Writing, Fine Art and other fields, unlocking new pathways to understanding and navigating the complexities of mental distress and healing practices.
Liz
          Durden-Myers
Sara
          Gallagher
Sarah 
          Flavel
Helen
          Goodman
Samantha
          Stewart
Rebecca
          Schaaf
Interim Deputy Vice-Chancellor
We are always delighted to welcome new members with fresh perspectives.
If you would like to join us, please get in touch with the centre leaders.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/music-and-performing-arts-research:
Our research groups explore established and emerging areas in Music and Performing Arts practice, theory and scholarship, drawing together renowned researchers and practitioners.
Our research in the Music and Performing Arts is interdisciplinary and works across all aspects, connecting with work in related disciplines such as creative computing, education, game studies, creative writing, history, visual arts and media.
It enables academic staff and research students to collaborate through funded projects and focused research groups.
Since 2008, our researchers have hosted projects funded by external bodies, including the European Research Council, Arts and Humanities Research Council, Higher Education Academy, and REACT.
The Intercultural Communication through Practice research group considers how cultural heritage is shared across borders and how knowledge is transmitted through arts practice.
The Open Scores Lab functions as an environment in which creative practitioners can experiment with new approaches to scoring, working with colleagues in other disciplines to support their research.
Sound Arts and Visual Music explores the new relationships between sound, image and music that are being forged in contemporary practice, especially where facilitated by new technologies, methods and tools
The Sonic Materiality Lab brings together theorists and practitioners to develop understanding of the materiality of sound and sound-making things.
This includes: instrument-making; notions of ‘low fi’; human and non-human agency; the materiality of the body; and notions of ‘low fi’.
The School’s Performing Arts research areas are multi-disciplinary, looking at the impact of the arts on social change, the environment and notions of humanity.
Research blends applied, interdisciplinary and professional practice.
This area works across the three main groups below.
The Arts and Social Change research group draws on interdisciplinary approaches to making visible, interrogating and mapping societal structures of power and oppression, and to engaging ethically and efficaciously with marginalised individuals, groups, identities, bodies and voices.
This interdisciplinary group responds to a contemporary revision in notions of humanity, felt both viscerally and intellectually, for which the predominant answer is embodiment and creativity.
Arts and Environmental Humanities is a new interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary field of research that addresses the cultural dimensions of today's pressing socio-environmental problems, such as resource depletion, environmental injustice, oceanic pollution and acidification, anthropogenic climate change, and escalating extinctions.
With such a abroad and exciting range of research activity, Bath School of Music and Performing Arts is a great place to undertake study for a research degree.
You can find out more on our music and performing art research degrees page .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/music-and-performing-arts-research/intercultural-communication-through-practice:
Individual and collective approaches to memory and identity determine how creative processes engage with place, space and time.
Cultural and environmental factors are examined for the way they shape artistic and societal transformations.
Visit the ICP Research Group blog for more information.
Mbira Hut is a legacy of the late Chartwell Dutiro, which he set up to trace the intangible cultural heritage of the music transmitted for generations between the Shona people of Zimbabwe.
IRiMaS is a five-year project (2017-2022) funded by a €2.5m European Research Council Advanced Grant.
It's aim is to harness the potential of modern technology to research interactive aural approaches to music analysis, and to musicology more broadly.
It aims to devise software tools and case studies to demonstrate the potential of using technology to facilitate direct engagement with music and sound as part of musicological research.
Beyond East and West systematises practical processes essential for the creation of a new, East-West strand of contemporary music and opera.
Its tripartite approach of workshop-ethnography-theory combining with public events will offer a new model for transcultural praxis, while opening a door to the world for deeper understanding of Turkey’s exquisite musical traditions.
Find out how to apply for a PhD with us through our research degrees page .
If you are interested in becoming a member of our group, or would like to do research with us, please contact Amanda Bayley .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/music-and-performing-arts-research/sound-arts-and-visual-music:
In particular, our research centres on a development that can be observed within this practice, where the meaning and function of both ‘sound’ and ‘music’ are drifting, both separately and in relation to each other.
Many of the most innovative areas of creative sound practice do not fall within most people’s definition of ‘music’ (sound outside music).
At the same time, Visual Music posits that music might be expressed through means other than the sonic (music outside sound).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/music-and-performing-arts-research/open-scores-lab:
The Lab brings together: composers and artists whose practice includes making open scores in different media; performers who are experienced in realising open scores in performance; graphic designers who focus on the visual display and communication of information; creative computing specialists who explore networked processes and interactive systems; other researchers in related disciplines where there is a common interest in scoring and communicating instructions.
The work of the Lab is to develop new approaches to scoring, and consequently to develop new modes of music making.
This takes place through monthly meetings and a series of focused projects that deal with a specific aspect of score making.
The Lab meets for one day every month during term time, and includes presentations, workshops and practical experimentation featuring work by internal and visiting researcher-practitioners.
We also run the ensemble Material to perform work by Lab members.
We welcome proposals from prospective PhD students wanting to join the Open Scores Lab, focusing on topics which intersect with current interests of Lab members or which extend the scope of our work.
We can support practice-led projects incorporating a portfolio of creative work and more theoretical/musicological research, as well as interdisciplinary approaches.
Please get in touch if you would like to discuss a proposal.
Bath Spa is also part of the South, West and Wales AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership , an alliance between ten leading universities: Bath Spa, Aberystwyth University, Amgueddfa Cymru – National Museum Wales, University of Bristol, Cardiff University, Cranfield University, University of Exeter, University of Reading, University of Southampton, and the University of the West of England.
Individually our research excellence is internationally recognised.
Collectively our expertise creates a centre of excellence supporting and supervising PhD and doctoral students across the humanities, languages and creative arts.
The Training Partnership awards annual fully funded doctoral studentships for the best postgraduate research projects across the full range of Arts and Humanities disciplines.
You can find out more about the scope and excellence of the Partnerships’s research activities on their website .
We also welcome interdisciplinary applications and practice-led research projects.
For University regulations, fees, and general information, please also visit the our research degrees pages .
For more information about Open Scores Lab, please follow us on Twitter below, or see our blog for updates on events and group news.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/music-and-performing-arts-research/the-sonic-materiality-lab:
SoMa draws upon a pan-institutional network of philosophers, musicologists and creative practitioners to further understanding of the materiality of sound in contemporary music and sonic art.
Current areas of exploration within the laboratory include sonic perspectives on philosophies of making, human and non-human agentiality, the materiality of the body, queer materialities, and notions of ‘low fi’.
Artists associated with the laboratory are currently involved in a diverse array of artistic work, ranging from from instrumental music and improvisation to fine art and sound sculpture.
The laboratory operates to develop new aesthetics within contemporary art and music by interconnecting like-minded practitioners with those seeking to build wider conceptual understandings.
Operating in the grey-space between theory and practice, the laboratory serves to develop new aesthetics and conceptual infrastructures for music and sonic art by allowing such knowledges to entwine and grow together.
Through guest lectures, creative workshops, and interdisciplinary collaborations, the laboratory facilitates the furthering of the field of sonic materialism from theory to practice and back again.
SoMa welcomes interested new members from all fields.
If you would like to be added to the SoMa membership or simply kept informed of our events and activities, please contact the laboratory via the contact details below.
The laboratory welcomes applications from interested PhD students.
Enquiries should be directed to the contact address below in the first instance.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/scientific-technological-learning-and-education:
Science and technology are disciplines dependent on dialogues between established knowledge and new ideas and practices.
Education in these disciplines should reflect this and the work of the centre aims to impact learning communities at all stages of education.
CRiSTLE sets out to develop research into pedagogies that address the current tensions teachers and learners experience between science and technology as existing bodies of knowledge, in which their performance can be assessed and as developing fields within which they can be creative and develop new understandings, tools and products.
TAPS develops support for primary teachers to make both formative and summative assessments that drive learning in science.
A further three years funding from the Primary Science Teaching Trust will see TAPS further develop its online school self-evaluation tool and extend its impact beyond England.
Funded by the Wellcome Collection Trust, this project brings together an interdisciplinary team to design and trial materials with ITE primary trainee teachers on Primary PGCE or School Direct routes.
In Pete Etchells' first book, he journeys through the history and development of video games – from Turing’s chess machine to mass multiplayer online games like World of Warcraft – via scientific study, to investigate the highs and lows of playing and get to the bottom of our relationship with games – why we do it, and what they really mean to us.
At the same time, Lost in a Good Game is an unusual memoir of a writer coming to terms with his grief via virtual worlds, as he tries to work out what area of popular culture we should classify games under.
Scientific thinking makes an important contribution to ways of thinking across different cultures.
There are national and international concerns about the supply of future scientists and technologists and the educational performance of children in school in these areas.
However, scientific literacy should be part of a broad education for global citizenship that enables people to engage with personal and social issues such as health and the environment.
It also resonates with the university research theme of Environmental Humanities.
In line with the university conception of education and research, we seek transdisciplinary collaborations.
"Scientific thinking makes an important contribution to ways of thinking across different cultures."
CRiSTLE draws together researchers working in different areas of science and technology education within Bath Spa's School of Education , as well as with colleagues researching and teaching biology and psychology in the School of Sciences .
We embrace opportunities to collaborate with colleagues across the university and in the external environment.
The Teacher Assessment in Primary Science (TAPS) project is funded by the Primary Science Teaching Trust (PSTT) and based at Bath Spa University’s School of Education.
It aims to develop support for valid, reliable and manageable teacher assessment, which can have a positive impact on children’s learning.
In partnership with the Wellcome Collection Trust, Enhancing the Learning Sciences within Primary Initial Teacher Education brings together an interdisciplinary team to design and trial materials with ITE primary trainee teachers on Primary PGCE or School Direct routes.
Thinking Doing Talking Science (TDTS) is a programme that aims to make science lessons in primary schools more practical, creative and challenging.
STEAM Power Creative Structures linked PGCE secondary art and mathematics trainee teachers with Bristol M Shed museum and Threeways ssschools for children with special needs.
It explores interdisciplinary concepts and constructions stimulated by the architecture and geometry of Bristol Harbour.
Written in part by Pete Etchells , Head quarters is a blog published by the Guardian that aims to explain some of the fascinating discoveries of psychology research and reveals how psychologists go about their work.
Newer projects include ‘Rich retrieval’, which aims to develop support for primary teachers to use schema-building retrieval practice strategies for primary science that support pupils to build rich, connected knowledge of science topics.
We are also exploring a range of topics and connections with: mathematical thinking, post-digital perspectives, screen time, gaming and tech use.
Sarah Earle
Isabel Hopwood-Stephens
CRiSTLE is currently supporting a number of PhD students and we are pleased to consider new applications.
To learn more about studying for a PhD at Bath Spa University, please visit our Research Degrees page.
Rebecca Digby

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/research-centres/story-society:
An international Research Centre that investigates and maps the many uses and values of ‘story’ across cultures.
The Story Society is one of three university-wide Strategic Research Centres tasked with enhancing research activities across and beyond Bath Spa University.
Key to its approach is the practice of fieldwork – getting out into the real world to collaborate with communities, companies and creatives both in the UK and across the globe.
The starting point is the recognition that stories, whilst universal, are made, consumed and interpreted in different ways across cultural and educational borders.
One world, many stories.
Design and deliver innovative research programmes that facilitate making and listening to stories across borders.
Expand public understanding of the many uses of Story as a skill, mode of thought, evidential basis, creative medium and cultural frame.
Our research programmes and projects seek to understand and leverage the power of Story for the public good; that is, to tackle the most pressing challenges of today, such as AI, climate, conflict, diversity, and the future of work and education.
Led by Bambo Soyinka , Professor of Story, The Story Society currently has a core team of twelve members of staff.
A network of advisors, editors and consultants support the core team.
They can be drawn upon for short-term tasks or long-term projects when Story research and expertise is required.
In addition, The Story Society has a wider membership of over 80 associates and partners.
The Story Society’s team and members come from a range of professional backgrounds.
We are scientists and practitioners, researchers and makers, creative thinkers and performers, technologists and entrepreneurs, arts organisations and social enterprises — anyone who uses Story to imaginatively connect and create change across cultures.
Our core team collaborates with members and partners to explore story, support talent, produce new work, develop cultural infrastructures and share replicable models.
We run several innovative programmes, including StoryArcs , Paper Nations and the Story Foundry (where we offer low residency and distance learning liberal arts PhDs for International Students).
Through all these activities we seek to enable our members to produce original work, celebrating the art of co-creation and facilitating innovative ways of thinking and making together across more than one culture, epoch, subject or location.
What creative careers are open to you, if you study a creative writing degree?
In this podcast, Senior Lecturer in Creative Writing Lucy Sweetman discusses how Bath Spa nurtures creativity and collaboration in its students, highlighting The Story Society's Paper Nations project, which reaches out to schools and young people across the UK.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/access-our-expertise:
Work with our staff, students or graduates and get the creative thinking and resourcefulness of BSU to solve the challenges faced by your business.
Our expertise combines a personal and professional manner with fresh ideas and approaches that will help you and the region thrive.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/access-our-expertise/knowledge-transfer-partnerships:
A ‘Knowledge Transfer Partnership’ (KTP) is a funded scheme run by Innovate UK to help universities and businesses to innovate and grow.
Each KTP is a three-way partnership between a business, an academic institution and a graduate.
The academic institution employs the recently-qualified graduate who works at the company.
The graduate, known as the ‘associate’ brings new skills and knowledge to the business.
KTPs are a great way to:
A KTP can last between 12 and 36 months depending on the project and the needs of the business.
More information about the KTP scheme can be found on Innovate UK .
To enquire about potential KTP opportunities, please contact Consultancy and Enterprise via researchsupportoffice@bathspa.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/access-our-expertise/consultancy-and-commissioning:
Whether you are a start-up business or market leader, working in the commercial, public or not-for-profit sector, there will be times when you need independent and expert advice to innovate, grow and improve.
The University has substantially adopted the recommendations of the Independent Review of University Spin-out Companies which underpin our approach to our technology transfer activities.
We are committed to an innovation-friendly approach that is based on sector best-practice and our Spinout Equity Guide demonstrates our agile approach to working with investors.
By working with us you’ll get direct access to up-to-the minute knowledge and expertise.
This is because our staff maintain a real-world understanding of how to apply their expertise.
With many of them joining us from a practitioner background in the arts, humanities and cultural organisations, they continue to be at the forefront of research and leaders in their chosen fields.
Bath Spa is responsive, flexible and open to discussion about delivering a wide range of commissioned projects in our specialist areas.
We can tailor our response to meet your requirements, whether its an evaluation or a bespoke art commission.
To explore your idea and find out more reach out to Consultancy and Enterprise via researchsupportoffice@bathspa.ac.uk
Bath Spa University also accesses research grants and doctoral bursaries from a range of major national funding sources, including:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/access-our-expertise/research-commercialisation:
Bath Spa University (BSU) is a leading University for creativity, culture and enterprise.
With a strong teaching and research portfolio across art, sciences, education, social sciences and business, it is a University where creative minds meet.
We are committed to transforming our world-class research into real-world impact that benefits society, industry, and the economy.
We provide a research and development ecosystem to help researchers translate their discoveries into viable products, services, and ventures.
This includes:
Whether you're a researcher with an interesting idea or a business seeking cutting-edge solutions please contact The Research Support Office for support with your project: researchsupportoffice@bathspa.ac.uk
Bath Spa University has substantially adopted the recommendations of the Independent Review of University Spin-out Companies .
We are committed to an innovation-friendly approach that is based on sector best-practice and our Spinout equity guide demonstrates our agile approach to working with investors.
Our Guide includes the following principles:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/training-and-development:
We're committed to the development of our staff and research students.
The Researcher Development team runs a comprehensive programme of training workshops and events that address the development needs of the research community.
This is informed by Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework (RDF), divided into four research pathways:
Find out more by checking our full programme of workshops and events .
Corsham Court, Lecture Room Tuesday 6 March 2018 Organised by Dr Yiota Demetriou and Hannah Sackett
The workshop was an enjoyable and informative event.
We were lucky to have an excellent group of speakers – Esme Betamax (Director of the Bristol Comic and Zine Fair), Simon Moreton (artist and zine maker), and Laura Little (Bath Spa's Senior Lecturer in Publishing and maker of artist’s books).
The afternoon book-making session was expertly led by Angie Butler from UWE, with a wonderful display of artist’s books and zines from the library collections.
The workshop participants also contributed a huge amount to the day.
People from across the university attended the session – with a mix of PhD students, academics and university staff.
Feedback from the session showed that the combination of talks and a practical session worked well, and everyone was very pleased with the books they made on the day.
It was an excellent opportunity to meet other people interested in small press and book-making, and we hope that the many conversations and connections made on the day will be continued in future research, events and projects.
Elen Caldecott, Bath Spa University PhD Researcher, produced a large training event called “Wild Things” which was an opportunity to celebrate – while learning from – the wealth of expertise that Bath Spa University offers on the topic of young people and creativity.
Through an all-day programme, which featured a masterclass by Professor David Almond, our participants examined the creative cycle, answering such questions as; how is art for young people made and disseminated, how is it used by educators and practitioners, and how do we encourage young people to become future artists and innovators themselves?
Elen noted:
"I was pleased with the range of speakers, although they did end up being more Creative Writing heavy than I had anticipated in my bid.
If I did this again, I would work harder to communicate with people in performance, heritage and art and design.
The responses on the day were good, with emergent themes and ideas that demonstrated that our concerns are overlapping enough to be part of a research community.
Many of audience were inspired by the speakers and workshop leaders, and impressed by the quality of work.
There was a celebratory atmosphere."
The final Seed Fund Workshop was organised by Rachel Beale, Bath Spa University PhD Researcher, regarding how to research your own research questions!
Feedback from the event was overwhelmingly positive, noting that Patrick was a “superb speaker and facilitator, super energising" and that the workshop was "excellent and informative!
Really useful, accessible and interactive".
Rachel comments that:
"I felt passionately that the event, Researching and Questioning Research Questions, was important for researchers at every stage of their career because research questions are the basis for any research project.
However, the generosity of time, knowledge and support shown by all involved in bringing this project to reality was remarkable.
Running the event had challenges, including developing different writing styles and finding solutions on my own and through collaborations.
It was a positive and exciting learning curve.
The process has produced academic partnerships that I had not experienced before, including meeting Dr Patrick White, our external speaker, which opened possibilities of building future links and connections lasting beyond the Seed Fund Event.
It was a highly valuable, formative, broadening and memorable experience, for which I am very grateful.
Thank you to all concerned."
A short summary of this workshop by Wen-Hsi Chen .
As a Bath School of Art and Design practice-led PhD student in Ceramics, I realised that studying creative research was a challenging experience.
Therefore, I decided to submit a proposal for the Seed Fund to share my experience with other students.
I would like to thank my second supervisor Dr.
Conor Wilson and fellow PhD student Roxanne Jackson for their support during my project.
It was a great learning opportunity to organise the workshop and to share my knowledge and experience about artist-residencies.
I learnt how to design an online game through Kahoot to engage with my audience, which provided a fun environment in which to learn a little bit of history about artist-residencies.
It was nice to meet other researchers and artists on that day, and we shared our experiences and thoughts during the workshop.
Also, I learnt from the Researcher Development Team about how to order the room, catering and to negotiate with the finance office about payment for artist fees.
Our official Twitter account is also an excellent source for news of upcoming events, and more.
Follow us to find out more.
For more information about our Researcher Development program, please contact researcher.development@bathspa.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/the-studio:
The Studio provides a space for local micro-businesses, Bath Spa University students, academics, and graduates to work on projects and ideas which focus on creativity and technology.
It is also a venue to share learning through regular workshops, events and activities which are open to the wider community.
You can find out more on our website .
If you'd like to sign up to our newsletter, please fill in our form.
Coworking space is free and applications are encouraged from people who share The Studio’s values as outlined below:
Find out more about the micro-businesses, Bath Spa University students, academics and graduates who make up The Studio.
As a resident of The Studio you’ll benefit from:
In return we ask residents to play an active part in The Studio, through engaging with activity in the building, supporting fellow residents, and in doing so, helping  to expand, grow and support The Studio’s community.
The Studio also provides fixed desk space on the second floor which are charged on a monthly basis.
You can apply to be a resident via our online form .
Applications are open throughout the year and are reviewed every month.
Please read our Privacy Notice for more information on how The Studio collects, manages and uses your personal data before, during and after your Residency.
There are several initiatives being run out of The Studio:
The South West Creative Technology Network (SWCTN) is a £6.5 million Research England funded project to expand the use of creative technologies across the south west of England.
The project is a joint venture between Bath Spa University, UWE, University of Plymouth, Falmouth University, Watershed in Bristol and Kaleider in Exeter.
Bristol + Bath Creative R+D project is a first-of-its-kind collaboration between digital creativity centre Watershed and the region’s four universities - UWE Bristol, Bath Spa, the University of Bath and the University of Bristol - intends to break down doors, connecting the worlds of university research and creative business to develop a shared vision for tomorrow’s creative industries.
Paper Nations is a creative writing incubator, commissioning writers throughout the South West of England to create new work, nurturing local communities of support for writers, and creating multi-channel partnerships to showcase new writing internationally.
Dave Webb, a resident at The Studio, Bath Spa’s Enterprise and Innovation Hub talks about his project: The Studio Breathes.
Bath Spa Student, Sara Eribo, tells us about her Summer Placement with The Studio at Palace Yard Mews.
An interview with Studio resident Alex Witty.
An interview with Vice-Chancellor Professor Sue Rigby.
Gemma catches up with Charlotte Godfrey, Employability Consultant at Bath Spa University.
Writer-in-residence Gemma Wynton learns how lost robots are helping to make technology more accessible.
Tony and his team are developing a new kind of performance, bringing not just dynamic lighting and special effects to the stage, but breathing life into the technology itself to enhance visual performances.
Writer in Residence Gemma explains her role at The Studio.
Gemma catches up with director of The Studio, Kate Pullinger, to give you a clear cut and fun discussion on what the work of The Studio really means, and how Kate went from solo-writing novels to leading the team.
Gemma Wynton, Writer in Residence at The Studio in Palace Yard Mews and second-year Creative Writing and Publishing student, will be giving us her insights into some of the work of the Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries team.
This is her first blog post.
The Studio is based at 10 Palace Yard Mews in the centre of Bath.
We are a 10 minute walk from Bath Spa train station.
If you are arriving by car the closest car park is the Charlotte Street car park , which is a few minutes walk away.
There is an entry system on the main front door to the Studio.
To contact The Studio office press the first floor buzzer for entry.
The ground floor of the building is fully accessible and if you have any questions or access needs that you would like to discuss before your visit, please do not hesitate to contact us.
For further information about The Studio, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/projects:
Please note this list includes our research, civic engagement and other projects.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/research-and-enterprise/public-engagement:
We pride ourselves on our sense of community and the way in which we nurture relationships.
We enable communities to engage with research at all stages so that not only do we aim to share our knowledge, resources and skills, we also listen to and learn from the many different communities with which we engage.
Our Public Engagement Strategy is underpinned by four strategic commitments:
A commitment to understanding the distinct features of public engagement with research at Bath Spa University.
Determining how our strong emphasis on practice-based research might make our engagement opportunities distinct, and linking our understanding to other areas across the University, such as widening participation and REF Impact.
A commitment to celebrating our successes and learning from the challenges we have faced.
This aim to raise the profile of our research will enable us to add value to our staff’s research, and help to communicate our successes to some of the audiences which we may wish to work with in future.
A commitment to developing institutional support for engagement with research.
Aiming to coordinate activities across the University, and work with both internal and external stakeholders to maximise our impact.
To empower staff to gain training, advice and support where needed to enhance their engagement activities.
A commitment to learn from our activities and their evaluation, and to develop our engagement offering.
We must ensure that best practice is at the heart of our public engagement development, and that our interactions are partner-focused and meaningful, providing safe spaces for knowledge exchange and two-way learning.
Bath Spa University is an ambitious, enterprising and supportive institution.
We deliver academic-led teaching inspired by cutting edge research, enabling our staff and students to contribute to the UK’s creative and cultural economy.
Through their research, our staff shape practice, trigger innovation, and inform policy.
The University has a responsibility to contribute to and learn from society through public engagement with research.
This strategy therefore confirms a commitment at the University to embed a culture of engagement, and to continue to work on connecting external audiences with our research.
We firmly believe this is a two way process and are committed to collaboration, conversation, and partnership in all of our engaged practice.
The University’s public engagement activities are framed by our commitment to leveraging our research expertise.
The following examples all illustrate the powerful impact of our work with different communities.
Changing the way that we view video games and their effects Professor Peter Etchells’ programme of research and public engagement has enhanced our understanding of how video game play specifically, and screen time more generally, affect behaviour and health.
Increasing Resilience in Remote Societies BSU researchers Rich Johnson and Sara Penrhyn-Jones worked with remote communities in India and Kiribati to produce a series of bilingual documentary films that amplify their voice in understanding climate change and environmental hazards.
The Depraved Appetite of Tarrare the Freak Dr Laura Purcell Gate’s work with Wattle and Daub Theatre Company performed the story of Tarrare, using puppetry to explore our perceptions of non-normative bodies.
Working with medical and nursing students on the show also helped to shape their own understanding of the relationship between medical professional and patient.
Multi-Media Histories Dr Richard White’s walking arts practice has shaped the way in which key heritage sites in the south west of England now engage their visitors, particularly in terms of how the heritage of Bath’s slave-ownership is presented to and discussed with the public.
Shextreme Festival Shextreme Film Festival is the world’s first film festival celebrating women in adventure, held in Bristol every year since 2015, with Shextreme Film Tours in the UK and France.
Forest of Imagination Forest of Imagination is a partnership with local businesses and civic authorities which uses creativity to transform urban spaces in an effort to change lives, communities, cities and economies
We work closely with a number of organisations to help ensure that we are maximising our reach into the community:
The National Co-Ordinating Centre for Public Engagement We are signatories of the NCCPE’s Manifesto for Public Engagement
The Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology Providing research for Parliament and parliamentary audiences
The Universities Policy Engagement Network Contributing evidence to the policymaking process
We are always delighted to meet any members of the community who would like to get involved in co-creating research, performances, reports, workshops or similar with our staff and students.
Please contact our Research Support Office: researchsupportoffice@bathspa.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/news-and-events:
Bath Spa is a leading university in creativity, culture and enterprise.
Through inspirational teaching and research, we transform students’ lives.
Journalists can contact us for academic expertise, comments, interviews and information.
Email: pressenquiries@bathspa.ac.uk
Date: Sat 6 Sep 2025 09:00 AM
Date: Wed 3 Sep 2025 09:00 AM
There's simply too much great stuff going on at Bath Spa to contain in our news and events pages.
That’s why we created the blog – to bring together the rest of our stories, successes, and creations.
The blog is open to submissions from all our staff, students, and alumni, and you can get in touch with us at blog@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/news-and-events/news:
Friday, August 22, 2025
BSU has received just under £350,000 to support key activities to promote Knowledge Exchange
Thursday, August 21, 2025
The Roman Baths bring Summer Lates to their historic site
Wednesday, August 20, 2025
Bath Business School has been contributing to BSU's professionally creative ethos for a decade
Monday, August 18, 2025
A second series of Short Courses will return to Locksbrook Campus during the MA Degree Show
Friday, August 15, 2025
History is made as record crowd watches Bath City Women score big on and off the pitch
BSIN Manager Lizzy Rees talks BSIN, Archery and overcoming hurdles
Tuesday, August 12, 2025
Ahead of results day on 14 August, BSU has created a top tips guide for preparing for Clearing.
Monday, August 11, 2025
LLB Law students have the chance to practice their skills in a new mock courtroom on campus
Friday, August 8, 2025
This week, BSU is celebrating all things business
Monday, August 4, 2025
BSU Alumna and social media influencer, Louise May, was awarded an Honorary Doctorate at Graduation
Thursday, July 31, 2025
Graduate Alex Farnham discusses his role as a scriptwriter in the world of video games.
Wednesday, July 30, 2025
BSU awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Arts to Alice Temperley MBE summer Graduation ceremonies.
Monday, July 28, 2025
BSU recently took home a Tender award in recognition for its dedication to student safety.
Monday, July 21, 2025
BSU awards Honorary Doctorates to esteemed recipients who have served their community.
Wednesday, July 16, 2025
BSU partner UCW held their annual award ceremony, celebrating student and staff success

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/news-and-events/events:
Saturday, September 6, 2025
Immerse yourself in the work, thinking and making of this year's cohort of emerging artists and designers of the future.
Wednesday, September 3, 2025
A unique two-day symposium exploring why and how to ensure inclusion is at the heart of our communities, councils and institutions.
Children bring a rollercoaster of emotions to the classroom.
This webinar explores the importance of emotions as 'signals'.
Wednesday, June 25, 2025
The webinar will explore some of the current definitions and support you in the development of your own vision and aims for a fully inclusive school.
Saturday, June 14, 2025
Wednesday, June 4, 2025
Bath Spa+ are proud to invite you to join us for a LGBTQIA+ History Month event with Jorik Mol.
Bath Spa+ are proud to invite you to join us for a LGBTQIA+ History Month event with Laura Clarke.
Wednesday, May 21, 2025
This webinar explores the hidden journey of data and its use by big tech.
We'll consider surveillance capitalism and how personal data is used.
Thursday, April 24, 2025
Wednesday, April 23, 2025
This webinar considers the importance of teaching oracy skills and introduces practitioners to some of the evidence-based approaches which have been developed.
Saturday, April 5, 2025
Join scientists from Bath Spa University to explore their research on the environment.
Wednesday, March 26, 2025
This webinar examines the effectiveness of practical work in the primary science classroom, and draws from research and teacher interviews.
Thursday, March 20, 2025
Discussion on how classes with children from across a wide age range are spaces for thinking and doing differently.
Monday, March 10, 2025
Equality Week 2025 runs from 10-14 March
Wednesday, February 26, 2025
In this webinar we'll explore how the introduction of mixed age classes enhances social learning and inclusivity and strengthens ties in schools and communities

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/news-and-events/publications:
In September 2024, we launched our brand new Unpacked magazine, giving a glimpse into the amazing achievements from the Bath Spa community’s last 12 months, and demonstrating the breadth of accomplishments that can be celebrated during the year ahead.
The magazine – which is primarily aimed at new students – is packed full of Bath Spa University news, features, interviews, success stories, research projects, collaborations and more.
The magazine of Bath Spa University

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/news-and-events/academic-expertise:
Our academics work across a wide range of disciplines.
For reference, see a list of our course s .
If you would like to interview one of our academics the press team will be happy to arrange this for you.
Call: +44 (0) 1225 875730

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/blog:
14 August, 2025
7 August, 2025
15 July, 2025
10 July, 2025
7 July, 2025
4 July, 2025
25 June, 2025
28 May, 2025
26 May, 2025
24 May, 2025
Claire Loder reflects on a Propagate Planning Day, funded by CCCI.
Dr Andrew Bengry shares his Bath Spa story.
Third-year Psychology student Zoe Church shares a glimpse into their experience at BSU.
Thinking about what’s next after your undergraduate degree?
Staying at BSU for postgraduate study could be the perfect next step.
Dr Kate Muir shares her Bath Spa story.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/news-and-events/press-enquiries:
The Bath Spa University Press Office is led by BSU Head of Communications, Lucy Stone and supported by two Senior PR and Communications Officers Kat Blake and Matt Francis.
The team can be reached by emailing pressenquiries@bathspa.ac.uk .
This inbox is manned out of hours so if your enquiry is urgent please outline the details via email and include a contact number, and one of the team will be in touch.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us:
Bath Spa University is where creative minds meet.
We teach and research across art, sciences, education, social science, and business.
The University employs outstanding creative professionals who support its aim to be a leading educational institution in creativity, culture and enterprise.
We're delighted to have been named University of the Year for Social Inclusion by The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024 , in recognition of our commitment to empowering students from all backgrounds.
We develop talent, create opportunities and offer support so our students and alumni can reach their full potential.
From supporting creative careers at our EMERGE studio , broadening students' horizons with our Certificate in Global Citizenship and showcasing live performances of original works at our annual SparkFest , our students and alumni create and achieve amazing things.
Our students develop their social responsibility and sustainability values whilst studying with us, from exploring ethical practices and the UN's Sustainable Development Goals to integrating social responsibility into their marketing strategies, preparing them to lead with impact to local and international communities.
We conduct 'world-leading' research that delivers social, cultural and economic impact.
Whether it's an app to improve the wellbeing of social workers, a whole-school approach to supporting disadvantaged learners or using a unique form of illustration of sports events to engage marginalised groups, we're proud to see our research having a positive and real-world impact.
We’re proud of our partnerships with employers, cultural organisations, academics, and alumni, in Bath and beyond.
Together, we support our community, students, and staff through initiatives such as creating new arts spaces, providing affordable maker and exhibition areas, and offering free access to art activities and essential resources.
It doesn’t stop with the people – we recognise and cherish the unique spaces in which we learn and work.
With our detailed sustainability strategy and climate pledge, we're managing our environmental impacts and encouraging the Bath Spa community to pave the way in making a necessary change.
We’re proud to be a certified member of Social Enterprise UK (SEUK) – the leading global authority and largest network of social enterprises in the UK.
As a social enterprise, we put people, communities and the environment at the heart of our work.
Our purpose is to challenge our students and staff to realise their talent and thrive, for their own benefit and for the wider good.
By doing this we will think and make the world better.
This starts with our students and staff but extends to our local, regional and global community through our teaching and learning, research and partnerships.
Find out more about our social enterprise activity .
We work with other fantastic colleges and institutions so that you can benefit from an even broader range of courses, diverse facilities, and specialist staff – no matter your field of study.
If you choose one of these specialist courses, you'll be based at the partner college and you'll have access to their facilities – as well as Bath Spa facilities such as the Library and the Students' Union.
The Global Academic of Liberal Arts (GALA) is a global network of creativity spanning national and cultural boundaries to broaden the experience of students and staff.
The first network of its kind, GALA was created by Bath Spa University's former Vice-Chancellor, Professor Christina Slade, to bring together Liberal Arts providers from around the world.
Bath Spa University has been a partner of Santander Universities since 2014.
The partnership offers students and staff a series of academic and employability opportunities funded by the bank.
These include:
"We’re champions of creativity, culture and enterprise, giving you the skills and support you need to find and follow your passion."
We're incredibly proud to have received the Creativity for Good award at this year's Creative Bath Awards, in recognition of our "impressive repertoire of thoughtful activities, powered by creativity".
Our values, actions and curricula are led by sustainability principles, and our Fairtrade University status brings us to one step closer to achieving our ambition of making the world a better place.
We're a community of educators, makers, entrepreneurs, thinkers, innovators and leaders.
Our students, staff and alumni create and achieve amazing things, and with us, you can too.
We've caught up with some of our students and graduates, so you can find out more about their University experiences and where their decision to study at Bath Spa has taken them.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/leadership:
Since 1 February 2025, the management grouping of the University Leadership team has changed with the creation of two new groups:
The University Executive Board (UEB) is responsible for University strategy, operation and management and for advising the Vice-Chancellor on the exercise of their functions and responsibilities.
Find out more about their Terms of reference .
The University Leadership Group (ULG) supports the effective delivery of the University’s strategy and to enable effective communication across the University’s schools and professional services.
Please find below links to some of our leaders' profile pages.
Please note: this isn't a hierarchical list.
You can also conduct a people search to find other members of Bath Spa staff.
In addition to the Board of Governors and its committees’ Register of Interests , the University maintains a Register of Interests of the Leadership team and senior staff in regular attendance at meetings, which can be accessed via BSU staff log in.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/leadership/chancellor:
The first female Chancellor of Bath Spa University, and only the second Chancellor in the institution’s almost 20-year history, Sharanjit acts as an ambassador for the University on a local, national, and global stage.
A former BBC World News anchor, as well as a leading business and politics reporter, Sharanjit’s career took her all over the world for almost 25 years, bringing a global perspective to her work.
She now regularly moderates high-level debates for the United Nations and multilateral and financial institutions.
She also advises companies and educational institutions on media strategy and diversity.
"I hope very much to help Bath Spa University go global, build crucial links with universities in Asia and elsewhere in the world and continue to strengthen our connections with local and national communities, culture, and enterprise.
I don’t doubt I will continue to learn from BSU’s wonderful staff and inspiring student community."
Now living between Bath and her native Singapore, Sharanjit is a Trustee for the Bath Fashion Museum, a Board member at the Holburne Museum and is delighted to be part of the Bath Spa University community representing the values of students and staff worldwide.
Educated in North America, with an undergraduate degree in Journalism and a Master’s in English, Sharanjit understands what a privilege it is to study, have an education and to be curious about the world in which we live.
"My father’s story isn’t a far cry from many of the students at Bath Spa University.
Over 40% of the BSU student population are among the first in their family to go to university, just like my father did.
About a quarter of our students are from ethnic minorities like me and many more are working their way through university, just like my father did,  holding down one or more jobs so they can afford to have an education.
I’m inspired by the students here at BSU and so proud to represent them as they truly embody the spirit of Bath Spa University - the Sunday Times University of the Year for Social Inclusion."
Appointed by Bath Spa University’s Board of Governors , the individual is chosen based on their alignment with the University’s values and purpose.
The Chancellor is an unpaid, advisory role and does not have the power to make University decisions.
Bath Spa University is only one of twelve UK Universities which has both a female Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor .
Email: chancelry@bathspa.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/leadership/vice-chancellor:
Georgina joined Bath Spa University in 2015.
She has been Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost, acting as the deputy to the Vice-Chancellor, and the senior academic responsible for the size, shape and character of the University.
Prior to this, she held roles such as Vice-Provost, founding Dean of Bath Business School , and Director of Southampton Solent Business School, where she was one of the first Professors of Business Education to be appointed in the UK.
Professor Andrews is passionate about breaking down barriers to higher education and the role of universities as anchor institutions in their communities and catalysts for inclusive growth.
Before joining the university sector, Georgina was a solicitor in private practice, specialising in company and commercial law.
“I am passionate about inclusion, widening participation, and the transformative power of higher education.
As Vice-Chancellor I will champion parity of esteem between world leading research, impactful knowledge exchange, and teaching excellence.
I believe all three should be interconnected, sustainable and inclusive.”
Georgina also has a track record of external engagement and serving in non-executive roles, including as an elected member of the Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS) Council, Chair of the CABS Learning, Teaching and Student Experience Committee and as an Assessor and Assessment Panel Chair for the Small Business Charter.
The Vice-Chancellor’s remuneration is reported annually in the University Financial Statement .
It consists of salary, pension contributions and other benefits.
The current Vice-Chancellor is Professor Georgina Andrews and her salary is currently £236,000 per annum.
Professor Andrews has also made a voluntary salary sacrifice of £10,000 per year as a donation to the Bath Spa University Students' Union.
In addition, Professor Andrews makes a £1,088 salary sacrifice in donations to other charities.
The Vice-Chancellor’s total remuneration is reviewed annually by the University’s Remuneration Committee , which is chaired by an Independent Governor.
In determining the Vice-Chancellor’s remuneration, the committee considers a number of factors including the performance of the University in meeting key performance indicators, the individual contribution of the Vice-Chancellor to achieving the University’s strategic objectives, the need for the University to be competitive in the higher education market, affordability and reputation.
The committee is also mindful of the need to respond to concerns about excessive salaries in the sector and therefore considers the ratio of highest to lowest paid and ratio of highest to median full time earnings.
For further information on the considerations of the remuneration committee, please see their report to the Board .
Alternatively, contact Allison Dagger, Head of Chancelry Administration and Executive Assistant to the Vice-Chancellor:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/leadership/vice-chancellor/vice-chancellors-awards:
In partnership with the Students' Union , the VC Awards recognise outstanding individual and team achievements at our University.
The awards take place annually, with nominations generally opening in the new year and closing in spring.
The winners are announced at the awards ceremony in the summer.
Everyone at Bath Spa can nominate staff members and students that they feel have made outstanding contributions to the University community.
Each nomination will be assessed by an awards panel comprising staff from across the University, Sabbatical Officers from the Students' Union and student representatives.
Student awards
This award recognises the impact students have had on the learning experience; whether that be as a Student Community Leader, Course Rep,  supporting other students or working to enhance resources.
It recognises students who have worked to create conditions to make studying at Bath Spa the best it can be.
Who can nominate: Students and staff
This award aims to recognise a student or student group that held an impactful student-led event or ran a successful project.
The student(s) should be able to demonstrate leading, planning, organising and execution.
The event or project should highlight passion, commitment and impact on students or the broader community.
This award recognises an inspirational student who makes a difference to the lives of others – whether that be within the Bath Spa University community, the local region or planet.
The nominee can be someone who puts others before themselves, volunteers, fundraises or advocates and campaigns for social good.
Awarded to a student team or group that has made a significant contribution to their peers, Bath Spa University or the wider local community.
This could be a sports team, club, society, or group, who have demonstrated a collective achievement and positive contribution.
Awarded to a student who exemplifies the University’s graduate attributes.
There will be eight winners – one for each school of study, including Bath Spa University London.
Please note the nominations for this award are made within each School of Study   and then carefully selected by the Head of School.
Awarded to a student who has travelled furthest in their learning journey.
There will be eight winners - one for each school of study, including Bath Spa University London.
Please note the nominations for this award are made within each School of Study and then carefully selected by the Head of School.
Awarded to a student who has made a significant contribution to their host organisation whilst on placement.
This could be awarded to a student undertaking a Professional Placement Year or a shorter placement considered an essential part of their course.
Who can nominate: Staff
This award celebrates a participant in the Graduate Scheme who has demonstrated exceptional potential and made significant contributions to their department and the wider Bath Spa University community through their role on the Bath Spa Graduate Scheme.
Awarded to a student who has brought their global experience to Bath Spa for the benefit of the wider BSU community.
This could be an international student studying at Bath Spa, or a domestic student that has undertaken a global experience whilst at BSU such as semester abroad, summer schools or work experience.
Staff awards
Awarded to a member of staff who has enhanced a culture of respect, engagement and integrity in the University through their enjoyment of work and their promotion of friendliness and collegiality.
This award focuses on the attributes of the person rather than the job role that they perform.
This award is open to any member of staff from the University or Students' Union, regardless of team or role.
Awarded to a member of staff who has demonstrated outstanding leadership and management, which is reinforced by excellent results in their area of responsibility.
Any individual that has formal responsibility for other staff members can be nominated in this category, this includes staff from the Students' Union.
Nominations are welcomed for those who lead teams both large and small, operating at all levels of the University.
Awarded to a member of staff who has, in the opinion of the student nominators, demonstrated outstanding and inspirational teaching.
This might be evidenced in a number of ways, for example through innovative teaching methods, creating an inclusive learning community, challenging students to develop new skills, knowledge and abilities, and embedding social responsibility and global issues into the curriculum.
Who can nominate: Students
Awarded to a postgraduate supervisor who has, in the opinion of the student nominators, demonstrated outstanding and inspirational research supervision.
Awarded to a member of staff who has demonstrated outstanding support and going above and beyond to enhance the experience for students.
This award is for someone who makes a significant contribution to the whole BSU community and deserves recognition.
This might be evidenced in a number of ways, for example through technical support provided, support for student wellbeing, careers advice, library and learning support, service in the catering outlets or support provided by a member of staff from the Students' Union.
The nominee can be any member of the University or Students' Union staff.
Awarded to a team of staff who have made a significant contribution to the overall success of the University during the past year.
The winner of this award will be a team who goes beyond 'business as usual', consistently delivers best practices, and is ready to innovate, keen to improve and make a difference to the University.
It might be that this team has met a challenge head-on or delivered a new initiative or project that has improved the way they work or the service they offer as a result.
Please note there are no nominations for this award, a winner will be carefully selected by the University Executive Board.
Community awards
Awarded to a Bath Spa Alumni who has made a significant contribution to the overall success of the University during the past year.
The nomination for this award should describe how an alumnus has given ‘Back to Bath Spa’ in any aspect of the community, for example, mentoring, creating opportunities for Bath Spa students or grads, or simply has supported us in our activities eg given up their time for panels, or to come and guest lecture.
NEW: Awarded to an external organisation that has significantly contributed to the development and success of our students and graduates.
This award recognises a partner who has demonstrated exceptional commitment to collaboration, innovation, and support, building a positive and impactful relationship with the University.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/blog/tags:
{{ item.post_time }}

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/governance:
Corporate governance is a system by which organisations are directed, managed and controlled.
It is the process by which the University's objectives are established, achieved and monitored.
At Bath Spa it concerns the relationships and responsibilities between the Board of Governors, the Vice-Chancellor, Academic Board, and relevant stakeholders within a legal and regulatory framework.
Underpinning the governance and leadership structures of the University, we operate within framesworks set by Government, regulators, and our own internal policies.
It is these processes by which the University's Governors and leadership team ensure our objectives are established, achieved and monitored.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/governance/board-of-governors:
The Board of Governors is responsible for:
In addition to the main board, there are four sub-committees:
You can view the Audit and Risk Assurance Committee Terms of Reference online.
You can view the Nominations and Governance Terms of Reference online.
You can view the Finance and Infrastructure Committee Terms of Reference online.
Read more about the Remuneration Committee .
The Board of Governors schedule of meetings for can be viewed below:
The University maintains a Register of Interests of members of the Board of Governors and its committees and senior staff in regular attendance at meetings.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/governance/board-of-governors/remuneration:
The Committee’s current terms of reference are appended at Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference .
The Committee’s remit applies only to the holders of “Senior Posts”, defined as Vice-Chancellor, Provost, the Chief Financial Officer and the University Secretary.
In 2023/24 the Committee met on two occasions.
The meetings were supported by Arlene Stone, Director of Human Resources and the University's Governance Manager.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/governance/academic-board:
The Academic Board will be responsible for:
The Academic Board works within the context established by:
Academic Board fulfils many of its responsibilities through an infrastructure of executive sub-committees, listed below.
The Vice-Chancellor is an ex-officio member of all sub-committees of the Academic Board.
The structure of the Academic Board and its sub-committees is outlined in this diagram .
Provided by Academic Governance and Quality.
A simple majority of members.
The Education Committee will meet four times per academic year.
To oversee the delivery of the Education Strategy, and report to the Academic Board on the outcomes of processes to ensure compliance with external regulatory requirements on access, continuation, completion, attainment and progression.
The Education Committee will be responsible for:
The Curriculum Approval Panel (CAP) will meet four times per academic year.
Reporting to Education Committee, the Curriculum Approval panel is responsible for the approval and oversight of new programmes and programme-level modifications.
The Curriculum Approval Panel will be responsible for:
A minimum of five members (including the Chair).
The School Quality Management Committee will meet three times per academic year.
To oversee the operation of and outcomes from quality assurance processes for programmes within the School.
To report good practice and risks to the Education Committee.
The School Quality Management Committee is responsible for the oversight of quality assurance processes for programmes within the School including:
The Research and Ethics Committee will meet four times per academic year.
To ensure that the research culture and environment, the quality and standards of research awards and the management of ethical considerations meet the strategic needs of the University and the expectations of external stakeholders and regulators, and advise the Academic Board accordingly.
For this purpose, the term “research” includes knowledge exchange and consultancy.
The Research and Ethics Committee will be responsible for:
Provided by Graduate College.
The University Ethics Panel will meet three times per academic year.
Reporting to the Research and Ethics Committee (REC) and for ensuring that the highest standards of integrity in university research are maintained.
It takes responsibility for the consideration of general ethical issues relating to the teaching and research of the University, and for the consideration of Research Ethics Approval forms referred to it by School Ethics Committees.
The University Ethics Panel (UEP) is responsible to the Research and Ethics Committee (REC) for the consideration of general ethical issues relating to the teaching and research of the University, and for the consideration of Research Ethics Approval forms referred to it by School Ethics Committees.
Its key tasks are to:
Nominee of the Chair.
The Postgraduate Research Management Committee will meet six times per academic year, and papers that need to be considered over the summer recess will be circulated digitally around the panel via the Summer Fast Track Scheme.
To oversee the delivery of PGR strategy and regulations, and report to REC on the PGR student milestones and student outcomes.
Where membership allows for a nominee, the nomination should be for the full academic year except where a nominee leaves post mid-year.
Nomination of the Vice-Chancellor.
To consider nominations for honorary awards and to make recommendations to the Academic Board for approval and subsequent notification to the Board of Governors.
The Honorary Degrees and Titles Committee will be responsible for:
The Central Assessment Board shall be convened in accordance with the assessment and awarding timeframes.
Following advice from the Subject Boards, to award, on behalf of the Academic Board, the grant of awards or progression onto the next stage of study in accordance with the assessment regulations and awarding frameworks.
The Central Assessment Board will be responsible for:
The Subject Boards shall be convened in accordance with the assessment and awarding timeframes.
In concert with the Central Assessment Board, to assess students and to recommend the grant of awards or progression onto the next stage of study in accordance with the assessment regulations.
The Subject Board is responsible for all assessments within the modules which it is considering and for providing advice on these to the Central Assessment Board which then makes the recommendation for an award or progression to the next stage of study.
The Subject Boards will be responsible for:
The Academic Board and Committee schedule of meetings for the academic year 2024/25 can be viewed below:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/governance/financial-governance:
The University publishes its annual report and financial statements following formal approval at the December meeting of the Board of Governors.
Annual reports and financial statements for previous years are available online and available for download below.
Bath Spa University Financial Statement 2023-24
Bath Spa University Financial Statement 2022-23
Bath Spa University Financial Statement 2021-22
Bath Spa University Financial Statement 2020-21
Bath Spa University Financial Statement 2019-20
Bath Spa University Financial Statement 2018-19
Bath Spa University Financial Statement 2017-18
Bath Spa University Financial Statement 2016-17
Bath Spa University Financial Statement 2015-16
Bath Spa University Financial Statement 2014-15
Bath Spa University Financial Statement 2013-14
Bath Spa University Financial Statement 2012-13
To request copies of financial statements pre-dating those above, please submit a Freedom of Information request.
Further information can also be found in our Financial Regulations Document .
The income from student fees is the largest single source of income for the University and represents about 87% of the total income of the University.
The rest of our income comes from accommodation and grants from the central government.
The following chart highlights the University's financial expenditure per pound of income for the academic year 2023-24.
The University uses its income to provide the best student experience that it can.
This includes investing in high quality academic staff as well as all the academic and student services that students use including the library, IT facilities, student services team, teaching support, arts facilities, careers & employability team, bursaries and placements as well as maintaining the buildings and campuses that all these services are housed in.
The University prides itself on providing high quality facilities.
Some of the income is spent on maintaining, heating and cleaning the buildings, whilst providing an efficient support service to the academic, research and other University activity involves expenditure on central administration including management, human resources, finance, communications and planning.
In 2023/24 the University was left with a surplus of £15m (approx 7% of its income).
The University is a charity; it has no shareholders or owners that it has to pay money to: any surplus is re-invested to support the University in the future.
We budget to make a surplus to help pay for new buildings, for the refurbishment of the older buildings, and to allow us to invest in the future in academic staff and facilities, as student needs change.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/governance/legal-framework:
The University is an exempt charity under the terms of the Charities Act 2011.
Its charitable activities are monitored by the Office for Students, which is its principal regulator.
The Governors of the University are its charitable trustees.
The manner in which the University delivers its charitable purpose within the context of the Charity Commissions guidance on public benefit is outlined in the financial statements for 2011 and subsequent years.
The University has no linked charities.
Our legal and preferred name is Bath Spa University and our correspondence address is:
Bath Spa University Newton Park Newton St Loe Bath BA2 9BN United Kingdom
The Instrument and Articles of Government is the fundamental legal document under which the University is constituted and conducted.
It also defines the sources of authority and responsibility within the institution.
The Instrument and Articles of Government were updated following a review of University governance and came into effect on 13 February 2019.
Instrument and Articles of Government (2019)
The Ordinances prescribe the practices and procedures of the University and regulate the conduct of University business.
The Ordinances were adopted by the Board of Governors on 1 April 2020 and revised on 28 September 2022.
Ordinances (2020)
Bath Spa University Governor Appointment Process
Our financial statements for the last five years are published on our Financial Governance page.
The purpose of this document is to set out a clear and transparent approach to key areas of decision-making to ensure that the responsibilities as prescribed in the University’s Instrument and Articles of Government are effectively discharged.
The development of this Scheme of Delegation is informed by the Higher Education Code of Governance (2020), published by the Committee of University Chairs (CUC).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/governance/policies:
Jump to our Privacy notices
The University publishes an Annual Policy Bulletin to staff and students, confirming which policies and regulations have been introduced, amended, or removed.
Please find the latest version of this below:
The purpose of this Policy is to establish a consistent approach to the development of University policies and procedures to ensure that members of the University community and other users have ready access to well-developed and clear policies.
Bath Spa University is proud of its vision to be a leading university in creativity, culture and enterprise and, through the delivery of Strategy 2030, the University’s purpose is to:  “challenge our students and staff to realise their talent and thrive, for their own benefit and for the wider good.
By doing this we will think and make the world better”.
Underpinning this vision is a principle to act ethically; the University is therefore committed to establishing practices to combat slavery and human trafficking.
The University is a Fairtrade University.
Increasing the range of products bearing the Fairtrade Mark that are sold by the University ensures that the relevant parts of its supply chain are more likely to meet Fairtrade standards that protect workers' rights and guarantee payment of a minimum price.
Bath Spa University is a higher education corporation established pursuant to the Education Reform Act 1988.
It is also an exempt charity, registered with and regulated by the Office for Students.
The University's principal place of business is at Newton Park, Newton St Loe, Bath, BA2 9BN, United Kingdom.
The University has approximately 1,200 employees.
The annual turnover of the consolidated accounts of the University in 23/24 was over £200m.
The University comprises seven academic schools: Bath Business School; Bath School of Art, Film and Media; Bath School of Design; School of Education; School of Writing, Publishing and the Humanities; Bath School of Music and Performing Arts; School of Sciences.
In addition, the University operates the delivery of academic programmes at Bath Spa University London.
Several professional services departments exist to provide services to the students and the University as a whole.
These include Academic Planning, Student Experience, Centre for Innovation and Knowledge Exchange, Research and Enterprise, Human Resources, Finance, IT Services, Estates and Services, and Governance, Legal and Compliance.
Within the Finance department, the procurement function supports academic schools and departments in helping to ensure the University obtains value for money in all the goods and services it purchases, in-line with the University's Financial Regulations and The Public Contract Regulations.
We have a zero tolerance to slavery and human trafficking.
The University maintains policies relating to procurement, sustainability, equality, wellbeing and diversity which together form a robust institutional effort to combat slavery and human trafficking.
Where relevant, our policies extend to our suppliers in expectations of adherence to external regulations and University principles.
The University’s procurement policies are concerned with adherence to the conditions outlined elsewhere in this statement and in ensuring due diligence and include a sustainable procurement policy.
The University is committed to conducting its business with honesty and integrity, and it expects all staff to maintain high standards.
Staff are encouraged to raise concerns of a public interest or make a public interest disclosure as part of the Whistleblowing Policy which is designed to allow concerns of a public interest arising in relation to the University to be raised, investigated and where appropriate, acted upon.
To ensure all those in our supply chain and contractors comply with our policies, we have in place a supply chain compliance programme.
Suppliers are assessed during the procurement process, and above procurement regulation thresholds the government standard assessments are carried out during selection, as well as due diligence steps during contract award and supplier onboarding.
Wherever possible our supply chain is made up of suppliers who are registered under framework agreements from public sector purchasing consortia to ensure robust checks are undertaken and compliant with legislation.
Supply chain management from the consortia is routine throughout the contractual term and staff are required to manage contracts throughout the term to ensure value for money.
On the occasions where a framework agreement cannot be used the University carries out due diligence on all new suppliers prior to onboarding, as standard, this includes a question pertaining to modern slavery compliance.
Further engagement with suppliers, including with the University’s educational partners, is subject to review dependent on this confirmation step and the University’s standard contractual clauses explicitly require adherence by all suppliers to the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The University works to identify and assess potential risk areas within its supply chains, monitor and mitigate any identified risk and to protect whistle-blowers raising concerns.
The University takes a risk- based approach to better understand its supply chains and to prioritise and target actions accordingly.
To ensure all those in the University and its supply chain and its contractors comply with our policies and procedures the University has put in place a supply chain compliance programme.
This consists of procurement procedures, contract reviews and renewal of due diligence at the point of any renewal.
The University is committed to sustainable procurement and plans to work within the framework of ISO 20400, with full implementation in 2028.
To ensure a high level of understanding of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in University business and its supply chains, the University offers procurement training to all relevant staff.
The process all University staff must follow, in the engagement of a new supplier and inclusion of querying the suppliers' efforts and steps taken to ensure compliance with the Act, acts as an engagement tool to ensure that staff access the resources made available in the provision of compliance.
The publication of this statement and the University's approach to ensuring compliance with the Act is shared with staff via news and updates in line with the publication of the University’s annual report and financial statements.
Going forward, the University’s Sustainability Group will renew its efforts to work closely with colleagues across the University including Procurement, Finance, IT, HR, Academic Planning, the Centre for Educational Partnerships, and Estates functions to monitor higher risk areas within the University’s supply chain.
During the 2024-25 financial year, we aim to continue our focus on the following areas:
This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes the University's slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 July 2024.
It was approved by the Board of Governors of Bath Spa University on 12 December 2024.
Download a copy of this statement .
We value diversity and we recognise that different people bring different ideas, knowledge and culture, and that difference can bring strength, creativity and innovation.
We believe that discrimination or exclusion based on individual characteristics and circumstances, such as the below, represents a waste of talent and a denial of opportunity for self-fulfilment:
We recognise that patterns of under-representation and differences in outcomes at Bath Spa University can be challenged through positive action programmes.
We respect the rights of individuals, including the right to hold different views and beliefs.
We will not allow these differences to be manifested in a way that is hostile or degrading to others.
We expect commitment and involvement from all our staff, students, partners and providers of goods and services in working towards the achievement of our vision.
Read the full Equality policy.
The Vice-Chancellor has responsibility and accountability for Equality throughout the institution and is also responsible implementing and monitoring this policy through the Equality and Diversity Steering Group.
However, all members of the University, both staff and students, have a duty to ensure that individuals do not suffer from any form of harassment and that if they do, they are supported in seeking to eliminate it and in pursuing any legitimate complaint about the harassment.
Read the full Anti-Harassment policy.
The harassment and gender-based violence framework is the University’s single source of information and outlines the University’s policies, procedures and campaigns for prevention, support and response strategies in relation to harassment and gender-based violence (including sexual misconduct).
We are committed to being a menopause-friendly university.
Our menopause policy aims to foster an environment in which staff and students can openly speak about the menopause and ask for any support and reasonable adjustments that they may need.
Read the full Menopause Policy .
As part of the UK Government's strategy to reduce terrorism, the Counter-Terrorism and Security Act 2015 introduced a statutory duty on Higher Education Institutions to have "due regard to the need to prevent people from being drawn into terrorism".
This legislation is called the Prevent Duty and applies to all forms of extremism, including the Far Right, Islamist groups and animal rights groups.
Prevent is one of the Government's four strands of counter-terrorism strategy (CONTEST) and aims to stop people becoming terrorists or supporting terrorism.
Read the full Prevent Duty policy.
Safeguarding is about protecting a person’s right to live in safety, free from abuse and neglect.
It’s about working together to protect those most at risk of, or currently experiencing, abuse or neglect.
The Safeguarding Framework details how staff and students can report concerns, suspicions or allegations of harm.
Read the full Safeguarding policy.
The University is committed to providing a safe and secure environment for all its students and staff.
The following policies set out how the University will deal with incidents and allegations of Sexual Violence and Misconduct against members of the student and staff communities.
Trans, non-binary, and gender diverse staff, students and visitors are a valued part of the Bath Spa University community, and we are committed to creating a fair and inclusive environment where all members feel included, respected and safe.
Bath Spa University views harassment or discrimination against any student or employee on any grounds as a serious disciplinary offence.
Read the full Trans and Non-Binary Inclusion Policy .
Admissions
Access and Participation
Academic Frameworks
Academic regulations
Learning and teaching
Engagement and attendance
Assessment
Central Assessment Board Schedules
The Central Assessment Board Schedules are available on the Assessment page .
Complaints and discipline
Safeguarding
Student protection, terms and conditions
* The Contract Management Policy will not apply to Bath Spa University precedent contracts (such as contracts of employment) that:
(i) have been approved as an exception by the University Secretary pursuant to the Financial Regulations; and (ii) have not been substantially varied.
Supporting documentation: How To Guide and Contract Review Sheet .
We're committed to improving the accessibility of our website and other platforms and systems, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
Accessibility statement for the Bath Spa website
We're committed to the security of your personal data, and to enabling your rights under the Data Protection Act 2018, GDPR, and associated data protection law.
The University is registered as Data Controller with the Information Commissioners Office, registration number: Z7222773.
This notice and any other documents referred to in it set out the basis on which we will process any personal data we collect from data subjects, or that is provided to us by data subjects or other sources.
We may update our Privacy Notices at any time.
The current version of all of our Privacy Notices can be found below, and we encourage you to check back here regularly to review any changes.
Unless specific time periods are given in the relevant Privacy Notice, your data will be kept in-line with the University's Records Retention Schedule.
To determine the appropriate retention period for personal data, we consider the amount, nature and sensitivity of the personal data, the potential risk of harm from unauthorised use or disclosure of your personal data, the purposes for which we process your personal data and whether we can achieve those purposes through other means, and the applicable legal requirements.
The University has appointed a Data protection Officer:
Postal address:
Data Protection Officer Bath Spa University Newton Park Newton St Loe Bath BA2 9BN United Kingdom Email: data-protection@bathspa.ac.uk .
"Personal data" is defined as information relating to a living individual that enables that individual to be identified either from the data.
Personal data may contain “special categories of data” as described under the new law.
Such “special categories of data" may include information about your racial or ethnic origin, religious beliefs or other beliefs, physical or mental health or, in relation to DPA only, other conditions and information concerning any criminal offences or criminal proceedings.
Data protection law means that any processing undertaken by us must be done for specified purposes (outlined within these privacy notices) and that we have a relevant lawful basis for the processing.
Under the new rules there are six possible bases:
All data subjects (students, applicants, visitors to our website, and others as specified in our privacy notices) have the right to be informed about the collection and use of data.
As Data Controller, the University is required to provide you with information about how we process your data and your rights under the new data protection law.
You also have the Right to be notified of data rectification and erasure, such as in the event of a data breach.
You have the right to find out what information we hold about you, and you are able to request that information from us by submitting a Subject Access Request via our Data Protection Officer.
You also have the right to request data we hold to be provided to you in a format suitable to transferring to other data controllers, which is your right to portability.
You have to right to contact us to rectify any information we hold about you and you can do this at any time either via the self-service portal, available to students and staff, or by contacting data-protection@bathspa.ac.uk
You have the right to request that we delete your information at any point, which we must do unless the information is necessary (such as your academic record if you are a student)
If you think there's a problem with the accuracy of the data we hold about you, or if you think we're using data about you unlawfully, you can request that any current processing is suspended until a resolution is agreed.
You have a right to object to how we use your data if we do so on the basis of "legitimate interests" or "in the performance of a task in the public interest" or "exercise of official authority" (a privacy notice will clearly state this if this is the case).
Unless we can show a compelling case why our use of data is justified, we have to stop using your data in the way that you've objected to.
If any decision has been about you based on automated software (such as segmentation or suitability a bursary) you have the right to request a human being review the decision.
Where we have your consent to any processing (made clear within our privacy notices or at the time of collecting your data) you have the right to withdraw your consent at any time.
For more information on your rights, if you wish to exercise any right, for any queries you may have, or if you wish to make a complaint, please contact our Data Protection Officer: data-protection@bathspa.ac.uk.
You have a right to complain to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) about the way in which we process your personal data.
You can make a complaint on the ICO website.
Privacy notices regarding:
*Some of our policies are for internal purposes only.
If you cannot find the policy you are searching for and are not an employee or student of the University please submit a Freedom of Information request.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/governance/academic-governance-and-quality:
The Academic Governance and Quality Team ensures the effective operation of the Academic Governance of the University, including Academic Board and its sub-committees and is responsible for the operation, review and compliance with Academic Policy.
The Academic Governance and Quality Team is also responsible for the Academic Quality Assurance frameworks, procedures and operations.
This includes programme design and approval, curriculum modification and review, external examining, and partnership management.
On this landing page you'll see the Quality Handbook.
This provides the key quality assurance information, procedures, templates and documents for prospective and current students, and members of staff.
The team is part of the University’s Governance, Legal and Compliance unit, headed by the University Secretary.
For general enquiries to the Academic Governance and Quality Team, contact academicquality@bathspa.ac.uk .
If you are an external examiner, please contact externalexaminers@bathspa.ac.uk .
Pearl Slater p.slater@bathspa.ac.uk
Gavin Harrison g.harrison@bathspa.ac.uk
Matthew Holt m.holt@bathspa.ac.uk
Lloyd Hole
l.hole@bathspa.ac.uk
Anthony Clements a.clements@bathspa.ac.uk
Joshua Hart-Steeds j.steeds@bathspa.ac.uk
Nicky Lake n.lake@bathspa.ac.uk
Terri-Anne Jones
Lior Burstein l.burstein@bathspa.ac.uk
Rachel Clarke r.clarke2@bathspa.ac.uk
The Quality Handbook is made up of key procedures and processes which you can access below.
To request a copy of any of these materials, please contact academicquality@bathspa.ac.uk .
The following staff-only documents can be accessed on the Partnership Approval page on Sharepoint (staff login required).
The following staff-only documents can be accessed on the Partnership Management page on Sharepoint (staff login required).
Terms of reference, membership and schedule of meetings.
Key academic policies and frameworks for assessment and awarding.
ACADEMIC BOARD AND ITS SUBCOMMITTEES
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
ASSESSMENT
COURSE DOCUMENTS

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/governance/academic-governance-and-quality/assessment:
Please download the document:
Assessment and Feedback Policy
The Assessment and Feedback Policy provides details of the University’s policies and procedures relating to:
The following guidance documents are available:
See also:
Students’ marks, grades and awards are officially ratified through the University’s Assessment Board processes.
Assessment Boards take the form of a two-step process*.
The first step is a Subject Board, which is based within the Schools.
A Subject Board is a meeting of module tutors and course leaders to check and discuss marks and the moderating process for sets of modules within their subjects and to consult with External Examiners and carry out performance and enhancement discussions.
*Subject Boards are not held in advance of Reassessment Boards
Once Subject Boards have taken place, the marks and grades for each student are taken to a Central Assessment Board, during which the marks and grade and awards, where applicable, are officially ratified.
During the Central Assessment Board processes, Chief External Examiners are consulted and invited to give their feedback.
Following the conclusion of the Central Assessment Board processes, official results are published to students.
The Central Assessment Board schedules provide the following information:
The Central Assessments Board schedules are available below:
Following the receipt of their official results communications, students may submit a Stage One: Formal Appeal to the University.
Details of the University’s Appeals Policy and Procedures are available on the Appeals Policy and Procedures page.
Bath Spa University is clear that all students will be judged on their own ability and that all assessment work submitted must be original.
Academic Misconduct is defined as any activity used by a student which provides them with an unfair academic advantage over others.
Further information regarding the University’s Academic Misconduct procedures are available on the Academic Misconduct page.
The Guide to Students on the Undergraduate Framework provides details regarding a wide range of processes and services that the University provides, including course registration periods and award classification details.
The Student Facing Results Flowchart provides an outline of the amount of credits required to progress each level of study.
It also explains the different modes of study which may be necessary if some modules are not completed.
The University offers a range of student support services and opportunities to enable students to manage the challenges and demands of academic study.
Students are encouraged to seek support from personal tutors, module and course leaders, ASk (Academic Skills) , Student Wellbeing Services , Students’ Union Advice Centre or to use other mechanisms, such as a study break, as appropriate.
Students are encouraged to use the University's Assessment Action Plan Template to help to map out their assessments and reassessments, where appropriate, throughout the academic year.
For more information on support and guidance available after receiving results, please visit our Results page.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/governance/procurement-:
Procurement at Bath Spa University is carried out in accordance with the University's financial regulations, its procurement strategy and its legal requirements as a public sector body, which means that it is subject to the UK Public Sector Procurement Regulations and Policies.
We employ outstanding creative professionals who teach and research across art, sciences, education, social science, and business.
Our main campus is the beautiful Newton Park next to the village of Newton-St-Loe on Bath's western fringes.
We also have a campus at Locksbrook and facilities at Sion Hill and elsewhere in the city.
There's also our BSU London campus in New College Hackney
We're committed to growing the regional economy by working with businesses to deliver growth through innovation, enterprise and knowledge exchange.
This commitment to community is evidenced in our desire to champion local businesses and micro, small and medium enterprises in our supply chain.
At BSU, we're immensely proud of our partnerships with the creative and cultural sector in Bath.
Together, we support our community, our students and staff, and our valuable research and creative practice.
Bath Spa University is a UK higher education corporation under the Education Reform Act 1988, and is also an exempt charity, regulated by the Office for Students (OfS).
The Board of Governors is responsible for delivering value for money from public funds, taking into account guidance on good practice issued by the Office for Students (OfS), the National Audit Office, the Public Accounts Committee or other relevant bodies.
The BSU Procurement team is a small specialist team working to ensure the University obtains value for money in all the goods and services it purchases in line with the University’s Financial Regulations.
Their procedures ensure the University is fair, open  and transparent in its treatment of suppliers.
The Procurement team are responsible for planning and undertaking high value contracts (above £50k inc.
VAT aggregated over 4 years) and offer support for lower value contracts purchased by colleagues in separate departments.
The Procurement team do not have direct control over purchases made by other departments, but there are governance and supporting procedures are in place to facilitate a self-service approach.
The Procurement team works with colleagues and suppliers alike to drive value and reduce risk across supply chains that serve the University.
Our exit from the European Union presented the government with an opportunity to develop and implement a new procurement regime.
The Transforming Public Procurement (TPP) programme aims to change how public procurement in the United Kingdom is regulated.
On 24 February 2025, the rules shaping how public bodies buy goods and services will change.
The Procurement Act 2023 will introduce measures to improve and streamline the way procurement is done and benefit prospective suppliers of all sizes, particularly small businesses, start-ups and social enterprises.
If your business supplies goods, works or services to organisations in the public sector, you need to know about the changes.
You can find out more on the government webpages .
Already a supplier?
Looking for information on invoicing or accounts payable processes?
If you're already familiar with our systems but need further information on the procurement process, we've put all of our key documents on a separate page.
At Bath Spa, we're committed to growing the regional economy by working with businesses of all sizes to deliver growth through innovation, enterprise and knowledge exchange.
For more support on supplying to the High Education and public sectors, you might find these documents useful:
The University uses a range of different methods to identify and appoint suppliers.
The process depends on the value, risk and market.
Lower value requirements typically entails obtaining three quotes, and higher value opportunities take a more formal approach led by Procurement.
Framework agreements and dynamic markets are used where appropriate.
We're required to comply with the Public Contracts Regulations (PCR) and open tender opportunities above the PCR thresholds are advertised.
How to register with BSU
If you're a supplier and interested in applying for a tender or staying up-to-date on tender opportunities please register on our eTendering system .
How to find work on Contracts Finder (CF) and Find a Tender Service (FTS)
It may also be of interest to use the Contracts Finder for contracts over £30,000 incl.
VAT.
and the Find a Tender service for high value contracts (usually above £200,000).
Registering for these services allows you to save your searches and receive email updates on present and future contract opportunities in the public sector.
Purchasing Consortia and Frameworks
Frameworks help public and third sector buyers to procure goods and services from a list of pre-approved suppliers, with agreed terms and conditions and legal protections.
Further information on Framework Agreements and Dynamic Purchasing Systems is available on the Crown Commercial Services Procurement Essentials pages.
BSU are members of Southern Universities Purchasing Consortia ( SUPC ) who are part of UK Universities Purchasing Consortia ( UKUPC ).
UKUPC is a partnership between eight UK consortia who created a formal entity to support collaborative procurement within Higher and Further Education.
Where appropriate, we make use of frameworks from the SUPC or CCS, among others.
Goods and Services funded by grants
The University regularly receives grant funding with specific conditions relating to procurement advertising.
For example, European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) grants require a lower tender threshold of £25,000.
We're always interested in proposals and tender applications from new suppliers.
If you and your company are new to the higher education market, we've put together some important information on the best way to navigate the process.
Please note that we don’t hold a list of ‘approved’ suppliers.
Terms and conditions
For further information, please read through our Terms and conditions .
No purchase, no pay
At Bath Spa University, we operate a 'No Purchase Order, No Pay' policy that prevents invoice payment where a valid purchase order number does not exist.
Please ensure you have received an official purchase order before goods and/or services are delivered.
Guidance on supplying the public sector
New to supplying the public sector?
Suppliers can now access the ‘Supplier Guide to Tendering’ document created by the Joint Contracting Group for all suppliers on UKUPC frameworks on the Southern Universities Purchasing Consortium website .
Framework agreement opportunities are advertised on both:
For information on how to start supplying the wider public sector via Crown Commercial Services, please visit their website .
Information for voluntary, community and social enterprises
Bath Social Impact Network brings together like-minded groups and individuals to improve and grow the social economy in Bath and North East Somerset.
It’s run in partnership with Bath Spa University and 3SG.
Partners in procurement
Partners in Procurement is a group of public bodies based in the West of England.
The membership encompasses the four former Avon local authorities and representatives from a diverse range of public bodies, including local universities and colleges, blue light services and healthcare trusts.
Since 2007 the group has run annual events to encourage local businesses to supply to the public sector by showing them how to identify business opportunities and teaching them what is required from potential suppliers, particularly in the early stages of the tender process (supplier selection).
Responsible procurement is the process of making purchasing decisions that meet BSU’s needs for goods and services in a responsible way that considers benefits to wider society and minimises its impact on the environment.
This is achieved by ensuring that the working conditions of its suppliers’ employees are decent, the products or services purchased are sustainable, where possible, and that socio-economic issues, such as inequality and poverty, are considered when making our purchases.
BSU has a Sustainable Procurement Policy.
For more information on our wider approach to Sustainability, including our Strategy, please visit our Sustainability pages.
How do we update our contact/bank details?
Please contact accountspayable@bathspa.ac.uk .
We will carry out some checks and require the request on Company Headed Paper.
We've changed our name and are now operating under the name 'X'.
To change your details with us, please email procurement@bathspa.ac.uk .
You will need to provide evidence and a review of the changes will need to be made.
Additional checks and novation of contract shall be required for contractual obligations.
In certain circumstances, this may not be acceptable.
In some circumstances we may request that the new company be set up as a new supplier with us and has its own, new, separate profile.
We have now merged with Y and will be operating under the name Z.
Please update
To update your details with us, please email procurement@bathspa.ac.uk .
We will need evidence from both parties.
As with 'Change of Name', a review will need to be made and contracts amended.
We may request that the new company be set up as a new supplier with us, having its own separate profile.
I have a service you may be interested in, can we arrange a meeting?
Please register on our eTendering portal explaining what goods and services you offer.
Current opportunities that are open to interest will be advertised as per the 'Work with us' section.
We'd like to be considered in future tenders for 'X'.
Is there a list?
If you'd like to be added to our list of suppliers to be alerted of future tender processes,  please register on our eTendering portal explaining what goods and services you offer.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/governance/procurement-/info-for-existing-suppliers:
BSU operate a No PO no pay Policy .
Invoices relating to goods and services must quote a valid BSU Purchase Order Number.
Please make sure you receive instruction through an official BSU Purchase Order.
We advise that you don't proceed without an official BSU Purchase Order, making sure you make contact with the University department who engaged with you to obtain a Purchase Order.
For further information, please read our terms and conditions .
Once Procurement authorise a supplier, the department or school wishing to purchase goods or services must complete a new supplier request form.
The requester will require information to be provided by the new supplier - typically in the form of a letterheaded document and a piece of bank documentation.
This means the University may need to check personal information against public sources like Companies House.
Suppliers will not be assigned a supplier number on the University's system at their request.
Once a supplier account has been approved and created, the department will raise a purchase order for the University's requirements.
Under HMRC rules, where we engage with an individual for the provision of services we may need to complete a ‘ Check employment status for tax ’ (CEST) assessment.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values:
We want the best for our students.
we want you to graduate with an understanding of the local, regional and global context, and with networks across all three.
You should have a broad understanding of the world in which you will be working, and be ready to face the challenges of the workplace.
You must be technologically adroit while understanding those who are not.
You need to develop sharp analytic skills with cutting edge creativity and entrepreneurial flair.
We want you to be proud of your association with Bath Spa University.
We promise to treat you as individuals, not just as numbers.
We will provide the support you need to grow and develop, both intellectually and as citizens.
We know that you value the experience you receive as Bath Spa students, and we will not compromise on that.
Our caring ethos stretches to our environment too.
We embrace a strong environmental ethos, and through their actions and commitment students and staff help us achieve very high environmental credentials.
Find out more about our commitments and our climate pledge on our Sustainability page.
Read more about where we're headed with our Strategy 2030 .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/history:
The story of Bath Spa University begins in 1852, when the Bath School of Art was established after the Great Exhibition.
The School enjoyed a reputation as one of the leading art schools in the country, and some of Britain’s best known artists, including Walter Sickert and Howard Hodgkin, studied and taught at what was to become the Bath Academy of Art.
In the immediate postwar era, the Bath Academy of Art relocated to Corsham Court, and was acknowledged as a leading British Art school, involved in the flowering of the English Modernist movement.
This reputation for excellence endures today – graduates of the Bath School of Art, Film and Media and the Bath School of Design are sought after for their high standards of creative exploration and practice.
In 1983 the Bath Academy of Art became part of the Bath College of Higher Education, and moved to Sion Hill, whilst the College of Domestic Science moved to new premises at Newton Park.
Corsham Court is now the home of the majority of our taught postgraduate courses and research centre.
The Newton Park and Sion Hill campuses began as teacher training institutions in the 1940s.
Newton Park ’s Main House, built for Joseph Langton from 1762-1765 set in Capability Brown gardens and leased from the Prince of Wales, is Grade 1 listed.
The Sion Hill campus was built after the Second World War and became the home of the Bath College of Domestic Science in 1959.
It was formally opened by Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother on 23 March 1960.
Both colleges were highly regarded, beginning the University’s long-standing reputation for training high-quality professionals.
The colleges merged in 1975 to become the Bath College of Higher Education.
The School of Education is now one of the highest rated providers of teacher education in the country, and the largest provider of teacher education in the South West.
In 2016 the University purchased the former Herman Miller factory – a listed building designed by Sir Nicholas Grimshaw in 1976 – in Locksbrook Road on the River Avon.
Remodelling and refurbishment was again designed by Grimshaw Architects, and the building was opened as the Locksbrook Campus in October 2019.
It was formally opened by then Chancellor, Jeremy Irons, in March 2020 and is the current home of the Bath School of Art, Film and Media and the Bath School of Design.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/equality-and-diversity:
We're committed to providing an environment that respects and celebrates all members of our community, and is free from discrimination, prejudice, harassment and bullying.
At Bath Spa we recognise that equality, diversity and inclusion are essential to building the creative, innovative and nurturing ethos that we pride ourselves on.
Bath Spa University is ranked #6 in the UK for disabled students*.
Our specialist Student Wellbeing Services staff provide information, guidance, advice and practical support to students who identify as disabled including specific learning difficulties, mental health conditions, medical conditions, physical/vision/hearing impairments and students who are neurodivergent.
*Percentage of population – Sunday Times Good University Guide 2023.
Would you like to help run campaigns and events on equality issues, meet new students, or even influence the University at a strategic level?
Bath Spa University's Students' Union Student Networks exist to represent a range of liberation groups, including the Disabled Student Network, BAME Student Network, Women’s Network, Multi-Faith Network, LGBT+ Network, Mental Health Network and Afro Caribbean Society.
Find out more on the Students' Union website or contact vpcommunity@bathspa.ac.uk .
Our staff networks aim to build supportive communities, and influence University policy and practice to foster an inclusive work environment.
These include an LGBTQ+ Staff Network, a Disabled Staff Network, a Women's Staff Network, and the Global Inclusivity Network for staff who identify as being Black, Asian, mixed race, or from another minoritised ethnicity background.
We also have a Staff Equalities Network for colleagues interested in activism and enacting change at a grassroots level.
Read more about staff networks on Sulis (staff login required).
Need to speak to someone regarding equality and diversity?
Please contact HR on +44 (0)1225 876331 or hrcontact@bathspa.ac.uk.
Staff can also find further information on SharePoint (login required).
We're proud to be a place where you can follow your passion and thrive.
Read inspiring stories about the achievements of our students and staff.
Stephanie is Senior Lecturer in Conservation Biology, and also works as an ecological consultant.
Her extensive industry experience has inspired her to support the Women in Ecology mentoring scheme, helping students to prepare for careers in ecology.
We're committed to ensuring that our whole community feels safe on campus.
Report and Support is our online recording tool for any safeguarding, bullying or harassment concerns.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/equality-and-diversity/trans-and-non-binary-students:
As a University we recognise that being a trans or non-binary student, or questioning your gender identity whilst at university can sometimes come with specific challenges.
Whether you're an applicant or a current student, please know BSU is here for you and we encourage you to get in touch with Student Wellbeing Services through MyWellbeing to discuss how we can be of help.
Georgie Eggar is the University's Trans and Non-Binary Support Lead and is here to offer practical support for any student who identifies as trans or non-binary, or is questioning their gender identity.
Your name, title or gender held on record can be changed at any time by presenting a deed poll or statutory declaration.
No further documentation will be required.
Once all the appropriate data systems have been updated with the new information a new ID card will be issued at no additional cost.
If the University holds any records that include your former legal name or gender, you may request that all instances of them be removed from the University’s records, as much as is reasonably practicable.
To update your name, title or gender on your records, please complete this form .
If you've transitioned whilst studying or after studying, the University will provide you with replacement degree certificates in your new legal names and titles at no additional cost, providing a deed poll or statutory declaration can be presented.
To request a replacement degree certificate please email alumnirecords@bathspa.ac.uk .
All students can register a preferred name, which will be the name used by all staff to refer to you.
It will also be used to create your University email address.
The change of preferred name form is available on MyServices and this will be processed by the Student and Registry Services before any changes are implemented by IT Services.
You can also contact Student Wellbeing Services through MyWellbeing to check your preferred name, or you can do this yourself on AppHub .
The University encourages all students and staff to inform others of their pronouns, whether that's through a conversation with your tutor, or by adding them to your email name and/or signature.
Trans and non-binary individuals applying for University accommodation have the option to apply for en-suite accommodation via the application form for accommodation .
Where the individual expresses a desire to accept the offer, en-suite accommodation will be allocated whenever possible dependent upon availability.
To be prioritised for en-suite accommodation, trans and non-binary individuals can seek advice from Student Wellbeing Services by getting in touch through MyWellbeing .
Please visit our AccessAble page to find out more about facilities across our campuses.
If you transition during your time at the University, you can complete a Transition Support Plan to ensure that the University is aware of any support needs you might have.
This plan enables you to confirm any dates of relevant transition milestones and how you would prefer this to be communicated to necessary individuals within the University.
This is particularly important if you need time off to undergo any transition-related medical treatment, so you aren't penalised for your absence.
If you would like to complete a Transition Support Plan, please contact Georgie Eggar in Student Wellbeing Services ( studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk ) who will be able to offer help and assistance.
As such, the University has a comprehensive trans policy in place to ensure that no individual who identifies as trans or non-binary is discriminated against, and that trans and non-binary staff and students are easily able to find the support and information they need.
Student Wellbeing Services is here to support all of Bath Spa University’s students in whatever way they may find helpful.
This includes students who identify as trans and non-binary or who might be questioning their gender identity.
As well as offering specialist mental health services, Student Wellbeing Services is able to put in place an Academic Access Plan (AAP) for applicants and students who identify as trans or non-binary.
This informs tutors of your preferred name and gender pronouns, as well as any other additional support measures required, for example providing extensions at times of absence due to transition-related treatment or surgery.
You can contact Georgie Eggar ( studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk ) to discuss any support you may find helpful, including an AAP.
Report and Support is the Bath Spa University online reporting tool, if you or someone you know has experienced or witnessed a micro-aggression or any form of harassment, discriminsation or hate.
You can report anonymously or report and get support from an advisor.
Bath Spa LGBTQ+ Society is a society for anyone who identifies within the LGBTQ spectrum.
It is free to join, and no one is discriminated against.
They do events, socials, fundraisers and more.
We are very excited to launch Bath Spa Students’ Union’s very own Gender Expression Fund !
Trans, Nonbinary and everyone in between; we take great pride in being a community where you can be yourself.
Financial constraints can often limit access to gender-affirming products, items, and services, but we hope that this fund will help remove that barrier.
This fund will help cover your costs up to £100 on anything from binders or breast forms to vocal/speech coaching, to an updated passport.
Student Minds is the UK’s student mental health charity and they empower students to build their own mental health toolkit to support themselves and their peers through university life and beyond.
Together, we’re improving university communities so that every student gets the mental health support they need to reach their goals.
They have created a ' Life as a Trans+ student ' page on their website to offer advice and reflections on navigating university life as a transgender or non-binary student.
Off The Record LGBT+ SPACE offers weekly LGBT+ group sessions in Bath to any young person aged 10-25 who identifies as lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, asexual, and/or questioning their sexuality and/or gender identity.
At SPACE, they provide a safe space where you can be yourself and get information and support on LGBT+ issues.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/equality-and-diversity/plans-and-policies:
The Equality Act 2010 makes it unlawful to discriminate against people with a protected characteristic, and we're committed to providing an environment which respects and celebrates all members of our community, and is free from discrimination, prejudice, harassment and bullying.
Listed below are details of our equality plan, reports and data.
Under the University's Public Sector Equality Duty set out in the Equality Act 2010 Regulations, the University must prepare and publish one or more specific and measurable equality objectives, at a minimum of every four years.
The objective behind the Public Sector Equality Duty in section 149 of the Equality Act 2010 is to ensure that consideration of equality issues forms part of the routine, day to-day decision making and operational delivery of public authorities.
We did not manage to achieve all of the previous Equality Objectives set out for the period 2021-22.
In response, the Equality and Diversity Steering Group (EDSG) have developed a short term set of Objectives for the period 2022-23, with the aim of further developing cross-university, staff and student centred approaches to tackling inequality at Bath Spa.
The hope is that we can move towards holistic measures of student and staff access, experience, and success, with the Equality Objectives and supporting Equality Action Plan reflecting a whole community approach, as well as our Bath Spa values of respect, inclusion, collaboration, and sustainability.
Our latest gender pay gap report is available to view.
For information on previous years, you can find our previous gender pay gap reports here.
Student and staff data is available for Report and Support, our online recording tool for safeguarding, bullying or harassment concerns.
Our policies section contains all our equality related policies, including our trans, harassment, sexual violence and misconduct policies.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/equality-and-diversity/links-and-resources:
We've compiled a list of the resources available for students and staff to support you in your time at Bath Spa, including useful links, reading lists and details of the spaces available to you on campus.
We've also included some external links to ensure you can get all the information you need.
If you’re ever lost, need information, or advice, then our friendly staff at our Student Hub are your first point of call.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/equality-and-diversity/report-and-support:
Harassment, bullying and violence are unacceptable and not tolerated at Bath Spa University.
We want you to feel confident to tell us if you feel harassed or bullied or are a victim of violence.
Report and Support Report and Support is an online tool for Bath Spa students, staff, visitors and members of the public to tell the University about something they have seen or experienced, and for students to connect with Student Wellbeing Services (SWS), or for staff to connect with HR .
SWS/HR can offer appropriate support, including (if desired) to make a formal complaint about a student or staff member and/or reporting to the police.
If you see or experience harassment, discrimination, hate crime, assault, bullying, racism, sexual violence, spiking or domestic abuse, you can submit a named or an anonymous report.
More information about all of these topics can be found on the Report and Support website.
Complete the form in our secure online Report and Support system.
You can submit a report anonymously or request a callback from an advisor.
Bath Spa University has made a commitment to publish anonymised data on student disciplinary outcomes.
The purpose of this is to increase transparency about such outcomes, improve the confidence of those who would like to submit a concern or complaint and to help prevent incidents from happening.
The University has previously issued the following penalties to reported students in Disciplinary cases where allegations of sexual misconduct have been found to be upheld:
Because the number of cases of sexual misconduct reported via the Student Disciplinary Procedure are relatively low, we are unable to discuss the specific figures of how many students have received each of these penalties, as this would potentially identify the students who were involved in these sensitive and confidential cases, and would be contrary to the principles of the Data Protection Act.
The University will ask the reporting student early on in the process what a positive outcome/resolution to their case would look like for them, advising them to look at the penalties available in order to manage expectations and allow them to understand what is within the University's scope.
The University will find a student guilty of misconduct if, on the evidence before it, it is satisfied on the balance of probabilities of the student’s guilt.
This means that on the evidence available, the student’s guilt is more likely than not.
This is different to the Police who find allegations to be upheld when there is evidence to prove the allegations 'beyond reasonable doubt'.
The University has found at times that when a reported student is contacted about the allegation of misconduct made against them -in order to allow them to respond- that student has then chosen to withdraw from the University.
When this happens, it is important to note that if a reported student withdraws, the University cannot continue to pursue Disciplinary action against them.
Where a reported student is found to have the allegations of misconduct brought against them to be upheld, details of the misconduct and the penalty imposed will be sent to the student’s Head of School.
A record will also be made on the student’s central University file.
The record will be kept on the student’s files and may be referred to for the purpose of references.
In light of taking allegations of sexual misconduct seriously, the University has at times appointed a specialist external, impartial agency to conduct investigations into reports of very serious sexual misconduct.
The University understands the value of being able to carry out thorough investigations, and as such we have appointed a specialist sexual misconduct, Student Casework Investigator who undertakes disciplinary investigations within the University.
Through the improvements we have made to the Disciplinary process specifically in relation to sexual misconduct cases, the University is hopeful that we will create an environment and community where we are clear that allegations of sexual misconduct which are raised to us, will be appropriately investigated and students will hopefully feel confident that they know their report will be dealt with in an a supportive, trauma-informed way.
If reporting students are unhappy with the outcome of the Disciplinary case, they are able to make a complaint using the Student Complaints Procedure within 3 months of the outcome of the Disciplinary case.
For emergencies and urgent help, please call 999.
You can call Security if you are on campus: +44 (0)1225 875555 For non-urgent medical attention – contact your GP or call 111
Your local Sexual Assault Referral Centre can take forensic evidence (the closest to Bath is The Bridge in Bristol).
They can also help with emergency contraception and sexual health testing.
Do not submit a Report and Support form until after you have received emergency help.
Submitting a form on Report and Support does not directly initiate a formal disciplinary investigation.
It will connect you to Student Wellbeing Services/HR who can discuss reporting and support options and connect you to the relevant team to take a formal report forward.
Formal misconduct reports about another student’s conduct are addressed by the Student Disciplinary Team under the Student Disciplinary Procedure Policy .
If you prefer to make contact with the relevant team directly to initiate a formal report now:
We've also included information on this page about the Student Disciplinary Outcomes , which outlines the actions and process surrounding reports of non-academic misconduct.
For more general mental health and wellbeing support:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/equality-and-diversity/bsu-pride:
We made our Bristol Pride Day debut on Saturday 8 July 2023 as a group of colleagues, students and alumni joined thousands of others in the annual Parade March.
We had a pop-up stand at the festival where colleagues gave out Pride-themed temporary tattoos and pin badges to complement our sponsorship of the Queer Vision Film Festival element of this year’s Bristol Pride.
We're thrilled to be taking part in Bristol Pride again this year!
Student Alexandria Scott-Warren reflects on this year’s Bath Spa Pride, including the charities the committee chose to support and the contributions Bath Spa's societies made to the event.
28 June – 13 July 2025
We're proud that Bath Spa University will be a key part of the Bristol Pride celebrations for a third year.
Bristol Pride is a unique and important event that celebrates the LGBTQIA+ community offering the chance to connect people.
As well as showcasing our wonderfully diverse community, Pride is about overcoming prejudice, hatred, reducing isolation, and showing members of the LGBTQIA+ community that they are not alone.
Bristol pride works year round to challenge homophobia, biphobia, and transphobia and promote equality and diversity for all, through various events, school visits, consultation services and lobbying.
We're proud to announce that we've again partnered with Bristol Pride (28 June – 13 July 2025) to sponsor the Queer Vision Film Festival .
Now in its 13th year, Queer Vision Film Festival presented by Bristol Pride delivers a diverse programme of UK and international LGBTQIA+ films, including independently-made features, animations and award-winning shorts.
The partnership will provide opportunities for Bath Spa students and staff during the Festival, including taking part in Q&A sessions, networking opportunities and film screenings of student work.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/equality-and-diversity/elevate:
We’ve joined forces with the universities of Bristol, Bath, Exeter, Cardiff and UWE to sponsor five staff members a year to join Elevate: a creative programme that acknowledges and celebrates the history, culture and diverse lived experiences of its participants.
Elevate encourages participants to reflect, explore, grow and build solidarity together.
It’s a safe space to get to grips with leadership concepts while navigating the systemic barriers impacting women of colour in leadership.
Elevate recognises that its participants are ready to embrace leadership responsibilities, but face experiences in employment, education and society which differ from those of their white counterparts.
Elevate is specifically for women of colour.
You’ll be an academic or professional services staff member (grades 4–8), from a Black, Asian or Minority Ethnic background who identifies as female.
Non-binary people are encouraged to apply if they are comfortable in a women-led environment.
More information is available through the staff intranet.
Elevate aims to transform.
As a woman of colour on the programme, your lived experiences and development needs will be the key focus.
Elevate will:
The programme runs from January-June, and the deadline to apply for January 2024 is 16 October 2023 .
If you have any questions or need the text in a more accessible format, please email edi@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/equality-and-diversity/gender-pay-gap-report:
As Bath Spa University’s newly appointed Vice-Chancellor, I welcome the opportunity to publish our Gender Pay Gap Report.
It is an impor tant way of maintaining momentum and ensuring accountability within our institution.
This year our Gender Pay Gap has increased to 9.7% from 7% in the previous year.
We understand why this change has occurred and evidence this in the following report.
At our University we employ more staff that identify as female than male; this remains especially true at lower pay grades.
We also employ students, who mainly identify as female rather than male.
This is part of the reason why our gender pay gap still remains.
Being able to give students the opportunity to work part-time alongside their studies is important to us and data shows that students who engage in casual work have a higher chance of positive graduate outcomes.
However, we are pleased to also note that we have a significant number of female staff who are also employed in senior positions.
We recognise that we need to be doing more to tackle gender inequality at all levels within our University.
This includes giving our staff development opportunities, promoting talented staff and ensuring that we do not discriminate.
We must continue to work with enthusiasm and continue to listen and support our staff to thrive and thus address gender inequality.
Although progress takes time, we are committed to producing permanent and positive change as demonstrated through our Equality Objectives and our ongoing equalities work mentioned in the report below.
Professor Georgina Andrews Vice-Chancellor
By law, any organisation with 250 or more employees must publish information about their gender pay gap – the difference between the average (median and mean) earnings of all men and women working across the organisation.
The Gender Pay Gap is different from our Equal Pay Review, which compares the pay differences between men and women who carry out work of equal value and checks to see if there are any differences or inequalities.
The Equal Pay Review enables us to monitor the effectiveness of our pay framework and job evaluation processes that were put in place as part of our commitment to ensure equal pay for equal value.
We last undertook an Equal Pay Review in 2021 and the result of it is published on our staff Intranet (staff log in required).
The Gender Pay Gap Report is a measure of the difference in pay between the average hourly earnings of male and female staff.
The mean is calculated by summing the hourly rates of each employee and then dividing by the number of employees.
The median is the middle value when all hourly rates are ranked from smallest to largest.
In our case, pay gaps are primarily due to a higher proportion of women occupying more junior roles within the University, as well as the large number of women employed as casual staff, who are mainly Bath Spa University students.
Our large number of women casual workers is representative of our student population.
Equal pay means that men and women performing equal tasks in the same organisation receive equal pay for said tasks.
The Gender Pay Gap measures the difference between men’s and women’s average earnings and is expressed as a percentage of men’s earnings.
It is possible to have equal pay and yet still have a gender pay gap.
As per the current requirements, gender pay gap reporting must be conducted in a binary way, recognising only men and women.
This means that we are not able to consider non-binary or other gender identities in our formal reporting.
The language used in our report is binary, i.e.
'gender', 'man/male', 'woman/female' as per the requirements.
However, we recognise that this is not an accurate reporting of our true staff data.
We currently have 13 members of staff reporting as non-binary or other gender identities, who are not accounted for in the government figures.
This group is currently too low in number to produce any meaningful pay gap analysis, however we will continue to monitor this and when meaningful data is available, we intend to include it within this narrative.
We, as a university, continue to strive to create an inclusive environment, whereby everyone can recognise their talent and thrive, for their own benefit and for the wider good.
As of March 2024, 61.1 % of our staff identified as female, which was an increase on the previous year.
There has been a corresponding decrease in the percentage of staff identifying as male, to 38.9 %.
The mean average Gender Pay Gap at Bath Spa University is 9.7% equivalent to £2.20 per hour.
The median pay gap is 13.7% or £2.96 per hour.
Both figures have increased from last year where they were at 7.0% and 7.2% respectively
There are contributing factors to this change as listed below:
Pay by quartiles shows the distribution of staff based on their hourly pay.
We can see from this that our Gender Pay Gap is due to the greater increase of women in lower-paid roles, especially in the Lower Quartile, where there are 3x as many women as men ( 75.2% female vs 24.8% male).
In 2023 the Upper Quartile consisted of 51.9% female, and this has slightly increased again to 52.6% of staff who identify as female in 2024.
Bath Spa University defines casual workers as workers who are engaged for the University on a ‘casual’ basis.
These would include, for example, student ambassadors, student events staff or student catering staff.
In 2024 we had 240 casual workers, showing an increase of 36% in the number of casual workers, up from 177 in the previous year.
Of these 78% were female and 22% were male which is a further increase in the number of female staff from the previous year.
As of March 2024, from our total number of students: 67.1% identify as female, 32.9% as male and 0.3% as other/nonbinary.
This remains a similar trend from previous years, as we tend to have more female students in casual worker roles.
Therefore, despite casual workers leading to an increase in the pay gap, these opportunities are important to our students and to us.
Keeping the casual worker data in mind, we have also calculated our Gender Pay Gap data, without casual workers, which tells a different story.
In 2024 our Mean Pay Gap , excluding casual workers, has increased to 4.6% , however our Median Pay Gap , excluding casual workers had decreased to 4.1% .
For 2023 our Mean Pay Gap , excluding casual workers had decreased to 3.5% and our Median Pay Gap has decreased to 5.6% .
The reason for this disparity lies in the split between the earnings of men vs.
women in the top and bottom quartiles.
The mean gap has risen because the proportionate growth of men at higher grades and the corresponding decline of men in the lower grades has increased the difference between average male and female pay.
The median gap has shrunk because the number of casuals that we have employed has increased in addition to the proportion of female staff.
Ideally, to completely close the gap each Quartile would be representative of our staff body as a whole.
Therefore, in this year's case, each quartile would ideally have 42.1% male and 57.9% female staff.
We can see by looking closely at each quartile that most of our female staff are in lower-paid jobs, though the number of male staff rises as we go up in the quartiles.
This, with and without casuals is where the pay gap arises.
Though the results for our gender pay gap are not as promising as we would have hoped - we remain committed to continuing our work, to reduce the pay gap at Bath Spa University.
Alongside the reasons explained above, we have in place several measures that aim to reduce our gender pay gap in the future, including:
We recognise the importance of intersectionality and the fact that pay gaps may be exacerbated for staff who are also in these groups.
Previous years' reports are available on the staff intranet (staff login required).
As of March 2022, 60.9% of our staff identified as women, and 39.1% as men.
The mean average gender pay gap at Bath Spa University is 11% , equivalent to £2.24 per hour.
The median pay gap is 11% or £2.22 per hour.
In 2021 these figures were 9.8% and 11.1% respectively, showing an increase in the gender pay gap.
For the mean calculation, this is a small percentage increase from the previous year.
This is primarily because of the increased number of casual workers (described further below), who predominantly identify as female, further evidence of this is shown below where we present our gender pay gap excluding casual workers.
We can see from this that our Gender Pay Gap is largely due to higher proportions of women in lower-paid roles, especially in the lower quartile, in which there are twice as many women as men.
Last year our Upper Quartile consisted of 50.2% , this has increased again to 51.1% .
The total number of Bonus Pay was awarded to 0.72% of our staff which equates to 9 staff members.
When split by gender, bonuses were paid to 0.92% of women which represents 7 staff and 0.41% of men which represents 2 staff.
The mean bonus pay gap is 62.1% , and the median is 83.4% .
These bonuses consisted of long service rewards, where after working for the University for 20, 30 and 40 years, or retiring after 20 years of service, staff will receive a choice of cash or vouchers, which increases every 10 years.
Bonuses also consisted of profit shares, where staff are being paid under our profit sharing arrangements in our Consultancy Policy, for example, an academic working on a commercial venture.
Bath Spa University defines casual workers as workers who are engaged for university on a ‘casual’ basis.
For example student ambassadors, student events staff or student catering staff.
In 2021 we had 94 casual workers, 24% of these were male, and 76% of these were female.
In 2022 we had 168 casual workers which is a 70% increase from the previous year.
19% of these are male and 81% of these are female.
That’s a 39% increase in male staff and a 92% increase in female staff.
This increase of staff is due to the university returning to pre-pandemic numbers.
As of March 2022, 67.6% of students identify as female, 32.3% as male and 0.1% as ‘other’.
We therefore naturally have more female students working as casual workers, because we are made up of more students who identify as such.
The increase of casual workers from last year is largely down to our campuses re-opening after the Covid 19 pandemic.
Casual workers tend to be paid below our average hourly rate so increasing the number of casual workers tends to negatively skew the average pay for women more than it does for men.
Being able to give students the opportunity to work part-time alongside their studies is important to us, and data shows that students who engage in casual work have a higher chance of good graduate outcomes.
So despite casual workers proving to increase our pay gap, these opportunities are important to our students and to us.
Keeping the casual worker data in mind, we have also calculated our Gender Pay Gap data, without Casual Workers, which looks a lot more promising.
Last year our Mean Pay excluding Casual Workers was 7.4% and the Median Pay gap was 8.5% .
This year our Mean Pay Gap, excluding casual workers is 5.5% and our Median Pay Gap is 2.9% .
This is a large percentage decrease from the previous year and is further evidence that the increase in our gender pay gap is due to the increased number of casual workers.
We can see the trends below when splitting our gaps into quartiles.
So in this year's case, each quartile should have 42.2% men and 57.8% women.
We can therefore see by looking closely at each quartile that most of our women are in lower-paid jobs, with the percentage of males increasing the higher the quartiles.
This, with and without casuals is where our gap comes into play.
The results of our gender pay gap are disappointing.
The gap has increased to a similar level to where we were in 2020 and 2019.
However, this can be explained with the increased number of female casual staff at BSU returning to similar levels as before the Covid 19 pandemic.
To date, we have introduced a number of measures that aim to reduce the gender pay gap at Bath Spa University further, including:
The Gender Pay Gap is different from our Equal Pay Review, which compares the pay differences between men and women who carry out work of equal value, and checks to see if there are any differences or inequalities.
The Equal Pay Review enables us to monitor the effectiveness of our pay framework and job evaluation processes which were put in place as part of our commitment to ensure equal pay of equal value.
We last undertook an Equal Pay Review in 2021 and the result of it is published on Sulis (staff log in required).
As of March 2021, 40.6% of our staff were men, and 59.4% were women.
The mean average gender pay gap at Bath Spa University is 9.8% , equivalent to £2 per hour.
The median gender pay gap is 11.1% , or £2.26 per hour.
In 2020, these figures were 11.2% and 18.6% respectively, showing a further narrowing of the gender pay gaps.
We are very pleased with this continued downward trend, which is shown later in the report.
We can see from this that our Gender Pay Gap is largely due to higher proportions of women in lower paid roles, especially in the lower quartile, in which there are twice as many women as men.
One positive change from previous years is in the upper quartile group, which is now over 50% women, compared to 48% last year.
The mean bonus pay gap this year was 12.9%, and the median pay gap 10.8%.
Bonus payments were made in 2020 to recognise Estates and Facilities staff that continued to work on campus during the first lockdown as a result of the pandemic.
The same value per day was paid to both men and women.
Bonus payments were made to 4.2% of women in the workforce, to 8.9% of men in the workforce, and 6.1% of the total workforce.
The mean is calculated by summing the hourly rates of each employee, then dividing by the number of employees.
In our case, pay gaps are mostly due to a higher proportion of women occupying more junior roles within the University, as well as the large number of women employed as casual staff, who are mainly Bath Spa University students.
The large number of women casual workers is representative of our student population.
If this last group were excluded from the calculations above, the mean average gender pay gap at Bath Spa would be 7.4% and the median would be 8.5%.
However, we are proud to employ our students and offer them development opportunities, and so will continue to do so despite the impact on our gender pay gap figures.
The current gender pay gap at Bath Spa is disappointing, but comparisons to previous year’s data show that both the mean and median pay gaps continue to reduce.
This year, we have seen a significant drop of 7.5% in our median pay gap, which is very encouraging.
We, as a community, must be committed to working together in addressing the gender pay gap and ensure that we continue to reduce our gender pay gaps in future years.
To date, we have introduced a number of measures that aim to reduce the gender pay gap at Bath Spa further, including:
The gender pay information provided in this report includes our statutory data as a public organisation with more than 250 employees for 31 March 2021.
It is also published on the government website .
As of March 2020, 41.1% of our staff are men, and 58.9% are women.
The mean average gender pay gap at Bath Spa University is 11.2%, equivalent to £2.28 per hour.
The median gender pay gap is 18.6%, or £4.00 per hour.
In 2019, these figures were 13.1% and 21.8% respectively.
We can see from this that our Gender Pay Gap is largely due to higher proportions of female staff in lower paid roles.
Our mean and median bonus pay gaps this year were both -100%.
This is because one bonus payment was made for exceptional work to a female, non-senior staff member during the reporting period.
This means that bonus payments were made to 0.14% of our female workforce and 0% of our male workforce.
In our case, this pay gap is mostly due to a higher proportion of female staff occupying more junior roles within the University, as well as the large number of female casual staff we employ, who are mainly Bath Spa University students.
The large number of female casual workers is representative of our student population.
If this last group were excluded from the calculations above, the mean average gender pay gap at Bath Spa would be 8.2% and the median would be 8.8%.
The current gender pay gap at Bath Spa is disappointing, but comparisons to previous year’s data show that both the mean and median pay gaps are reducing.
To date, we have introduced a number of measures that aim to reduce the gender pay gap at Bath Spa, including relaunching the Women’s Network, Diversity and Unconscious Bias training, and our Developing Leaders Programme.
We have also:
The gender pay information provided in this report includes our statutory data as a public organisation with more than 250 employees for 31 March 2020.
The mean average gender pay gap at Bath Spa University is 13.1% and the median average is 21.8%.
In 2019 these figures were 17.1% and 23.2% respectively.
Our mean and median bonus pay gaps this year are both 0%.
This is because bonus payments of equal value were made to two people (one female and one male) during the reporting period.
This was the result of exceptional work.
This means that bonus payments were made to 0.12% of our female workforce and 0.19% of our male workforce.
If this last group were excluded from the calculations above, the mean average gender pay gap at Bath Spa would be 9.2% and the median would be 11.1%.
The current gender pay gap and Bath Spa is disappointing, but comparisons to our 2018 and 2019 data show that both the mean and median pay gaps are reducing.
We, as a community, must be committed to working together in addressing this vital moral and social challenge and ensure that we continue to reduce our gender pay gaps in future years.
Encouragingly, the number of our female staff in professorial roles has continued to increase, and now represents over 50% of our professorial headcount.
This means we've successfully hit one of our Equality Objectives before its 2021 deadline.
To date, we have introduced a number of measures that aim to reduce the gender pay gap at Bath Spa, including the Women’s Network, Diversity and Unconscious Bias training, and our Developing Leaders Programme.
Analysis of 17/18 pay data shows that there has been a reduction in the percentage of males being paid more than females across the University; the overall pay gap has decreased from 12.04% to 11.1%.
Analysis shows that the reason why overall men are paid more than women is the gender distribution of the University, in which male staff tend to be more highly represented within senior roles and female staff tend to be more highly represented in lower graded roles.
Whilst it is significant to note that analysis of the individual pay grades showed that all pay gaps present were within the 5% threshold, in general, women are more likely to start at the bottom spinal point of their respective grades than their male counterparts, and are more likely to leave BSU with a shorter length of service.
These two issues combine to create a situation where fewer women are reaching the top spinal points of their grade, thus creating gender pay gaps within individual grades.
These issues are broader equality issues around gender representation culturally and the University will continue to consult with staff and consider initiatives to increase gender representation across all levels as published in the University Equality Objectives.
The University has made steps to reduce the pay gap by doing the following:
The University continues to be committed to equality of opportunity for all staff and part of this commitment is equality in the application of its pay and grading structure to ensure equal pay for work of equal value and will undertake a further Equal Pay Review for 2021.
The mean average gender pay gap at Bath Spa University is 17.1% and the median average is 23.2%.
The median female bonus is £1,500 and the median male bonus is £5,750, which has led to the gender pay gap quoted.
These figures are based on a total of 18 people (12 female and 6 male) receiving a bonus as a result of exceptional work.
This constitutes only just over 1% of staff, therefore the statistics around bonus payments are not representative of the whole University.
Please note that these figures relate to the 2017/18 year.
We have looked ahead to our gender pay gap report for 2020 which will include figures from 2018/19 and have found that both the mean and median bonus pay gaps will be 0%.
The “Mean” is calculated by summing the hourly rates of each employee, then dividing by the number of employees.
The “Median” is the middle value when the hourly rates are ranked from smallest to largest.
If this last group were excluded from the calculations above, the mean average gender pay gap at Bath Spa would be 10.9% and the median would be 8.5%.
Equality is key to the success story of Bath Spa University.
In fact, we produced our own reports about equal pay, the Equal Pay Review, long before the 2017 legislation that required the publication of gender pay gap calculations came into place.
It is important to understand that these two reports and the statistics shown in them are different.
The Equal Pay Review looks at basic pay of salaried staff, whereas the Gender Pay Gap looks at all relevant staff (including associate lecturers and casual workers) who worked in March of the given year, and takes issues such as salary sacrifice into account.
Our Equal Pay Review compares the pay of male and female employees who are doing work of equal value and checks to see if there are any differences or inequalities.
In doing so, we can monitor the effectiveness of our pay framework and job evaluation processes which were put in place as part of our commitment to ensure equal pay of equal value.
The current gender pay gap at Bath Spa is disappointing, but reducing the gap is achievable.
We, as a community, must work together in addressing this vital moral and social challenge and things are moving in the right direction.
Encouragingly, an increasing number of our female staff are now in professorial roles which is higher than the sector average.
And, if we look ahead to our gender pay gap report for 2020, we know that both the mean and median bonus pay gaps will be 0%.
To date, we've introduced a number of measures that aim to reduce the gender pay gap at Bath Spa, including Diversity and Unconscious Bias training and our Developing Leaders Programme.
The mean average gender pay gap at Bath Spa is 17.2% and the median average is 23.7%.
"Mean" is the figure that's determined by adding all the numbers and dividing by the number of numbers.
The "median" is the middle value in the list of numbers, when the numbers are listed in numerical order from smallest to largest.
We, as a community, must work together in addressing this vital moral and social challenge.
If this last group were excluded from the calculations above, the mean average gender pay gap at Bath Spa would be 12.1% and the median would be 8.5%.
The median female bonus is £1,250 and the median male bonus is £1,500, which has led to the gender pay gap quoted.
These figures are based on a total of 11 people (eight female and three male) receiving a bonus as a result of exceptional work.
This constitutes less than 0.9% of staff, therefore the statistics around bonus payments are not representative of the whole University.
The Equal Pay Review looks at basic pay of salaried staff as a snapshot as of 31 July that year, whereas the Gender Pay Gap looks at all staff (including associate lecturers and casual workers) who worked in March of the given year, and takes issues such as salary sacrifice into account.
Our Equal Pay Review compares the pay of male and female employees who are doing equal work and checks to see if there are any differences or inequalities.
We've introduced a number of measures that aim to reduce the gender pay gap at Bath Spa, including Diversity and Unconscious Bias training and our Developing Leaders Programme.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/sustainability:
Our purpose is to make the world a better place, one student at a time.
We do this not only through our education and research, but also in everything we do as a business.
We recognise that this is a process of continual improvement and we're learning as we go.
We recognise and cherish the unique spaces in which we learn and work.
Our sustainability vision is to create sustainability-minded, socially-engaged global citizens, by using sustainability principles to guide our values, actions and curricula, and by leading by example.
Through its long-term planning approach and position of influence on future generations, the Higher Education sector is uniquely placed to demonstrate leadership in the field of carbon reduction and sustainability.
Discover our Sustainability Strategy , our Sustainability policy , our Climate Pledge and more in these pages.
For a complete list of our sustainability policies, please visit our Sustainability policies page .
Our response to sustainability has been to redouble our efforts to manage our climate impacts by declaring a Climate Emergency and confirming our target of Net Zero emissions by 2030, first established in 2018.
Our 2030 Sustainability Strategy
Our Sustainability Strategy is a live document managed by the Sustainability Steering Group.
It was last reviewed in June 2025.
Key sustainability policies
In addition to our University Sustainability policy , we have a range of policies for different elements of our journey towards Net Zero.
Find out more about our key sustainability policies
We offer a number of courses that develop learning
In addition to our teaching on sustainability, a number of academic staff engage in multi-disciplinary research on climate change, environmental humanities and conservation.
Some Research groups include:
20% of all our electricity comes from a wind turbine project in UK
100% of our energy across our Bath campuses comes from renewable sources
LEAF-certified
Fair trade certified
Bath Spa University and the Students’ Union have joined forces to declare a climate emergency.
We’ve published our pledges here, showing our support for the increasing global calls to tackle climate change, and echoing the climate emergency declarations made by universities across the UK.
University pledge
At Bath Spa University we are very aware of our responsibility for protecting our environment and over the last 10 years have worked hard to address the climate impacts of our university.
To date, we have reduced our carbon emissions by over 50% per m2, increased recycling rates to 80% of all University waste and improved the biodiversity on our sites through our biodiversity and habitat management plan.
But, we want to do more, so we’ve set out a pathway to net-zero carbon emissions by 2030 in our new Carbon Reduction Plan.
We will achieve this by:
Our focus so far has been on our environmental impacts from gas, electricity and vehicle emissions.
Going forward, we will be focussing much more widely and will use the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals as our framework to measure our progress.
Beyond 2030 we aim to become carbon net-positive to help make the world sustainable in the long-term.
This will be a whole-institution approach, through our procurement and investment, our curriculum and research, our business operations and our campus development decisions.
Students' Union pledge
At the Students’ Union, we feel passionate about all aspects of sustainability, particularly the environment, and take responsibility for the climate issues caused heavily by the UK.
We have a long way to go to become more sustainable, however, we know this is an emergency and we need to come together to do the best we can.
This is our future and we need to act now.
At the Students’ Union, we pledge to address the climate emergency with the following actions:
We're encouraging students, staff, and the wider Bath community to make your own pledge to pave the way in making a necessary change.
Spread the word by letting your family and friends know you have signed the pledge and follow our journey using #BathSpaClimatePledge
There's more we can do, so please contact su-president@bathspa.ac.uk or environment@bathspa.ac.uk with ideas for activities and initiatives you think we could introduce to help us achieve our pledge.
Some of the ways we're working towards our sustainability goals
By moving away from fossil fuels for heating and hot water, investigating renewables for energy generation, and improving our building fabric, we'll dramatically reduce our carbon emissions across BSU.
We're always looking to implement new and innovative and innovative ways of reducing our scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions on our journey to Net Zero emissions by 2030.
Ethically and sustainability managing our finances means we're supporting a greener future across the UK, making our money work for the causes we care about.
We work to inspiring our staff and students to make sustainable choices throughout their careers to influence the trajectory of sustainability in the UK and beyond.
Green Flag
We're working towards our Green Flag Accreditation at our historically significant Newton Park Campus.
This certification will reflect our hard work at maintaining our grounds, improving our biodiversity, and ensuring our campuses are beautiful places to be well into the future.
Sustainable Food
We're working to make food more sustainable on campus in the following ways:
Zero Emissions Transport
Getting to campus sustainably can be difficult, which is why we're focusing on making active and public transport options easier and more convenient.
Check our Sustainable travel policy and travel plan for more information.
Signatory of Concordant for the Environmental Sustainability of Research
BSU are a signatory of the Concordant for the Environmental Sustainability of Research and Innovation Practice .
This aims to improve practices and sustainability across many key themes within the sector.
More information on the Corcodant and what it means to be a signatory is available on the Wellcome website.
Ethical careers and recruitment
BSU are committed to ensuring our students have the best start to their careers, and provide guidance to all who may want it.
We'll also aim for students to have a 'green' career, and won't advertise for roles that don't align with our Ethical careers position statement.
BSU is also an accredited Living Wage employer .
Engagement with trade unions and student bodies
To ensure that all voices are heard and respected across the university, we'll invite representatives of students and trade unions to attend our sustainability steering group .
Education for sustainable development
This means ensuring all students are equipped with the knowledge they'll need to lead sustainable careers.
Our course leaders are audited on their confidence on and inclusion of sustainability in their courses, ensuring everyone has a chance to learn about how their passions can influence the future of our planet.
Bath Spa University champions sustainability all year round, but Green Week is a great opportunity to put it in the spotlight.
In the last year, our BSU community has saved over 4500 disposable cups from landfill with our reusable cup scheme.
In October 2024, the University expanded its spiky family at Newton Park campus, offering a safe haven to two new hedgehogs.
BSU is one of only five UK universities to be awarded the Social Enterprise Gold Mark.
We're passionate about raising awareness of social enterprises.
While sustainability is part of every staff member’s role, we also have a Sustainability team supported by colleagues with responsibility for sustainability in key areas.
In addition to our Sustainability team, progression towards our goals is overseen by the Sustainability Steering Group.
What does the Sustainability Steering Group do?
The Sustainability Steering Group (SSG) is a decision-making and governance committee that consists of senior management from across the University and includes representation from individuals within academia, research, the student body, professional services and executive leadership.
The (SSG) is currently responsible for:
Meet the SSG
Our core team responsible focused on delivering the Sustainability Strategy:
They are supported by colleagues with responsibility for sustainability in their areas.
For more information, email the team on environment@bathspa.ac.uk .
You can also follow us on Facebook and Instagram for updates on all things sustainability at BSU!

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/sustainability/sustainability-policies:
Our Sustainability Strategy outlines our action plan and targets to improve the sustainability of 10 key areas within the Universities activities.
Alongside our Carbon Reduction management plan this forms our environmental policy.
These are ‘Live documents’ updated to reflect current plans and priorities at BSU.
We’ve been certified to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 standards, which are audited both internally and externally annually.
Each year, our dedicated £50k sustainability budget is used to investigate and implement methods of engagement and impact reduction across the University.
This is supplemented by the wider Estates budget for upgrades to our campuses, working to implement our Carbon Reduction Management Plan.
Carbon Reduction Management Plan
Carbon reduction management plan
Our Carbon Reduction Management Plan aims to provide direction for our overall carbon reduction strategy.
This document acts as a policy for BSU to focus on our most impactful areas, and is updated regularly.
Waste reduction plans
BSU have set targets to reduce waste, including within our Food Waste Minimisation Plan , and our Sustainability Strategy .
With these targets we aim to reduce the amount of waste produced, as well as ensure it is disposed of in a sustainable manner to support a circular economy.
None of our waste is sent to landfill.
Food sustainability policies and projects
BSU are currently Fairtrade accredited, reflecting the work done to promote fairtrade, and the products sold across campus.
We are working towards Food for Life and Green Kitchen Standard accreditations, and expect these to be awarded summer 2025.
Vegetarian and planet based food is available at all of our food outlets, and one (our Pitta Bar) is completely meat-free.
We also support community involvement in our food supply, by working with the grounds team to collect and use fruits grown on site.
We have a shared allotment space at Newton Park that’s open to all students to grow fruit and veg, from first time growers to expert gardeners.
Find out more about our allotments on our Growing Spaces page.
You can find out more in our Sustainable food policy and Food Waste Minimisation Plan .
Managing biodiversity on campus.
Our beautiful grounds are a source of pride for BSU, and we aim to look after them well, with annual biodiversity monitoring and reporting, as well as living lab opportunities offered throughout many of our Bath based courses.
We have set specific targets for biodiversity within our Sustainability Strategy , and are also working towards our Green Flag certificate to recognise the hard work we do to maintain and improve our historic surroundings.
Travel and transport
Travel and transport are recognised as an important part of our sustainability strategy, where we’ve set specific goals to improve our active and public travel uptake.
We work closely alongside the Students Union to improve the buses available for travel to our campuses, and have set specific goals to improve air quality and reduce staff business and commuting emissions.
Our Travel Plan and Travel Policy provide more detail.
Purchasing and procurement policy
Bath Spa University understands that the goods and services procured in the course of University business have environmental, social and economic impacts throughout the supply chain, as well as financial impacts upon Bath Spa University.
Our Sustainable procurement policy contains more detail.
Water use reduction
Our policy and targets for water use reduction are included within our Sustainability Strategy .
We aim to improve our resource efficiency as well as investigate innovative ways of reducing consumption and promoting reuse.
Construction
BSU are aware that construction is a significant source of emissions, and as a growing organisation we must ensure any new or refurbished builds are as sustainable as possible.
Our Sustainability Strategy and Sustainable Construction Policy lay out our goals for this area.
The University understands that our estates are the biggest producers of scope 1 and 2 emissions.
We recognise and cherish the unique spaces in which we learn and work and we're working hard to improve efficiency and reduce our impact.
Ethical careers position statement
We are committed to ensuring students have access to green career prospects, and will only advertise jobs that align with our ethical careers position statement.
Sustainability team
We have a dedicated sustainability team at BSU, but all staff are involved in sustainability in one way or another.
Our current team is as follows:
Sustainability Manager: Ripley Hill-Nixon
Sustainability Co-ordinator: Harry Richardson, Emma Jakins
Energy Performance Officer: Eve Winwood
Eco champions network
We understand that to make a difference, we need everyone at the university to get involved.
For this reason we host an Eco champions network , where our members of staff can get involved in our schemes, and start their own initiatives.
Key responsibilities are to:
Any staff member with a passion and drive for sustainability is welcome to join the Environment Champion Network .
We aim to have at least once representative from each department and school across all Bath Spa campuses.
Meetings are open to all employees and are held quarterly.
Living Wage Organisation
BSU are committed to looking after our employees, and are accredited as a Living Wage Employer.
Workers' rights
Bath Spa University are signed up to the Can’t buy my silence pledge, a campaign committed to end the misue of NDAs to buy victims' silence.
We are also committed to sustainable procurement practices, and are covered under the Southern Universities Purchasing Consortium by the Electronics Watch to ensure fair treatment of workers in global supply chains.
The University is committed to ensuring equal pay and conditions of employment for directly employed staff and for individuals hired outside of the University’s internal staff workforce, often referred to as outsourced workers.
We expect outsourced workers to receive equivalent pay to that of staff directly employed by the University for undertaking equivalent roles and tasks, and as we are proud to be an accredited Living Wage employer, no less than the Real Living Wage for the time they are employed.
We also ask contractors to pay at least the Real Living Wage rate to staff assigned to work under tendered contracts for the duration of the contract.
We commit to regular review of all individuals hired outside of our internal staff workforce to ensure ongoing equality of pay and conditions for all staff and workers involved with the University.
We are proud of the work that we have completed in partnership with our Trade Union, UCU, to introduce permanent Teaching Fellow contracts, which have reduced the use of casual academic contracts at Bath Spa University.
Providing greater job security for those working within these roles.
As at May 2025, the proportion of academic hours worked by those on a fixed term contract compared with those hours worked by individuals on a permanent contract was 5.83%.
This data set will be reviewed on an annual basis to ensure we maintain an appropriate proportion of academic staff on fixed term contracts.
Staff and student engagement policy
E ngaging with our staff and students is key to reducing our environmental impact .
This policy outlines how we will engage with staff and students , our targets and reporting mechanisms .
BSU have also signed up to Green Impact, a methodology to engage with staff across the university, encourage more sustainable action, and involve students in our annual auditing process.
Sustainability reaches further than the environment and our estate, and we believe we have a social responsibility to ensure all BSU activities align with our net zero goal.
The Careers and Employability Service supports Bath Spa’s sustainability and responsible investment goals, ensuring students and graduates have access to an impartial service that aligns with their values and aspirations.
BSU is committed to socially responsible investment and ethical financial management.
Responsible investment policy
Bath Spa University (BSU) holds an active, robust and publicly available which applies to the full scope of the Institutions investments.
BSU is fully committed to acting in a socially responsible manner, its policy sets out consideration of Environmental, Social and Governmental (ESG) issues relating to all decisions regarding the Universities investment portfolio.
Our Responsible Investment Policy is reviewed regularly by the Finance and Infrastructure committee to ensure the policy remains fit for purpose.
Any proposed changes are subject to approval by the Board of Governors.
This has been actively reviewed in the prior 5 years.
Ethical banking
The University is committed to ensuring the banks we hold deposits with are aligned with our sustainability goals, and comply with our Responsible banking and treasury policy .
Financial statements
Annual reports and financial statements for previous years are available online .
Annual list of investments
As part of our 2030 Net Zero target, we think it’s essential that our investments support the decarbonisation agenda.
In addition to our Fossil Free Pledge, we’ve developed a Responsible Investment Policy, which prevents us from investing in companies with corporate behaviour that leads to "Environmental Damage or Climate Change", which excludes investment in the fossil fuel industry.
To ensure this is upheld, we have in place a Financial Portfolio Committee, which reports to the Board of Governors .
In line with our compliance requirements governed by our regulator the OfS, we publish our financial statements within our annual report on an annual basis.
This report contains a summary of our sustainability work during the year.
To ensure transparency and in line with sustainability best practice, we also publish an annual report on our investment portfolio and its holdings .
Fossil Free Pledge
Bath Spa University has no investments in extractor fossil fuel companies and commits to ensuring that they will be excluded from any future investments we make .
Read more about our commitment in our Fossil free pledge.
Financial management team
Our Finance and Infrastructure committee advises on the management of the University's assets, reporting to the Board of Governors.
A list of committee members that oversee investments can be found in the Finance and Infrastructure Committee Terms of Reference.
Meeting minutes can be found in the Board of Governors’ Documents archive list.
The university commits to including student representation on its investment committee(s) and there are clear ongoing opportunities for the wider student body and staff community to engage with the policy.
There is a commitment, on an annual basis, to publicly disclose/list all investments being held in different companies across all asset classes and the market value of those holdings (at minimum, listing what percentage of the university’s investment holdings is invested in different sectors), with a link to or explanation about where that list can be found.
At BSU we're proud of the work we do to prepare our students with the knowledge, understanding, skills and attributes needed to work and live in a way that safeguards environmental, social and economic wellbeing, both in the present and for the future.
One of the ways we embed sustainability in our curriculum is through our living labs programme.
We also provide support for lecturers to include sustainability in their teaching.
Other ways the university prioritises Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) include:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/sustainability/growing-spaces:
There are always things to do in the allotments; from planting to weeding, it’s a great place to take a break and spend some time in nature.
We have all the tools and equipment you may need to get growing!
We’ve also opened this space to Southside Youth Connect Centre, allowing growing space for one-to-one sessions with their students, where they can gain a new life skill.
Our Catering team also uses this space.
We're currently growing vegetables that can be used in the meal kits provided at the monthly cooking classes which will be starting in the next academic year.
From onions to tomatoes, we aim to grow as much as possible in our allotment space to reduce the costs (and carbon footprint!) of our meal kits.
Bath Spa Students Union also have a Gardening Society who utilise the Allotment Space.
You can find more information on the SU website
If you’d like to use this space, please email envrionment@bathspa.ac.uk for more information.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/sustainability/student-campaign-grant:
Our new Sustainability Campaign Grant is available to students of Bath Spa University to run an innovative campaign focused on a sustainability or environmental issue.
We'll be funding projects that aim to either promote, tackle and help to solve, or engage students and staff in a sustainability or environmental issue that is impacted by, or impacts, daily life at Bath Spa University.
A funding pool of up to £500 is available.
This could be awarded to one campaign for the full amount, or to multiple projects with smaller budgets totalling £500 (e.g.
funding of two projects that each apply for £250).
The grant is open and applications are welcome all year round.
Your project must be relevant to Bath Spa University campuses or students, and should be run by teams of three or more students with clearly outlined responsibilities and goals.
The kind of projects we may fund include:
We can't fund these sorts of projects or campaigns:
Please be aware that we will only be able to part fund projects that are expected to cost over £500.
Your grant proposal must include:
Any Bath Spa University students (who will be registered as students at the time of the campaign) can apply.
To apply, please complete the Sustainability Campaign Grant application form .
Please consider the information required for the application with your team before you complete the application form.
If you have any questions, please email environment@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/strategy-2030:
Our mission is to use creativity and innovation to successfully address the key issues of our age.
We are a resourceful university with roots in the synergies between employers and creativity that are the drivers of sustainable economic development.
We pride ourselves on our sense of community and our nurturing ethos.
Our excellent teaching and research are intertwined, novel and bold: we value the links between thinking, making and doing.
We welcome the diversity of our students and value their individual narratives; we are a place where students change their lives and change the world.
We believe in the power of people to imagine and realise solutions for any problem and in the next decade we will apply our skills to global challenges and local opportunities.
We will look outwards, establishing centres of inclusive teaching excellence wherever there is a need.
While looking outwards we will be rooted in Bath, our City of Imagination, where we are essential to the region.
Wherever we work, we will carry the creative values of the West of England as our lodestone.
Our ambition is to bring professional creativity to the heart of all that we do, so that we are:
We will be judged by our achievements:
We will realise these ambitions through developing four major themes of work:
The purpose of the Education Strategy is to challenge our students and staff to realise their talent and thrive, for their own benefit and for the wider good.
As an explorative applied learning community we will nurture lifelong learning capabilities, instilling the curiosity and confidence all our students need to navigate a challenging ever changing world of opportunity.
By doing this, we will think and make the world better.
Our Widening Participation strategy outlines our commitment to championing the transformative power of education in line with our ambitions stated in our Strategy 2030.
Through working in partnerships with educational providers through our communities and beyond we hope to remove barriers to opportunity both individually and collectively for wider societal benefit.
The purpose of the Educational Partnerships Strategy is to support the University's ambitions stated in its Strategy 2030, setting out our vision, and the key principles and principal objectives for our educational partnership activities.
Through working in partnerships with educational providers we aim to teach students from a wider range of backgrounds, and from a wider geographic reach, on a wider range of qualifications and, in doing so, add value to individuals and communities locally, nationally and globally.
Working across the University in collaboration with academic and professional services departments, students, alumni and the Students’ Union, and led by our three international-facing teams, GALA, Go Global and European Projects, our International Strategy aims to deepen and further develop international connections and activities that enhance our teaching and research.
The University’s aim is to embed internationalisation in everything we do across our core activities at home and abroad.
The purpose of the Research Strategy is to focus our research on areas of proven excellence and academic sustainability, and to create a distinctive and internationally recognised profile of innovative research.
Our goal is to become a vibrant and well-connected hub for new ideas, without internal boundaries, and with an international reputation for creativity, culture, and enterprise in research.
We'll achieve this by embedding the University’s core values of Respect, Inclusivity, Collaboration, and Sustainability into all of our activities.
We'll ensure that research underpins everything we do and actively engage with stakeholders from the local, regional, and global communities.
This approach will foster a culture of excellence and promote research that highlights our strengths and challenges disciplinary boundaries.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/strategy-2030/international-strategy:
Bath Spa University aims to be an innovative and resourceful University that challenges our students and staff to realise their talent, for their own benefit and for the wider good.
In doing so, the University aims to make the world better by looking to Bath, the region and beyond, applying our skills to global challenges and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) and welcoming and broadening the diversity of our students and staff and their multiple narratives with a dedicated focus on student experience and international recruitment.
Read our International Strategy 2030 .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/strategy-2030/creativity:
We will apply creativity to all that we do, and to the global and human challenges that face society.
We will develop compelling narratives that move people to action.
We will conduct excellent research that has significant impact and relevance.
We will celebrate and nurture the capacity for creativity and innovation in all of our community, be they learners, makers or professional staff.
Creativity and innovation are essential to solve the wicked problems of the current age, globally and locally, from climate change to levelling-up.
We are the creative heart of the West and will ensure that creativity and innovation are embedded across our region at all levels and scales, to ensure that we're central to finding these solutions.
We're a creative community, engaged in the production of new knowledge, new understandings, new objects, new ideas and new narratives.
We'll work across disciplines and with external partners to create work that is locally, nationally and internationally relevant.
We'll focus on large scale projects that will have a transformational effect on the university and the region, but also value each small act of innovation, creativity and kindness.
Our students and staff will be steadfast in engaging with the uncertainty of new ways of thinking and making.
We will understand, and be immersed in, the cultural context from which creativity springs.
We're critically engaged and contextually aware, conscious citizens at whatever stage of our lives and careers.
We value this in our colleagues and instil it into our learners.
Our research is characterised by our ability to work between the abstract and the object in unique and challenging ways.
Critically, our research supports student learning and opens horizons for their enhanced study.
Our growing reputation for generating internationally significant and world-leading research and artefacts will ensure that by 2030 the University is identified with thought-leadership driven by a skills base of unique richness.
By 2030 we will be working internationally with strong partner universities and will see success through a track record of growth in our externally funded international research projects.
Our success in REF 2021 has enabled us to target areas where we can make our mark and we will have channelled our learning into these pathways for maximum impact and reach.
We will create a sustained record of the highest recognition of the work we produce by giving our staff and students a context in which to flourish creatively, and a confidence that this is a core value of the university.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/strategy-2030/enterprise:
To each of these partnerships, we'll bring our core values and our creative professionalism to bear, ensuring that whilst each partnership is unique, all are identifiably influenced by our distinctive identity.
These partnerships will:
Our approach will include, but not be limited to:
Whether we build satellite campuses, strategic educational partnerships, or long-standing links with other bodies, we will focus on our core attributes of nurture and creativity and our determined ambition to make a difference, in order to add value to individuals and communities locally, nationally and globally.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/strategy-2030/talent:
We will identify and develop talent wherever we find it, in our staff, our students and our partnerships and ensure that our culture is one of trust, known for nurturing potential.
We will focus on the personal growth and aspirations of our students, building their confidence and agency to meet local and global challenges through personal action.
Our students will thrive in their chosen career pathways and be equipped for the uncertainty and excitement of long and varied working lives.
We will develop a dynamic academic portfolio which ensures that students aspire to study with us, and contributes to their success after graduation.
We will ensure that we create the conditions for our staff to be confident and thriving individuals able to reach their full potential.
We will develop pathways for students from applicants to alumni, which focus on support, challenge, skills development and engagement.
Our student experience will be characterised by:
We'll work with students, their supporters and family to prepare them for the transition to university and in their learning journey through their qualification.
Digital technology will enable access to services that are targeted, timely and personalised.
We'll work with external partners to ensure that our students can get help 24/7, wherever they are.
Our sector-leading Bath Spa Student Wellbeing Services Hub will provide a welcoming physical space where students can access face-to-face physical and mental health support.
Wellbeing in a wider context will be supported by a wide range of activities and opportunities, focussed on the premium parts of our estate and will be available to students and staff.
Our students will be active and engaged, making full use of the grounds, facilities and societies across our campuses.
Our staff will feel part of a supportive and enabling community.
Expectations will be clear and shared, with success across a wide range of activities being encouraged, recognised and celebrated.
Every member of staff will make a difference to our community and will be valued.
We'll all live by our values of inclusivity, sustainability, respect and collaboration.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/strategy-2030/enablers:
We will grow sustainably, at a scale and pace commensurate with our character and our opportunities, and sufficient to enable financial sustainability, in Bath and beyond
We will prioritise financial sustainability, generating the capacity to invest within our strategic aims
We will work ethically and inclusively, towards the highest external standards of corporate behaviour.
We will be engaged in learning internationally in ways that add value to our offer and esteem to our institution.
Our success is contingent on making good choices about our size and academic offer.
It is facilitated by our partnerships and engagement, for shared benefit or financial return, beyond the university.
In 2030 we will be teaching a wider range of qualifications, alone and in partnerships with businesses and educational providers.
We'll be teaching students from a wider range of backgrounds, and from a wider geographic reach, to a common standard of excellence and ambition.
Our work is enabled by our commitment to our physical and digital estates, in which we will invest.
We will innovatively harness technology, data and digital opportunities to support our aims.
Our digital footprint will be robust, dependable and well used.
Our approach to data will reflect our values, developing understanding and efficiencies, but always reflecting our focus on the individual, their rights and needs.
We will cherish and develop our estate and use it sustainably and to the full.
We will value our employees as the key requisite for our success and ensure that our processes and policies are clear and enabling.
We will develop a structure, systems and processes that enable us to meet our wider goals.
We will grow internally and through educational partnerships, to allow us to be more robust in the face of long-term uncertainty about higher education funding and regulation, whilst holding that growth to a rate and scale that ensures that our community and relations with partners remains robust and interconnected and facilitates the excellent teaching, learning and support at the heart of what we do.
By 2030 we'll have a student body of around 9300 students, up from around 8000 in 2020.
Most of this growth will be accomplished in the second half of the decade, as our consolidated and unique approach becomes well known.
We'll have a similar number of students studying in BSUL and with educational partners.
We anticipate ending the decade as a more selective institution, as applications exceed places, but we'll ensure that this selectivity is sensitive to all forms of student talent.
Our academic portfolio will have strong appeal to applicants and employers.
It will have a strong and proud interdisciplinary and cross- disciplinary component.
It will be generated through engagement with students, applicants and employers.
It will be skills-focussed and will engage with a creative, research-informed culture.
It will be radical in embracing emerging ways of learning and assessing learning.
It'll focus on student wellbeing and challenge students to the highest levels of learning and making.
In 2030 we will be teaching across a broader range of educational levels than at present.
We'll be teaching a wider range of qualifications, and with a wide partnership of businesses and other education providers.
We'll be engaged in learning internationally in ways that add value to our offer and esteem to our institution.
We'll husband our resources and allocate them carefully, recognising that most of our income derives from students and should be used in their support and in the enhancement of their learning experience.
At the same time, we'll look to expand our income generation through educational partnerships, research, the commercialisation of our creative activities, entrepreneurship and a bolder use of our estate.
We'll be open and transparent in our financial planning.
We will ensure that we invest in a workforce of the right size and shape to meet our ambitions, and in developments to our physical and digital estate where necessary.
We will work to support the financial wellbeing of our staff through addressing issues around pensions and pay, in partnership with the sector and using best practice from wherever we find it.
We'll work to develop financial support for our students at all stages of their learning journey, through scholarships and work opportunities.
Wherever possible, we'll employ our own staff rather than using contract staff, and we will employ our own students to work with us across a variety of roles in the University and on contract for creative and design work.
We will recognise and cherish the unique spaces in which we learn and work.
We will maintain and develop them sustainably and in support of our students and our staff: the work they do and their wellbeing will drive our decisions around investment and use of space.
We will also explore the opportunities of our estate for income generation and in support of a wider engagement with our community.
Our buildings will be appropriate to our World Heritage context.
We'll recognise that almost all of our work will take place in a blended manner, partly face-to-face and partly using digital and technological capabilities.
Our digital footprint will be robust, dependable and well- used.
Our use of data will reflect our values, developing efficiencies; but always reflecting our focus on the individual, their rights and needs.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/mental-health-charter:
The University Mental Health Charter (MHC) was created by Student Minds through consultation with thousands of university staff and students.
The MHC Framework provides a set of evidence-informed principles to support universities to adopt a whole-university approach to mental health and wellbeing, create cultural change and demonstrate excellent practice.
Bath Spa University is committed to achieving the University Mental Health Charter and is taking a whole-university approach.
We're engaging across the University, and at every level, with a view to capturing where we are now, reflecting on how we deliver what we do and identifying where we can improve.
The Charter Framework is divided into 18 themes, clustered as domains:
So far, the project team has had conversations with a range of staff across Bath Spa, many of whom work directly in the provision of student and staff support and wellbeing services .
The priority for Semester One of the 2022/23 academic year is to speak with a diverse range of students and staff from across the University, including the Students’ Union, to seek your perspective and experience.
We've recruited a recent Bath Spa graduate to work as Mental Health Charter Intern, and they'll be facilitating student interviews and focus groups.
Student participation is essential to enable a holistic review of Bath Spa University’s approach to the provision of inclusive mental health and wellbeing support for our whole community.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/social-enterprise:
As a social enterprise, we’re proud to put people, communities and the environment at the heart of our work.
Find out more about our social enterprise activity and accreditations in these pages.
Our purpose starts with our students and staff but extends to our local, regional and global communities through our teaching and learning, research and partnerships.
We're excited to be launching the Bath Social Impact Network in partnership with 3SG.
The Network brings together like-minded groups and individuals to improve and grow the social economy in B&NES.
Whether you’re a social enterprise, B Corp, CIC, co-op, or interested in the work of these types of organisations, we’re here to support you on your journey.
As part of the Bath Social Impact Network , we run sessions specially tailored for businesses and individuals working in social, community and environmental impact areas in BaNES.
Whether you already work in these areas, are looking to grow or set up a new impact organisation or looking for one to partner with, you’re more than welcome to join us at one of our events.
Find out more about our upcoming events.
We’re proud to be a certified member of Social Enterprise UK (SEUK) – the leading global authority and largest network of social enterprises in the UK.
In 2021/22 we delivered:
In addition:
In 2021/22 we:
We hosted 33 equality and diversity events , including:
In addition, our students raised £5,502 for the British Heart Foundation through the Pack for Good campaign.
13 March 2025
19 February 2025
31 January 2025
If you have any queries please contact bsin@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/culture-and-values/social-enterprise/bath-social-impact-network:
Bath Spa University and 3SG have set up the Bath Social Impact Network (BSIN) to fill a gap identified for businesses and individuals working in social, community and environmental impact areas in Bath and North East Somerset (BaNES).
If you want to meet and connect with like-minded and purpose-driven individuals and businesses then this network is for you.
You’ll also have the opportunity to attend sessions specially tailored to help grow and develop the social economy.
We aim to bring together those working for good in the BaNES region, making us stronger together.
We’ll be running sessions specially tailored for businesses and individuals working in social, community and environmental impact areas in BaNES.
Across the network, we’ve heard a shared challenge: finding and sustaining income streams can feel overwhelming.
Whether it’s grant funding, corporate support, or aligning with social value goals, many Bath Social Impact Network members have said you’re not sure where to start or how to take your next step.
This event is a direct response to that.
Join us for a relaxed and informative panel conversation with local funders, bid writers, and social value specialists*.
Together, we’ll explore and exchange ways to open up income opportunities.
Whether you’re a grassroots organisation, a social enterprise, or a business looking to deepen your community impact, all are welcome.
Book now
We welcomed eight BSIN members to showcase their business to the network and take questions from their fellow members.
The room was full of amazing work from across the BSIN network and an evening of fun and connection was had by all.
We welcomed over 55 guests to our relaunch event, including BSU staff, BSIN's partner 3SG, and social enterprises, cultural organisations and B Corps from across Bath and North East Somerset.
Attendees heard from guest speakers representing each of these new areas: Sue Marchant from Cool Ventures, Rob Campbell from Bath and North East Somerset Council and Dan Gregory from Social Enterprise UK.
Attendees also had a chance to network with each other and discuss collaboration opportunities, whilst enjoying a glass of fizz and canapes provided by Bath Community Kitchen, who use communal meals and cookery workshops to improve people’s physical and mental wellbeing in Bath and surrounding areas.
We were joined by Stacey Pottinger, who spoke to us about evaluating social impact, how to apply frameworks and creative methods to your data, and what content to use for impact reporting.
We welcomed members of the network to discuss how social enterprises in the region can grow.
Dan Gregory from Social Enterprise UK discussed the growth of Social Enterprises in the region and the policies associated with social enterprises.
We also heard from Annie Legge from Tech4Good South West, who spole of her experience founding multiple social enterprises here in the West of England.
We welcomed 3SG to our June networking event, who told us all about Social Economy West and the exciting opportunities it offers.
Social Economy West is a West of England Mayoral Combined Authority initiative designed to support and grow the social economy in the region, helping organisations to overcome increasing demand amid the cost-of-living crisis.
It’ll provide charities, third sector organisations, social enterprises and co-operatives with the resources, expertise and guidance they need.
We also heard more about Cool Ventures' Business Support Services.
We heard from some of our amazing members about the journeys they've been on in setting up their organisations.
Our guest speakers were Rebecca Cross from Pulse on Prosperity Working Together CIC , Iain Bruce from Brew Crew and Rob Lewis from Bath Community Kitchen .
We were joined by Nichola McAvoy from Social Enterprise UK (SEUK), the biggest network of social enterprises in the UK.
Nichola spoke to us about the work SEUK do under their strapline of "Creating an environment for Social Enterprises to thrive."
Attendees heard about the exciting role they're playing on the national stage and the role your organisation can play in working together to influence policy.
Nichola also updated us on SEUK's Social Enterprise Place scheme, which recognises hot spots of Social Enterprise activity.
We were thrilled to celebrate the first anniversary of Bath Social Impact Network at Newark Works.
We heard from Isobel Michael and Claire Wynne Hughes about Giving Circles and the current funding landscape of BaNES.
Attendees then had the chance to network and discuss how they could contribute to the ever-changing funding landscape.
Our festive networking event was a chilled evening with home baked goods and great conversation.
Attendees relaxed and reminisced on how the year had gone for us all.
By joining the network you’ll belong to a group of like-minded members who are keen to work together to grow and learn from each other.
Opportunities will include:
We’re interested to know what you’d like from the network and how we can make it work best for our members.
Bath Spa University and 3SG have set up the Bath Social Impact Network in partnership.
Bath Spa University is a certified member of Social Enterprise UK and brings to the network its expertise in social enterprise, social value and entrepreneurship.
BSU will be running the in-person events.
3SG is an independent membership network supporting the charity, social enterprise, faith and voluntary sector operating in Bath and North East Somerset (BaNES).
To the network, they bring their expertise in managing other networks in the region and will be running the online events.
If you have any questions, please get in touch on bsin@bathspa.ac.uk .
Read the Bath Social Impact Network privacy notice .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/performance:
Bath Spa University is an Approved (fee cap) Registered Provider with the Office for Students (OfS).
You can find the OfS Register of higher education providers here .
Bath Spa University is proud to be a member of the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) as part of its approach to the assurance of academic standards and the quality of its programmes of study and the learning opportunities for students.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/performance/nss:
The NSS provides valuable information from our students about their course and their experience at Bath Spa University.
The more Bath Spa University students who participate, the better and more useful the data.
Aimed at final year students, the NSS asks a range of questions about your course experience including teaching quality, learning resources and student voice.
Whether your time at Bath Spa University has been great, or you think some aspects of it could have been better, this is a chance to give your honest views about your experiences and about your course.
Your feedback counts.
When students respond to the NSS, we listen.
Thanks to the responses from students like you, we have made improvements to our study support through the academic advisor programme, upgraded learning resources (IT, Wi-fi, software and library access on our campuses) and integrated 24-hour student feedback and voice through the online platform Unitu.
The NSS is a vital source of invaluable feedback for the University.
It helps us to improve the experience for future students, and also provides essential official data for prospective students who are considering higher education.
The data is made public to help inform student choice on the Discover Uni undergraduate course search; anyone considering higher education in the UK can find out what our students thought about each of our courses to help them decide what to study and where.
The 2025 National Student Survey (NSS) is open for responses from Wednesday 8 January 2025 until Wednesday 30 April 2025.
For each student who participated in the 2024 NSS, the University donated monies to three local charities.
This raised a total of £2,250 for:
The survey is a vital source of invaluable feedback for the University about your course, used to drive improvements and enhancements for future students.
Your opinions matter and can lead to real change within Bath Spa.
By taking the survey you have the opportunity to win 1 of ten £100 cash prizes and also help raise money for three local charities selected by your fellow students:
“Bath Mind would like to say a big thank you to Bath Spa University for generously nominating us as part of the National Student Survey campaign.
This donation will help to ensure that Bath Mind can continue to provide essential mental health support services to the B&NES community.”
"Bath Cats & Dogs Home is hugely grateful for the support from the Bath Spa University students through the 2024 National Student Survey.
It costs us more than £2 million a year to run, covering rescuing, rehabilitating and rehoming our animals, so the support means we can continue our work with vulnerable cats and dogs, and continue to transform lives."
"In an emergency, every second counts, every pair of hands makes a difference, and so does every penny.
These funds enable us to provide support where it is needed most.
Since the start of this conflict, staff and volunteers across the Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement have been on the ground, risking – and losing – their lives to provide far-reaching humanitarian and medical care to those in need.
We want to thank the students at Bath Spa University for their hard work and dedication to raising vital funds for the British Red Cross' Israel & Occupied Palestinian Territories appeal."

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks:
We are proud of our partnerships with the creative and cultural sector in Bath.
To strengthen our work alongside our cultural and educational partners, Bath Spa University has appointed a Creative and Cultural Officer who focuses on a broader network of arts organisations and freelance artists across Bath and North East Somerset.
The role looks at ways of helping artists, arts organisations, and creative freelancers develop their careers through better connecting and partnering.
We've teamed up with fantastic partner colleges in the UK and overseas to bring you even more great courses to kick-start your creative career.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/bath-spa-live:
Bath Spa Live is Bath Spa University’s way of presenting the creativity of our students and staff to the public.
Our talented community of performing artists, academics and practitioners are able to showcase their skills and passion to audiences by holding events in physical and virtual spaces around Bath.
Bath Spa Live manages performance activities at a diverse range of venues and we work with professional and community partners to forge dynamic, creative relationships.
We connect local and regional audiences with culture, and enable our students to work with industry professionals to further their careers.
Explore our full programme of events, workshops and discussions which take place at a wide range of venues across Bath and the surrounding areas.
There are also a number of virtual events with visiting artists and speakers to enjoy from the comfort of your own home.
From classical music to art exhibitions, debates on cultural topics to engaging workshops, Bath Spa Live is your ticket to culture.
The main car park at Newton Park is at the far end of the campus, about 6-8 minutes walk from the University Theatre, Michael Tippett Centre and Commons.
If arriving by car, you may wish to drop passengers off at the venue before parking.
Check out full instructions on how to get to the Newton Park campus as well as parking charges for those visiting by car.
The Michael Tippett Centre and University Theatre are some way from the main Newton Car Park, so if necessary, please use the drop-off point opposite the University Theatre.
Parking is free after 6.00pm or free at all times if you are a blue badge holder.
Please display your badge at all times.
We take your right to privacy seriously and want you to feel comfortable using our website.
This Privacy Policy does not apply to other entities that we do not own or control or persons that are not our employees, agents or within our control.
If you booked your ticket online, you will have booked through the TicketSource website, and their privacy policy is on their website .
As you will see, TicketSource will provide us with the necessary data to ensure your admission to an event, and the safe operation of the event.
As part of Bath Spa University, we adhere to university policies and standards.
Find out more on our Policies page .
We may ask you if you want to stay in contact with us, and you will have the option to change this arrangement with every communication we make with you.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/3sg:
3SG aims to raise the profile of their members and the partner companies they work with, provide focused support and allow space to influence strategic decision making.
3SG host a number of events and workshops, such as charity events and training.
They have a community driven focus, assisting their members with challenges such as sourcing sufficient volunteers, finding sustainable funding, and developing partnerships.
3SG and Bath Spa University collaborate on the Bath Social Impact Network (BSIN) , which aims to fill a gap identified for businesses and individuals working in social, cultural, community and environmental impact areas in B&NES.
BSIN has recently been relaunched with three strands focusing on social enterprises, cultural organisations and B Corps, with the aim of growing and developing the regional economy in these areas.
Keep up to date with the latest from 3SG on their:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/bath-arts-collective:
Bath Arts Collective (BAC) was founded by three talented and experienced arts professionals, Kate Hall, Kate Abbey and Jasmine Barker.
Between them, they have created, produced and marketed over 2,500 events across books, music and film festivals: an incredible and award-winning track record.
Their mission is to provide a rolling programme of curated events centred around books, film, art, and music.
Additionally, they provide consultancy services on events programming, production and marketing.
They want to bring together arts organisations and venues across the city by creating a network that collaborates and supports each other.
Through this partnership, Bath Spa University sponsored BAC’s Curious Minds Festival in March 2025, which included a collaborative event with renowned BBC journalist and presenter Ros Atkins.
Ros visited the Newton Park Campus to discuss his book and share the secrets he learned from years of working in high-pressure newsrooms, with guests leaving having learned valuable tips for their communications toolset.
As part of BAC’s festival, BSU also developed events of special interest for students and recent graduates.
BAC’s energy and aims echo many of the University’s own goals, particularly surrounding creativity, inclusivity, and diversifying the landscape of events and opportunities across the City of Bath.
Keep up to date with the latest from Bath Arts Collective on their:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/bath-carnival:
Every year in July, Bath Carnival hold their highly anticipated carnival, a day filled with a vibrant parade and live music, finishing with an evening after-party.
With the inclusion of dancers, musicians, volunteers, and those simply there to enjoy the spectacle, the whole community can get involved with Bath Carnival.
Bath Carnival holds a range of workshops and events throughout the year in the run up to the parade, which involve construction of carnival props and puppets, as well as events with other partnered organisations such as Komedia .
Bath Carnival work closely with Theatre, Festival and Events students, offering placement opportunities working in their studio.
Students can upskill in specialist subject areas such as design and workshop delivery and obtain a better understanding of large-scale community arts projects and project management.
Bath Carnival also offers two free puppetry masterclasses, specifically delivered for students and young artists in B&NES.
These introduce the skill and concepts of puppetry, as well as actual construction.
Bath Carnival also invites students to participate in the Carnival itself through volunteering.
Whether this is being a Performer in the procession, Festival Steward, Photographer or Support Artist, there are many opportunities for students to get involved, gain valuable experience and enjoy the event.
Keep up to date with the latest from Bath Carnival on their:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/bath-city-fc:
Bath City FC aim to be successful, professional, and efficient and to achieve long-term financial sustainability, whilst being open, inclusive, considerate and diverse.
They bring people together by hosting exciting, entertaining football matches, played with a good spirit and in a great atmosphere.
Outside of football matches, they organise other events to contribute to the wider community so that Twerton Park becomes a hub for activities, organisations and services for people of the surrounding area.
Bath City FC’s community activities focus on delivering community impact in the following areas:
“To have such a strong partnership with our sponsors such as Bath Spa is vitally important because it helps us grow as a club, on and off the pitch.”
Bath Spa University are official sponsors of Bath City FC’s home, Twerton Park.
Although the stadium will keep the name Twerton Park, the official title of the club’s ground will be ‘Twerton Park in partnership with Bath Spa University.’
The sponsorship signifies the start of an ambitious ongoing partnership between Bath Spa University and Bath City Football Club, which includes work and volunteering opportunities for students and University staff, community engagement programmes, curriculum development and student experience initiatives.
Bath Spa are also the sponsor of the Bath City Women’s teams with their logo appearing on the back of the teams’ shirts.
The sponsorship for the 2023/24 season comes hot on the heels of Bath City FC successfully securing backing from Novia to set up the newly formed Bath City Women’s team in 2022.
Keep up to date with the latest from Bath City FC on their:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/bath-fringe:
Bath has always been a city of creativity, of the arts,  of visitors and travelling performers.
The Bath Fringe festival is the current home to those artistic endeavours not covered by other events in the city.
With its modern day origins from the Bath Artists Workshop in the 1970s, and the Bath Festivals of Blues and Progressive Music in 1969 and 1970, the Fringe provides a place for everyone to enjoy art in all its forms.
The annual festival takes place during two weeks at the end of May to the beginning of June, providing a range of events including visual arts (Fringe Arts Bath), theatre, music, comedy, dance, and numerous activities for children, for diverse audiences in a multitude of venues across Bath.
Bath Fringe is led by the community in which it sits, is built by the artists it serves, and is a well-loved addition to the summer calendar in the region.
Bath Fringe and Bath Spa University are just at the beginning of our Cultural Partnership, however that doesn’t mean we haven’t already been collaborating.
Since 1998 Bath Fringe has been working with Bath Spa University 3rd year Students from the Bath School of Art Film and Media to create the festival image each year.
This year Sophie-Marie Webb’s image was chosen to represent the Bath Fringe Festival 2023 programme, posters, website and social media.
We hope that the collaboration between Bath Fringe Festival and Bath Spa University will continue to be a great ideas laboratory, to provide a space for innovation in production and audience experience (as well as in the more obvious artistic areas), and other ways in which we can work together to develop ideas and engage our shared audience.
Together we may be able to magically transform an idea into an event, we have a history of working with incubating artistic ideas, and have experience of many kinds of arts events (or know someone who has).
Bath Fringe's sister organisation Fringe Arts Bath (FaB) is an artist-led organisation which engages more with visual, digital, video, ‘live’ and conceptual art.
Bath Fringe and FaB work closely together, and together they make up ‘The Fringe’.
“Our final year Graphic Communication students have been designing the poster and visual identity for the Fringe Festival for many years.
It's a really good opportunity for students to work on a professional project, and to present directly to the client.
It is a really nice moment every year when the design has been chosen and the Fringe Festival has its own unique identity for that year."
Keep up to date with the latest from Bath Fringe on their:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/bath-royal-literary-and-scientific-institution:
Bath Royal Literary and Scientific Institution (BRLSI) is a not-for-profit organisation located on Queen’s Square in Bath, championing heritage, science, literature and the arts, as well as history, geography and contemporary debates.
In addition to putting on festivals for the wider community, hosting visiting exhibitions and world-class events, BRLSI has its own permanent collection of art and artefacts and an historic library encompassing exploration, history, philosophy and religion.
Their mission is to provide a cultural hub for the community and a space to learn and educate.
BRLSI also hosts Bath’s Jane Austen Society and the Gaskell Society.
Rooms at their Queen Square building can be independently hired: Meeting Room Booking and Venue Hire
BRLSI is currently inviting BSU students and staff to engage in discussion regarding collaborative projects, student talks, live briefs to enhance student learning or utilising BRLSI’s hireable spaces for art exhibitions and shows.
BRLSI welcomes students to their talks at a reduced cost and offers educational opportunities and visits to their specialist collection.
BRLSI is also keen to involve student volunteers, so they can broaden their work experience in this heritage environment; and to encourage ‘student conveners’ who can organise and deliver their own talks to their contemporaries and the wider public.
BRLSI offers a discounted rate for room hire for members of Bath Spa University, so providing further space for educational collaborations and knowledge exchange.
Keep up to date with the latest from Bath Royal Literary and Scientific Institution on their:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/creative-and-cultural-development-work:
Since the Creative and Cultural Development Officer joined us in May 2022, the position has fostered connections between initiatives such as Bath Bridge Arts Hub, Bath with North East Somerset One Shared Vision Creative and Cultural Strand and West of England Compound Authority Cultural Compact, created new collaborations, and gathered all to add collective value, thereby ensuring that Bath and the wider region gain the national and international recognition required to prosper.
The purpose has been to make it easier for people to access the arts for free, to secure spaces for artists to create and showcase work, and to open up access to funding.
We’ve also connected freelancers and emerging small organisations with larger, established companies to support them developmentally.
To date, two new community arts spaces have been created.
These support creativity in Twerton and Radstock, providing valuable resources for these communities.
The project to redevelop two long-term vacant and boarded-up shops and bring them back into use is being run on the ground by Little Lost Robot CIC in partnership with Bath and North East Somerset Council High Street Regeneration Team, Creativity Works and Youth Connect South West.
A local team, including Twerton residents, is leading the work to improve the spaces and make them welcoming and attractive.
The project is the first step in enhancing Twerton High Street as part of the Local High Street Improvement Project.
“This space demonstrates the strong impact of arts and community engagement on the well-being of a community andoffers vital services for those in need.
It enables members of each community to spend time creating together for free.” Ruby Sant
Creative Twerton is possible thanks to the support of West of England Combined Authorities Love our High Streets Fund, Community Support Fund and the High Street Recovery Fund, with in-kind support from Bath Spa University.
Little Lost Robot would love to speak with graduates or emerging artists looking to run creative workshop sessions or for space to make work.
If you’d like to get involved, volunteer or work with them, please contact Juliet at Little Lost Robot.
Bath Spa University is working with Radstock Town Council, Youth Connect South West, Bath with North East Somerset high street renewal team and Creativity Works to support the development of a new arts and community space in the centre of Radstock.
We're running outreach arts engagement projects for parents and carers to rebuild creative portfolios and support the transition into working in the arts.
We're also working with 15 to 19-year-olds working through grief to co-design a large stone memorial bench.
These projects are funded by the West of England Combined Authorities (WECA) Community Support Fund.
In addition, Bath Spa University is working with Radstock Town Council to develop the business and engagement plan for Trinity Methodist Church, including bringing in Bath Spa Architecture students to create the designs.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/creative-bath:
Creating something no other city has; an inspiring and public celebration of creativity.
The Creative Bath Awards showcase Bath’s brilliant creative and tech businesses and individuals.
The University has been partnering with Creative Bath for the last four years.
This close relationship gives Bath Spa students access to a range of opportunities within the creative sector.
They get free tickets to Creative Bath's excellent talks and events programme, where they can also meet a range of sector professionals.
We also collaborate with Creative Bath on developing tailored workshops for students including speed networking sessions.
We're very proud to have Bath Spa University as both our Strategic Partner and Headline Sponsor of the Creative Bath Awards.
It is an innovative, creative university with a stellar reputation, and we're keen to forge strong links between students, academics, and creative and tech businesses via Creative Bath.
The Creative Bath Awards take place in October with nominations closing in June.
This is an opportunity to nominate yourself, your team and your work.
You could be award-winning!
This is one of Bath’s fastest-growing and economically important sectors.
A Creative Bath Award is a powerful accolade; it’s hugely valuable to the city, great for employment and superb for Bath’s reputation.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/educational-partners:
An Educational Partnership is an agreement between the University and another organisation to collaborate on delivering a broad range of education, research and scholarly activities.
Whilst these agreements can take various forms, they share a common goal - to ensure all students have access to high quality learning and the opportunity to earn a qualification that will support their professional growth.
Completing your course at a partner institution can offer you the convenience of studying close to home.
You can often study flexibly, fitting your job and lifestyle needs around obtaining your degree.
While working towards your Bath Spa University accredited qualification, you’ll get the chance to study at our partners' well-equipped facilities, which have been designed to support your success.
From foundation level performing arts qualifications to MBAs, our educational partners offer a wide range of courses.
These can vary depending on the contract between BSU and the partner institution.
If you're a student on a franchised course, that means you're registered as a Bath Spa University student.
A franchised course is normally awarded by BSU and delivered by the partner institution.
It's designed, assessed and quality assured by BSU and the University processes admissions.
Student marks are processed through Ultra as part of the Grade Journey process and outcomes are reported as part of BSU's data.
Students are subject to BSU’s Academic Regulations and Assessment and Feedback Policy .
If you're a student on a validated course, that means you're registered as a student with our partner institution.
Usually, a validated course is developed, delivered and assessed by the partner institution.
It's awarded by and quality assured by Bath Spa University.
Admissions are processed by the partner and reported to BSU.
Student marks are submitted by the partner to the University following the partner’s Central Assessment Board/Award Board (or equivalent).
We work with a number of School-Centred Initial Teacher Training (SCITT) partners to deliver a PGCE that's designed with them and for them.
We have a range of different educational partners both across the UK and further afield
boomsatsuma, Bristol
Our education partners boomsatsuma are education innovators and unapologetic change makers.
They deliver creative degree programmes in various fields – from visual effects and filmmaking, to web development and games.
Find out more on boomsatsuma
Brighton Academy, Brighton
Courses at The Brighton Academy are designed to provide the performing industry with individuals who are not only talented and professionally trained, but also well-equipped, both physically and mentally, to face the challenges they’ll encounter as they break into the entertainment business.
Find out more on The Brighton Academy
Circomedia, Bristol
World-renowned Circomedia is a school for contemporary circus and physical theatre based in Bristol, England.
Circomedia teach circus skills alongside physical theatre, performance skills and creativity.
Their professional performance venue presents thirty-six professional circus, theatre and dance shows annually, and students benefit from the chance to present their own work in this unique and stunning venue once a year.
Find out more on Circomedia
City of Bristol College, Bristol
City of Bristol College  is one of the South West’s largest further and higher education colleges.
It has a range of academic and vocational courses available to study at its metropolitan location, with five main centres across Bristol and South Gloucestershire offering top-of-the-range facilities and outstanding teaching.
Find out more on City of Bristol College
Elizabeth School of London, various UK cities
Elizabeth School of London (ESL) is a higher education provider committed to offering relevant, high-quality programmes in campuses across major cities including Birmingham, Leeds, Leicester, London, Manchester and Northampton.
Find out more about ESL
Fairfield School of Business, various UK cities
Fairfield School of Business (FSB) is a community-based learning provider with teaching locations in London (Croydon and Luton), Leicester and Birmingham.
It’s an independent, private higher education institution offering a truly diverse and multicultural learning experience.
Find out more about FSB
Global Banking School (various UK cities)
GBS delivers a range of vocational, undergraduate, and postgraduate programmes in banking, finance, accounting, business, tourism, and technology in the UK, Malta and United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Find out more on Global Banking School
New City College, London
New City College (NCC) is the fourth largest college group in the UK, with campuses across Hackney, Tower Hamlets, Redbridge, Epping Forest and Havering.
With deep community roots, an ability to nurture talent and a wide choice of courses for local school leavers, SEND students, adults and those looking for higher education qualifications, they help students break boundaries and think big.
Find out more about New City College
University Centre Weston, Weston-Super-Mare
Situated in the sunny Somerset seaside town of Weston-super-Mare, University Centre Weston (UCW) prides itself on providing outstanding student support and being focused on helping students start and progress their careers.
Find out more on University Centre Weston
William College, London
The learning environment at William College encourages students to think critically, act responsibly, and make a meaningful impact on society.
Their campus in Stratford offers students a distinctive educational experience within the energetic heart of East London.
Find out more about William College
Future Education World, UAE
Future Education World is an academic centre of Bath Spa University operating in Ras Al Khaimah, UAE.
It offers high quality teaching across a range of disciplines following the UK campus as being a leading university for Creativity, Culture, and Enterprise.
It offers an innovative and up-to-date curriculum that meets the needs of the industry and the students.
Find out more about FEW
Global Banking School (GBS), Malta
Find out more about GBS
The Centre for Educational Partnerships oversees Bath Spa University Educational Partner relationships, providing support throughout the partnership.
Wherever possible, Bath Spa University makes its academic professional development provision to staff at Educational Partnership Institutions.
You can find a link to available support and resources below.
If you'd like to find out more or enquire about becoming a partner, please get in touch: edpartnerships@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/educational-partners/circomedia:
Their professional performance venue presents thirty-six professional circus, theatre and dance shows annually, and students benefit from the chance to present their own work in this unique and stunning venue once a year.
Circomedia presents innovative and challenging work , and engages with members of the public through part-time classes, youth circus and community outreach projects.
To give an idea of the sorts of courses offered through our partnership with Circomedia, the following are a list of courses that have been approved for students - both validated and franchised.
Some may have suspended admissions for particular academic years, so it's important to check the Circomedia website for up-to-date information on intakes and admissions.
Please apply for the FdA (course code W900) and BA (course code H3N2) through UCAS (using Institution code B20 and campus code H) and the MA Directing Circus via the Bath Spa website.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/educational-partners/city-of-bristol-college:
City of Bristol College is one of the South West’s largest further and higher education colleges.
City of Bristol College is also Bristol’s biggest provider of adult education at all levels, and, in partnership with local universities, runs Access to Higher Education courses and university-level courses in selected vocational areas.
To give an idea of the sorts of courses offered through our partnership with City of Bristol College, the following are a list of courses that have been approved for students - both validated and franchised.
Some may have suspended admissions for particular academic years, so it's important to check the City of Bristol College website for up-to-date information on intakes and admissions.
Please apply through our webpage for Early Childhood Studies at City of Bristol College.
Ashley Down Centre, Ashley Down Road, Bristol.
BS7 9BU

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/educational-partners/elizabeth-school-of-london:
It offers flexible studies to allow students to gain the skills and knowledge they need to advance in their career while working and fulfilling other obligations.
Please apply directly through Elizabeth School of London .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/educational-partners/fairfield-school-of-business:
In line with the growing demand for business orientated skills, FSB places direct emphasis on providing vocational education for those with entrepreneurial flair.
To give an idea of the sorts of courses offered through our partnership with Fairfield School of Business, the following are a list of courses that have been approved for students - both validated and franchised.
Some may have suspended admissions for particular academic years, so it's important to check the Fairfield School of Business website for up-to-date information on intakes and admissions.
Please apply directly through Fairfield School of Business course pages above.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/educational-partners/future-education-world:
Students will receive an internationally accredited UK degree and high quality British Education with a highly affordable fee structure and option to transfer to the UK.
Please apply directly through Future Education World .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/educational-partners/global-banking-school:
Global Banking School UK (GBS UK)
Global Banking School has 10 campuses in four different UK cities: Birmingham, Leeds, London and Manchester.
We offer the following courses in partnership with GBS UK:
Global Banking School Malta (GBS Malta)
GBS Malta is a licenced Higher Education institution that has been approved by the Malta Further and Higher Education Authority (MFHEA), an independent, transparent, and international authority.
Their courses are in line with the Malta Qualifications Framework and the European Qualification Framework.
We offer the following courses in partnership with GBS Malta:
Please apply directly through:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/educational-partners/new-city-college:
Spread over several campuses in London and beyond, New City College delivers a range of programmes.
Their mission is to help you to achieve your future career goals and ambitions.
With opportunities for everyone, they encourage students to look beyond today and to reach their full potential.
NCC is the fourth largest college group in the UK, with campuses across Hackney, Tower Hamlets, Redbridge, Epping Forest and Havering.
In addition, the NCC University Centre in partnership with Bath Spa University was launched in January 2024 at Hoxton High Street in Hackney, London.
To give an idea of the sorts of courses offered through our partnership with New City College, the following are a list of courses that have been approved for students - both validated and franchised.
Some may have suspended admissions for particular academic years, so it's important to check the New City College website for up-to-date information on intakes and admissions.
Please apply directly through New City College .
Get in touch with the College directly through their website .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/educational-partners/the-brighton-academy:
To give an idea of the sorts of courses offered through our partnership with The Brighton Academy, the following are a list of courses that have been approved for students - both validated and franchised.
Some may have suspended admissions for particular academic years, so it's important to check the The Brighton Academy website for up-to-date information on intakes and admissions.
Please apply directly through The Brighton Academy .
Clermont Hall, Cumberland Road, Brighton.
BN1 6SL

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/educational-partners/university-centre-weston:
University Centre Weston (UCW) prides itself on providing outstanding student support and being focused on helping students start and progress their careers.
We've partnered with them to provide a range of courses across three campuses in Weston-Super-Mare.
To give an idea of the sorts of courses offered through our partnership with University Centre Weston, the following are a list of courses that have been approved for students - both validated and franchised.
Some may have suspended admissions for particular academic years, so it's important to check the University Centre Weston website for up-to-date information on intakes and admissions.
Please apply directly through University Centre Weston .
University Centre Weston, Knightstone Campus, Weston-super-Mare, BS23 2AL

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/educational-partners/william-college:
To give an idea of the sorts of courses offered through our partnership with William College, the following are a list of courses that have been approved for students - both validated and franchised.
Some may have suspended admissions for particular academic years, so it's important to check the William College website for up-to-date information on intakes and admissions.
320 High Street, Stratford, London, E15 1EP

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/fairfield-house:
Fairfield House in Newbridge, Bath, is a Grade II listed building and was the residence of Haile Selassie I, Emperor of Ethiopia, during the five years he spent in exile (1936–41).
Following his return to Ethiopia, he donated it to the city of Bath in 1958 as a residence for the elderly in gratitude for the warm welcome he had received.
Fairfield House is an important piece of Bath’s history, a building of significant importance to Ethiopians and Rastafari, home to the charity BEMSCA and a place of vibrant cultural activity, recreation and worship.
The Community Interest Company (CIC) was set up to protect the legacy of Haile Selassie by ensuring that the house continues to be used as he intended.
Fairfield House Bath CIC is happy to be working in partnership with Bath Spa University to offer a wide range of cultural and educational opportunities, showcasing one of the lesser known pieces of Bath’s history and culture.
The CIC works closely with several other organisations including Imperial Voice Radio and BEMSCA, and Bath Spa students have the opportunity to complete projects linked to all of these entities.
There are a number of opportunities to get involved in:
The CIC are dedicated to promoting diversity and will always aim to work with the University and its staff in a way that enables all to participate in the life of the house.
An oral histories project with the Bath Ethnic Minority Senior Citizens Association (BEMSCA) into the importance of fairfield house.
Listen to insights and life stories from individuals working hard to protect the legacy of Fairfield House.
As part of our Black History Month celebrations in 2020, Dr Shawn Sobers gave us a virtual tour of Fairfield House.
Shawn is Associate Professor of Cultural Interdisciplinary Practice at UWE, and a Trustee of Fairfield House, and therefore has an intimate knowledge of the history of Fairfield House in Bath, Haile Selassie, and its relationship with Black people in Bath.
Keep up to date with the latest from Fairfield House on their:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/gala:
The first network of its kind, GALA was created by former Bath Spa University Vice-Chancellor, Professor Christina Slade, to bring together Liberal Arts providers from around the world.
Liberal Arts providers deliver a huge range of higher education programmes from the arts and humanities to education, social science and more.
Our creative, collaborative graduates will play an important role in shaping global culture and realising the economic potential of creative and cultural industries.
International perspectives and truly global networks will support their learning and enhance their impact.
GALA brings staff and students together from around the world to explore the relationship between creativity and social engagement through teaching and research collaborations and an annual meeting.
Activities include joint programme development, comparative research, student exchange, remote teaching, joint student projects and visiting lectures.
Each participating institution meets the costs of its own involvement in GALA activities.
The network is coordinated by Academic Director Professor Ian Gadd at i.gadd@bathspa.ac.uk
Find out more about GALA .
The network includes whole Universities and Colleges as well as individual Faculties and Departments from institutions in North, Central and South America, Australia, Asia and Europe.
A list of members is available on the GALA website.
GALA brings together staff and students from member organisations to explore the relationship between creativity and social engagement through teaching and research collaborations and an annual meeting.
Activities include joint programme development, comparative research, student exchange, remote teaching, joint student projects and visiting lecturers.
Each participating institution meets its own costs, including those of taking part in GALA activities.
Bath Spa University will provide coordination for the network.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/holburne-museum:
The Holburne Museum is one of the UK’s leading independent museums and a registered charity, with a core vision of ‘Changing Lives Through Art’.
Established as Bath’s first public art gallery in 1882, now home to 9,000 unique artworks including one of the finest displays of 18th-century British portraiture.
It's one of a small number of galleries in the UK that combine a historic collection with a diverse programme of historic, contemporary, fine and decorative art.
As a principal visual arts organisation in Bath and a major feature of the UK's artistic landscape it delivers an ambitious programme, bringing the best art to the south west.
Our cultural partnership builds on a long-standing relationship between the Museum and the University.
Embedded at the heart of the Museum is a Learning, Engagement and Wellbeing Programme, delivering extensive outreach and education with a focus on personal creativity in response to the collection and programme by using exhibitions and collections to inspire, educate and stimulate creativity.
This means in partnership with the University, the Holburne can focus on nurturing young people’s connection to visual arts and local heritage.
Strong collaboration between the two institutions has enabled both to explore and develop shared goals of excellence in arts enterprise and education.
This has resulted in outstanding and vibrant projects, exhibitions, displays, lectures and placements being developed.
Both are co-founders in the Bath Cultural Education Partnership, with the shared goal of improving mental health and wellbeing as well as bringing creative education and cultural collaboration to young or vulnerable people in the local area.
The Holburne's Pathways to Wellbeing program is an example of how they work closely with vulnerable community members.
The defining characteristic of this ground-breaking partnership is the cultural strength of both institutions, with Bath Spa University voted by students as one of the top creative universities in the UK, and the Holburne establishing its reputation as one of Europe’s leading small museums and visual arts venues in the Southwest.
Through our partnership, the Holburne Museum provides:
"The University’s engagement with our Collection brings the Museum to life.
Creative student interpretations of our artworks allow our visitors to experience the Holburne in new ways, opens up art to all areas of academic enquiry, and provides a valuable platform to explore joint research."
Some notable examples of collaboration since the partnership was established include
The Holburne Future Collective is a new project for young people, by young people.
It endeavours to provide opportunities to interact with art and artists within the museum sphere as well as a space to have the future perspective heard.
MA 3D Design students worked with IMAGE on this collaborative project.
Students invited groups to their new University campus and consulted with them to identify some of the barriers (physical and psychological) that people face when visiting and engaging with museums.
They then created 'tools' which responded to these needs and presented their ideas to the group and museum staff.
BSc Sociology student Bethany Buckingham completed a placement at the Holburne Museum looking at museum architecture and its effect on community engagement.
MA Ceramics students were given the opportunity to develop and produce 3D work inspired by the objects and themes in the Holburne's collection, with the final pieces being showcased in the Museum's galleries.
Students also facilitated a public engagement event where visitors could learn ceramics techniques and create their own ceramic drinks cup.
Bath Spa University staff and students can enjoy free entry to Holburne Museum and discounted ticket offers for selected shows.
The Up Late series is also free to all Bath Spa students.
Keep up to date with the latest from the Holburne on their:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/honorary-graduates:
Each year the University confers honorary awards to individuals who have made a notable and sustained contribution to their academic fields or profession, to society, or to the University.
All BSU staff (with input from students) are able to propose potential recipients of honorary awards, and nominees are approved by the University’s Board of Governors.
We're immensely proud of our community of honorary award recipients and value their ongoing relationship with the University.
'I am passionate about supporting emerging entrepreneurs and inspiring a new generation to work hard, live responsibly and look for golden opportunities to build fresh and exciting businesses.'
Honorary Doctorate of Letters
Joshua Goode is a Professor of History and Cultural Studies at Claremont Graduate University in Claremont, California, an institution with a long-standing alliance with BSU.
A historian of modern Europe, Dr Goode has published widely on an array of topics, touching on how ideas move across geographical borders and historical contexts.
Dr Goode is also the Founder of the 'Center for Humanities in Practice' at CGU.
The Center’s mission is to expand the horizons of students, offering them the opportunity, as part of their education, to apply their work in the world.
Honorary Doctorate of Social Inclusion
Award-winning British conductor Charles Hazlewood has worked with many of the world's greatest orchestras, he has played Carnegie Hall New York, the BBC Proms, and multiple festivals throughout the world.
Charles has collaborated with a diverse range of artists, has conducted over 200 world premieres, and founded Paraorchestra: the world's first large-scale fully evolved ensemble of professional musicians with and without disabilities.
His accolades don’t stop there, Charles has authored, presented and conducted the music in multiple landmark films for BBCTV and Sky Arts, shows on BBC Radio 2 and 3, has three TED talks to his name, and was a recent Castaway on BBC Radio 4’s Desert Island Discs.
Nick Hounsfield BSc Hons is founder and visionary behind The Wave - ‘a slice of the ocean inland’.
Nick is a former Osteopath with a passion for bringing the health benefits of water and waves to more people.
His talent for thinking big and differently, looking to create spaces and new communities that are better for both human and planetary health, has made Nick a ‘blue health’ advocate, spokesperson and instrumental in supporting adapted and disability surfing.
Nik Jovčić-Sas is a Bath-born musician, Eastern Orthodox theologian, drag queen, and LGBTQ+ activist.
They’re a familiar presence as a busker on the streets of Bath and have performed at Glastonbury Festival multiple times with their band Ninotchka.
Nik is a driving force in Bath’s queer nightlife as the host of WIG!
– a celebrated drag cabaret – as their alter ego, Mother.
Nik studied Theology at King’s College London, specialising in queer history and affirming theology, and their academic work explores the intersection of religion, sexuality, and identity.
Nik has lectured and delivered talks and seminars at universities, conferences, and religious institutions across Europe and North America.
An influencer and advocate with over one million followers on TikTok, Lou May – as she’s more commonly known – is the youngest recipient of an honorary doctorate this year.
After graduating from Bath Spa University Lou May rose to prominence online, raising awareness of British Sign Language, body positivity, LGBTQIA+ rights and female empowerment.
Honorary Doctorate of Education
Serving as the Vice-Chancellor of Bath Spa University from 2017-2024, Professor Rigby guided BSU through many challenges and helped make it the vibrant, diverse and creative community it is today.
Professor Rigby is now Principal and Vice Chancellor of Edinburgh Napier University (since January 2025).
Honorary Doctorate of Arts
Renowned playwright, Haresh Sharma’s words have shaped the stage for many years.
Resident Playwright of The Necessary Stage since the 1990s, Haresh has written over 100 plays which have been staged in cities across the world.
With many prestigious accolades to his name, Haresh also published a book documenting his journey as a playwright and theatre-maker in Singapore.
Haresh’s unprecedented success in the playwrighting industry serves as an extraordinary example of professional creativity at its best.
Alice Temperley MBE founded Temperley London in 2000 and was awarded an MBE in 2011 for services to the Fashion Industry.
Growing up in Somerset and moving her operations to nearby Ilminster, Alice has been a key figure in the local community and continues to serve the next generation by working with charities and offering mentorship to up-and-coming designers.
Internationally respected director of theatre and opera, Deborah Warner CBE's accolades include Olivier, Evening Standard and South Bank Award winning productions, working for Royal Shakespeare Company, the Royal Opera House, Teatro Real Madrid, Opera di Roma, Dutch National Opera, and many more.
Amongst her international acclaim, Deborah has recently brought her passion and renowned skills to the city of Bath, spending three seasons as Artistic Director of Theatre Royal Bath’s Ustinov Studio.
Honorary Fellowship
Dr.
J.C.
Kuniyal is Head of the Centre for Environmental Assessment & Climate Change Centre (CEA&CC) in the G.B.
Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment.
He is a research project partner to our School of Sciences, and his excellent collaboration also extends across continents to the USA and South Africa as well as across the UK.
John Crace is an esteemed journalist and parliamentary sketch columnist.
Having started writing in his 30s, John quickly made progress with his weekly Guardian columns, bringing him a huge following and leading to him becoming the paper’s political sketch writer.
His satirical sketches prove a page turner for many, and several of his published collections have become bestsellers.
Honorary Doctorate of Science
Kate Hofman is an entrepreneur and sustainability champion, and the founder of award-winning business GrowUp Farms, the UK's first vertical farm.
GrowUp is a certified B Corporation, using 100% renewable energy to produce their salads, which are distributed through major UK retailers.
Dr Kostyantyn Kyrychenko is Head of International Office at Sumy State University in Ukraine, Bath Spa University’s international partner.
He is also a passionate advocate for internationalising the higher education and research sector in Ukraine.
With a law lyceum, three Master’s degrees in foreign languages, Organisation Management and Public Administration, a PhD in Economics, and 18 years of experience in university international relations management around the world, Dr Kyrychenko brings a wealth of knowledge and expertise to the role and to our flourishing long-standing partnership with Sumy State University.
Honorary Doctor of Letters
Peter established Feilden Clegg Bradley Studios with Richard Feilden in 1978.
Regarded as a pioneer in environmental design, he is active in research, design and architectural education and has authored various books on low energy design including The Environmental Handbook.
Peter was one of the founding signatories of the UK Architects Declare which has now become a global movement with more than 5000 signatory practices worldwide.
Peter has led UK projects at Yorkshire Sculpture Park, London’s Southbank Centre, Brighton Corn Exchange Theatre and the Leventis Gallery in Cyprus, and international projects include a new School of Engineering in Toronto and an Academy for the Aga Kahn Foundation in Bangladesh.
He is also a trustee of the Feilden Foundation, founding trustee of Jamie’s Farm and has been involved with Forest of Imagination for many years.
Honorary Doctorate for Social Inclusion
A visionary of Malaysian flavours, Ping is one of the UK’s most celebrated chefs.
A home cook whose recipes have travelled far beyond her own kitchen, Ping saw her dreams become a reality after she was crowned MasterChef champion 2014.
Born and raised in Malaysia, Ping’s childhood was rich with the flavours of her mother’s Malaysian cooking.
After moving to the UK, she describes craving the taste of home and began to recreate her family’s beloved recipes.
Cooking allowed her to step outside her comfort zone and dive into a world of new social networks.
Sajjad Hussain is the founder of Future Education World, an academic centre of Bath Spa University operating in Ras Al Khaimah, UAE.
Raja Sajjad Hussain is a luminary in education.
He is committed to social enterprise and education, with a career spanning over five decades that has significantly contributed to the educational infrastructure in the Middle East.
Professor Ruksana Osman is the Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor: Academic at the University of the Witwatersrand (Wits) , a leading university renowned for its academic and leadership excellence, based in Johannesburg, South Africa.
Outside of South Africa, Professor Osman has been at the forefront of building several transnational partnerships particularly with UK, European and African universities.
Born in 1945 as the youngest of four children, as a child, Dr Gandhi was used to his grandfather the Mahatma Gandhi and his associates visiting and staying in his familial home.
These precious moments with his grandfather no doubt had a significant impact on his future ambitions.
As an adult, Dr Gandhi went on to read English Literature and History at St Stephen’s College, Delhi University, India.
Currently Distinguished Professor of History at Ashoka University, Sonepat, India, he contributes monthly columns to The Telegraph (Kolkata) and The Hindustan Times (New Delhi).
He also writes on occasion for The Hindu (Chennai) and Hindustan (New Delhi).
As a member of the Indian Administrative Service, Dr Gandhi has held administrative positions in the South Indian state of Tamil Nadu and at the national headquarters in Delhi.
He was Secretary to the Vice President of India (1985-1987) and Secretary to the President of India (1997-2000).
Positions held by him outside India have included those of Director of The Nehru Centre in the High Commission of India, London, High Commissioner for India in South Africa, Lesotho, Sri Lanka, and Ambassador of India in Norway and Iceland.
He was Governor of West Bengal from 2004 to 2009.
Veronica Ryan OBE is an esteemed sculptor, and won the Turner Prize – arguably the most prestigious art accolade in the UK – in December 2022.
Prior to this, she studied BA Fine Art at the Bath Academy of Art at Corsham Court (now Bath Spa University’s Bath School of Art, Film and Media, at Locksbrook campus) from 1975-1978.
She went on to establish an internationally revered exhibition profile, winning numerous awards across the globe.
Kathy Hinde is a Bath Spa University graduate and audiovisual artist whose practice embraces open methods and evolving processes.
Through installations, performances and site specific experiences, she aims to nurture a deeper and more embodied connection to other species and the earth’s systems.
Kathy has toured work across the globe and has received awards including an Ivor Novello, an Honorary Mention at Prix Ars Electronica, a British Composer Award in Sonic Art an ORAM award and a Scottish Award for New Music.
Kathy is also a member of Bristol Experimental Expanded Film (BEEF), and a resident at the Pervasive Media Studio, Bristol.
Following her studies at Bath Spa, Kathy has maintained a connection with the University through interdisciplinary research projects across music, art, education and environmental science.
Kate Morton is the CEO of mental health charity Bath Mind.
Kate has worked as a senior leader in housing, health, and social care, and has overseen the creation of supportive safe spaces for some of the most disadvantaged in our society.
Diagnosed with a brain tumour in 2008, she made the decision to volunteer for a local mental health charity as part of her recovery.
She joined Bath Mind’s Board of Trustees in 2011 and became CEO in 2015.
The organisation has grown fourfold under her leadership, expanding its reach, and focusing on university students and young adults across both Bath.
Kate is currently Chair of Bath’s 3SG, and leads on local innovative community projects.
With more than 25 years’ experience in the information assurance and security domain, Chris Crowther works at C-Suite level leading several cyber, information protection and resilience challenges.
Chris has led the delivery of some of the most demanding national security programmes in the UK, the US and EMEA, operating at the very highest levels of government.
Where possible, he shares his knowledge and experience with Bath Spa University, the US National Defence University and UK Defence.
A Bath Spa University graduate, journalist, broadcaster and author based in Manchester, Carl has spent his postgraduate years writing for the BBC, the Guardian, VICE, NME, GQ and BuzzFeed and The Athletic.
He co-authored Marcus Rashford’s book You Are a Champion (Macmillan).
The book was WHSmith’s Book of the Year, and won Best Overall Book of the Year at the 2022 The British Book Awards.
Andrew is a landscape architect whose work explores the reconnection between people and nature.
He started his company, Grant Associates, in 1997 and it is now an international design studio with offices in Bath and Singapore.
He uses creative ecological design to find solutions to climate change, biodiversity loss and improving human quality of life, health and wellbeing.
He has previously been awarded the title of RSA Royal Designer for Industry in recognition of his pioneering global work.
He is an Honorary Fellow of the RIBA, Chair of the Bathscape Landscape Partnership and a member of the Bath World Heritage Site Advisory Board.
He is also co-founder of the Bath pop-up festival, Forest of Imagination.
Adam Rutherford is a geneticist, author and broadcaster.
He did his first degree at UCL in genetics, his PhD at the Institute of Child Health at Great Ormond St Hospital, which is part of UCL, and is now a lecturer of Biology and Society at UCL.
Adam is a regular on BBC Radio 4, presenting many documentaries, as well as Start the Week, and the Curious Cases of Rutherford and Fry.
He has written several books, including most recently Control: the Dark History and Troubling Present of Eugenics, and the international bestsellers How to Argue With a Racist, and A Brief History of Everyone Who Ever Lived.
Russell joined Teach First as CEO in September 2017, building on more than 15 years developing and promoting leadership in schools.
Prior to joining Teach First, Russell was General Secretary of the National Association of Head Teachers (NAHT) and before that worked as a management consultant, helping found Hay Group’s education practice.
Russell serves as a trustee of Fair Education Alliance and Teach for All UK Charity Board, as well as participating as a Community Board Member for Digital Poverty Alliance.
Russell recently joined the Education Committee at the Royal Society.
Russell was awarded a CBE in the New Year Honours List of 2022.
Reeta Chakrabarti is a journalist and presenter for BBC News.
She regularly presents the One, Six, and Ten O'Clock News on BBC1 and works on the rolling News Channel.
She combines being a studio anchor with reporting from home and abroad.
Before this, Reeta was a correspondent covering politics, home affairs, education, and community affairs.
Before moving to television, Reeta spent several years as a radio producer and reporter on BBC Radio 4 and 5 Live.
Reeta is an honorary fellow of Exeter College, Oxford; University College London; and the University of East London.
In addition, she has an honorary doctorate from York St John University and, since March 2020, has been Chancellor of YSJ.
Reeta was born in London but brought up in Birmingham, lived in India as a teenager, and in France for a year as a student.
She lives in north London with her husband.
She has three children.
Professor Samit Ray is a well-known visionary leader, educationist, entrepreneur and change-maker in West Bengal, India.
After graduating from Calcutta University in Physics, he started his job as a software engineer but discovered that as a mathematician, he could bring more value with his innovative teaching to young graduates to secure their dream jobs in the public sector.
Thus he started his tutorial home and later founded RICE (Roy's Institute of Competitive Examinations) Group in 1985, which has branches and test centres in most districts of West Bengal.
Professor Samit Ray is Chancellor, and founder of Adamas University and founder of two nationally reputed higher secondary schools, namely Adamas International School and Adamas Word School.
Professor Samit Ray also founded two charitable trusts- the Sachis Kiran Memorial Trust, named after his late father, and Samit Ray Foundation, which are dedicated to different social and humanitarian works.
Professor Samit Ray had been awarded the 'Honorary Emeritus Professor' degree by Dnipropetrovsk National University of Railway Transport, Ukraine.
Professor Samit Ray pursues the goals to transform the lives of young people, making them good human beings and establishing the Bengal as the global centre of excellence in education once again.
Born in Yorkshire, Father Bill M., OSM, joined the ancient Catholic Religious Order, the Friar Servants of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
He was ordained a Catholic priest in 1975 in the Priory of the Servite Order in Kensington, London.
He was elected Prior of his Order's London Community of Servite friars in 1976 while pursuing his doctoral studies.
Father Bill later served at the Catholic University Chaplain at the University of London and City University.
Father Bill was recalled by Order to serve for a second time as Prior of the London Servite friars and later returned to the Oxford Priory.
From there, he was appointed Hon Gen Secretary of the Ecumenical Society of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Father Bill came to Bath in 1999 on loan to the Clifton Diocese to serve as Catholic University Chaplain to the two universities in Bath, continuing to serve in both at the request of the Bishop of Clifton for over 20 years.
Wearing his traditional friar's 'habit', new students were directed to look on campus for 'the man in black'.
Along with his university roles, he became Parish Priest to Ss Peter and Paul in Combe Down, Bath, St Joseph's, Peasedown St John, and Hospital Catholic Chaplaincy to Bath Clinic and St Martin's Hospital, Bath.
While striving to represent his share of the teachings and life based on Catholic tradition and convictions, he has served Catholic students and staff of both Bath universities.
About his days at Bath Spa University, Father Bill said:
"I have felt privileged to enjoy meeting many interesting, good and fun people at Bath Spa and have many happy memories for which to be thankful"
'Any woman who chooses to get involved with the Church of England is crazy!' The words rang in Jan Knott's ears in the mid-80s.
Jan was teaching part-time, had three children and was an active partner in her husband's road haulage company.
Jan began the challenging journey towards Ordination - a rigorous selection process ratified her vocation.
Three years of training followed, and Jan joined the ranks of waiting women experiencing vigorous and unpleasant opposition.
Then the Church of England formally adopted new legislation in 1994; Rev Preb Jan Knott could finally be ordained, Priest.
She served in Parishes; as a School Chaplain; became a Rural Dean; a University Chaplain; was given a seat in the Cathedral Church in Wells, and took on various responsibilities where women needed to be.
Jan's last full–time post saw her working as Rector of Farmborough, Marksbury and Stanton Prior with three churches and two schools and as Chaplain at Bath Spa University.
At Bath Spa, there were various initiatives to get up and running, and Jan became adept in the art of loitering, engaging with students, staff and visitors.
Quite a job, but she loved it.
Jan now serves as a 'supply vicar' going where she is needed.
As an alumna, Sarah Liversedge-Platz is no stranger to Bath Spa University, having graduated with a first in Composition.
Since then she has gone on, via the BBC, to develop a successful music publishing business and has received a number of music industry awards.
Commenting on what it means to be awarded, Sarah Liversedge-Platz said:
"I am so honoured to receive this recognition from an institution that means so much to me.
My time at Bath Spa as a music undergraduate was incredibly special.
The University is a place that really nurtures and inspires creative minds.
It helped me lay foundations that would serve both myself and the songwriters and composers I've worked with throughout my career decades later."
Lord Jonathan Evans is the Chairman of the Committee on Standards in Public Life and sits in the House of Lords as a cross-bencher.
Previously, he was the Director General of the Security Service - MI5 - from 2007 to 2013.
He is now a Non Executive Director of Ark Datacentres and chairman of the Public Interest Committee of KPMG UK.
He is also a Deputy Lieutenant of Kent, Chair of Kent Search and Rescue and a Visiting Professor at King’s College London.
He graduated from the University of Bristol with a degree in Classical Studies.
Lord Jonathan Evans was nominated for the award by Allyson MacVean, the University’s Professor of Policing and Criminology and Co-Director for Bath Spa's Centre for Leadership, Ethics and Professional Practice (CLEPP).
Accepting the Honorary Doctorate, Lord Jonathan Evans said:
"I admire the work of the Centre for Leadership, Ethics and Professional Practice at Bath Spa University so I am particularly honoured to be awarded an Honorary Degree by the University."
Footballer Tyrone Mings is captain of Premier League side Aston Villa and represents England on the international stage.
He was born and raised in Bath and is a highly respected and inspirational figure in the local community.
Professor Sue Rigby, Vice-Chancellor of Bath Spa University, nominated Mr Mings for this award and said: "I am thrilled to be able to confer the award of Honorary Doctorate of Education to Tyrone Mings.
His determination, motivation and success is an inspiration to our students, the local community and any young person who strives to be the best they can be.
"He had a difficult route to the top of his profession, not least being released from a Premier League academy at the age of 16.
He did not however let this set him back or dissuade him from achieving his goal.
"Tyrone Mings is an example of never giving up, continuing to work hard and doing things your own way when no other way is presented to you.
He is an outstanding and inspiring individual and I heartily welcome him to the Bath Spa University community."
Journalist Damian Carrington is environment editor at The Guardian, which he joined in 2008.
Previously he reported on science while at BBC News Online and New Scientist and was a web editor for the Financial Times.
Damian reports on the climate crisis, the destruction of the natural world and pollution.
His career has seen him visit all seven continents, including Antarctica and the Amazon, and all five oceans, including the Arctic.
In 2019, he reported from the Columbian Andes and from Darfur in Sudan.
His journalism has been recognised by awards from the Association of British Science Writers, the British Society of Magazine Editors, the European Online Journalism awards and others.
Damian's voice is one of reason and clarity.
He balances emotive topics with scientific rigour and presents a clarion call for change in the measured and nuanced manner.
He teaches us to wise up and make a difference, and in that his values, his approach and his purpose are deeply consonant with those of Bath Spa University.
Col is an entrepreneur, the founder and CEO of IMDb and is now its general manager since its acquisition by Amazon.
Graduating from Leeds University with a Computer Science degree in the 1980s, he is an example of someone who combined his computer skills with his personal interest – movies – and created a global business.
His internet movie database, now regarded as the cinema encyclopedia, means he is often referred to as 'Britain's most powerful man in Hollywood'.
Col lives in South Gloucestershire but travels the world watching, reviewing and enjoying films.
He also attends every film festival and movie awards ceremony in the business.
Col is the perfect example of someone who has demonstrated creativity, culture and enterprise and is thus a great fit for this University's community.
Annie Maw has served as High sheriff and is now Lord Lieutenant of Somerset.
she trained as a nurse, but has moved into charitable and civic work later in her career.
She is Chancellor of the Children's University of Somerset.
All of this, Annie has done since a riding accident confined her to a wheelchair in 2002.
Those that meet her describe Annie as one of the most impressive and warm people they have ever met.
A real role model and a woman of courage and values.
Oscar winning cinematographer, Roger Deakins CBE, was today awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Letters from Bath Spa University in recognition of his significant contribution to film and TV.
Deakins, who studied at Bath Academy of Art (now Bath Spa University), is best known for his work on the films of the Coen brothers, Sam Mendes, and Denis Villeneuve.
His feature films include The Big Lebowski, Skyfall, True Grit and Jarhead, and he also enjoys being a visual consultant on animated films including Wall•E, Rango, and How To Train Your Dragon.
In 2018 Deakins won an Oscar for best cinematographer for his work in Blade Runner 2049.
Andrea Arlidge is the CEO of the Wellsway Multi Academy Trust, a partnership of schools in the Bath, Keynsham and Bristol area.
With 15 year’s headship experience at two schools, Andrea joined Wellsway School in 2005 from St Katherine’s School in Pill.
She has significant experience of school improvement and raising achievement.
She is Chair and founding member of the Keynsham Area Family of Schools, a partnership between nine primary and secondary schools.
She is also the Director of the Bath Education Trust, Trustee of the local County Sports Partnership (WESPORT) and a governor at Bristol Grammar School.
In 2018, she was named a 'National Leader in Education' by the Department of Education, for her support of the Wellsway Trust schools during 'challenging circumstances'.
Howard Skempton is a composer and pianist.
He studied composition under Cornelius Cordew, and it was at Cordew's class at Moreley College that he formed the Scratch Orchestra, an experimental music group that ran until the mid 1970s.
He joined with Scratch Orchestra colleague Michael Parsons to later form a duo group to perform their music, which led to a series of commissions for orchestrals and large audience pieces, including Lento and Surface Tensions.
He now teaches music and composition at the Birmingham Conservatoire.
In 2005, Skempton was awarded the Chamber Scale Composition category at the Royal Philharmonic Society Music Awards for his string quartet Tendrils.
Widely regarded as one of the world's greatest living crime writers, McDermid's novels have been translated into 40 different languages and sold over 15 million copies worldwide to date.
She is renowned for her suspense-filled, intricate and innovative plots, often set in the gritty world of Scotland's urban central belt.
Her third series, featuring psychologist Dr Tony Hill, saw her win the Crime Writers' Association Gold Dagger for The Mermaids Singing in 1995, with the series later being adapted into the critically-acclaimed and highly successful television drama, Wire in the Blood.
As well as being a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature and of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, McDermid is one of five judges for the 2018 Man Booker Prize.
In 2010, she received the Diamond Dagger for Lifetime Achievement from the Crime Writers' Association, which honours authors whose crime writing careers have been marked by sustained excellence, and who have made a significant contribution to the genre.
She has also been awarded the Pioneer Award by Lambda Literary in the US, and the Theakston's Old Peculier Award for Outstanding Contribution to the genre.
Michael Simpson is a painter known for his large scale works that play with abstraction, form and materiality.
Educated at Bournemouth College of Art and the Royal College of Art in London in the early 1960s, Michael embraced a number of styles - from Minimalism to historical Flemish painting - to create a style he describes as a 'deceptive force of the constructed image'.
He has exhibited in such places as the Piccadilly Gallery, the Arnolfini and Bristol Museum and Art Gallery, and Spike Island.
In 2016, he won the John Moores Painting Prize for his painting Squint (19).
Amelia Freedman is the founder and artistic director of the Nash Ensemble.
She started the chamber ensemble while a young student clarinettist at the Royal Academy of Music, but her preferred name The Academy Ensemble was refused by the Principal of the conservatoire, assuming that a student ensemble would have a short shelf life and go down in flames.
Denied her choice of name, Amelia Freedman chose instead that of a favourite London architect.
The Nash Ensemble was born and gave its first professional concert at the American Embassy in 1964, and in October 2014 it celebrated its 50th year of continuous existence.
Freedman played in the group for the first four years until she left the performance side in order to devote herself full-time to running it.
If it took courage to set it up in the first place, the group has called on her reserves of patience and fortitude for each of its 50 years, with income from the Arts Council and various trusts and foundations never producing more than a third of what is required to meet the artistic ambition.
That ambition has been remarkable.
Over the years, Freedman has commissioned 193 new works and the group has given more than 300 premieres by 225 composers, including Richard Rodney Bennett, Harrison Birtwistle, Elliott Carter, Henri Dutilleux and Peter Maxwell Davies.
She has also served as a director of the Bath International Music Festival (1986-93), head of classical music at the Southbank Centre (1995-2006), and at 74 is still artistic director of the Bath Mozartfest and the Bath Bachfest.
As Philharmonia Managing Director David Whelton has said: "No one has done more than Amelia Freedman to further the cause of chamber music in this country."
Following a short career in advertising, Lord Puttnam moved into film production in the late 1960's and produced a range of films including Bugsy Malone (1976).
In 1976 he started his own production company, producing films such as The Killing Fields , Roland Joffe (winner of the 1986 Palme d'Or) and Chariots of Fire (winner of the Academy Award for Best Picture).
His films have won a total of 10 Oscars, 25 BAFTAs and the Palme d'Or.
Lord Puttnam was knighted in 1995 and appointed to the House of Lords in 1997 where he now sits as a Labour Peer.
Since retiring from film production Lord Puttnam has had extensive involvement in the education sector.
He has previously held roles as the Chairman of the National Film and Television School, Chancellor of the University of Sunderland, Chancellor of the Open University and founded the National Teaching Awards in 1998.
Lord Puttnam teaches on the MA Independent Filmmaking and MA Scriptwriting courses at Bath Spa University through his online education platform, Atticus Education, providing invaluable industry insight to the students on these programmes.
Professor Hashmi is widely acknowledged as one of Pakistan’s foremost artists and author on contemporary art.
She has helped numerous young unknown artists exhibit their work internationally, and has championed the extraordinary achievements of female artists in Pakistan.
She also works tirelessly with organisations such as the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan to bring peace between Pakistan and India to promote tolerance and to improve conditions in the country.
The Government of Pakistan awarded Salima the President's Medal for Pride of Performance for Art Education in 1999 and the Australian Council of Art and Design Schools nominated her as Inaugural International Fellow for distinguished service to art and design education in 2011.
Ashley was educated at Queen Elizabeth's Hospital School, Bristol, and the University Of Sussex, where he was awarded a BA (Hons) in English.
He studied postgraduate screenwriting at The National Film And Television School, where his graduation film Water's Edge was nominated for a BAFTA.
After cutting his teeth on Eastenders, Ashley created Where The Heart Is for ITV, a series than ran for over ten years.
During this time he also created and wrote Paradise Heights, Down To Earth, Life Support, Bonekickers and Anchor Me.
Classic adaptations include Tom Brown's Schooldays (starring Stephen Fry and Alex Pettyfer), Under the Greenwood Tree (starring Keeley Hawes), and Moonfleet (starring Ray Winstone).
Contemporary adaptations include Kate Atkinson's Case Histories starring Jason Isaacs.
He is currently working on Deborah Harkness' All Souls Trilogy for Sky.
Ashley co-created Life on Mars and its sequel, Ashes To Ashes, winning two International Emmys and a BAFTA.
There was a series about misbehaving angels for ITV - Eternal Law - and the long-running saga of a family trying to make a go of it on a South African game farm, Wild At Heart.
Last year was spent writing and producing The Living And The Dead, set in rural Somerset in 1894, about a man of science who starts to see ghosts, starring Colin Morgan.
In 2011 Ashley was made an Honorary Fellow of The National Film And Television School.
Iwan and Manuela Wirth are Presidents and co-Founders of Hauser & Wirth, a leading international gallery of contemporary art and modern masters.
Now a global enterprise with galleries in Zurich, London, New York and Somerset, and a new gallery planned in downtown Los Angeles, Hauser & Wirth have built an unparalleled reputation for its dedication to artists, artist estates and for supporting the realisation of ambitious artistic projects.
The Wirths are strongly committed to an extensive range of charities supporting the arts, the environment, community and education.
Renowned British photojournalist, Sir Don McCullin, CBE, FRPS, is recognised as one of history’s greatest war photographers.
His first reportage on a youth gang in his childhood neighbourhood was published in The Observer in 1959.
In 1961, he visited Berlin at the time of the construction by East Germany of the wall to separate it from the capitalist West.
He produced his first war assignment for The Observer in 1964, covering the civil war in Cyprus and 1966 began an 18 year collaboration with The Sunday Times Magazine, witnessing numerous conflicts and battlefields in the Congo, Biafra (Nigeria), Israel, Vietnam, Cambodia, Northern Ireland, Bangladesh, Lebanon, El Salvador, and Kurdistan.
He is the author of more than a dozen books, including his highly-acclaimed autobiography, Unreasonable Behaviou r .
Renowned Chinese violinist who made her Carnegie Hall debut in 2003 and has performed extensively in the USA, Asia and Europe.
She has won top honours at the Chinese National Violin Competition and her string quartet won the Chinese National Quartet Competition and the Menuhin prize in the UK.
She was also the featured soloist at the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra’s 40th anniversary concert celebrating Gang and Zhanhou’s ‘Butterfly Lovers’ Violin Concerto.
Internationally acclaimed Australian author of seven collections of poetry, four opera librettos, two plays, eleven works of fiction (including three collections of short stories), and a memoir, 12 Edmondstone Street.
His work has been widely translated and has received several international awards.
In 2000 he was the sixteenth Neustadt Laureat.
Juli Beattie is the Founder Director of The Art Room, a national arts and education charity established in 2002.
The Art Room offers art as therapy to children and young people aged five through to 16 who are experiencing challenges and emotional difficulties in their lives.
Through The Art Room students can raise their self-esteem, self-confidence and independence enabling them to engage with their learning and development.
Juli has taught for over 35 years, working in mainstream and specialist schools, as well as hospitals, and in collaboration with Bath Spa she developed a Postgraduate Certificate in Art Room Practice.
A Japanese potter, Mr Yasuda trained at the Daisei-Gama Pottery in Mashiko from 1963 to 1966 and established his first studio there.
His early work consisted of ash-glazed stoneware, after which he explored Sancai and Creamware.
Mr Yasuda settled in Britain in 1973 where he taught at various art schools and universities across the UK.
Having studied in the United States, Michael returned to Britain in 1965 to take up a teaching post at Bath Academy of Art at Corsham Court where he was tutor to some notable alumni.
He is now an Emeritus Professor of Fine Art at Goldsmiths College and a trustee of the Tate Gallery; he was awarded a CBE in 2001, elected a Royal Academician in 2006, and knighted in the Queen's Birthday Honours 2016.
An American saxophonist, composer and arranger who was a member of James Brown’s band from 1965 to 1969.
He was responsible for many of Brown’s most notable recordings including the iconic song Say It Loud I’m Black and I’m Proud.
He is widely acknowledged as one of the architects of funk music.
A successful entrepreneur perhaps best known for her appearances on the BBC2 series ‘Dragons’ Den’, Deborah has invested in more than thirty businesses, ranging from market research to online antiques valuations and life-saving equipment for hospitals.
Honorary Fellow
Stella served as Deputy Chair (1997-98) and Chair (1998-2013) of the Bath Spa University Board of Governors and guided it through turbulent and transformational times with skill and diplomacy.
She has played an enormously influential part in the development of the University.
Mary has been an active and important member of the Board of Governors since her appointment in 1988, making her the longest-serving Governor in the history of Bath Spa University.
Initially chosen by the Secretary of State for Education, Mary served on the original board to form a corporation for the institution.
The Booker prize-winning author of Wolf Hall and Bring Up The Bodies .
Mantel is now working on the final book in her trilogy about Thomas Cromwell.
A UK artist who has exhibited work around the world.
Randall-Page studied sculpture at Bath Academy of Art, which is now part of Bath Spa University, from 1973-1977.
Headteacher of Weston All Saints Church of England Primary School in the city of Bath for over 25 years.
Bull’s link with Bath Spa University spans over 30 years, and she has fulfilled a number of roles at the university, including teacher tutor, and part-time lecturer in Creative, Arts and Dance.
A composer whose music has been regularly commissioned and performed by major orchestras and opera houses worldwide.
His works are currently being featured at the Salzburg Festival where his opera Gawain will receive a new production under Ingo Metzmacher.
More on Sir Howard Hodgkin
One of Britain’s most influential and respected artists, Howard Hodgkin’s work has been shown in galleries around the world and in 1985 he represented Britain at the Venice Biennale and won the Turner Prize.
In 1992 he was knighted for his services to the arts.
Howard was first a pupil and then later a tutor at the Bath Academy of Art.
While a pupil he was taught by Clifford and Rosemary Ellis who ran the Academy, as well as William Scott and Peter Lanyon.
As a tutor he worked alongside fellow painters Michael Craig-Martin, Robyn Denny, John Ernest and Adrian Heath between 1950 and 1954.
Howard passed away on Thursday, 9 March 2017 at the age of 84.
One of the UK's best-known and respected cookery writers and TV cook.
At the age of 18 she trained at the Bath College of Home Economics, followed by a Paris Cordon Bleu course and she is a qualified teacher.
She has written more than 70 cookery books since her first was published in 1970 and has sold more than five million.
She has hosted several television series for the BBC, including judge on the BBC show "The Great British Bake Off".
Manolo Blahnik's shoe designs have been worn by women all over the world for almost 40 years.
Blahnik began his career in 1973 on the advice of a US Vogue Editor Diana Vreeland.
The brand is known for elaborate and classic designs and prides itself on the highest level of quality and comfort.
It is currently present in 23 countries world-wide.
In 2007 he was awarded the CBE for services to the British fashion industry.
Professor Ian Hargreaves started his journalistic career on local newspapers in Yorkshire and spent 15 years on the Financial Times before becoming Deputy Editor in the early 1990s.
He was Director of BBC News and Current Affairs in the late 1980s, Editor of the Independent in the mid-1990s and Editor of the New Statesman in the late 1990s, before taking up the position of Director of the Centre for Journalism at Cardiff University.
In 2010 he took up a new chair in Digital Economy at Cardiff University.
A choir leader and musician who lives in Bath.
His driving passion is to get people of all ages singing, to enable them to make friends, enjoy themselves and have fun through music.
He has appeared on TV and radio across the world through his leadership of Bath Male Choir, the Golden-Oldies charity, which he founded in 2008, and his many other musical projects and concerts.
The author of 'Max' and 'Pure Data', two seminal and widely-used software environments for live computer music.
After studying mathematics at MIT and Harvard University and conducting research at IRCAM in Paris, he joined the music department at the University of California where he is now professor and chair of the department.
He has also written extensively on techniques for analysing and synthesizing sound with a computer, and on real-time human/computer interactions in musical performance.
Film director Ken Loach was honoured in recognition of his outstanding contribution to the film industry.
Loach has won multiple awards for his work including the Palme D’Or in 2006 for his film ‘The Wind That Shakes The Barley’.
He is also well-known for his films ‘Kes’ and ‘Looking for Eric’.
His film ‘The Angels’ Share’, which won the Jury Prize at the 2012 Cannes Film Festival, was screened at Bath Spa University to raise funds for Community Arts Therapies.
Loach, who is Patron of the Community Arts Therapies, was in attendance and answered questions from the audience.
Former deputy vice-chancellor at Bath Spa University, who was responsible for tailoring our historic campuses to the needs of a modern university.
He trained as an architect, then began his career at Gerald Shenstone and Partners in Bloomsbury in 1974, before moving to Wandsworth Borough Council in 1976.
This was followed by a major switch of track when he joined what is now Bath Spa University (then Bath College of Higher Education) as corporation secretary and clerk to the board of governors in 1989.
He was appointed assistant director in 1995 and deputy vice-chancellor in 2005.
Asha Sarabhai is highly respected a textile designer.
Her passion for her finding contemporary and relevant ways to continue age old traditions of textile design and production led to unique, modern representations of Indian dress.
A collaboration with the celebrated Issey Miyake Design Studio in 1984 led to her designs coming to the attention of the fashion world and following the opening of a retail outlet in London in the 1990s, becoming more widely available to commercial markets.
Born in New Delhi in 1949, she travelled throughout her childhood and studied at the University of Cambridge.
The impact of her work in textile design continues to inspire fashion today.
Paul Phillips is Principal and Chief Executive of Weston College situated in North Somerset.
This award winning College has developed from the small £9m College that Paul took over in 2001 to a £30m plus College with campuses across the region.
It regularly features at the top of the league tables for Further Education.
Dr Phillips was formerly Vice Principal of the largest College in Wales.
His career has included work and consultations for the NHS, MOD and leisure industry.
In addition, he has published research papers related to the cost benefit analysis of education.
Despite running Weston College, Paul is very active in his local community as well as representing the Further Education sector regionally and nationally.
His most recent involvements include Chair of South Ward Regeneration in Weston-super-Mare, Secretary of the Western Principals’ Group and regional representative of the Principals’ Professional Council.
Professor Brian L Gomes da Costa, JP was Director of Bath College of Higher Education (later Bath Spa University) from September 1985 until March 1997.
On retiring from Bath College of Higher Education he increased his longstanding involvement in the magistracy, and began to engage with the NHS; he was appointed chairman of a Mental Health NHS Trust and of a standing committee of a local authority; he was a Member of the UK’s Asylum and Immigration Tribunal for almost a decade to 2008.
He remains a presiding panellist on Fitness to Practise Panels at the GMC and also chairs NHS disciplinary appeal panels.
Having a strong interest in “regulation”, he also currently serves on the Standards Committee of the Bar Standards Board.
Simon Relph was a leading British film producer.
After graduating from King’s College Cambridge, he became an Assistant Director until he was appointed Technical Administrator of the National Theatre.
For four years he supervised the move from the Old Vic into the new National Theatre, ending his time there as Production Administrator.
He was Chairman of the British Academy of Film & Television Arts between 2000 and 2002, before becoming Chairman of the David Lean BAFTA Foundation.
He served on the British Screen Advisory Council, the Executive Council of Pact, the Council of Royal College of Art, the boards of South West Screen and the Bristol Old Vic, and as a Governor of the British Film Institute.
He was the author of The Relph Report on low budget film production.
Simon also held positions as non executive director of Arts Alliance Media, The Brixton Ritzy Cinema, and the Exeter Picturehouse.
Simon sadly passed away in October 2016.
Professor Timms has a long association with Bath Spa University, having first trained here as a student teacher in the 1970s.
After a distinguished academic career at the universities of of Leicester and Manchester (where he established himself as a notable literary critic, first of the works of Philip Larkin and then as a specialist in American literature).
Professor Timms rejoined the University in the early 1990s as a lecturer in the English Department and then took on a series of managerial positions which led to him becoming Deputy Vice Chancellor (Academic).
He is an acknowledged national expert on academic quality assurance, and continues to work for other universities and for the Quality Assurance Agency in that capacity.
Sir Graeme was Vice-Chancellor of the University of London until 2010.
He was Principal of the University of Glasgow from 1995 to 2003.
He was Chief Executive of the Higher Education Funding Council for England from 1991 until 1995 having been Vice-Chancellor of the University of Liverpool from 1986 to 1991.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
He is now the Chair of the Higher Education Policy Institute.
He is an English educator who was Rector of the University of the Arts, London.
Stubbs served for six years as Chief Executive of the Inner London Education Authority.
Following that, he was Chief Executive of the Polytechnics and Colleges Funding Council.
From 1992 to 1996 as chief executive of the Further Education Funding Council for England.
A British television director whose directing credits include television comedies Brass Eye, Smack the Pony, Green Wing, Absolutely Fabulous and the American series Community, Parks and Recreation, Happy Endings and Workaholics.
He is also a Bathonian, something we are very proud of.
Tom McCaw served as Land Steward for the Duchy of Cornwall from 1988 to 1998, with responsibility for the Duchy’s rural properties in the Bath area, Wiltshire, Dorset, Somerset, Gloucestershire and Oxfordshire.
Mr McCaw was a trustee of Wiltshire Wildlife Trust and of Community First (Wiltshire’s Rural Development Council).
Highlights of his career include the purchase of Highgrove House and its conversion into a home suitable for His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales and working closely with the University to promote and develop the Newton Park campus.
Joanna MacGregor is regarded as one of the world’s most wide-ranging and innovative musicians, and was Artistic Director of the Bath International Music Festival from 2006 - 2012.
As a pianist she had enjoyed performing at the MusicFest many times before playing music ranging from jazz and world to classical.
Her programming reflects her interest in all genres of music, and often inspires brand new collaborations: bringing musicians together with contemporary art and multimedia, poetry, storytelling and film, and reaching out to as wide an audience as possible.
Key

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/hoi:
Imagination drives creativity and innovation, which are vital for social and economic development.
We, therefore, support and grow imagination in learning so young people can create a better future.
This partnership brings value to the community through nurturing imagination, creativity, public engagement, knowledge exchange, internships and future employment for students.
Together, Bath Spa University and House of Imagination will:
House of Imagination's flagship project, Forest of Imagination, is a free to all annual event that uses creativity to transform urban spaces to change lives, communities, cities and economies.
If you want to know more about this year's festival and how to get involved, please visit their website .
House of Imagination works closely with Bath Spa University alongside cultural, charity and education partners in the city to support the artistic and creative teaching of young people aged 0-25 in B&NES, listening to and understanding their needs and finding relevant and inspiring, innovative and cultural solutions together.
Keep up to date with the latest from House of Imagination:
Website
Twitter
Instagram

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/komedia-bath:
Hosting over 400 events per year in a beautifully restored Grade II listed former cinema, Komedia Bath offers an unparalleled programme of comedy, music, cabaret, kids’ events, club nights and just about everything in between.
Komedia is the premier destination for touring entertainment in the region and hosts some of the biggest names in comedy and music.
Recent performers include Buzzcocks, Joe Lycett, Katherine Ryan, Russell Howard, Band of Skulls, Brian Fallon and the Damned.
Five-time winner of the Chortle Award for Best Venue in the West and Wales, Komedia works closely with Bath’s many festivals, including The Bath Comedy Festival, The Bath Festival, Bath Children’s Literature Festival, Bath Fringe Festival and FilmBath Festival.
Komedia Bath, in partnership with Bath Spa University, is presenting a series of free music festivals showcasing the very best in live local music.
Historically, Komedia Bath has worked alongside Bath Spa University to deliver a wide range of student opportunities including specialist internships, work experience, performance opportunities and part-time and full-time employment including marketing posts and front of house roles.
Since Komedia Bath converted to a community benefit society, the partnership with the University has gone from strength to strength.
In line with Komedia's objectives, as outlined in their rules, they continue to develop and evolve their purpose to deliver events that benefit all in our local community.
Our exciting joint plans for 2022 and beyond include a free music festival showcasing the very best in live local music.
This series of family friendly festivals, held quarterly, will bring regular and accessible music to the community and give local bands the chance to perform on one of Bath’s biggest stages.
Bath Spa student involvement will range from programming and production through to delivery and performance.
"We are immensely proud of our ongoing partnership with Bath Spa University.
The benefit to students is quantifiable whether as audience members, club attendees or in the multitude of ‘behind the scenes’ roles, positions and experience the venue offers our student community."
Keep up to date with the latest from Komedia on their:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/littlelostrobot:
We demystify the uses of creative technology to reimagine everyday life that is accommodating to the scope of needs felt by real people.
We present an accessible vision of the future that is gloriously humane in all its messy domestic parts.
Little Lost Robot CIC and Bath Spa University collaborate to produce inclusive research and development projects embedded within the community.
These aim to codesign better futures with real people and facilitate pathways into reshaping our local communities in Bath and North East Somerset, with accessibility and opportunities for progression at the core of the design process.
Little Lost Robot CIC is a resident at the Studio in Bath, Bath Spa University’s award-winning city centre home for enterprise and innovation.
In addition, little Lost Robot CIC and BSU facilitate the management of In the Meanwhile spaces in Bath and North East Somerset.
Finally, they are opening the doors of vacant spaces to host artwork and events that bring together students of BSU and audiences of local people and visitors to Bath.
Little Lost Robot CIC offers student placements and opportunities to collaborate with participants to make large-scale outdoor robotic and mechanical artworks and learn new skills like creative welding and metalwork fabrication, creative production and inclusion practice.
Little Lost Robot CIC and BSU work together to create opportunities for exhibiting work, testing skills and ideas with community steering groups, gathering research data, skills and confidence building and progressions towards employment.
In addition, there are opportunities for filmmaking, photography, media communications and graphic design students to produce work.
By using creative technology to fuse approachable art and design with digital programming to discuss issues around inclusion and belonging, Little Lost Robot CIC  has designed and built custom installation artworks for exhibits by clients like Chester Zoo, Hampton Court Palace and Wakehurst Kew Royal Botanical Gardens.
Keep up to date with the latest from Little Lost Robot on their:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/mentoring-plus:
They provide 1-1 mentoring, group activities and youth clubs which help 7-25-year-olds feel happier, more confident, and more able to engage with education or employment and follow their positive interests.
Their vision is a world in which all young people feel safe, heard and hopeful for their future, and it’s essential that they have opportunities to express their views and connect with prospects in their community.
Mentoring Plus celebrates its 25th anniversary in 2023.
They want to mark the occasion with a celebration event showcasing the creative work of young people, including one or more films recording their thoughts and wishes for the future.
Mentees can be anxious and isolated, and many struggle to engage in education or group activities, so finding ways for every young person to participate and contribute creatively in smaller, supported settings or independently is an essential element.
So is honouring their work by exhibiting it sensitively and attractively as part of their celebration event.
We would welcome students' ideas, energy and input in helping us make all this happen, working with children and young people to create a lasting legacy of content to help us promote our work and volunteering opportunities after our anniversary year ends.
Alongside this, they welcome opportunities for students to share their experiences with young people (especially those making plans for post-16 study or similar).
Students, including those who are the first in their families to attend university, those with additional educational needs or who took less typical routes into university, can be especially relevant role models and sources of information for young people.
Their group sessions focus on positive activities, building skills and confidence, and often engaging with external experts to try out new things such as arts, media, heritage or sports, which would be another opportunity for BSU students to contribute.
In addition, their participation groups co-design events and value support in expressing the issues affecting them.
Projects offering access to university venues can also be valuable opportunities for young people to understand what’s out there for them.
Keep up to date with the latest from Mentoring Plus on their:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/music-workshop:
"Having been a student of Commercial Music at Bath Spa, I had always been keen to open up a pathway for current music students to explore the opportunities that further education can bring."
Music Workshop is a music teaching and performance organisation based in the heart of Bath city centre.
It was founded by Bath Spa alumni Kim Hoefkens-Lee in 2009 and began by delivering drum lessons to a small but ever growing handful of students.
Through ambitious student performances and careful teacher recruitment, Music Workshop grew and improved both learning and performing opportunities for students and musicians in the local area.
They're currently operating from their professional studios in Green Park Station.
With a team of teachers, over 250 students choosing from eight musical pathways, as well as a host of live and digital performance opportunities for students of all ages each year, Music Workshop continues to broaden their reach and involve more people in music.
With Music Workshop Founder, Kim Hoefkens-Lee, having been a Commercial Music student at Bath Spa, he was keen to open up a pathway for current music students to explore the opportunities that further education can bring.
The partnership brings mutual benefits to both organisations through the variety of creative, passionate and highly skilled people involved.
It has also enabled Music Workshop to grow and have invaluable support and insight into how larger arts organisations work, as well as how to succeed in an ever changing landscape.
A significant success in the partnership has been the ability to access some fantastic venues through the connections of Bath Spa.
Enabling Music Workshop students to perform in a professionally equipped space has allowed them to host their most ambitious live event yet.
The opportunity for young students to work alongside Bath Spa students in a professional space has inspired many of them to pursue further education and a career in music.
"Knowing that you have the support of a well respected large organisation has given us a platform to expand our organisation and most importantly create a pathway for our students.
It has been invaluable and our future plans continue to evolve with the encouragement of everyone we meet with at Bath Spa University."
Music Workshop has recently expanded and now incorporates a new community space.
Our ambition is to create safe, creative spaces where people can thrive through the shared journey of music.
Muw Shed will be a space for activities such as group music-making workshops, live performances, choir groups, book readings, sound & video recording and much more… One step at a time!
A place for personal study or a safe retreat.
Somewhere to meet friends & plan ideas.
Including purpose-built music rooms, & our cosy coffeehouse event space.
Keep up to date with the latest from Music Workshop on their:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/santander:
Through its Santander Universities Global Division, Santander has supported higher education in the UK since 2007, providing funding for scholarships, mobility awards and research grants with the aim of supporting students and academic staff.
Santander Universities has renewed its partnership with Bath Spa University for a further three years, to continue to provide annual funding for students and graduates.
The partnership will provide scholarship and award opportunities to support education, entrepreneurship and employability activities.
Bath Spa University Vice-Chancellor Professor Sue Rigby and Matt Hutnell, Director Santander Universities UK, held an online ceremony on 22 September 2020 to mark the renewal of the agreement.
As a result of this ongoing partnership, the University will continue to help more students to enrich their learning experiences and further enable graduates to achieve their aspirations.
The range of opportunities available to students and staff means there should be something for everyone.
We launch funding opportunities throughout the year, and encourage students and staff to keep an eye out for information in newsletters, on social media, and regularly visiting this page for updates.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/the-forum:
The Forum, originally an Art-Deco cinema, is a Grade II listed building in the centre of Bath.
As Bath’s biggest theatre-style music venue, the building offers a unique history whilst also hosting internationally acclaimed musicians and shows.
It first opened its doors to the public as a cinema in 1934, and today The Forum represents a true reflection of typical Art Deco splendour, with the iconic green cinema offering a spacious, luxurious audience experience within an elegant auditorium.
However, it is The Forum’s ability to offer this unique history while showcasing the most internationally-acclaimed musicians, celebrities and shows that really sets it apart from the crowd.
From Jools Holland to Katie Melua, and comedians to Strictly stars, The Forum hosts some of the UK's biggest entertainers.
The Forum plays a part in the university journey of many Bath Spa students.
From offering both short and long-term internships, to hiring students in the bank of show staff, there are many opportunities for students to gain work experience throughout their degree.
The Forum team also support students on a range of degree courses by allowing them to use its range of facilities and equipment.
Bath Spa students have organised a range of events at the venue including comedy nights, folk nights and even a James Bond themed ball!
As a venue, The Forum also helps to bridge the gap between different schools within the University, allowing for collaboration on projects such as theatre plays and music shows.
Staff at The Forum have a wealth of practical experience in the events industry, and they share this knowledge with Bath Spa students through the roles of guest lecturer and associate technician within several schools of study .
Students also celebrate the end of their university journey with The Forum, which hosts both summer and winter graduations.
The Forum has several Bath Spa alumni on its staff team.
Keep up to date with the latest from The Forum on their:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/networks/theatre-royal-bath:
'Since 2014, the Theatre Royal Bath and Bath Spa University have benefitted from a productive, collaborative and creative partnership between the country’s best regional theatre and a university committed to arts and culture.
Both organisations strive for the shared goals of world-class artistic ambition and high quality creative education.'
Theatre Royal Bath is one of the country’s leading regional theatres.
The Theatre presents and produces varied, high quality and artistically bold plays and activities across three auditoria: the Main House, The Egg and the Ustinov.
The Theatre's work supports a cultural ecology that extends well beyond the building with productions regularly touring nationally, internationally and to the West End.
The Egg is the UK’s foremost dedicated regional theatre for children and young people and their families.
Its creative learning and artist development work is internationally recognised, whilst the Ustinov has a strong reputation for presenting new translations, adaptations and international productions.
Since 2014, the Theatre Royal Bath and Bath Spa University have benefitted from a productive, collaborative and creative partnership between the country’s best regional theatre and a university committed to arts and culture.
Both organisations strive for the shared goals of world-class artistic ambition and high quality creative education.
Theatre Royal Bath provides placements for Bath Spa students from MA Arts Management, MA Creative Producing and other disciplines including from the Business School and the Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries.
Students have access to three working auditoria, a wide-ranging audience demographic and insight working alongside the experienced team employed at Theatre Royal Bath.
The working practices gained by Bath Spa students through this arrangement form an invaluable part of their skillset for future employment and can provide access to careers in theatre and its associated disciplines.
Progression is a key feature of the relationship between the Theatre Royal Bath, Bath College and Bath Spa, providing a clear pathway for training and development.
The Egg Theatre delivers a Level 3 Performance and Production Arts programme with Bath College and invests heavily in the local artistic pipeline.
Local students can embark on their studies knowing that there is a pathway of high quality professional training through to postgraduate level available on their doorstep.
By nurturing this partnership our regional cultural and industrial resilience grows as we further the art form together through training and research.
Theatre Royal Bath is also a destination employer for newly graduated students – the Egg Theatre alone typically employs over 50 freelance creatives every month.
As both a presenting and producing house, the Theatre offers Bath Spa staff and students unparalleled access into the workings of the theatre sector, with many alumni eventually working on national and international touring productions and in the West End.
A shared focus on digital production and cutting edge creative technology research has led to extended collaboration through regional partnerships such as AHRC Creative Clusters funded projects Bath & Bristol Creative R&D and SWCTN .
It is this cross-fertilisation that has supported The Egg to make a speedy and successful pivot into developing the first online digital theatre training .
Theatre Royal Bath is committed to connecting to the creative industries through research with technologists, creatives, performers, writers and educators.
As co-leaders of Bath Cultural Education Partnership, Theatre Royal Bath develop and deliver high quality creative education for children and young people.
Both organisations are keen to utilise their resources to address the needs of the local community through high quality cultural engagement, particularly during the post-pandemic recovery phase.
The egg theatre wonderfund is our campaign to bring more schoolchildren to live theatre at the egg FOR FREE .
We are fundraising to provide schools with tickets and transport; to enable as many children as possible to experience live theatre, many for the first time.
Help us bring children to see live performance and text WONDER to 70470 to donate £10.
Our students have participated in a range of training events hosted by the theatre.
These have included an employability workshop, pyrotechnics masterclass, a masterclass with Director Danny Moar, arts management workshop and devising workshops.
Our students have used the egg theatre for teaching sessions, rehearsals and public performances on stage.
Performances included The Jungle Book , scratch MA performances, and the Bath Spa Live Cracked student takeover.
Bath Spa staff and students can enjoy priority discounted or complimentary tickets when available.
Keep up to date with the latest from Theatre Royal Bath on their:
Photo credit Main House auditorium: Colin Hawkins Photo credit front entrance: Freia Turland

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/term-dates:
*See the UK Government website for information on Public Holiday dates.
† Please note BSUL courses that begin in March and June 2025 will straddle both academic years.
Holiday dates
*Please be aware that in the event of placement school dates being different to University dates, PGCE students will follow the holiday and term dates of their placement schools.
Undergraduate calendar (year one, two and three)
Taught Postgraduate programmes
PGCE (September starters)
18 December 2026
BSUL (March entry)
BSUL (June entry)
BSUL Undergraduate
9 February 2024
*All of the work necessary for the degree to be awarded will be completed by this date.
Students who wish to take part in the public degree show or other performances please note these may take place up to 1-2 weeks later than this date.
The assessment and examination period on the schedule is the period towards the end of a semester during which module tutors schedule assessment deadlines and remote timed tests.
It's important that all coursework deadlines set by your module tutors are adhered to.
If you feel that you need some extra time for an assessment, please review our extensions and exceptional circumstances information .
It's important that you continue to attend any scheduled sessions during these weeks and access support for your studies as and when you require it.
All our professional services are available during this period to support you in your studies .
If you have any queries, please contact us via MyServices .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/find-us:
Bath Spa University is situated in the beautiful World Heritage City of Bath.
The University’s main campuses, Newton Park , Locksbrook and Sion Hill , are easy to reach by public transport or road.
If you're travelling to Bath by train or bus, you can reach Newton Park campus using the U5 bus service.
Please be aware there is a much reduced service during the summer months, so check the U5 bus holiday timetable carefully to plan your travel.
Address : Temple Court Halls, Bath Spa University Campus, Bath BA2 9BG
Lakeside is located on Newton Park campus.
Please follow the travel instructions listed below under the Travelling to Newton Park title.
Address: Newton Park, Bath BA2 9BW
Gardens is located on Newton Park campus.
Address : Lower Bristol Rd, Bath BA2 3ED
Both Waterside Court and Charlton Court are located next to each other, close to Locksbrook campus .
If you follow our route to Locksbrook campus, listed below under the Travelling to Locksbrook title, you'll find both halls of accommodation a few minutes along Lower Bristol Road from the campus towards the city centre.
Address : Lower Bristol Rd, Twerton, Bath BA2 1EZ
Address: Harley St, Bath BA1 2SF
Bankside House is located in Bath city centre, two roads up from the Royal Crescent.
After following the instructions listed under the Travelling to Bath title, continue along London Road and head down the Paragon, before turning right onto Belmont and across Brunswick Place.
Then, turn right at Harley St., where you will find Bankside.
For those travelling by public transport, walk up the central high street until you reach the top of Milsom Street.
Walk up through Bartlett Street, onto Julian Road, and then turn right onto Burlington Place.
Walk until you see the turning to Harley St.
If you’re travelling via the M4 motorway, leave the M4 at junction 18 and join the A46 southbound.
After 9 miles, leave the A46 and at the roundabout, and take the third exit onto the A4 into Bath.
For local buses to Bath, please check the First Bus website for routes and timetables.
Bath Spa is Bath’s main train station.
Bath also has a second, smaller station at Oldfield Park .
The Bristol to Bath cycle path is a lovely flat 13 mile off-road route between the two cities and is perfect for walkers and cyclists.
Bristol Airport is the closest airport to Bath and is 35 minutes from the city centre by car.
To get to and from the airport by bus, you can plan your journey with Air Decker .
If you're travelling from Paddington Station or London Kings Cross / St Pancras International Station there is a direct bus, the 205, that runs into Shoreditch and stops off at Pitfield Street.
If you get off the bus at Stop M, it takes roughly 13 minutes to walk to 50 Hoxton Street.
If you're travelling from Farringdon Station, walk five minutes to Farringdon Road and arrive at Stop E next to a Pret A Manger.
Take either the 55 or 234 bus to Shoreditch Town Hall (a 15 minute journey) and walk for five minutes up to 50 Hoxton Street.
Our closest tube station is Hoxton Overground, which is located a six minute walk away.
Our closest Underground station is Old Street Station, which is a 16 minute walk away.
We have a number of Lime bikes and scooters located near stations and even across the road from BSU London.
You can usually use these for up to 10 minutes for free, and after that are subject to a fee.
Download the Lime app to be able to find bikes and scooters near you and reserve a vehicle.
We highly recommend that students at BSU London download the Citymapper app.
It provides real time updates, allowing for routes to be planned with consideration for traffic, closures, and strikes.
Limited parking is free at Newton Park on Open Days , Offer Holder Days and over Registration Weekend.
Sion Hill campus is accessible by the 700 bus, which you can catch at Bath bus station (next to the train station).
The car parks at Newton Park are controlled by ANPR cameras and security patrols.
There's a one-hour grace period for dropping off.
If you think you need longer than this you'll need to buy a Pay and Display ticket.
You can use the pay and display machines or the Justpark app to pay for parking.
The code to use varies by campus:
If you have a Blue Badge you can park for free at any campus.
You'll need to register your vehicle first by emailing transport@bathspa.ac.uk .
Any queries or questions should be directed to transport@bathspa.ac.uk .
For all enquiries, please email transport@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/contact:
Here are three ways you can get in touch.
We recommend MyServices as the most efficient.
MyServices is our online self-service portal where current students can find and amend personal details, get IT support, find University information and request further support.
The My Bath Spa app gives you access to University services on your phone.
Keep up-to-date with the latest, including your Welcome checklist, and use the app to see your timetable and check into lectures.
Download on the App Store or Google Play .
Want to speak to someone in person?
Visit the Student Hub in the Twiverton building, Newton Park campus.
You can talk to members of the Student Information team, IT Service Desk and the Finance/Fees team.
+44 (0)1225 876 180
If you have an enquiry about recruitment and jobs, please email jobs@bathspa.ac.uk .
Current staff can contact HR for general enquiries via MyServices , and external queries can be sent to HR via this form .
library@bathspa.ac.uk
+44 (0)1225 875 490
studentregistration@bathspa.ac.uk
+44 (0)1225 875 530
accommodation@bathspa.ac.uk
+44 (0)1225 876 777
Bath Spa University Newton Park Campus Newton St.
Loe Bath BA2 9BN
Bath Spa University Locksbrook campus Locksbrook Road Bath BA1 3EL
Bath Spa University Corsham Court Corsham Chippenham SN13 0BZ
Bath Spa University Sion Hill Campus Sion Hill Place Bath BA1 5SF
Oldfield Park Theatre Workshops Westmoreland Station Rd Bath BA2 3HQ
International queries : international@bathspa.ac.uk
We recommend direct dialling the person you wish to contact outside of our core hours to leave a voicemail message, or send us an email.
Bath Spa Student Support gives you all the information about what support we offer, from mental health and wellbeing support to finance.
Student Wellbeing Services also offer a range of 24/7 support services that you might be interested in.
Bath Spa University doesn't tolerate harassment, bullying and violence.
If you feel harassed or bullied, or are a victim of violence, you can submit a report through the Report and Support tool.
Telephone : +44 (0)1225 875875
Please note that the main switchboard is open from 09:30 to 16:00 (UK time).
Find all of BSU's social media accounts listed in our social media directory .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library:
See link below.
Learn about our remote services and Subject Librarian support for Bath Spa London students.
Discover the books – both physical and digital – that we've selected to support your wellbeing.
We support teaching, learning and research throughout the University, in collaboration with staff and students.
We provide information resources in a range of formats , with an emphasis on the electronic; environments that facilitate study and learning in a variety of ways; and support for the development of information literacy to enable students to make the best use of learning resources.
The library has many additional collections and resource lists beyond your academic work.
Check out our Reading for Pleasure collection in the library foyer, and our LGBTQ+ Resource List , Women's Network List , Race and Protest List and Decolonisation list .
The Wellbeing Collection can be found either online or in the Sitting Room, Main House and is a holistic collection designed to support your mental and physical health.
The Library supports the University's commitment to open research through two repositories, ResearchSPAce and BathSPAdata , where our latest journal articles, book chapters, conference papers, artistic works and research data can be accessed.
Bath Spa University Newton Park Bath BA2 9BN
Phone: +44 (0)1225 875 490 Email: library@bathspa.ac.uk
During term time, the ASk team 's Student Digital Learning Assistants are available in-person and online every weekday between 10am-2pm.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/library-databases:
We're reviewing how we organise pages on the library website, and we'd like to invite you to help.
Let us know where you think you should be able to find information on the Library website by completing a short card-sorting exercise .
These include online collections of e-books, e-journals, digital manuscripts and images, as well as streaming on demand film, television, and tech skills tutorials.
These resources are for educational use only and must not be altered or adapted in any way, and content must not be uploaded to AI systems without authorisation from the copyright holder.
* Database included in library search
0-9 | A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | R | S | T | U | V | W | XYZ
If you're unsure which databases are relevant for you, find your course on Subject Resources A-Z
This collection of grassroots media and official records explores the political, social and welfare issues of the 1980s in the UK and US and includes oral histories, photographs and zines alongside newspapers, manuscripts and government files.
The 1.2 million periodical pages of Series 1 of this collection cover 'New Readership':
These archives contain digitised 16th to 19th century British newspapers from the British Library's collections.
Full runs of 48 newspapers are covered, including:
A highlight is the 17th and 18th Century Burney Newspaper Collection containing newspapers and news pamphlets gathered by the Reverend Charles Burney (1757 - 1817), representing the largest single collection of 17th and 18th century English news media.
a-n provides resources for artists, students, tutors and arts professionals including news, features, toolkits, case studies, practical guides and advice.
a-n is the largest artists' membership organisation in the UK.
Academic Search Complete offers the full text of over 8,800 journals in all academic subjects.
The contents of another 18,000 journals are indexed and abstracted.
Associated Press video content from the 1970s to the present day is also included.
*If an article is not in full text, you can check the journals A-Z to find out whether it is held on another service or in print format.
If it's not, you can request an Interlibrary loan .
The American Chemical Society archive contains the backfiles of 23 journals up to 1995, providing access to over 460,000 articles, including those by over 180 Nobel prize winners.bb
Examples of journals included are:
'AI in Society' explores how AI is transforming the world we live in, both positively and negatively, and the challenges and debates it brings with it.
The Oxford Intersections series provides an interdisciplinary approach to societal issues with new viewpoints and possibilities from a diverse community of voices.
Content will be continue to be added until 2028, to make a collection of around 300 peer reviewed original research articles.
Bloomsbury Applied Visual Arts offers access to over 220 illustrated art and design ebooks which combine visual inspiration with practical advice on idea generation, research techniques, portfolio development and more.
All the main visual arts disciplines are represented, including: design & illustration, photography, film & animation, architecture & interiors, marketing & advertising, fashion & textiles.
A collection of more than 200 key titles focusing on studio design and professional practice, including 15,000 images, and content on sustainability and digital design.
For a description of each service above, see its separate entry in the main A-Z list.
Contains topically-focused digital collections of historical documents.
Collections in Archives Unbound cover a broad range of topics from the Middle Ages forward-from Witchcraft to World War II to twentieth-century political history.
Collections are chosen for Archives Unbound based on requests from scholars, archivists, and students.
Full text archive of 27 magazines comprising key research material in the fields of art and architecture, from the late 1800s to the early 2000s.
Subjects covered include fine arts, decorative arts, interior design, industrial design, architecture and photography.
This collection includes full text plus specialist indexes and abstracts
The Artforum archive provides access to issues of the leading magazine for coverage of international contemporary art from its launch in 1962 to 2020.
It contains features, reviews and interviews relating to artists, exhibitions and publications, as well as architecture, film, fashion, photography and music.
More recent issues can be found via the Journals A-Z .
This database offers full text plus abstracts and indexing of an international array of over 300 peer-selected publications.
Coverage includes:
A comprehensive guide to art galleries, auction houses, art fairs and agents from multiple national and historical contexts containing thousands of peer reviewed articles covering Europe and North America from 1900 to the present day.
Art, Race and Gender collection provides access to a niche selection of monographs with an intersectional approach to art studies.
It supports research and scholarship in the areas of art, art history, women’s and gender studies, and visual culture.
Arts professional is a news and information service for art sector professionals.
It also provides events guides, weekly jobs bulletins and professional development updates.
Artstor supports study in art, architecture, humanities and across disciplines with 300 collections composed of over 2.5 million curated images from outstanding museums, photographers, libraries, scholars, photo archives, and artists and artists' estates.
The images have been rights-cleared for use in education and research and come with high-quality metadata from the collection catalogers, curators, institutions, and artists themselves.
Access to over 1,000 programmes from the BBC's archive of Shakespeare plays, poems and sonnets provided by the Educational Recording Agency (ERA).
You will need to use your BSU email address to create an account, in line with ERA's Terms and Conditions .
This service is not available to partnership staff or students.
Access to over 2,000 programmes related to literary works, including dramatisations, documentaries and critical analysis, provided by the Educational Recording Agency (ERA).
The Beckett Digital Manuscript Project contains digital facsimiles of significant works by the Irish novelist, playwright and poet Samuel Beckett.
The archive is organised into research modules, each of which contains all extant manuscripts pertaining to an individual text, now preserved in different holding libraries around the world.
A curated selection of primary sources focused on U.S.
Black history, covering the period 1790-2000
Bloomberg.com provides news, information, and tools for business leaders and financial market players, across a number of sectors.
To access Bloomberg.com portal please do as follows.
Bloomsbury Academic began as an open access book publisher in 2009 and ever since has committed itself to publishing the best scholarship in the Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.
Bloomsbury Academic's Open Access collection has over 200 of the highest quality titles available online for free, covering subjects such as Anthropology, Film & Media Studies, Politics and & International Relations, History and Education.
BoB is the British Universities Film & Video Council's on-demand TV and radio service for education.
This service allows students and staff to view, record, create clips and share broadcast programmes from over 60 TV and radio channels.
BoB video tutorials
Please note this resource is unavailable to BSU partner students and staff, due to licence restrictions.
Due to copyright restrictions, you need to be physically located in the United Kingdom to use BoB.
Bridgeman Education provides access to around 250,000 images covering the visual culture from prehistory to the present day from all over the world.
All aspects of art are included - fine art, photography, sculpture, architecture, archaeology, etc.
There is detailed information given with each image and they are free to use for educational purposes.
*Bridgeman's resources must be used for educational purposes only and, if you use any image in your work, you must acknowledge the source as you would any other reference.
The British Association for the Advancement of Science (BAAS) Collections on the History of Science 1830-1970 documents the efforts of the British scientific community to establish science as a professional activity and make Britain into a globally competitive centre for science.
It aggregates BAAS collections and archives from a number of British universities and includes field reports, photographs, illustrations, lectures, proceedings, brochures, diaries and newspaper clippings.
This service from EBSCO provides access to three databases which can be searched singly or all together:
*This database does not provide full text though many entries include abstracts.
You will need to check the Library catalogue and/or the journals web pages to find out whether a particular book or journal is held.
If not, you may want to apply via interlibrary loans for a copy.
O ver 60,000 volumes of out of copyright 18th & 19th century texts, digitised by the British Library in partnership with Microsoft.
Items within this collection cover a wide range of subject areas including geography, philosophy, history, poetry and literature and are published in a variety of languages.
The British Library website, systems and services continue to be affected following a cyber attack and only limited content is currently available.
British Library Sounds provides access to recordings of oral histories, interviews with artists and designers, unpublished ethnographic material, classical, jazz and popular music recordings and environmental sounds.
*These resources should be used for teaching, learning and research purposes only.
Guidance is available from the British Library .
**Some resources which were accessible on BL Sounds' old website have been decommissioned in early 2023.
For an update of their status please see the page: Decommissioned British Library Content .
Provides access to the searchable full text of hundreds of periodicals from the late seventeenth century to the early twentieth, comprising millions of high-resolution facsimile page images.
Use your BSU username and password to login.
Broadcast is a resource for the TV & Media industry which provides up-to-the minute industry news, expert analysis and commentary, insider industry information and business critical data.
Access to the Broadcast magazine and database does not require signing up.
Staff and students can register to receive email newsletters, access to events and app using their Bath Spa email address on the Broadcast registration webpage .
You are advised that this will be processed by Broadcast in accordance with their Privacy Policy .
The Burney Newspaper Collection contains newspapers and news pamphlets gathered by the Reverend Charles Burney (1757 - 1817).
They represent the largest single collection of 17th and 18th century English news media.
Business of Fashion provides intelligence, analysis and advice for the global fashion and beauty industries.
Take a look at this Business of Fashion Guide , highlighting top articles, case studies and masterclasses.
* On first use you will need to create an account using your Bath Spa email address and agree to BoF's Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy.
Accounts are for individual use only and must not be shared.
** You may find this guide helpful if you already have a Business of Fashion account, and wish to link to your account through Bath Spa University.
Business Source Ultimate offers the full text of over 5,500 of the most important scholarly business journals, as well as articles and indexing and abstracts for over 7,000 more.
Thousands of case studies, market research reports and company profiles are also included.
*For those articles not provided in full text, you will need to check the Journals A-Z to find out whether it is held on another service or in print format.
Access to over 1,100 textbooks covering a broad range of subject areas, including Business & Management, Drama, Education, Film, Music, Psychology and Statistics.
(To read Cambridge textbooks offline and on your mobile devices, you will need the Cambridge Spiral e-reader app and to sign up for a separate username and password on Cambridge's platform.)
The Chatham House Online Archive (CHOA) contains Chatham House’s publications and archive from 1920 to 2008.
The collection includes over half a million pages of research and analysis from the world-leading centre for policy and research, subject-indexed and fully searchable.
Construction Information Service (CIS) delivers key technical information for construction projects.
It includes fundamental industry information and legislation from over 400 national organisations including the British Standards Institute, the Chartered Institute of Building and the Institution of Structural Engineers.
Due to copyright restrictions, you need to be physically located in the United Kingdom to use CIS.
There are additional restrictions on how British Standards content can be used, please contact the Library ( digitalcollections@bathspa.ac.uk ) for details.
This site will help you with guidance on referencing within your academic work.
For any queries about referencing please email: academicskills@bathspa.ac.uk .
The Daily Mail has been at the heart of British journalism since 1896, regularly changing the course of government policy and setting the national debate.
It currently boasts a circulation of over 2 million, and its website is the most visited news site in the world.
More than 100 years of this major UK national newspaper can be viewed in full digital facsimile form, with copious advertisements, news stories and images that capture 20th and 21st century culture and society.
Dance in Video contains dance productions and documentaries from some of the most influential performers and companies of the 20th century.
Selections cover:
Defining Gender provides access to a collection of original documents relating to gender studies from libraries and archives worldwide.
Amongst other documents, the collection includes:
Bloomsbury Design Library offers comprehensive global coverage of the history, theory and practice of crafts and design, from prehistoric times to the present day, including over 4,000 object images from worldwide design museums.
Digimap is an online map and data delivery service offering a number of data collections, including Ordnance Survey, historical, geological and spatial data.
(Staff and students will need to authenticate using your BSU log-in, and then register individually to accept the terms and conditions for all 13 collections we have access to.)
Compiled by Oxford University Press, the site contains entries on over 50,000 people who shaped history, society and culture from the earliest times to those who died in 2000, including over 10,000 portrait illustrations.
Digital Theatre Plus offers high-definition films of acclaimed British theatre productions.
It provides a unique in depth insight into practice and the profession of theatre-making.
Please note : you will need to use the latest version of the Google Chrome browser in order to watch content.
DOAJ is a community-curated online directory that indexes and provides access to high quality, open access, peer-reviewed journals.
Drama Online offers full text editions of over 3,500 plays, from the Greeks to the present, but also ground-breaking British plays, and highly contemporary new drama with a focus on women’s drama, international drama, drama in translation, and drama by black, Asian and indiginous Australian writers.
The content comes from the pre-eminent theatre lists and imprints of Methuen Drama, the Arden Shakespeare and Faber and Faber, providing contextual and critical background through 450 academic books, critical guides, production photos, annotations and practical guides.
Also available is an advanced play finder tool .
The National Theatre Collections 1, 2 and 3 draw on 12 years of NT live broadcasts plus high-quality archive recordings to offer 70 filmed performances.
Plays
Context & Criticism books
Productions recorded live on stage
The first comprehensive online collection for the interdisciplinary study of dress and costume history, design and making, which brings together primary source material, authoritative scholarly books and reference works, practical costume-making guides, exclusive overview articles and videos analysing garments in detail, together with a timeline of costume through the ages.
The Drum provides insights, guidance, inspiration and solutions for the marketing and media industries.
To access premium content off-campus you’ll need to create a personal account on The Drum’s BSU registration page using your Bath Spa email address.
This involves accepting The Drum’s Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy.
This site is a collection of about 100,000 titles taken from the following catalogues and sources:
It comprises digital facsimile page images of virtually every work printed in England, Ireland, Wales and British North America and elsewhere from 1473 to 1700.
Early European Books provides access to full-colour, high-resolution facsimile images of rare and hard-to-access books printed in Europe before 1701.
It is an excellent complement to Early English Books Online.
Each item includes images of:
This provides information about the physical characteristics and history of the original artefact.
EBSCO Discovery Service (EDS) allows you to search the majority of the Library's digital resources and other scholarly content.
EDS has advanced search capabilities that allow you to, for example, search within the full text of search results, or widen a search to include abstracts only.
Bloomsbury Education and Childhood Studies offers a systematic and comparative look at key education levels and the study of cognitive and psychosocial development through early childhood and youth.
Books and articles cover education systems from multiple countries and examine topics such as decolonising curriculums, citizenship education and social justice and education.
Available through EBSCOhost, this service offers the full text of some 750 journals in education and related areas, about 100 books in full text and numerous conference papers.
In addition, the contents tables of 1,500 journals are indexed, many including abstracts.
This bundle from EBSCO comprises the following services:
This is a collection of about 135,000 eighteenth century printed books with over 26 million scanned pages.
Each title has a full citation record from the English Short Title Catalogue and is fully searchable, including the full text.
This collection of primary source material provides students and scholars with access to the Larpent Collection of over 2,500 plays from California's Huntington Library .
John Larpent was the Lord Chamberlain’s Inspector of Plays, with responsibility for censoring plays for the English stage.
Larpent preserved the original submissions of operas and plays – many of which were never staged or published – in his collection, which has been digitised in full colour.
The Eighteenth Century Journals collections contain newspapers and journals, from 1685 to 1835, providing an invaluable resource for researching the century.
The journals are sourced from such reputable libraries as the Bodleian in Oxford, the Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center at the University of Texas at Austin, the British Library, Cambridge University Library, Chetham's Library, Manchester, Birmingham Central Library and the Brotherton Library, University of Leeds.
EThOS is the UK’s national thesis service which aims to maximise the visibility and availability of the UK’s doctoral research theses.
Use it to find full and download text versions free of charge.
If the British Library haven't digitised the one you want yet, they will try and obtain an electronic copy or direct you to where you can get a paper copy.
Where electronic copies have to be made, you may have to pay a fee (you will be alerted to this when you confirm your order).
EThOS is the first port-of-call when looking for a thesis.
However, where electronic copies are not available, we may still be able to borrow a paper copy on your behalf - please forward to us a copy of your communication with EThOS.
This is a collection of original documents relating to Empire studies, sourced from libraries and archives around the world.
They include exploration journals, periodicals, diaries, slave papers, maps and many others.
Passport from Euromonitor provides data and insight on industries, economies and consumers worldwide, helping our clients analyse market context and identify future trends.
Watch the Euromonitor Passport help videos to get started using the database.
***We recommend using the Google Chrome browser to access Euromonitor***
Bloomsbury Fashion Business Cases is designed to help students develop essential business skills and presents real-world fashion business cases, and tackles important issues such as sustainability, technology, ethics, and leadership.
Fashion Central is a hub for interdisciplinary research in fashion and dress, and provides access to major reference works, exclusive articles, scholarly eBooks, case studies, biographies, lesson plans, bibliographic guides, textbooks, runway and backstage photos from fashion shows, and tens of thousands of images from museums around the world.
The collections below provide structured access to this content:
The Fashion Law offers news and analysis of legal issues relating to the fashion industry.
Videos of worldwide fashion shows, designer profiles and interviews ranging from the mid 1980s to 2015.
Available through EBSCOhost, this service offers the full text of some 100 journals and 100 books.
In addition, the contents of another 250 journals are indexed, many including abstracts.
The First World War portal showcases a wealth of primary source material for the study of the Great War.
Bath Spa has subscriptions to the Propaganda and Recruitment and Visual Perspectives and Narratives collections.
Contains full-text access to over 8,000 journal titles containing peer-reviewed full-text scholarly content in both PDF and HTML, across the academic disciplines.
Explore the world's companies through expert analysis such as SWOT analyses, financial statements, case studies and articles from academic journals, trade magazines, news outlets and more.
Business Insights gives you access to over 4,000 full-text publications including newspapers, trade journals, magazines, and peer-reviewed academic journals.
Provides access to literary works and authors throughout history and includes more than 150,000 full-text poems and 800,000+ poetry citations, as well as short stories, speeches, and plays.
Includes centuries of scholarly, popular and literary commentary from broadsheets, pamphlets, encyclopedias, books and periodicals.
The online format matches the exact look and feel of the print originals
Contains biographical information, overviews, full-text literary criticism and reviews on nearly 130,000 writers in all disciplines, from all time periods and from around the world
Gale OneFile: News provides access to full-text newspapers and allows users to search articles instantly by title, headline, date, newspaper section, or other fields.
The database offers a one-stop source for current news and searchable archives.
Gale eBooks is a database of encyclopedias and specialized reference sources for multidisciplinary research.
Search across all of our selected Gale Primary Sources databases:
Search across the 14 collections that make up Gale Research Complete including news, business and literature resources and archives.
The collection includes software-focused and hands-on content for students of video game design and digital animation, from Packt Publishing.
The Garland Encyclopedia of World Music Online is the first comprehensive online resource devoted to music research of all the world's peoples.
More than 9,000 pages of material, combined with entries by more than 700 expert contributors from all over the world, make this the most complete body of work focused on world music
Global Commodities: Trade, Exploration and Cultural Exchange provides a vast range of visual, manuscript and printed materials sourced from over twenty key libraries and more than a dozen companies and trade organisations around the world.
These original sources will help scholars to explore the history of fifteen major commodities and to examine the ways that these have changed the world.
With over 1,000 entries and 600 images, the encyclopedia covers the work of women architects from over 135 countries, and their often-overlooked contributions across different times and geographies.
GreenFILE covers all aspects of human impact on the environment including education, law, health and technology in a collection of scholarly, government and general interest titles.
Content includes global warming, green building, pollution and renewable energy.
Grove Art Online is the foremost scholarly art encyclopedia, covering both Western and non-Western art.
First published as the landmark 34-volume Dictionary of Art, edited by Jane Turner, the content of Grove Art encompasses all aspects of visual culture.
Other key features of Grove Art Online include:
This historical newspaper provides genealogists, researchers and scholars with online, easily-searchable first-hand accounts and coverage of the politics, society and events of the time.
The Harper’s Bazaar Archive includes the complete run of U.S.
Harper’s Bazaar, from 1867 to the present, fully indexed and searchable.
This full color collection of approximately 350,000 pages provides a powerful lens into American and international popular culture from the mid-19th century forward, facilitating academic research in wide-ranging fields such as:
A chronicle of some of the most influential work from world-renowned designers, models, photographers, stylists, and illustrators of the mid-nineteenth century forward, the Harper’s Bazaar Archive captures this record of popular culture, facilitating searching, digital humanities projects, and multidisciplinary inquiries.
This site provides access to the full text of thousands of documents from 1688 to 2003/4, covering over 300 years of policy making, investigation, correspondence and research - a unique historical record of the times.
The documents include debates, proceedings, bills, House papers, Command papers, reports of Commissioners and Committees.
When it began in 1842 the Illustrated London News became the world's first illustrated weekly newspaper, sparking a revolution in journalism and news reporting.
The publication presents a vivid picture of British and world events - wars, disasters, royalty, social affairs, the arts and science: in fact, its first issue covered the war in Afghanistan as well as the latest fashions from Paris!
This archive contains over 260,000 full colour pages, fully searchable and browsable, and provides unprecedented access to the entire run of this unique historical record.
Available through EBSCOhost, this service offers the full text of some 100 journals in theatre and the performing arts plus about 100 books in full text.
From 1 August 2024, the JISC Historical Texts service will be discontinued.
You can access the four historically significant collections that comprised JISC Historical Texts using the links below:
From 1 August 2024, the JISC Journal Archives service will be discontinued.
You can access the archives that comprised a portion of the service using the links below:
John Hopkins Guide to Literary Theory provides a comprehensive survey of ideas and theorists from Plato to modern times, examining developments in other disciplines which have shaped theory and criticism.
Search Tips
Use * as a truncation symbol (e.g.
child*).
Use single quotation marks to indicate phrases (e.g.
'new historicism').
This collection provides access to thousands of items from the John Johnson Collection of Printed Ephemera, housed in the Bodleian Library, Oxford, offering unique insights into the changing nature of everyday life in Britain in the eighteenth, nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
The collection was assembled by John de Monins Johnson (1882-1956), Printer to the University.
It contains a high proportion of unique material, which has remained largely hidden to scholars and researchers.
When the digitisation project is complete, there will be access to over 150,000 items in the following categories:
JSTOR provides the full text of over 1,000 journals via a number of collections.
Generally, the complete back run of the titles are held except for the most recent 3 to 5 years: new volumes are added each year so that there is always a 3 to 5 year gap.
JSTOR also contains millions of curated images from outstanding museums, photographers, libraries, scholars, photo archives, and artists and artists' estates.
Kanopy is a streaming service for educational institutions that provides access to over 18,000 films, including major blockbusters, documentaries and the Criterion collection.
Law Trove provides full text access to 200 Oxford University Press (OUP) Law textbooks with simple navigation that allows you to search across the whole collection.
Please note this resource is unavailable to BSU partner staff and students, due to licence restrictions.
Lexis+ contains a range of full text legal resources, including All England Law Reports, Halsbury's Laws of England, Encyclopaedia of Forms and Precedents, Atkins Court Forms and key UK journals.
Please note that any material printed or downloaded from Lexis should be kept for no more than 90 days, and material should not be uploaded to Lexis itself.
Due to copyright restrictions, you need to be physically located in the United Kingdom to use Lexis.
View Lexis+ UK tutorials
LinkedIn Learning is trusted by businesses, governments and over one million individuals worldwide to learn software, creative, design and business skills.
New courses and videos are added every week.
Chronicling the transformative rise of radio and television and published weekly by the BBC for 70 years, The Listener was originally established to reproduce radio and TV broadcasts, but it regularly reviewed new books.
Major contributors included E.M.
Forster, George Orwell and Bertrand Russell and it provided an important platform for new writers and poets including W.H.
Auden, Sylvia Plath and Philip Larkin.
This collection of seventeenth and eighteenth century poetry contains facsimile images of 190 manuscripts held by the Brotherton Library, University of Leeds.
The manuscripts range from contemporary copies of poems by writers like Colvil, Dryden, Fairfax and Pope to popular tags and epitaphs.
Many of the manuscripts are miscellanies and commonplace books which have never previously been indexed.
They are also accompanied by interactive essays.
The Stationers’ Company Archive is one of the most important resources for understanding the workings of the early book trade, the printing and publishing community, the establishment of legal requirements for copyright provisions and the history of bookbinding.
Explore extremely rare documents dating from 1554 to the 21st century in this invaluable resource of research material for historians and literary scholars.
Available through EBSCOhost, this service provides information on thousands of authors and their works across literary disciplines and timelines.
Contents include:
Provides access to images of 30,000 original documents from the Macmillan administration.
The images are linked to fully searchable indexes, including browsable Class Lists CAB 128, CAB 129, CAB 134 and PREM 11.
Also includes the consolidated Annual Indexes to the Cabinet Papers of the period.
There are five essays on the Macmillan Administration and lists of Ministers and Officials from 1957 to 1964.
Market Research and American Business, 1935-1965 provides a unique insight into the American consumer boom of the mid-20th century through access to the market research reports and supporting documents of Ernest Dichter (the era’s foremost consumer analyst and market research pioneer).
The Archive of Mass Observation, a pioneering social research resource, provides access to around 115,000 digital images of material generated by mass observation between 1937 and 1949, with a few later additions from the 1950s and 1960s.
In 1937, some 500 volunteers were recruited from the general public to form “a national panel" who were asked to record the everyday concerns of their lives on the twelfth of each month, including dreams, hopes, and fears.
The archive contains file reports, summaries and conclusions, books and topic collections, day surveys and diaries, photographs and maps.
This is an invaluable resource for sociologists, cultural historians and a wide range of other disciplines.
From departure to destination, discover the dreams and harsh realities for migrants to the New World and Australasia during the ‘century of immigration’.
This captivating, multi-archive collection provides a wide-ranging and in depth look at the emigration of peoples from Great Britain, mainland Europe and Asia during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
Music Ally is an information service that provides students and academics access to essential information on the digital music business.
This database contains searchable current news, in-depth country profiles, analysis, and digital marketing reports that are essential for keeping you up to date in the fast paced commercial music industry.
MusicID: Global music industry data, incorporating 5,452 different charts spanning 74 countries.
Perpetually-updated, week-to-week information on iTunes downloads, Spotify and Apple Music streams.
Track the worldwide top earning recordings of the 21st century to reveal the most successful artists, singles, and albums of the last twenty years.
The National Theatre Collections 1, 2 and 3 draw on twelve years of NT live broadcasts plus high-quality archive recordings to offer 70 filmed performances.
For further details about the plays in each collection, including trailers, see the info on National Theatre Collection 1, National Theatre Collection 2 and National Theatre Collection 3 for quick access to all plays use the link below.
Naxos Music Library contains thousands of CDs from the Naxos and Marco Polo catalogues and other record labels.
These can be accessed by composer, artist, genre, category and label or a more general search.
It also has related resources including analyses of selected works and an interactive music dictionary.
Naxos Jazz Music Library offers a wide range of jazz music, from jazz legends to contemporary jazz.
Recordings of over 32,000 artists are represented
Access for 10 simultaneous users.
Please use the log-out button at the top of the screen to end your session.
Naxos Spoken Word Library has thousands of audiobooks, plays, poetry and classic novels from medieval times to the 21st century, including content in French and German.
Access for 3 simultaneous users.
This collection provides complete FCO 7 and FCO 82 files for the entire period of Richard Nixon’s presidency.
Top-level Anglo-American discussions and briefing papers dominate these papers.
There is also a wealth of material on social conditions, domestic reforms, trade, culture and the environment.
The Open Library of the Humanities provides access to over 27 open access, peer reviewed academic journals from across the Humanities, including classics, philosophy, theology, history, political theory, sociology, film and new media studies and digital humanities.
Oxford Bibliographies in Criminology is an online guide to the essential literature across the various subfields of criminology.
Each article, written and reviewed by top scholars in the field, is rich with citations and annotations, expert recommendations, and narrative pathways to the most important works for virtually all areas of criminology.
The Oxford English Dictionary is the world's leading authority on the development of the English language over the last millennium.
It's an unsurpassed guide to the meaning, history and pronunciation of over half a million words through 2.5 million quotations from a wide range of international sources.
Oxford Handbooks Online (OHO) is one of the most successful strands of Oxford’s scholarly publishing, containing in-depth, high-level articles by scholars at the top of their field.
Recent changes to the publishing program means that all Handbooks will be available online as well as in print.
Monthly updates introduce articles ahead of print publication and additional, born-digital content ensures more current and authoritative coverage.
Bath Spa Library users now have access to Handbooks in the following subject areas:
The Oxford History of Western Music provides access to the acclaimed account of the evolution of Western classical music by Richard Taruskin.
It includes over 500 images and 1,800 musical examples plus links to Oxford Music Online .
This online archive provides access to the full text of 157 Oxford University Press journals to 1995.
Most journals start at Volume 1.
The Archive divides the journals into subject groups for easier searching:
Oxford Music Online has over 52,000 articles, plus links to related materials, including sound archives and illustrations.
Oxford Music Online provides full text access to:
Access also includes the New Grove Dictionary of Opera and the New Grove Dictionary of Jazz.
Oxford Research Encyclopedias (ORE) offer long-form overview articles written, peer-reviewed and edited by leading scholars.
They aim to provide a knowledge base for major areas of research and enable a reliable understanding of different topics.
Bath Spa Library users now have access to Research Encyclopedias in the following subject areas:
This collection of manuscripts from early modern women authors is the result of the Perdita Project at the University of Warwick and Nottingham Trent University.
There are over 230 manuscripts reproduced here, all written or compiled by women in the British Isles during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, sourced from libraries all over the UK and USA.
PAO contains the backfiles of some 700 journals in the arts, social sciences and humanities, published between 1891 and 2000.
Highlights include:
This database covers classic and contemporary poems, short stories, and biographies and authoritative essays on topics like poetic forms, movements and techniques.
Content includes:
Pop Culture Universe: Icons, Idols, Ideas looks at evolving trends, social norms and cultural turning points in US history through primary sources, articles, videos, ebooks and images relating to US popular culture from the 1900s to the 2010s.
Content is organised by decade or subject area including Architecture & Housing, Clothing & Fashion and Technology & Media.
The period from 1950 to 1975 witnessed dramatic changes in society.
There was the onset of Rock & Roll; the introduction of computers and credit cards; the boom of radio and television; and campaigns for black power, civil rights and women’s liberation.
By focusing on substantial collections of original archival material from key British and American libraries, this database provides primary sources that will enable students to examine these issues at first hand:
Project MUSE provides the full text of over 300 journals, with all graphs, charts and images.
The Library subscribes to the Humanities and Social Sciences Collections, which include journals in culture, film, history, literature, music, politics and religions.
A title list is available for browsing.
PsycARTICLES®, from the American Psychological Association (APA), is a definitive source of full-text, peer-reviewed scholarly and scientific articles in psychology.
It contains more than 153,000 articles from nearly 80 journals published by the American Psychological Association (APA), its imprint the Educational Publishing Foundation (EPF), and from allied organizations including the Canadian Psychological Association and the Hogrefe Publishing Group.
It includes all journal articles, book reviews, letters to the editor, and errata from each journal.
The American Psychological Association's PsycINFO® database is the comprehensive international bibliographic database of psychology.
It contains citations and summaries of peer-reviewed journal articles, book chapters, books, dissertations, and technical reports, all in the field of psychology and the psychological aspects of related disciplines, such as medicine, psychiatry, nursing, etc.
Journal coverage, spanning 1806 to present, includes international material selected from more than 2,450 periodicals from more than 49 countries.
Over 80,000 records are added annually through weekly updates.
More than 36 million references in over 870,000 journal articles, books, and book chapters; retrospective to 2001 and earlier, where available; more than 3.2 million references from 1920 to 2000.
A free full-text archive of biomedical and life sciences journal literature at the U.S.
National Institutes of Health's National Library of Medicine (NIH/NLM).
The Punch Historical Archive allows users to navigate and search all issues, seasonal numbers and almanacks of what was once the world's most celebrated magazine of humour and satire (1841 to 1992).
The resources provides a unique insight into the politics, culture and society of the 19th and 20th centuries.
The Purple Guide to Health, Safety and Welfare at Music and Other Events has been put together by The Events Industry Forum in consultation with the UK events industry and the Health and Safety Executive.
It aims to help organisers of large-scale music and similar events to ensure they are run safely.
Access is limited to 50 simultaneous users.
RefWorks - an online research management, writing and collaboration tool - is designed to help researchers easily gather, manage, store and share all types of information, as well as generate citations and bibliographies.
Note: In order to export references to RefWorks from library search results or other databases which support it, you need to be logged in to RefWorks first.
See Refworks' own user guide and video tutorials .
Rock's Backpages is the only comprehensive online database of pop music writing in the world.
The database contains an ever-expanding collection of primary-source, full-text music writing.
Sourced from the pages of the music and mainstream press, it is a library of articles (reviews, interviews, features and more) from the early '60s up to present day and includes a growing collection of exclusive audio interviews.
The archive covers all types of popular music from the 1950s to the present: from Abba to Frank Zappa, the Rolling Stones to the Stone Roses and from Elvis Presley to Eminem.
The archive provides access to issues of one of the most influential consumer magazines of the 20th-21st centuries, from its launch in 1967 to present.
It covers rock and popular music journalism, as well as wider entertainment topics such as film and popular culture.
Routledge Handbooks Online brings together the world’s leading scholars to provide an overview of classic and current research in the Humanities, Social Sciences, Education, Psychology and Engineering, while also providing an authoritative guide to theory and method, key sub-disciplines and the primary debates of today.
The Archive of the Royal College of Physicians of London covers the history of medicine, medical humanities, medicine and culture, religion, and government, the establishment of public health systems, and the policies governing medical education and practice.
It contains a range of content from 1100-1862, including monographs, rare books, manuscripts, reports, medical education textbooks, anatomical drawings, public health surveys and photographs - all presented as fully searchable digital images.
ScienceDirect provides the full text of about 1,600 journals, generally issues from 2008 onwards, but some going back to 1995.
Screen Studies is a dynamic digital platform taking users from script to screen and beyond - offering a broad range of content from Bloomsbury, Faber & Faber and the British Film Institute to support moving-image studies.
It is an essential resource for academics and students engaged in research and learning in film history, theory, and practice.
Highlights include:
Shakespeare's Globe on Screen is a collection of thirty productions recorded live on stage.
It features performances from leading actors including Mark Rylance’s Tony Award-winning role as Olivia in Twelfth Night and Roger Allam’s Olivier Award-winning role as Falstaff in Henry IV, as well as two productions from Emma Rice’s tenure as Artistic Director.
Shakespeare's Globe on Screen 1 (2008-2015)
Shakespeare in Performance features rare and unique prompt books from the world-famous Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington DC.
The prompt books tell the stories of key performances in theatres throughout Great Britain, the United States and further afield, between the seventeenth and twentieth centuries.
The manuscripts trace how Shakespeare's plays have been interpreted by theatre companies, actors and directors across the centuries, often containing personal notes, sketches and cues for lighting and music.
Designed for both teaching and research, this resource includes documents and collections from libraries and archives throughout the Atlantic from 1490 onwards.
Produced in partnership with Smithsonian Folkways Recordings , Smithsonian Global Sound is a encyclopedia of the world's musical and aural traditions.
The collection provides educators, students, and interested listeners with an unprecedented variety of online resources that support the creation, continuity, and preservation of diverse musical forms.
SocINDEX covers sociology literature from 1895 on and contains about 1,300,000 records, including over 300 journals, over 500 books and abstracts, and some 600 core journals in full text.
Subjects covered:
New stories, in-depth reporting and analysis giving a global view of business strategies and sponsorship deals across a range of top sporting businesses and brands.
State Papers Online, Eighteenth Century, covers the 18th century from the accession of the Hanoverian monarchs to the British throne in 1714 to the end of the State Papers series in 1782.
Statista is a comprehensive statistics platform with access to over 1.5 million data sets and with revenue forecasts up to 2025/2026 on over 400 industries.
It also features many thousands of downloadable reports, studies and dossiers relating to a wide range of subject areas.
This archive provides access to the whole newspaper from its launch in 1822 until 2006, including; advertisements, obituaries, classified ads, photographs and articles.
Complete page images are available and individual articles appear in their original context.
An interdisciplinary collection of digital content mapped to the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) .
SDGO includes book chapters, journal articles, essays, presentations, videos and case studies.
Collection content is guided by an international Advisory Board of academics, practitioners, policy makers and officers in third sector, government and NGOs.
Teaching Times offers professional development articles and resources for teachers and education leaders.
It includes content from publications such as School Leadership Today, Creative Teaching & Learning and Digital Learning alongside classroom resources and knowledge banks.
Teletherapy Skills in Video: A Symptom Media Collection shows current best practices of conducting teletherapy, designed to help students learn how to conduct teletherapy responsibly, mitigate potential ethical concerns and attune to each client's unique circumstances.
Licence restrictions mean the video and audio content should not be downloaded or copied.
The Television and Radio Index for Learning and Teaching (TRILT) is the best source of UK television and radio broadcast data available on the web.
Over 350 television and radio stations are indexed, including terrestrial, cable and satellite television, and local and national radio.
Theatre in Video brings together classic and contemporary plays, documentaries and interviews from 20th century theatre history.
It incorporates celebrated performances of Shakespeare and rare footage of the work of Samuel Beckett alongside contemporary writers such as Philip Kan Gotanda, and new and international productions.
Interviews with directors, designers, writers and actors provide a view from behind-the-scenes.
This archive provides access to the whole newspaper, including advertisements, obituaries, classified ads, photographs and articles.
Access breaking news, in-depth analysis, teaching and learning guides and research reviews.
Please note : in order to access TES, you first need to register for an account using your Bath Spa University email address.
This archive provides access to the whole TLS, containing every page of every copy for 100 years.
The UK Medical Heritage Library brings together books and pamphlets from 10 research libraries in the UK, focused on the 19th and early 20th century history of medicine and related disciplines.
An archive of digitised materials for the study of popular entertainment in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
BSU subscribes to the following:
Backfiles of video gaming magazines from the 1980s through to 2020, covering a wide variety of consoles / platforms and aspects of the industry.
Titles include 'Computer and Video Games', 'PC Gamer' and 'Edge'.
Bloomsbury Visual Arts is an interdisciplinary hub designed for research and learning across art, design, architecture and related fields.
The platform is cross-searchable, or can be explored using the subject and collection titles below.
The Vogue Archive is a unique record of American and international fashion, culture and society from 1892 to today.
The archive is completely searchable, from the first issue to the current month, reproduced in high resolution colour page images.
Every page, advertisement, cover and fold-out has been included, with rich indexing enabling users to find images by garment type, designer and brand names.
Westlaw UK provides full-text access to current and historic UK, EU and worldwide case reports and legislation.
It also gives access to the Legal Journals Index, some full text law journals, and many law electronic books.
Subject areas cover UK, EU, and International Cases; UK, EU, and International Legislation.
Wetlaw UK includes full text of various practitioner texts including: Chitty on Contracts; Clerk and Lindsell on Torts; Civil Procedure (White Book) .
You will be prompted on first use to input your name and Bath Spa email address.
You are advised that this will be processed by Westlaw in accordance with their privacy policy .
View Westlaw tutorial
Basic Certification
Advanced Certification
WGSN Fashion and Insight provides forecasting, market intelligence and trend analysis for style, fashion and design, and includes a fashion image library.
On first use you will be asked to accept WGSN's Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy and provide information to customise your account.
Watch the quick introductions to the WGSN forecasts and content:
This archive provides access to Women's Wear Daily, one of the fashion industry's most influential reads, from its launch in 1910.
It covers key moments in fashion industry history, alongside major designers, brands, retailers and advertisers.
New issues are published after a six month embargo.
The Youth & Popular Culture Magazine archive holds backfiles of 13 magazines from the UK, US and Canada with coverage spanning 1940 to the 2000s.
It highlights topics and trends in the history of youth culture including fashion, rock and roll, sports, sexuality, dating and the media portrayal of youth, and gives an insight into influences on youth culture during times of rapid social and cultural change..

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/library-hours:
Newton Park Library is open for browsing, Click and Collect , study seats (both bookable and 'walk in' )
Newton Park Library summer vacation hours are:
Click and Collect
Locksbrook summer vacation hours are:
Items can be collected by arrangement - please contact us .
Newton Park Library is open for browsing, Click and Collect , study seats (both bookable and 'walk in' )
8am-10pm, seven days a week.
Students can collect their Click and Collect library loans from a library assistant working in the Locksbrook Student Hub (G19), Monday to Friday from 9am-4.30pm.
We provide access to the Library’s extensive range of digital resources and online services to support your online learning, teaching and research.
These are available twenty four hours a day.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/subject-resources-a-z:
Find subject resources and contact details for your subject librarian below.
(Bath Spa London students, please find your librarian's details here .)
Use our Library Search – a search engine that allows you to search lots of academic databases at the same time.
RefWorks is an online tool for generating citations and bibliographies.
It can save you a huge amount of time when writing up your assignment.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/researching-and-referencing:
Undertaking research?
Get help with finding the resources you need:
Need help with referencing?
The Library provides you with two fantastic tools to help you with your referencing.
All the guidance you need to reference resources in your academic work.
RefWorks is an online research management, writing and collaboration tool, designed to help researchers easily gather, manage, store and share all types of information, as well as generate citations and bibliographies.
See RefWorks' own video tutorials and guides .
Note: When exporting references to RefWorks from library search results or other databases which support it, it's best to be logged in to RefWorks first.
The Library supports the University's commitment to open research through two research repositories:
For email queries contact the Library Research Support team at repositories@bathspa.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/researching-and-referencing/search-strategies:
Your subject librarian can also offer help and advice on your literature search.
Find your subject librarian and book an appointment below.
Available to meet in person and online
To book an appointment, or for an enquiry, email h.rayner@bathspa.ac.uk Phone: +44(0)1225875648
To book an appointment, or for an enquiry, email e.downes@bathspa.ac.uk Phone: +44(0)1225876582
To book an appointment, or for an enquiry, email a.price@bathspa.ac.uk
To book an appointment, or for an enquiry, email r.caddis@bathspa.ac.uk Phone: +44(0)1225875401
Available to meet in person and online Tuesday to Thursday
To book an appointment, or for an enquiry, email m.hamdani@bathspa.ac.uk Phone: +44(0)1225876640
Available to meet in person and online Monday to Wednesday
To book an appointment, or for an enquiry, email j.goss2@bathspa.ac.uk Phone: +44(0)1225875417

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/researching-and-referencing/books:
Use the library search to find a book, DVD or other resource you're interested in.
Each item has a number listed under Shelfmark .
Multiple copies of the same book all have the same number – the number is determined by subject matter and, usually, the surname of the author.
Make a note of the number and then make your way to the shelves ...
Example:
Web Design in a Nutshell (Title)
004.6 NIE (Shelfmark)
004.6 = Data processing and Computer Science: Interfacing and Communications (subject matter)
NIE = author Jennifer Nie derst-Robbin
Most of the books are shelved in numerical order, from 000 to 999.
After numerical order, books are arranged in alphabetical order of author's surname.
Each book has the number labelled on the spine.
The Library offers a ‘Click and Collect’ service for all Bath Spa University students and staff.
Books can be requested for collection at Newton Park Library, Locksbrook, Sion Hill and Corsham Court.
‘Request’ items in advance through the online Library catalogue (a maximum of five requests can be placed at one time).
Wait to receive an email notification to your Bath Spa University email address informing you that your items are ready to collect.
On arrival, Library staff will show you where your item(s) are being held.
Bring your Bath Spa University ID card with you so you can borrow your items via the Library self-service kiosks.
Please check the opening times before planning your visit.
If your collection site is Corsham Court, the Corsham Court Receptionist will email you when the items are ready to collect and confirm collection arrangements: Tel: 01225 876390
Books may be recalled if someone reserves one of them so please check your University email for updates.
You will have 7 days to return your item if it is recalled.
If you have any questions about the 'Click and Collect' service, please get in touch .
Yes, this is possible via the Click and Collect service .
Once you have been notified that your request is available, you will have seven days to pick it up.
Unfortunately, you cannot reserve eBooks.
All students and staff can borrow up to 25 items.
These can be any combination of items - books, audiovisual materials, DVDs, CDs etc.
There is a standard loan period of 1 year for all items, except those that are marked as reference only.
Your items will be automatically renewed for you.
However, if an item you have on loan is recalled, i.e.
if someone else requests it, you will need to return it by the new due date.
This allows fair access to high demand items.
Please email library@bathspa.ac.uk or contact us on chat if you need to discuss returning your items.
Fines are only charged on items that have been recalled and not returned by the new due date.
They are charged at 50p per day (not including weekends or closed days).
If fines are above £10.00 you will be not be able to borrow or renew items until you have paid.
Please let us know as soon as possible so that we can help.
If Library items aren’t returned or are lost/damaged, you will temporarily have library privileges withdrawn and replacement costs will be charged at the full current price of the item.
Invoices for lost or damaged books will normally be added to your library account, and can be viewed and paid online.
If you find and return the Library items within 6 months of the invoice being paid, we will be happy to give you a refund.
Please contact library@bathspa.ac.uk if you need to discuss lost or damaged items.
Staff
New resources for teaching should now be requested through the University’s Resource List Management system.
Add items to your list and we will check its availability for purchase, and your Subject Librarian will be in touch to discuss any queries.
If you do not have a list for your module on the system yet, it's easy to set one up.
Please see the self-guided training (login required), or speak to your Subject Librarian .
If you wish to request an item that is not required for a Resource List then please email your Subject Librarian directly.
Students
Let us know what you need!
Access the form below to suggest a purchase for the library collections.
If you need a digital scan from our print collections you can request a scan.
‘Scan and Send’ will enable you to access material from library print resources without the need to travel to campus.
You can use this service for private study or non-commercial research.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/researching-and-referencing/dissertations:
To find print dissertations and theses:
The items you see in results will all be from our collection of Bath Spa dissertations.
Please enquire at the desk or via email/telephone to request access.
All dissertations and theses are for library use only and are not loanable.
Please note : The Library does not have coverage of all taught courses.
However it does hold the complete collection of PhD theses in print.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/researching-and-referencing/ebooks:
Access them via the Library Search .
To read and download most Library eBooks, you'll need either Adobe Digital Editions or BlueFire Reader .
For the majority of eBooks, you'll have the option to read online or download.
Read online is the most fail-safe way of reading the eBook.
After the download period has expired, the file will no longer open, and you'll need to access and download the book again, or read it online.
Many of our books only allow a specific number of people to view them at any one time.
If that number has been reached then you will be placed in a queue.
Unfortunately, you cannot reserve eBooks.
Adobe Digital Editions and BlueFire Reader are available as free apps for Android and iOS, and are required for reading the majority of our eBooks on mobile.
You can search for them or use these links: Adobe Digital Editions ( iOS / Android ) or Bluefire reader ( iOS / Android ).
Many library ebooks have Digital Rights Management (DRM) written into the eBook files, by which the books publishers protect themselves from illegal file sharing.
Most of our eBooks cannot be read on a Kindle for this reason.
You can send library ebooks with this DRM restriction to e-readers such as Kobo using Adobe Digital Editions or to the NOOK GlowLight Plus e-reader directly by following the NOOK GlowLight Plus guide.
For books without restriction on download period (books from JSTOR, for example), you can send the file to your Kindle using Amazon’s Kindle Personal Documents Service .
Loan periods vary by supplier and you will often have a choice.
There are other books classed as eBooks which don’t have restrictions (Digital Rights Management, or DRM), for example those from JSTOR, Oxford Handbooks and Routledge.
These can be downloaded and kept on your PC or device indefinitely.
Yes, you can print and copy from most eBooks within the limits of copyright law and/or publishers’ license agreements.
This will usually mean that you are able to print or copy 10% or one chapter of a book (whichever is greater), as with a printed book.
You will usually be told what these limits are when you try to print or copy from a book.
The supplier will retain information on how much you've already printed and/or copied.
For example, if you print up to the limit in your first year, you won't be able to print any more in your third year.
Printing and/or copying is only available from the read online view and is not available from an eBook you've downloaded.
If you are printing an EBSCO eBook, up to 100 pages of a title can be printed per user in PDF format.
More information can be found on EBSCO's help pages .
It is possible to make notes if you're reading an eBook online.
You can also use our referencing software Refworks to manage your readings and research notes from all our eBooks and other resources.
VLeBooks works much the same way.
Select 'Add notes' at the bottom left.
Notes autosave while you're in the eBook and are viewable in the left-hand menu.
However, you may want to export them via the notes button at the top-right before you exit the eBook.
To add a note, you must be signed into your Bath Spa account.
Then click on the sticky note icon on the top righthand menu.
Adobe Digital Editions is compatible with JAWS , NVDA , or Window-Eyes on Windows and VoiceOver on Mac.
For eBooks that are DRM-free (i.e.
do not require Adobe Digital Editions or BlueFire Reader), the Adobe Reader has a Read Out Loud Text-to-Speech tool which can be used with ebooks you have downloaded.
In addition, all computers in the Library and Learning Commons have screenreader software installed called 'Read and Write Gold'.
'Read and Write Gold' doesn't work in the 'Read online' view.
You must first download the eBook to your computer.
Read and Write Gold provides an excellent beginner's Guide to get you started.
We can only buy ebooks that are licensed for use in universities.
Some ebooks are only available for individuals to purchase, or have very expensive licences that we can’t afford, or restrictions on how they can be used which make them unsuitable for what we need.
We buy eBooks from several different sources.
Identify the eBook supplier you have reached and find their guides below:
EBook Central To download EBook Central titles on your laptop or PC, you will need Adobe Digital Editions or Bluefire Reader .
Full FAQs and help from the EBook Central site
VLeBooks To download VLeBooks on your laptop or PC, you will need Adobe Digital Editions or Bluefire Reader .
JSTOR eBooks, Routledge Handbooks and Oxford Handbooks eBooks from these suppliers don’t have download restrictions, and can be kept on your device indefinitely.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/researching-and-referencing/journals:
You can find journals we subscribe to using the Journals A-Z .
This searches journals by title, and you can see which volumes and years we have access to.
The majority are e-journals which are accessible online, and a few are held in print format in the Library at Newton Park.
(If you have reached here from a 'Check for Full Text' link in a library search result, then the article you've found is within one of our physical print journals.) See details for each journals collection below.
Articles can also be requested via the 'Scan and Send' service .
(If you have reached here from a 'Check for Full Text' link in a library search result, then the article you've found is within one of our physical print journals.)
See details for each journals collection below.
Journals covering Art, Architecture, Ceramics, Fashion, Photography and Design are held in the Art and Design Journals Room on the ground floor of the Library at Newton Park, accessed via the main Book Hall.
Please follow the signs or ask a member of staff.
Journals covering all other subjects taught at Bath Spa, including Creative Writing, Education, Music, Psychology and Science are held in the Journals Room, accessed via the main Book Hall.
A few rare journal issues are held within our Art Special Collection.
These can be requested for consultation in the library by arrangement.
Please speak to your Subject Librarian or ask a member of staff at the Library Reception.
Print journals are displayed and shelved in alphabetical order of the full title.
For example:
On reading lists and bibliographies, journal articles can be recognised by the elements listed.
They'll have an author, the year of publication and a title (like books); then will come the journal title (often in italics), the volume number, issue number and page numbers of the article within the volume.
There may be variations of style but, essentially, this is how they'll appear.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/researching-and-referencing/standard-content:
The collections receive special treatment in terms of:
1st editions of published creative works by Bath Spa University alumni, many of them signed by the authors.
Teaching collection of artists' books which supports Bath School of Art & Design courses.
Collection of books from the library at Bath Academy of Art (at Corsham Court from approx 1946) transferred to Somerset Place in 1986.
Assumed to be representative of material available to students and staff of Bath Academy of Art.
Some rare and valuable items.
Books added since 1986 if of value and for Reference only.
Collection of journals from the library at Bath Academy of Art (at Corsham from approx 1946) transferred to Somerset Place in 1986.
Collection of prospectuses from Bath Academy of Art 1946-86 and Bath School of Art & Design 1986 onwards.
Collection of degree show student postcards and yearbooks from Bath School of Art & Design.
Degree show and other exhibition posters and flyers from Bath Academy of Art and Bath School of Art & Design.
Print copies of official Bath Spa University Christmas cards with designs produced (in the main) by Bath School of Art & Design students.
A handling collection of early printed books which supports Bath Spa University BA English degree modules which focus on Early Modern printed books (pre-1700).
Books and papers representing winners and nominees of the annual V&A Illustration Awards, many of them personally signed, donated by Mr Jack and Mrs Audrey Ladevèze.
Artist's lay figure once owned by Walter Sickert (1860-1942).
Probably late 18th Century.
Print copies of Bath Spa University PhD theses from 1999 onwards.
Music scores autographed by the composer - assorted works by Michael Tippett, Peter Maxwell Davies, one work by William Walton (limited ed.
signed), one work 'commissioned for Bath Spa' by Francis R Shaw.
All items that are available for consultation can be found via the Library Search , they will show a ‘location’ of Special Collections or Art Special Collections and are for use in the Library only.
Please speak to us at the Library reception or contact us on library@bathspa.ac.uk to arrange access.
We may be able to collect materials immediately, or at busy times you may need to agree a time to come back later.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/researching-and-referencing/studying-in-the-library:
You can choose from quiet locations within the Library with easy access to browse the book shelves, spaces with PCs, or spaces with tables and power where you can use your own device.
To guarantee a study space in the Library, please book a room or a seat using our booking system.
If you're looking for a comfortable place to read or just some quiet reflection, walk-in spaces include some more informal seating (armchairs, sofas and pods).
We also have a sensory study room :
Alternatively please speak to a member of the Library staff, via chat, email , or when you arrive at the Library.
You can book slots of any duration, within the library's opening hours.
The Library is open seven days a week in semester, from 8am to 10pm.
During the winter and summer vacations, the library is open from 9am to 5pm.
During the spring vacation, the library is open from 8am to 5pm.
Study seat booking can be made up to two weeks in advance.
Yes.
Walk-in spaces are available throughout the building, but spaces can also be booked in advance , or on the day.
Please ask at the Library reception desk for more information.
The sensory study room is available
There are numerous bookable as well as walk-in seats within Newton Park Library with power and USB sockets for your own device.
Our reception desk staff can help show you which areas are available when you arrive at the library.
There are bookable and walk-in seats in Newton Park Library with fixed PCs.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/researching-and-referencing/interlibrary-loans:
Students and academic staff can borrow books, as well as request digital copies of chapters and journal articles, via the UK interlibrary loan network.
This video shows you how to make a request.
Interlibrary loan copies of articles and chapters are supplied for your non-commercial research and private study only and cannot be shared.
For teaching purposes (upload to Ultra), academic staff should instead place a digitisation request against an item in their resource list.
Undergraduates and PGCE students can request up to ten items (including renewals) per academic year
Master's students can request up to 25 items (including renewals) per academic year.
PhD students and academic staff have no preset limit for item requests, on the understanding that these requests are made on a reasonable basis to support your learning and work-related research.
Non-work related requests should be made via your local public library.
Please note : You won’t be able to request an ILL if your library account is blocked.
Your account will become blocked if fines reach £10 or more.
You can pay your fines in your library account.
Once your fines are below £10 we can continue with your ILL request.
Most of the requests are sourced from another university's lending library in the UK.
Other lending libraries will send articles and chapters to us, and we will forward these to you by email wherever possible.
Prior to its cyber attack in late October 2023, most of the requests went to the British Library , and a handful are still supplied by them.
As a general guide, articles and chapters delivered can arrive within one to two weeks.
Books will usually take longer than articles as they rely on the postal service.
They usually take between one to four weeks to arrive.
Please note : some items may be more difficult to obtain, particularly if they are popular or very recent publications.
This may delay the process.
We place a bookmark in each book showing the due date.
Books will also be issued to your account upon arrival.
Please contact us at internp@bathspa.ac.uk if you want to renew an ILL.
You are not able to renew your interlibrary loans like other Bath Spa library items via your library account.
We will request a renewal for you, and update your account if this has been successful.
You will receive email confirmation from us too, including the revised due date.
Alternatively, we will contact you if a renewal is not possible.
Lending libraries may allow a loan to be renewed but they may also charge for it, so we will count this as another request off your allocation.
If you are at your allocation limit for the academic year, any renewal charges we incur will be passed on to you and placed on your borrower's account .
All loans are subject to immediate recall by the lending library, so do keep an eye on your Bath Spa email for Library notifications.
ILLs are not renewable via your library account like other Bath Spa library items.
How to renew an ILL:
Please note : all loans are subject to immediate recall by the lending library, so do keep an eye on your Bath Spa email account for notifications.
If you are already at your interlibrary loans allocation limit for the academic year, any renewal charges we incur will be passed on to you and placed on your borrower's account.
Many ILL journal articles and chapters can be supplied as a digital PDF by the lending libraries, which we will send on to your Bath Spa email address.
This means we can supply journal articles and chapters quickly.
Please note: we are not able to process more than one article request from the same journal issue per person, as we are bound by copyright laws.
You do not need any specific PDF reader to open the document, such as Adobe.
Documents may only be used for private study and non-commercial research, and must not be shared.
If you have any questions, please contact internp@bathspa.ac.uk .
After a certain time, if the book hasn’t been returned, the lending library will charge for a replacement copy.
Lending libraries will vary in how much they charge for a replacement.
The British Library’s charge is currently over £180 + VAT (unless the item is more expensive).
Even if the book is subsequently returned, there is still a 50% administration fee.
If these charges are made, they will be passed on to you, so keep an eye on your Bath Spa email for any Library notices.
If you think you may have lost an ILL book, or are unable to return it by its due date, please contact us at the first opportunity.
Please note: the EThOS service is currently unavailable due to a cyber attack.
While the EThOS (Electronic Theses Online Service) service is offline, the British Library interim catalogue provides access links for theses which have been made available online by UK universities.
To find theses, use the "Advanced Search" to search for your topic of interest and select "Material Type" Theses from the drop-down menu.
Yes - we can supply make requests for study scores on your behalf.
Please note : we are unable to supply sets or parts of vocal scores for performance.
Please ask in the Library if you would like more information, or contact internp@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/renewals-and-fines:
Your loans will be automatically extended unless they have been recalled, or unless you have outstanding debts or overdue loans.
Please note: it's your responsibility to ensure loans are returned or renewed on time.
We will email your University email address to inform you if your items have been recalled.
You can pay Library fines through your Library account .
Please make sure that all overdue items are renewed or returned before  making an online payment so that the amount owed is calculated correctly.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/plans-and-policies:
We provide professional, responsive, and personalised customer experiences
We provide a transparent and equitable service and communicate what we do clearly
We are committed to work in partnership with students and staff to improve our services and spaces and to ensure they meet current and future needs
We work hard to ensure the resources we provide are sustainable, taking into account accessibility, licensing and value for money

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/about-us/governance/policies/copyright:
This policy describes how the University ensures that its activities comply with copyright law and the various copyright licences that it holds.
Note that the University's policies relating to intellectual property created by employees and students are explained separately in the Student General Regulations and the Conditions of Service ( login required ).
Only "designated persons" are authorised to prepare and distribute digital copies made under the terms of the University's CLA Licence.
This applies to scans of copyrighted material which are distributed via Ultra.
Bath Spa's designated persons can be found below.
Library and Learning Services
Academic staff can request that extracts are scanned from in-copyright books or journals.
Library staff will check requests against the terms of the University's CLA Copyright Licence and (where possible) supply links for upload.
Links to PDF scans prepared for one module must not be copied into other Ultra modules/courses.
Requests must be made directly through the University’s Resource List Management system .
Please see the self-guided training , or speak to your Subject Librarian .
Simply add the item to your resource list, click the three dots at the end of the item and select ‘Request digitisation’.
Copyright protects the creators of intellectual property whilst also recognising the need for use to be made of their works.
A generally accepted principle of copyright is that ideas cannot be copyrighted, only the expression of ideas, for example in a published book.
Copyright is an automatic right conferred upon the creator of a work, and includes both economic rights ( eg the right to licence a manuscript for publication) and moral rights ( eg the right to be attributed as the author of a work).
In the UK, copyright lasts for a fixed duration according to the type of material.
Under the terms of the 1988 Copyright Act:-
Under the 1988 Copyright Act there are a number of exceptions to copyright protection that allow, for example, single copies of short extracts from a protected work to be made for the purposes of non-commercial research or private study.
However these exceptions are extremely limited and the activities of the University would be curtailed if we relied on them alone.
The University holds several copyright licences:-
*Now administered by the CLA.
Yes, as long as each extract meets the conditions of the CLA Licence.
The CLA Licence allows multiple photocopies to be made by employees of the University and supplied to other employees or registered students.
Note that the CLA Licence places a number of conditions on the making and supply of photocopies:-
Yes, as long as each extract meets the conditions of the CLA Licence.
Digitisation requests are now made directly through the University’s Resource List Management system .
Please see instructions in the 'Digitisation for teaching and learning' section, above.
Library staff will check your requests against the various terms of the Licence.
Where possible, a link to a CLA-compliant scan will be provided.
Please note that in certain circumstances it will not be possible for us to supply a scan.
For example if a work is excluded from the Licence, or if you have asked us to copy a greater amount of a work than the Licence permits (as with photocopies, the 'extent limit' is the greater of 10% or one journal article/book chapter).
There may also be a delay if the Library needs to purchase an original copy of your requested extract.
It is a condition of the Licence that the University must hold original copies of scanned works.
No, academic staff must not personally make scans and upload them into Ultra.
In common with many universities, BSU only allows “designated persons” to prepare scans, who have received training in CLA processes.
This helps ensure we are compliant with the complex terms of the Licence.
The University’s copyright policy states that “The making and distribution of digital copies by anyone other than designated persons will be treated by the University as unauthorised copying.”
Yes, the CLA licence allows the copying of "disembedded images" for teaching purposes (images with no accompanying block of text) without any need to report this copying to the CLA.
BSU employees can therefore make these copies themselves.
The usual restrictions of the CLA Licence apply, and artists / photographers should be credited.
In addition to this, there are other sources of images that can be legally copied, including:-
Note that such resources will still have licence conditions that may, for example, require attribution to the original creator.
Printed music cannot be copied under the CLA Licence because it is an “excluded category”.
However:-
Generally, yes, but be careful – there may be active copyrights in a work that one might assume is out-of-copyright.
For example, although Shakespeare has clearly been dead for longer than 70 years, there will be active typographical copyright in recent editions of his work, lasting for 25 years from the end of the year in which the edition was first published.
Similarly with photographs of artistic work, although the original artistic work may be out of copyright, there may be active copyright in a photograph of that artistic work.
These rights are often held by museums and galleries, and in some cases (eg Getty Images) copyright holders actively track the use of infringing copies.
This depends on the detail of the agreement that you made with your publisher - no generalisations can be made.
There are normally other copyright holders in the published version of your work.
For example, a publisher will hold copyright in the typographical arrangement of the work ( ie the layout); photographers or illustrators will often hold copyrights; and you may have written the work with co-authors.
In some cases you will need to seek the written permission of your publisher before copies can be made.
If you receive permission to copy outside the CLA Licence, it may avoid future misunderstandings if you add a label to your copies explaining the arrangement that has allowed them to be made.
Please inform copyright@bathspa.ac.uk so we can keep a record of your agreement.
Following changes in 2014 to the Copyright Act, JISC Legal offered new advice on this matter:-
"Yes - provided the purpose of placing the clips in the VLE is limited to illustration for instruction and the copying is fair in that it does not negatively impact on the market for the original work then the exception permits the copies of the clips being placed in the VLE.
This is s.32 of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1998 (CDPA).
The use must be non-commercial and sufficiently acknowledged.
Who has access to the VLE is a factor to be considered when assessing whether the use is fair.
Restricting access to the learners who are enrolled on the particular course will support the contention that the use is fair."
Also note that:-
Section 30 of the Copyright Act states that:-
“ (1ZA) Copyright in a work is not infringed by the use of a quotation from the work (whether for criticism or review or otherwise) provided that:-
(a) the work has been made available to the public, (b) the use of the quotation is fair dealing with the work, (c) the extent of the quotation is no more than is required by the specific purpose for which it is used, and (d) the quotation is accompanied by a sufficient acknowledgement (unless this would be impossible for reasons of practicality or otherwise).
Quotation will not be "fair" if it negatively impacts on the market for the original work.
For example, if your draft journal article contains an in-copyright photograph of a painting, a publisher would still have to licence this by paying the copyright holder(s).
There's no automatic legal right that allows copyrighted material to be captured and disseminated through this system.
It is the responsibility of each staff member, or visiting lecturer, to make a judgement based upon the 'fair dealing' exceptions to the 1988 Copyright Act, and, in some cases, the provisions made by the University's CLA Licence.
These steps will reduce the risk of infringement:-

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/access-and-services:
Get help with:
Referencing
Ebooks
Journals
Search strategies
Books
Interlibrary loans
Special collections
We're often contacted by students who wish to film, take photographs or hold a performance in the Library.
We'll always try to accommodate you if it's possible.
However, our purpose is to provide an environment conducive to study and it is our duty to ensure the safety of all Library users.
It's therefore important that:
We require two completed forms: a Permission to undertake filming, photography or other activities form and a risk assessment .
You'll need to email them to library@bathspa.ac.uk .
We'll need to know:
A member of Library staff will make a decision on whether to give permission and let you know by email.
You cannot proceed without permission.
It's easy to print from either Bath Spa computers or your own devices.
Full printing instructions and costs are on the MyServices printing page .
Mobile printing can be done through my myPrint .
Printing credits can be purchased on The Hub .
Bath Spa registered students enrolled on some overseas teaching franchises are eligible to access Library e-resources where licences permit.
Please use these specific links:
Unfortunately due to licence restrictions, access to these resources is not available to staff members.
Your university ID card is also your library card.
You'll need it whenever you want to borrow books.
Academic staff can borrow up to 25 items.
Each course is supported by a dedicated Subject Librarian with subject knowledge in your area.
They can provide teaching sessions on library resources for you and your students.
You can request books via your Talis Aspire resource list .
Or, if you are not a module leader, you can email your Subject Librarian .
See the library page on SharePoint (login required) for more information on how the library can help you as a staff member.
The University's resource list management system, Talis Aspire , makes the sharing of library resources with your students both easy and consistent.
The system is fully integrated with the University's VLE, Ultra , and the Library's digital collections , which, from a student's perspective, makes the process of accessing key resources much more straightforward.
Once you've logged into the system for the first time, you can bookmark Library resources and external webpages, add them to a list, and link this list into your Ultra module.
If the Library doesn't already stock a resource, you can still bookmark it and the Library will then endeavour to supply a digital copy (depending on funds and availability).
You can also request digital extracts for your lists under the terms of the University's CLA Licence, using the “Request digitisation” option.
See our Resource List Toolkit for more help, including guidance on how to structure your lists in line with the University's Resource List Policy (login required) .
If you need any further advice about using Talis Aspire, please contact your Subject Librarian .
The University's CLA (Copyright Licensing Agency) Licence allows the Library to supply academic staff with digitised book chapters and journal articles.
Academic staff can request a scanned extract from ANY book or journal, not only items physically held by the Library.
Digitisation requests should now be placed directly through the University’s resource list management system, Talis Aspire .
First create a list, and then use the "Request Digitisation" option to place your request.
Under the University Copyright Policy , only 'designated persons' are authorised to scan copyrighted material; academic staff must not personally make scans and upload them into Ultra.
See our copyright FAQs for further information about the licence, as well as our Digitisation FAQs for staff (login required), and contact us at copyright@bathspa.ac.uk if you have any questions.
Please see our Audio-visual materials for teaching and learning page on SharePoint (login required).
Unfortuntely due to licence restrictions, access to our online resources is not available to staff members at our overseas partners.
Your students are eligible to access the following library e-resources (they will need to use these specific links to access):
As a Bath Spa University alumnus you can access the following online library resources for six months following your graduation using the link provided below:
Alumni are entitled to free access to the Library, as an external borrower, for the first year after graduation.
Subsequent annual alumni membership is available for £10 per annum.
With membership you can borrow up to five items at a time and use the study and enquiry services.
Alternatively, if you would like to use the library for reference purposes only, you are welcome to register as a reference user free of charge.
To apply please complete the External Borrower Application Form , and choose 'Alumni' as the type of Library membership.
Unfortunately due to licence restrictions, alumni may not use the networked computers.
Access to our online resources is limited to those listed in the section above.
Wherever possible we aim to meet the individual library needs of users with disabilities.
To achieve this, we invite you to contact us to discuss your requirements:-
David Rooney Email: d.rooney@bathspa.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0)1225 876769
Please take a look at the accessibility guide below:
We have a screenreading software called Read & Write Gold on all computers in the Library and Learning Commons.
Read & Write Gold, "provides users with dyslexia, literacy difficulties and ESL (English as a Second Language) with literacy support throughout their education, from primary through to tertiary level and into the workplace".
To get started, we recommend their help pages and video playlist .
In addition, the library provides a magnification tool in the main room which can be used to magnify the pages of print resources.
Colour filters can also be used with this resource to improve access.
If you have a support worker, they can borrow books on your behalf with a letter of authorisation from you.
Your support worker will also need your Library card to borrow books.
Library staff will be happy to help you retrieve books from the shelves.
If you think you might need long-term assistance, we can put you in touch with a member of Library staff who can be your named contact.
You can borrow books on your student's behalf with a letter of authorisation from them.
You will also need your student's Library card to borrow books.
Unfortunately, due to licence restrictions Academic Support Workers are not able to access online library resources.
Please check our Library catalogue , which is available for members of the public to search online, to check we have the books you require.
Do also take a look at our Library Opening Times , as they can vary at different times of the year.
Members of the public may use the library for reference purposes.
Please fill out the External Borrower Application Form , and choose 'Member of the public' as the type of Library membership, followed by 'Reference only'.
There is no fee for this form of membership.
If you would like to borrow library items, please complete the External Borrower Application Form to register as a member of the public.
As an external member you can borrow up to five items at a time and use the enquiry service.
Unfortunately due to licence restrictions, external members may not use the networked computers or access our electronic resources.
This means that only our Library catalogue , and not the main library search, will work for you.
Cost of membership:
My book has been recalled, what does this mean?
Your copy has been recalled because it has been reserved by another user.
If you do not return it within seven days, you will be asked to pay a fine.
I have received an invoice.
If I return all the books, do I still have to pay it?
You won’t have to pay the book replacement fee if you return the books, but there will still be a £5.00 administration fee per invoice.
Any fines will also still need to be paid.
I have just renewed my membership, but my books have not renewed.
Why is this?
The loan period was set to end when your membership ended.
You can renew your books online once you have extended your membership.
I borrowed a book yesterday and it has already been recalled, why is this?
Your book is in demand so we have reduced the loan period to allow others to use it.
You will need to return it within seven days of the recall notice.
I have a fine, how do I pay it?
You can pay fines and charges online through “ My Account ” in the library catalogue (minimum payment 50p).
SCONUL Access is a scheme which allows University library users to borrow or use books and journals at other libraries that belong to the scheme.
Take a look at SCONUL’s web pages for further information and to apply for access.
Search across the collections of UK Universities using JISC's Library Hub Discover .
For Bath Spa University students and staff going elsewhere:
For external students planning to visit Bath Spa University:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/library/request-a-scan:
You can request scanned extracts from our physical book and journal collections for your own private study and non-commercial research .
This service is available for all Bath Spa University students and staff.
You can request a scan from any physical book or journal we hold in the library.
However, if the book is currently on loan to another user your 'Scan and Send' request will take longer to process.
Please check the availability of the item in the library catalogue before making a request.
If we do not hold a copy of the book, you can request a purchase .
Alternatively, if you cannot find the book you require on the library catalogue we recommend that you speak to your Subject Librarian to discuss alternative resources.
Their contact details can be found on the Library webpage for your subject area .
Works can only be copied up to specified extent limits:
If you are looking to access a whole book, please search for an e-book version in the library catalogue .
Students and staff fill out the above form with the details of their 'Scan and Send' request.
Library staff check the copyright restrictions and (where possible) produce a scan.
The scan will then be sent to the University email address of the person who made the request, for individual use only .
If you don’t know how to identify the most useful book chapter you need from a book, try using Google Books which often provides a chapter preview.
You can make multiple requests from the same book or journal up to the permitted amount.
For example, 2 chapters together constituting 5% of the overall book.
We aim to produce scans as quickly as possible, but we cannot guarantee a timeframe.
There is an option on the form to let us know when you will no longer need the scan.
No, if you require a scanned extract for teaching, the copyright restrictions are different.
Instead, please request these extracts via your modules' Talis resource lists using the 'Request digitisation' option.
For further information and help with using Talis, see our Copyright FAQs or speak to your Subject Librarian .
Please see the University’s advice about copyright, legal requirements, the types of material covered by the CLA licence, and how to distribute scanned extracts through Ultra, in our Copyright FAQs .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students:
We'll support you throughout your Bath Spa story, from registration to graduation.
You'll need to sign in to access some of this content.
The student agreement is an important document that will guide you through what the University expects from you as a student, and what you can come to expect from us as a University.
If you have any questions regarding this document, you can contact your current student representative through the link below.
Our focus is on providing the best possible in-person experience for you and your peers, whilst maintaining the most successful aspects of online delivery that we know will benefit your learning.
Learn more about how we deliver our programmes of study by reading our delivery statement.
The Student Engagement team coordinates induction activities to welcome you to Bath Spa University and quickly help you find your feet.
Throughout your time at Bath Spa, we're here to help you to stay fully engaged and on-track with your course.
Concerned about budgeting as a student?
We’ve put together a range of information and advice to help you navigate the costs of living and feel more in control of your money.
As a student at Bath Spa University, you can access Unitu (our online student feedback platform) 24/7.
This is where you can raise issues, ask questions and make suggestions about improving the student experience.
At the end of each semester, you will also be invited to complete a module evaluation .
This is an opportunity to provide anonymous feedback about the delivery, content, and assessment of your modules.
Take some time to relax and chill out with a Bath Spa care dog.
We have several accredited care dogs who can’t wait to meet you!
The team gets involved in appearances at events and host a range of drop-in sessions; we hope they complement and contribute to the wellbeing of the Bath Spa community, students and staff.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international:
Want to study in the UK?
We'll support your international journey from day one and help you from the moment you enquire all the way through to graduation.
We welcome international students to apply for any of our courses:
We also offer Pre-sessional English courses and programmes which are specifically designed for international students.
Want to know what it's like to be an international student at Bath Spa?
Download our International Student Guidebook for more info!
Our environment is among the most atmospheric in the UK.
Historic campuses and innovative facilitates combine to give our students the best of old and new.
The UNESCO World Heritage city of Bath is ranked as one of the UK's safest student cities.
With its rich culture and eclectic mix of museums, coffee bars, restaurants, galleries and theatres, Bath has its own distinct and vibrant culture.
We aim to embed internationalisation in everything we do across our core activities at home and abroad.
Working across the University in collaboration with academic and professional services departments, students, alumni and the Students’ Union, and led by our three international-facing teams, GALA, Go Global and International Projects, our International Strategy aims to deepen and further develop international connections and activities that enhance our teaching and research.
Bath Spa University dates back to the 1852 original Bath School of Art, and we’ve built our reputation on more than 160 years of tradition and success.
We’re engaged with a range of industry professionals across disciplines, who collaborate with us because they value our students’ contribution to their fields.
With our friendly culture and close-knit community of staff and students, Bath Spa is a university unlike any other.
We support you as a student to find your place.
Your country representative is just one of many staff members tasked with ensuring that you get the help and advice you need to thrive in your studies.
"There is a lot to learn from the UK’s culture and its people.
This is a remarkable experience, and everything is possible, if you work for it."
We offer advice via email and phone.
Contact us today if you have any enquiries about studying at Bath Spa as an international student.
Email: international@bathspa.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)1225 875875

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/arriving:
Coming to Bath Spa as a new international student?
You'll find everything you need to prepare for your journey to the UK and your first few weeks here.
The information on these pages will help you prepare for your journey to the UK and your first few weeks here.
The International Advice Service are on hand to answer your questions so please do not hesitate to get in touch if you have any worries or questions.
As well as our website, you will find a wealth of information and helpful guides on the British Council and UKCISA websites.
If you can't find what you're looking for, get in touch with us:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/arriving/before-you-leave:
This may be your first time travelling to the UK and living away from home.
The experience can be both exciting and overwhelming and you may not know what to expect when you finally arrive.
Here, we cover everything you need to know before you leave.
You may also like to read our information on travelling to Bath and important information for when you arrive .
Once you’ve received your visa you should check that all your details are correct and report any errors as soon as possible.
The way to do this depends on the type of visa you have.
If you applied for your visa before 15 July, and if you attended a visa application centre as part of the application process, you may have been given an entry clearance vignette (sticker) in your passport to allow you to enter the UK.
You may also have been given a vignette if your course is less than six months in length.
If you identify an error on your vignette, you should report this to the visa application centre you attended as soon as possible so that the error can be corrected before you travel to the UK.
If you applied for your visa after 15 July, or if you used the ‘UK Visas and Immigration ID check’ app as part of the application process, you may have been issued an eVisa.
If you identify an error on your eVisa, please contact the Immigration Advice Service who can help you report this.
If you're hoping to secure a place in our Halls of Residence, please refer to our accommodation web pages .
We understand that some international students will not be moving into University accommodation and may be hoping to secure a tenancy elsewhere.
The Accommodation team are able to assist and advise you on private sector accommodation .
As an international student, you'll need to prove your right to rent before a property owner or landlord will enter into a contract with you.
The easiest way to do this is to prove your right to rent with a share code and the property owner can carry out the Right to Rent check .
You can use this service if you have an eVisa and a UKVI account.
Students who can't prove their right to rent before travelling to the UK can still agree to a tenancy agreement with a landlord ‘in principle’, as set out on page 17 of UKVI’s Right to Rent Checks guidance .
You must then provide acceptable proof of your right to rent before taking possession of the property.
Any students who don't have an eVisa (such as those who have entered the UK as a visitor for an exchange, or who have a visa shorter than six months) can use alternative documents to prove their status, such as an entry clearance vignette or a passport and boarding pass showing date of arrival.
It should also be noted that a landlord can't insist you use the online service if you can provide a document from the acceptable document list.
They can't discriminate against you because you need to prove your right to rent in a different way.
If you have an eVisa, you can travel from the ‘Valid from’ date shown on your view-and-prove share code .
If you have an entry clearance vignette, you can travel to the UK any time between the ‘Valid from’ and ‘Valid to’ dates this shows.
We need to know your travel plans so please make sure you complete our form as soon as you have these in place.
It's important that you tell us if you're going to be late arriving to the UK – in particular, if you'll miss the registration and welcome week activities when we hope to see you for in-person enrolment.
If you’re coming to the UK on a Student visa, you must arrive by the latest course acceptance date stated on your CAS.
If you've been delayed and think there is any chance you may miss this date, you should contact the Immigration Advice Service as soon as possible.
When you’re ready to make firm travel arrangements please have a look at our Travelling to Bath page.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/arriving/travelling-to-bath:
What to bring with you The Home Office requires you to carry certain documents in paper form (not on an electronic tablet or mobile phone) so that you’re ready to present them on arrival into the UK.
You should be prepared to answer a few simple questions from the Border Force Officer.
There are certain documents we advise you carry with you in your hand luggage.
There are also items we think you'll find useful to include in your checked luggage.
The Home Office requires you to carry certain documents in paper form (not on an electronic tablet or mobile phone) so that you’re ready to present them on arrival into the UK.
You should carry hard copies of the following in your hand luggage:
You’ll also need, if applicable:
You may also wish to view Border Force’s Student arrivals: 10 top tips .
Border Force no longer routinely stamp passports, so it's vital that you retain evidence of the date you enter the UK.
You'll need this to enrol on your course, and it will be important evidence for future UK visa applications.
Important things to consider when packing:
You might travel to the UK via the Republic of Ireland.
However, it is important to understand that both countries are part of a Common Travel Area (CTA).
There is no immigration control on arrival in the UK from the Republic of Ireland.
It is important to check how this can impact your immigration permission in the UK.
Before you travel, please read the guidance on the UKCISA website to understand how you may be affected if you arrive in the UK via the Republic of Ireland.
Please note this is only an issue when arriving via the Republic of Ireland (for example, via Dublin).
Northern Ireland is part of the UK.
If you're a registered traveller you'll be able to enter through an eGate, provided your passport has a biometric chip.
EEA and Swiss citizens as well as citizens of Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea and the USA can also use an eGate, if they have a passport with a biometric chip and are 10 years old or over (those who are 10- 17 must be accompanied by an adult).
See the Home Office guidance on entering the UK for advice about what to do and expect at border control.
If you don't meet the criteria mentioned above for using an eGate you'll instead meet a Border Force officer who will look at your passport and check your visa.
When you enter the UK with Student immigration permission, the Border Force officer must be satisfied that you speak English at the required level, without needing an interpreter.
They may check by asking you some simple questions about your study plans.
Be ready with all the documents advised in the hand luggage section above.
Check which terminal you're flying into.
Flights arrive into Terminals 2, 3, 4 and 5.
Alternatively, you can take the free underground Heathrow Express transfer to the Central bus station.
You'll need to get a free transfer ticket from one of the self-service machines next to the entry gates.
The journey takes about 20 minutes.
From the Central bus station, journeys take two to three hours to Bath Bus Station depending on traffic.
They depart at various times of the day and night.
You can book an e-ticket online in advance.
Single journeys cost around £25-35 and there are discounts available in the 'offers' section of the website.
There are no ticket offices for National Express at Heathrow, so you will need to have already purchased a ticket, or use one of the automated ticket machines.
Once you've chosen a time, we recommend that you purchase the fully flexible fare for a small additional cost, just in case you don't arrive at the Heathrow bus station in time or you're delayed earlier in your journey.
If you need to change to a different coach, you can manage your booking or go to the travel centre at the Central bus station, where it says 'coach tickets'.
When you're about to board the coach, you can show a printed copy of your ticket or a digital copy on your phone.
Private taxi transfers from Heathrow to Bath take two to three hours depending on traffic and cost around £135-£150.
Some options include:
By train
Once you arrive at Heathrow (LHR), you can take the Heathrow Express or the Elizabeth Line to London Paddington station.
To purchase tickets or for more information on trains from London to Bath, including schedules and ticket options, you can download the Trainline app or visit the GWR website , which provides up-to-date travel details.
Air Decker operates an hourly bus service from Bristol Airport to Bath which costs £16.
Payments can be made directly upon boarding.
The bus is green and will be numbered A4.
It picks up from right outside the terminal.
Private taxi transfers from Bristol Airport to Bath take 45 minutes and cost £35-£50.
Arrow Cars offer pick up from the terminal.
The U5 (known as the Bath Spa Unibus ) is the bus service that runs between the city centre and Newton Park Campus .
It passes our  Waterside Court, Charlton Court and Twerton Mill accommodation on Lower Bristol Road, which is just a short walk away from Locksbrook Campus .
Please refer to the First Bus website for the most up-to-date information about timetables, how much bus fares cost and how you can purchase and use bus tickets for the academic year.
We hope you have a safe and stress free journey and find your accommodation with minimal disruption.
Please read our When you arrive page for information you'll need to know when you get here.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/arriving/when-you-arrive:
If you are moving into University accommodation, please email accommodation@bathspa.ac.uk with your estimated arrival time.
For the Newton Park campus, the Accommodation team will provide you with specific instructions on where to pick up your room keys.
As an international student, you'll need to prove your Right to Rent before a property owner or landlord will enter into a contract with you.
The easiest way to do this is to prove your Right to Rent with a share code and the property owner can carry out the Right to Rent check .
All students are required to complete online registration .
Additionally, all students who do not hold a UK or Irish passport will need to complete in-person enrolment during Welcome Week.
As part of your enrolment, we must check your right to study in the UK.
This involves checking your original documents and retaining copies where required, as per the University’s responsibilities to UKVI.
Since the pandemic hit, criminals have been taking the opportunity to devise more ways to take your money.
Scams can be very sophisticated and usually start with attempts to obtain your personal information or persuading you to pay money for items or a service.
There have been a number of scams targeting international students across the UK, including:
There has also been a rise in scams specifically targeting Chinese students.
To find out more about the types of scams being used, who to contact if you have been scammed, and the support available to you, please read the information on the Avon and Somerset Police website (available in Chinese).
Please remember:
For more information, please see the Government's Frauds, Tricks and Scams information.
The British Council have created an online PDF guide for international students on how to stay safe in the UK.
We encourage all of our international students to save this and read it on arrival.
All Student visa holders should make sure that they thoroughly review and understand their responsibilities on a Student visa .
You must ensure that you always follow these rules.
You should open a UK bank account as soon as possible after arrival.
You can choose from several banks to open your account such as Santander, Barclays, Lloyds, HSBC and many more.
You'll need documentary evidence of your status in the UK; you can get a student status letter after enrolment by logging a call on MyServices .
You can also use a student status letter to prove that you're a student for other reasons, such as avoiding Council Tax.
Council Tax pays for community services in the UK, but full-time students don't have to pay it.
When you first arrive in the UK you shouldn't bring large sums of cash with you or keep large sums of money in your accommodation.
Bring enough cash to cover your living costs for the first few weeks, until you've opened your UK bank account, and have been issued with a debit card to make withdrawals from your account.
You could also consider using a pre-paid travel card, which allows you to load the card up with money before you leave.
If you need to make an international bank transfer, Bath Spa University has partnered with Flywire to provide an easy and secure method of sending international fee payments.
The balance of tuition fees must be paid in full by Saturday 16 September 2023.
We recommend payments are made before leaving your home country as your bank may need to verify your password or send you a confirmation code by text, and this won't be received if you're in the UK and have changed your mobile SIM to a UK network.
Find out more on our How to pay page .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/pre-sessional:
Studying at a UK university can be immensely challenging, especially if your first language is not English.
Taught at our Newton Park campus, our Pre-sessional English Language course can help you gain the skills you need to progress on to Bath Spa University’s degree programmes.
The Pre-sessional English Language course will help you understand the teaching styles and expectations of UK university study.
You'll improve your:
You'll gain confidence and learn to actively engage in the learning environment.
“The Pre-sessional English Language course was really helpful – it prepared me for writing essays and reports on my MA degree course.”
On successful completion of the course you'll have gained:
On successful completion of the course, you'll be able to progress on to your undergraduate or postgraduate degree at Bath Spa University.
You'll be assessed in all four skills (reading, writing, listening and speaking).
We adopt a communicative, interactive approach to teaching and learning, encouraging you to become active learners and move towards autonomy.
There is an emphasis on independent research and you are encouraged to develop your own academic-subject related interests.
Class activities require you to work collaboratively in teams, small groups and pairs as well as individually.
This teaching and learning approach may be very different from your past experience.
However, most students find this approach exciting and rewarding, and generally rise to face the new challenges with enthusiasm.
The Pre-sessional Programme is for students whose first language is not English or who have not studied at a UK university environment before.
Equally, we also accept candidates who want to improve their current level of English language.
In addition to meeting the academic requirements of your chosen degree of study at Bath Spa University, you also need to meet the required level of English language.
This will normally be specified on your letter of admission when you apply for a Bachelors or Masters degree at Bath Spa.
You can find more information on our English language requirements page .
If you require IELTS 6.0 or equivalent in your undergraduate or postgraduate degree:
If you require IELTS 6.5 or equivalent in your undergraduate or postgraduate degree:
Students studying online will be required to:
6-week course: fees £1,970
10-week online course: fees £3,300
12-week course: fees £3,950
16-week course: fees £4,720
Fees include:
Fees don't include:
Once you've applied for your main course, our Admissions team will contact you about a place on an English Pre-sessional Language course if this is required.
All courses will run subject to a minimum number of students applying and being accepted.
For any enquiries about the Pre-sessional English course, please contact the International Admissions team who will be happy to assist you: internationaladmissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
If you receive an offer of a place on a full-time programme, you will need to pay a tuition fee deposit to confirm your place.
The deposit for 2024/25 will be a minimum of £3,000 rising to 100% of the tuition fee.
The deadline for the tuition fee deposit is 3 weeks before your course start date .
In all cases, the deposit will need to be paid prior to the issue of a Certificate of Acceptance for Studies (CAS), which is the first step in the process to obtain a student visa for the UK.
Payment of any pre-sessional fee (where applicable) must be paid in full before commencement of the course.
Please note that we do not accept Bank Transfer, and any payment received via this method will be returned.
Please only use the approved payment methods provided on this page.
International students joining the University are required to pay the remaining balance (full tuition fee for the first year of the course minus the deposit paid) before arrival and commencement of the course.
We recommend that the balance of fees is paid before leaving your home country as your bank may need to verify your bank password, or may need to text message a confirmation code and this will not be received if you are in the UK and have changed your mobile SIM to a UK network.
The balance of tuition fees must be paid in full by 18 September for those students commencing courses in September and 31 January for those courses starting in February.
Bath Spa University has officially partnered with Flywire to accept payments from over 240 countries and territories, in more than 130 currencies.
Millions of students, parents, and sponsors world-wide trust Flywire to facilitate payment of student fees.
By making your payment using Flywire you can:
Pay by credit or debit card, bank transfer or by e-wallet.
Pay now with Flywire
One off debit or credit card payment can also be made online .
We have a network of international partners with offices worldwide.
This means that we can support your application and guide you through the process wherever you are in the world.
Find a representative in your country, or contact us if your country is not listed.
"The Pre-sessional English Language course taught me how to build a framework for an essay.
and what the academic writing style is all about."
Student feedback shows that the pre-sessional course is very useful.
It not only develops language and academic skills, but also helps students to get to know the new culture and become more confident and happier in the new learning environment.
Some of our students already have the required English language and academic background for direct entry to their degree course, but they find the pre-sessional course is an excellent way to develop their skills and confidence.
If you have an unconditional offer, you don't need to pass any assessments to progress onto your degree.
You simply need to attend the course and participate in class.
You'll receive a certificate of course completion at the end of the pre-sessional.
As well as excellent teaching, we pride ourselves on providing a highly supportive, happy and nurturing environment for our students.
Tutors are always there to give additional support where required.
All students will have individual tutorials with their tutors, who are there to guide them towards success.
The pre-sessional course is intensive.
You'll normally have 20 contact hours a week.
You'll have assignments to do, so there will also be a lot of self-study time outside the classroom.
We have an excellent attendance rate, over 95%.
The pre-sessional course is short and intensive.
You need to arrive in time for the first day of induction.
If you experience a delay with your visa or any other problem that means you are likely to miss the start of the course, please contact Bath Spa University as soon as possible to discuss your situation.
We aim to keep student numbers to a maximum of 16 per class.
We know all of our students personally.
If you successfully complete the pre-sessional course, you do not need to take an IELTS or any other English Language test.
There are four assessments that you need to pass (testing your reading, writing, speaking and listening).
If you fail an assessment, you'll have the opportunity to resit that assessment at the end of the pre-sessional course.
You need to pass the pre-sessional to progress on to your degree course.
However, the pass rate on the pre-sessional course is very high.
Approximately 98% of our pre-sessional students pass.
We offer in-sessional courses, individual tutorials and drop in sessions.
All our support is free.
For more information please visit the English Language Unit (ELU) webpages.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/visas-and-immigration:
The Immigration Advice Services provide high quality, impartial and free immigration advice to current and future students and staff, as well as recent graduates.
You can contact the Immigration Advice Service in any of the following ways:
The Immigration Compliance and Advice Service run a monthly drop-in service on Newton Park.
We also visit Locksbrook and BSU London once every trimester.
Please see below for our upcoming drop-in dates, times and locations.
If you haven’t used our service before, please refer to the information below on what we can and cannot help with before attending.
This drop-in service is only available to students and staff of Bath Spa University, so you may be asked to provide evidence of your status (such as your ID card) before any information or advice is provided.
We also run an online drop-in service if you're unable to attend an in-person session.
There are strict legal rules around who can provide immigration advice in the UK, and the advisors at Bath Spa can only provide advice on a limited range of issues, mainly restricted to Student visa requirements and conditions.
Before contacting us, please refer to the table below to make sure that our service can help you.
The Immigration Advice Service offers free immigration advice to students and staff of Bath Spa University.
We only provide advice on UK visas specifically for study and work at Bath Spa.
This means we primarily specialise in Student and Skilled Worker visas (including dependant applications).
We also offer some limited support for Standard Visitor visas for work/study, and Graduate applications.
For any other visa type, or for visa advice for any other country, you will need to seek advice from elsewhere .
We are members of the UK Council for International Student Affairs ( UKCISA ) and Association of International Student Advisers ( AISA ); we operate in accordance with their Code of Ethics.
Higher Education institutions are authorised under a Ministerial Order (Part V of the Immigration and Asylum Act, 1999) to provide immigration advice and services and should adhere to the IAA Code of Standards.
View and download the Immigration Advice Service Terms of Service (.pdf)
We recommend that our international students sign up to the monthly UKCISA student newsletter .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/visas-and-immigration/student-visas:
The Student route is a points-based visa system for all international students, including EU, EEA, and Swiss students, who want to study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/visas-and-immigration/student-visas/student-route-outside-the-uk:
An application could take several weeks to prepare for so it is best to familiarise yourself with the process as soon as possible.
Once you are ready with all the required documents, you can submit an application for entry clearance under the Student route from 6 months before the start of your course.
The Immigration Advice Service have made an online application form guide to help you with your application.
UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) advises that decisions on applications using the standard service aim to be made in 15 working days but the timeframe can vary depending on when and where you make your application, particularly in the peak period between July - September.
A priority service is available in most countries at additional cost and aims to make a decision on the application in 5 working days.
Some countries also offer a super priority 24 hour service for a decision.
Advertised decision timeframes start after you have attended your biometric appointment, or after you have completed the ‘Evidence upload’ section of your application if you used the UKVI ID Check app as part of the application.
You should apply for your Student visa in your country of nationality or country of residence (where you have permission to live other than as a visitor).
You'll need to complete the online application form and pay the application fees.
Details of the cost of an application can be found on gov.uk.
You'll also need to upload your supporting documents as part of the application.
If you can use the UKVI ID Check app as part of your application, you won't normally be required to attend an appointment to provide your biometric information.
You can only use the UKVI ID Check app if your passport (or other identity document) has a biometric chip.
If you aren't able to use the UKVI ID Check app for your application, then you'll be required to attend an appointment at a visa application centre (VAC) to enrol your biometrics as part of the application process.
You should take original versions (not copies) of all the supporting documents for your application with you when you attend your biometric appointment.
You will need:
If you're under 18 on the date that you apply for your visa you'll also need:
Students who are nationals of certain designated countries are able to submit fewer supporting documents with their Student visa application.
This is called the differential evidence requirement.
The differential evidence requirement applies to you if you are applying for your visa from the country that you live in and you are a national (or citizen) of a country listed in Appendix Student ST 22 of the Immigration Rules.
If the differential evidence requirement applies to you then you will not need to provide documentary evidence of how you meet the financial requirements, English language requirements, or of the qualifications used to obtain your offer of a place.
Whilst you don't need to provide this evidence at the point of application, you are still required to meet these requirements and UKVI reserve the right to request evidence from you during the application process.
We would therefore recommend that you prepare these documents in case needed, but only provide them if you are specifically asked by UKVI.
If you did not use the UKVI ID Check app as part of your application, you will need to book and attend an appointment at a UK Visa Application Centre (VAC) to submit your biometric information and submit your documents.
You are advised to upload any supporting documents to your online application prior to attending your appointment.
The Visa Application Centres offer a document scanning service but there is usually an additional fee to use this.
You may also need to attend an interview at this appointment.
This interview will be done by video link to the UK.
The interviewer will ask questions to determine whether you are a ‘genuine student’.
These are likely to be about why have you chosen to study in the UK, your choice of Bath Spa University, how you'll get to university each day, your future plans, if you've studied in the UK before, your recent educational and immigration history, including any previous visa refusals from any country.
We recommend that while you should not worry too much about the interview, you should take some time to carefully prepare for the questions that may be asked.
NOTE: Check your email and phone often as UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) at the Home Office may contact you asking for additional documents and information.
If you don’t respond to these emails/calls your application may be refused.
If you didn't use the UKVI ID check app as part of your visa application, then you'll usually receive an entry clearance vignette if your application is successful.
This is a sticker in your passport which will allow you to travel to the UK.
You must travel within the validity dates of your vignette.
You'll also receive a decision letter which outlines the conditions of your immigration leave.
It's very important that you keep the letter safe and bring it with you when you travel to the UK.
You should check all the details on your vignette and decision letter carefully.
If you find any errors, contact the visa application centre through which you applied as soon as possible, and they'll give you instructions on how to have the error corrected.
You'll also receive instructions in your decision letter on how to access your eVisa.
You should access your eVisa as soon as possible – you do not need to wait until you have arrived in the UK.
You will not be able to prove your right to work, right to rent, or right to study until you have accessed your eVisa.
Once your visa has been granted, please ensure that you upload copies of your vignette, decision letter, and share code to your CAS Shield account.
If you used the UKVI ID Check app as part of your visa application, you will not receive a physical visa.
Instead, you'll receive an eVisa which you will be able to view in your gov.uk account.
You'll also receive an e-mail confirming that your visa has been granted and outlining the conditions of your leave.
You should keep this e-mail safe for future reference.
Review the details on your eVisa and decision letter carefully and contact immigrationadvice@bathspa.ac.uk if you find any errors.
Your eVisa should automatically be linked to the passport you scanned as part of your application.
If you've received a new passport since applying for your visa, you should make sure that you add your new passport to your gov.uk account before travelling to the UK.
Make sure that you travel to the UK after the start date of your Student visa as stated on your eVisa.
If you travel to the UK before this date you'll have entered as a visitor, and you will not be permitted to enrol on your programme of study until you have left the UK and returned after the start date of your Student visa.
Once your visa has been granted, please ensure that you upload your share code and a copy of your decision e-mail to your CAS Shield account.
The UK has now moved to a digital immigration system .
This means that you'll usually be expected to use a share code to prove your immigration status.
There are different share codes for different purposes - we've linked to ways to apply for the most common below:
You'll need to have set up your gov.uk account to generate a share code.
If you used the UKVI ID Check app as part of your visa application, you should already have a gov.uk account.
If you attended a visa application centre as part of the visa application process, then you'll need to create your gov.uk account using the instructions you received when your visa was granted.
If your Student visa application is refused, inform us immediately and send a copy of your decision letter in an email to both
and we will be able to advise you of your options.
You are advised to read the information on the UK Visas and Immigration website, prior to applying for your visa.
It is your responsibility to ensure you understand and meet the UK immigration requirements.
UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) provides information on applying for a student visa from outside the UK.
You can travel to the UK on or after the ‘valid from date’ on your entry clearance vignette or eVisa.
Please refer to our Arriving page on getting to Bath and enrolling at the University.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/visas-and-immigration/student-visas/student-route-inside-the-uk:
There are additional requirements to meet when applying for a Student visa from inside the UK.
You can apply in the UK if you are not in the UK on immigration bail, and if you currently have any type of immigration permission except:
It is extremely important that you do not apply in the UK if you hold one of the types of immigration permission listed above because the Home Office will treat your application as invalid.
This means that they will not consider your application and you will have no right of appeal or administrative review against their decision.
Your new course start date cannot start any later than 28 days after your current visa expires.
The Home Office limits the time you can spend studying in the UK on a Student visa at undergraduate degree level.
This includes leave granted under both the Student route and Tier 4.
In general, you are limited to a maximum of five years in the UK studying at undergraduate degree level, although there are some exceptions.
To calculate the time limit, the Home Office counts the proposed period of leave together with any current leave and any previous leave held on a Student (or Tier 4) visa.
This includes leave granted where the student has subsequently left the UK.
Time spent studying in the UK under the age of 18 is not counted towards the time-limit.
There is no maximum study requirement for applicants who are studying a course above undergraduate degree level.
You must have successfully completed the course for which your last Student route visa was granted.
You will be asked to provide evidence of this as part of the admissions process.
If you have not successfully completed the course for which your last Student route visa was granted (or a course to which you made a permitted switch) you will normally be required to apply for a new Student visa from outside the UK .
There are exceptions to this requirement, such as if you need to extend your visa to repeat modules or because you have added a placement to your course.
If you want to discuss whether any of these exceptions apply to you, please contact immigrationadvice@bathspa.ac.uk .
The new course must demonstrate you are progressing academically in your studies in the UK.
This means your new course must normally be above the level of the previous course studied on a Student route visa.
If a new course is at the same level as the previous course, it can be considered to represent academic progress if the new course is related to the previous course OR the previous course and new course combined support your career aspirations.
If the University makes you an offer of admission and you have previously studied in the UK at the same level, your CAS will need to include a justification of how this represents academic progress in order for you to fulfil the academic progress requirement.
A new course at a lower level is not considered to represent academic progress and students would be required to apply for new Student visa from outside the UK .
Once you are ready with all the required documents you can submit an application to extend your stay under the Student route from up to three months before the start of your course, as listed on your CAS.
You must apply while your current visa is still valid, and your new course start date must be within 28 days of when your current visa expires.
You must also apply within six months of receiving your CAS.
You can make your application in the UK with an online application.
When you make an application in the UK, you will not be able to travel overseas until you have received the decision.
If you leave the UK whilst the decision is pending your application will be cancelled.
We offer a free check-and-send service to anyone applying inside the UK for a Student visa for study at Bath Spa University.
Our experienced and friendly advisers can check your application and supporting documents before they are submitted.
This will reduce the chances of your application being rejected, delayed, or refused.
Our service is also open to any dependants who will be applying with you.
If you are interested in using our check-and-send service, please contact us using the details at the bottom of this page.
Applications inside the UK are made online .
Most applicants can verify their identity using the UK Visas and Immigration ID Check app , and upload electronic copies of their supporting documents.
Sending physical copies of your documents is no longer required as part of the application process, so you will be able to keep your passport throughout the application process – although please remember that leaving the UK will cancel your application.
If you are not able to use the UK Visas and Immigration ID Check app for any reason, then you will need to book an in-person appointment to attend a UKVI application centre to verify your identity and supporting documents.
This will typically increase the processing time of your application by several weeks, so we would recommend that you use the UK Visas and Immigration ID Check app wherever possible.
You will need
If your application is successful, you will be issued with a new eVisa.
You must provide Bath Spa University with a view-and-prove (not right-to-work or right-to-rent) share code as soon as possible so that we can update your record.
We will also check your eVisa to make sure that it the details are correct, and help you to report any errors.
If your Student visa application is refused please inform us immediately.
Send a copy of your decision e-mail to immigrationadvice@bathspa.ac.uk and we will advise you of your options.
You are advised to read the information on the UK Visas and Immigration website prior to applying for your visa.
UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) also provide reliable information on applying for a Student visa from inside the UK.
Please refer to our Arriving page on travelling to Bath and enrolling at the University.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/visas-and-immigration/student-visas/your-responsibilities:
This section explains your responsibilities as an international student studying on a Student route visa at Bath Spa University, as well as what the University's responsibilities are to the Home Office.
Please read the details carefully and contact the Immigration Advice Service if you need clarification or are unsure about anything concerning your responsibilities.
In unfortunate situations where students are found to not be meeting their responsibilities or breaking their visa conditions, it can result in sponsorship of their Student route visa being withdrawn.
If this happens to you, you will most likely need to leave the UK.
It is also highly likely to affect any future immigration applications, both for the UK and other countries.
Work rights are a condition of your immigration permission so it is very important that you are clear about what you may and may not do.
The Home Office caseworker guidance is useful for in-depth guidance on working conditions.
It is important to note that if you breach these restrictions, it means that you are working illegally and your Student sponsorship will be withdrawn.
Your work conditions will be laid out in your decision e-mail.
They can also be viewed in your gov.uk account , or on your entry clearance vignette if you have a visa less than six months in length.
For international students at Bath Spa University on a Student visa this will either be 10 hours or 20 hours a week during term-time.
Outside of term-time you are permitted to work full-time.
Normally, if you are studying an undergraduate or postgraduate degree with a valid Student visa for six months or longer, you are permitted to work:
Additional restrictions mean that you:
Your employer will also be required to check that it is legal to employ you.
To prove your right to work you will need to obtain a share code and provide this to your employer so that they can carry out the Right to Work check .
This method of completing the Right to Work check was introduced on 6th April 2022.
If you started work before this date, you probably showed your BRP as your proof of right to work.
However, if you started a job on or after 6 April 2022, or if your permission expires on or after that date and you need to prove you have been granted new permission, your employer must use the share code to confirm your right to work.
The process to prove your right to rent is very similar, where you will need to prove your right to rent with a share code and the property owner can carry out the Right to Rent check .
You are also permitted to take up any work placements that form an integral and assessed part of your course, providing the work placement does not amount to more than 50% of the course, unless there is a UK statutory requirement for the course to contain a specific period of work placement which exceeds this limit.
Please note any work placement is considered a change in circumstances that we must report to UKVI so you must contact us prior to a placement starting.
Work placements can be paid or unpaid and can be full time, even in term-time.
Your right to work share code should confirm your right to undertake a work placement.
If you are permitted to take employment, you can do that (up to 10 or 20 hours a week in term-time) in addition to working on your placement.
Please note that the primary purpose of a Student visa is to study.
Although you are permitted to work 20 hours per week during term-time, it is advised that before committing to any employment, you consider the time required for timetabled study as well as independent study, course work, revision for examinations and additional reading.
See our guide to working while you study .
Student visa holders are all given an extra period of leave after their studies are complete.
This is often informally known as your ‘wrap-up period’.
The length of this period will depend on the length of your course: it's usually four months.
This period is granted to allow you to either prepare for leaving the UK, or to apply for a new type of immigration status, such as Graduate or Skilled Worker.
Provided you have no more classes to attend and have submitted all your assessments, you can work full-time during your wrap-up period.
If you're given further assessments once your results are released, you are then considered to be in term-time again and must only work a maximum of 20 hours per week.
The University's Careers team have put together c omprehensive guides to working in the UK on MyCareer that cover
In addition to the 'Right to Work' process, you may be asked to provide proof of your student status and the university term dates.
You can request a Student Status Letter from the Student Information team via the MyServices student portal or the MyBathSpa App
The term dates for Undergraduate and Postgraduate study are different.
You can provide an employer with the University's term dates on our website .
During your time here, you may wish to travel to other countries.
When you travel, you must always have a valid visa and a passport for the destination(s) you wish to visit.
If you are still awaiting a decision by the Home Office on a UK visa application, you shouldn't book any travel until you have received your visa.
Most countries require visitors to have a passport with a minimum validity of 6 months left, before they will admit someone as a visitor.
Therefore, ensure your passport has at least this amount of validity remaining.
Take care of your passport while on holiday.
If you hold an eVisa, you must make sure that your current valid passport appears as an identity document in your gov.uk account whenever you travel outside the UK.
You can update your gov.uk account using this service .
If you would like to travel around Europe, a Schengen visa will grant you entry to most countries.
The Schengen Area is the area including 29 European countries that have abolished passport and any other type of border control at their mutual borders, so travel here is extremely simple once you have the Schengen visa.
The Schengen Area covers most EU countries, but does not include the Republic of Ireland.
Although not members of the EU, countries like Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and Lichtenstein are also part of the Schengen zone.
You are not permitted to travel during term-time and are expected to attend and engage with your studies at all points during your course.
However, we understand that there may be exceptional personal circumstances as well as festivities and celebrations held in your home country or culture that may fall at times of the year when you are expected to be in full-time study.
Please see the authorised absence section below for more information on this.
If you are studying at BSU on a Student route visa and need to be absent from studies for longer than 10 working days, you must request a period of authorised absence from the Immigration Compliance Team.
Your authorised absence request will be assessed by both your course leader and the Immigration Compliance Team, based on:
Authorisation for absences will only be granted for important ‘life events’ such as bereavements and illness.
In the first instance, please discuss your absence with your course leader to establish whether it is possible for you to be absent from your studies for a specified period from an academic perspective.
You must provide your course leader with the reason for your absence as well as the start date for your absence and an expected return date.
The Immigration Compliance Team requires written academic approval before we can assess your absence from a visa compliance perspective.
Therefore, if your course leader agrees to your stated period of absence, please ask them to confirm this to you in an email and forward this email to immigrationcompliance@bathspa.ac.uk .
The Immigration Compliance Team will then assess your absence from a visa compliance perspective and will confirm to you via email whether your period of absence has been authorised or not.
If your absence requires you to leave the UK, you should travel with this email and be prepared to show it to UK Border Force officials if you are questioned upon re-entry to the UK.
The Immigration Compliance Team will contact you after the end date of your absence to request proof of your return to the UK i.e.
return flight boarding pass.
Please note that we do not provide students with authorisation letters to travel overseas, and such a letter is not required for travel purposes.
You do not need to request an authorised absence from the Immigration Compliance Team if your absence is for 10 working days or less (for example, if you are ill for a few days), but you should still let your course leader know.
Please note that, as per UKVI regulations, students who are granted an authorised absence must be able to still complete their course within their existing leave, (i.e.
before the expiry date of the current visa), and therefore will not be able to extend their visa for further study as a direct result of an absence.
UKVI regulations permit students to be absent for a maximum period of 60 calendar days.
Only in very exceptional circumstances (such as serious illness or injury) can we continue to sponsor a student’s visa for longer than 60 days.
Absences that exceed 60 days will ordinarily require students to request a study break from their course.
If authorisation for your absence is not granted you will be expected to attend and engage with your studies as normal during this period.
Unauthorised absences from studies are not permitted and could result in further action being taken.
Please contact immigrationcompliance@bathspa.ac.uk if you have any questions about authorised absences.
Your immigration conditions prohibit you from accessing 'public funds', which means certain specific welfare benefits and local authority housing.
However, using the National Health Service, sending your child to a state school, being exempt from the Council Tax, and paying 'home' fees for study, do not count as accessing 'public funds'.
If you claim public funds, despite having a 'no recourse to public funds' condition, you:
Before arrival you must:
On arrival you must:
Please refer to our International Arrivals section on getting to Bath and enrolling at the University.
During your studies you must:
You must notify Bath Spa University if:
You must also have our permission to:
You must notify the Home office if any of the following change:
You can also view and download our brochure as a PDF .
As your Student Sponsor, Bath Spa University is expected to ensure that we and our students are compliant with the immigration rules.
If we fail to comply we're at risk of losing our ability to recruit and retain international students.
Consequently, we take our duties under this legislation very seriously.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/visas-and-immigration/student-visas/issues-affecting-your-visa:
This means that all Student visa holders should have access to an eVisa, and you must use a share code to prove your immigration status in the UK.
If you believe there is an error on your eVisa, or if you can't use it to generate a share code, you can report the error on this page .
Please contact us on the details at the bottom of this page if you would like assistance completing the form.
You can update your UKVI account here .
Use this link if you've changed your mobile phone number, e-mail address, postal address, name, or passport.
You can also correct your date of birth, add a nationality, or update your photo.
If you can longer access your UKVI account, please visit this gov.uk page for information on how to recover it.
If you've received a new passport since your Student visa was granted then you'll need to update your UKVI account with your new identity document.
It's vital that you do this before you travel, as if you don't then your eVisa will not be linked to your passport.
If your passport has been lost or stolen, you should report this to the police and then apply for a replacement passport as soon as possible.
You should contact your country’s embassy for details of how to apply for your new passport.
If you need to repeat modules or complete reassessments you may need to extend your Student visa.
The Immigration Advice Service will contact you by e-mail within two weeks of your results being officially released to outline your options and next steps.
If you haven't heard from us within two weeks of your results being released please do feel free to contact us directly.
If your results mean that there will be a period of 60 days or longer where you are no longer studying then we will need to withdraw sponsorship from your Student visa, and UKVI will take action to curtail (shorten) your current visa.
You'll be given 60 days to either leave the UK or switch into a different immigration category.
You'll then need to apply for a new Student visa, if needed, when you resume your studies.
If you're a Student visa holder and complete your course early, intercalate, withdraw or are excluded from your course, then we'll need to report this to the Home Office.
This will result in your sponsorship being withdrawn, and you'll have to leave the UK within 60 days unless you apply for a new visa to stay in the UK.
If you're outside the UK and receive notification your visa has been curtailed, you should not attempt to re-enter the UK as you are likely to be refused entry at the border.
If you've chosen to only withdraw from your course temporarily, you are advised to leave the UK within 60 days and then reapply for a Student visa when you're ready to return and resume studying.
As a Student visa holder, your visa is tied specifically to Bath Spa University and the course for which your CAS was assigned.
The circumstances in which you're able to change your course and remain in the UK on your current visa are extremely limited and you must consult with the Immigration Advice Service for guidance prior to submitting any request to change your course.
In many cases, if you wish to change your course, you'll need to leave the UK and apply for a new visa from overseas.
If you complete your studies more than one month earlier than the course end date on your original CAS letter, the Immigration Compliance team will need to inform the Home Office of your early course completion.
This is often the case for students studying for a PhD or MPhil, as well as when students have removed a Professional Placement Year (PPY) from their course.
Depending on the amount of time left on your current visa, the Home Office may then decide to cut your visa short.
They'll usually cut the visa short to the new course end date plus the appropriate wrap up time you would expect at the end of your course.
Once an early completion or withdrawal report has been made online to the Home Office you cannot travel back to the UK on the same visa, so it's important you time any future travel commitments carefully.
Before your current visa expires, you must arrange to leave the UK or make an application to extend your stay.
If you apply to extend your stay before your visa expires, then you'll be making an ‘in-time application’.
If your current visa expires before a decision is made on your in-time visa application, you'll be protected during this time by section 3C leave.
If you remain in the UK after your visa has expired, you may be considered an overstayer.
It's your responsibility to monitor your visa expiry date and to leave the country or to have submitted an in-time application before this date.
Overstaying is a criminal offence and will make it harder for you to be granted visas to the UK in the future.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/visas-and-immigration/student-visas/cas:
A CAS is an electronic document that confirms that the University is willing to act as your educational sponsor.
It contains an important CAS number that you'll need for your Student visa application.
When your CAS number is included in your application, it allows the Home Office to access your information electronically.
Your CAS will provide your personal details, details about your proposed course of study and any course related fees.
Documents listed on the CAS will need to be included with the visa application in addition to documents that you are required to provide to demonstrate how you meet the financial requirements.
When a CAS is issued, it will be valid for six months and it can be used for one Student visa application only.
In order to begin the CAS request process, you'll need to have accepted an unconditional offer of study for your main academic course, and/or a pre-sessional English course (if applicable) and paid your deposit .
Once you've paid your deposit, you'll be entered into a system called ‘Enroly/CAS Shield’.
The system will send you an email to set up a password and create an account, and from there you can upload all the required documents and add your details.
We'll be notified once you've completed each step.
When you've completed the steps within Enroly/CAS Shield, we'll assess the documentation and information, and if all is in order, we'll then issue you your CAS letter.
If we're confident that you meet all the requirements for a Student visa application, we’ll be able to issue you a CAS.
To ensure you meet all the requirements, please see our Student visa webpages for detailed guidance.
If you have any further questions about this process, please email internationaladmissions@bathspa.ac.uk .
Once you've received an unconditional offer from Bath Spa University and paid your deposit , our system (Enroly/CAS Shield) will ask you to upload a number of documents that are required before a CAS letter can be issued.
Copies of the following documents are required before a CAS can be issued:
If you're a current student or a student returning from a break in your studies and you need to extend your visa, you can request a new CAS letter by completing a CAS Request Form .
Please submit your completed form to immigrationcompliance@bathspa.ac.uk .
We will then assess your request and, if possible, issue you with a CAS which you can use to apply for a Student route visa extension.
Please check the BSU Immigration Advice Service webpage for information on submitting a Student route visa application.
If your studies are being funded (partially or fully) by a scholarship, international organisation or government, you'll need to inform us when you request your CAS.
Loan letters must state that the loan is offered in one of the following ways:
The University checks financial documents for many of its applicants to satisfy ourselves that your documents are in order to make a successful visa application.
While visa refusals are rare, in our experience the majority of visa refusals are due to students providing inappropriate financial documents with their visa application.
The Home Office imposes specific financial requirements for Student visa applicants and this is a good chance for us to identify upfront that your financial documents are appropriate for obtaining a successful Student visa.
We'll notify you if you need to provide us with financial documents when we assess you for a CAS.
If we request any information from you it's important that you supply the appropriate documents as quickly as possible to allow us time to review your documents.
Any delay at this stage may cause a delay in the issue of your CAS.
The financial documentation you provide to us is stored securely, never passed on to anyone outside the University and is only used for the purposes of conducting the financial document check for assessing you for a CAS.
The issuing of a CAS is at the University's discretion and we reserve the right not to issue a CAS under certain circumstances, including:
Please note that receiving a CAS from the University does not guarantee that you will be successful in securing a Student visa.
Bath Spa University is not responsible for decisions made by the Home Office and is not liable for refusals and losses incurred.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/visas-and-immigration/graduate-route:
Once your Graduate visa is granted you can:
Those granted a Graduate visa will be able to work or look for work after their studies for 2 years.
Those who have completed a PhD-level course will be granted 3 years of permission.
If you have had a scholarship or sponsorship from a Government or international scholarship agency that covered both tuition fees and living costs in the 12 months prior to applying for your Graduate visa, you will need to provide written consent for your Graduate application from that Government or agency.
If you open a business on a Graduate visa and start trading, you will not be eligible for the Start-up visa so to continue your immigration permission and run your business in the UK you will need to check your eligibility under the separate Innovator route.
You can only bring dependants with you under the Graduate route visa if they were your dependants while you had Student or Tier 4 (General) permission, with the exception of babies born in the UK during your last period of Student permission.
Dependents must apply in the UK.
If you have dependants that will need to apply with you under the Graduate route visa, please refer to pages 21-26 of the Home Office Graduate route visa guidance .
You cannot study a course on a Graduate visa that would normally be sponsored under the Student route.
You can study online, evening or recreational courses or any course at an education provider that does not sponsor Student visas.
You can study part-time undergraduate courses.
The Graduate route cannot be extended and you cannot apply for it again in the future, even if you complete more eligible study.
If you are interested in staying in the UK after the Graduate route, see the 'After the Graduate route' options further down the page.
This depends on your current visa, qualification awarded and whether the study was in the UK or not.
Previous immigration permission could also affect your application.
Before you apply you must have finished your course of study, received official results and received confirmation that your results have been sent to the Home Office.
We are aware of the results days and will work hard to get results sent as quickly as possible but you must not apply until the Home Office has received your results.
Once you’ve applied online, proved your identity and provided your documents, you should get a decision on your application within 8 weeks.
You must stay in the UK while you wait for a decision.
While still on the Student route and waiting for the outcome of the Graduate route application, you can work according to the Student route visa conditions.
You can only apply from within the UK.
The application must be made online using this application form.
Details of fees and eligibility requirements can be found on the gov.uk website.
You may also wish to review the Graduate caseworker guidance before applying.
If you're able to verify your identity using the UKVI ID Check app as part of your application, then you won't need to provide new biometric information.
If you're not able to use the UKVI ID Check app, you'll be required to attend a visa application centre in-person after submitting your application to give your fingerprints, photo, and facial scan.
When you apply you’ll need to provide:
If your application is successful, you'll receive an eVisa.
UKVI no longer issue any physical proof of your new immigration status.
UKVI recommend that you keep your most recent BRP card in case you need it to verify your identity in the future.
In order to view and prove your immigration status you'll need to use the Home Office website to get a 'share code' and provide this to those concerned, such as an employer.
If your Graduate visa application is refused, inform us immediately and send a copy of your decision letter in an email to immigrationadvice@bathspa.ac.uk so we can advise you of your options.
Once your Graduate route visa has been granted, you cannot apply to extend it and you cannot apply for a visa under this route again, even if you complete further study.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/visas-and-immigration/eu-settlement-scheme:
If you are an EU, EEA or Swiss citizen (or a family member of one) and entered the UK before 31 December 2020 you must make an application under the EU Settlement Scheme.
The deadline has passed but late applications are still being accepted.
There is an exception for Irish citizens who do not need to apply.
Once your application for the EUSS is approved, you will automatically be granted the status to which you are assessed as entitled.
This will be either Settled status or Pre-settled status.
Pre-settled status
You will be eligible for pre-settled status if you have been resident in the UK for less than 5 years.
If you are granted this, you have permission to stay in the UK for 5 years.
You may lose your pre-settled status if you are outside the UK for more than 2 years after it has been granted.
Settled status
You will be eligible for settled status if you have been resident in the UK for more than 5 continuous years and not absent from the UK for more than 6 months (in a single period or more than one) in any 12 month period.
There are COVID-19 concessions for meeting this requirement mentioned below.
If you are granted this, there will be no time limit on how long you can stay in the UK.
Switching from pre-settled to settled status
Those with pre-settled status will be able to apply under the EU Settlement Scheme again once they have been living in the UK for a continuous period of 5 years, in order to be granted settled status.
There is an exception permitting a single period of absence of more than 6 months but not exceeding 12 months for an ‘important reason’ and stated examples include overseas study or serious illness but the list is not exhaustive.
There is also specific provision relating to absences from the UK owing to coronavirus as outlined in the Coronavirus (COVID-19): EU Settlement Scheme guidance .
You can apply online , and there is no fee.
You can apply from the UK or overseas.
An overseas application will require you to show that you were in the UK within the last 6 months.
The UK Government website has more information for those making an application from overseas.
It usually takes around 5 working days for complete applications to be processed if no further information is required, but it can take up to a month.
The Home Office advise situations where it could take longer than 5 working days to process .
After making an application you will receive a Certificate of Application and this can be used to prove your immigration status whilst waiting for a result.
If your application is successful you will be able to prove your status digitally with a 'share code'.
All EU, EEA and Swiss citizens who arrived to the UK before 31 December 2020 are eligible to apply under the EU Settlement Scheme in their own right.
Close family members (e.g.
partners, dependent children) who themselves are not EU, EEA or Swiss nationals and are in the UK based on family connections to eligible EU, EEA and Swiss citizens, will need to make an application.
Family members who were not in the UK by 31 December 2020 will be able to apply as dependants, providing the relationship started before this date and still exists.
They must apply before coming to the UK and after their eligible supporting family member has made their own application as the EUSS application number will be needed in the dependent application.
If you have applied to the EU Settlement Scheme by the 30 June deadline, but have not had a decision yet, your rights are protected until your application is decided.
That is the law.
It usually takes around five working days for complete applications to be processed if no further information is required.
However, even if it takes longer a person’s rights are protected until the outcome of the application, including any appeal against refusal, if the application was made before the deadline.
You will have received a Certificate of Application and this can be used to prove your rights pending the outcome of your application.
Those with a Certificate of Application can use the View and Prove service and the immigration status checks mentioned below.
From 1 July 2021, a person eligible for the EU Settlement Scheme will be able to make a late application where there are reasonable grounds for missing the 30 June 2021 deadline.
The Home Office have published a non-exhaustive guidance on reasonable grounds for making a late EUSS application (pages 27-44), and will take a pragmatic and flexible approach to considering these.
If this applies to you and you have realised you need to make an application, please contact the Immigration Advice Service by sending an email to immigrationadvice@bathspa.ac.uk .
If you made a successful application under the EUSS (or it is still pending) you can prove your rights in the UK digitally, by using the View and Prove service on GOV.UK .
You can use this to:
You may need to share your code with an employer, landlord or other services to prove your immigration status.
Other examples include accessing medical services under the NHS or making an application to open a UK bank account.
You will need to provide your share code, along with your date of birth, to the person or organisation with whom you wish to share your information.
You can choose how to share your share code, for example by email within the service, printing the screen, writing down the code or telling them the code.
The person checking your status will need to use the appropriate checking service on the UK government website:
If you have been granted digital status or issued a Certificate of Application under the EUSS, you are not required to provide evidence of this to cross the border.
Provided that you travel using a travel document that you either used in applying to the EUSS or have added to your UKVI account, your status will be automatically recognised.
When entering the UK you can continue to use e-passport gates (if using a full biometric passport) and existing lanes.
Those that have status under the EUSS will still be able to travel using their EU, EEA and Swiss national identity cards but it is recommended that these are linked to your UKVI account.
They can be used for travel until 31 December 2025 at least.
Those without EUSS status will no longer be able to use these identity cards to travel to the UK from 1 October 2021.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/visas-and-immigration/financial-requirements:
Most students will need to meet and prove that they meet the financial requirements.
However, some students will be exempt and some will meet the differentiation requirements.
The term 'financial requirements' refers to the money you need for living costs to support yourself whilst in the UK.
All students will need to pay the appropriate visa application fee and Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) at the time of making their application online.
You are exempt from the financial requirements if you have lived in the UK with a valid visa for the 12 months before you submit your visa application and are making your visa application from inside the UK .
Some important points to note:
If you meet the requirements above to be considered exempt, you do not need to deposit money or provide evidence of your finances for your visa application.
This is because the Home Office considers that you've already proved you can support yourself in the UK.
All other students, including those applying outside the UK , must meet the financial requirements.
If you are not exempt from the financial requirements, you may instead meet the differentiation requirements.
This means that you must meet the financial requirements at the time of application but you are not required to submit evidence of this in your student visa application.
Please note however that documents proving that you met the requirements at the time of application can be requested by the Home Office at any time during the application process.
You will meet the s tudent visa differentiation arrangements if you are a national of one of the ‘low risk’ countries listed in ST 22.1 of the Immigration Rules and you're applying for your visa from either the country you live in or the UK.
Students who are neither exempt, nor meet the differentiation requirements will need to meet the financial requirements and prove this in their student visa application.
A quick and easy way to think of what you need is: Tuition fees + Visa application fee + Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) + Living costs (to satisfy the financial requirements)
A quick and easy way to think of what you need is:
Tuition fees
+ Visa application fee
+ Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS)
+ Living costs (to satisfy the financial requirements)
To obtain your CAS you will need to pay the tuition fee deposit .
On the CAS we will list the outstanding fees for your first year.
For your student visa application, you'll need to show that you have either paid the outstanding fees, or that you have enough money to pay them.
This amount of money will be additional to the amount you are required to have to meet the financial requirements.
This is the fee for your visa application and you'll need to pay this online at the time of making your application.
The Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) must be paid at the time of making your visa application.
It allows you access to free National Health Services in the UK.
It's charged at a rate of £470 per year and periods of less than six months are charged at £235 per six months.
Please note that you'll be charged for the length of immigration permission you are granted and not for the length of the course.
If you're studying a course that is 12 months or longer, you'll receive an additional 4 months of immigration permission and if your course is less than 12 months you'll recieve 2 additional months of immigration permission.
To calculate how much you will need to pay for the IHS please refer to the Home Office IHS calculator .
Students living within the 'Greater London area' will need to show that they have at least £1,334 for each month of the course (up to a maximum of 9 months).
A student studying a 3 year degree would therefore need to show that they had at least £12,006 for their living costs, as the monthly amount is not calculated beyond 9 months.
The 'Greater London Area’ is defined on page 44 of Student route caseworker guidance .
If you're studying in the Greater London Area then this will be confirmed on your CAS.
Students living outside London will need to show that they have at least £1,023 for each month of the course (up to a maximum of 9 months).
A student studying a 3 year degree would therefore need to show that they had at least £9,207 for their living costs, as the monthly amount is not calculated beyond 9 months.
You are allowed to pay 1 month of your accommodation in advance and therefore show less money to meet the financial requirements.
For example, a student living in Bath is required to have £1,023 x 9 = £9,207 but they're able to pay £1,023 in advance to secure their accommodation before arrival.
The student would therefore need to provide the accommodation receipt in the student visa application and prove that they have at least £1,023 x 8 = £8,184 for living costs.
You can prove that you meet the financial requirements by showing one or a combination of the following: Money held in an accepted account A student loan Official financial sponsor The funds do not need to be held in Great British Pounds (GBP).
If you're showing funds in a different currency, the Home Office will use the Oanda currency converter to check that on the date of application your funds were meeting the requirements.
You can prove that you meet the financial requirements by showing one or a combination of the following:
The funds do not need to be held in Great British Pounds (GBP).
The money can be held in any form of personal bank or building society account.
This includes current, deposit, savings and investment accounts or pensions from which funds can be withdrawn immediately without notice.
The account can belong to:
Required evidence for your student visa application
Requirements of bank statements or deposit certificates
If the funds are not exclusively yours
If the account(s) used are belonging to a partner or parent, you must provide proof of the relationship.
Acceptable documents include:
Government issued household register affidavits are not acceptable.
The partner, parent or guardian must also provide written consent for their funds to be used.
Translations
If the documents are not in English, you must provide a fully certified translation from a professional translator or translation company that can be independently verified by the Home Office.
The translation must include all of the following information:
Accepted student loans are those provided by either:
Required evidence for your student visa application
These are:
The letter must show:
Funds such as shares, bonds, credit cards, overdraft facilities, bitcoin savings and pensions that cannot be withdrawn immediately cannot be used.
Funds will also not be considered if they are held in a financial institution where any of the following apply:
Immigration Rules
Caseworker guidance
You can send an email to immigrationadvice@bathspa.ac.uk and we'll be happy to help.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/visas-and-immigration/visitor-visas:
You can only study using a Standard Visitor visa in a very limited set of circumstances.
To be eligible to do so, you must either be studying a course that is less than six months in length or visiting the UK for a short period as part of a longer course which you normally study outside of the UK by distance learning.
If neither of these statements applies to you, then you will normally need to apply for a Student visa.
Studying for six months
Students that are studying at Bath Spa for one semester as part of an exchange are allowed to visit the UK and study on a visitor visa for up to six months.
You will also have the option of coming on a Student visa.
Our Go Global Team will reach out to you prior to your visit to find out which type of visa you would prefer.
Studying for a year
Students hoping to study at Bath Spa on exchange for longer than six months are required to apply for a Student visa.
An advantage of being on a Student visa during an exchange is that you will be allowed to work.
Student visa holders are normally allowed to work 20 hours a week during term-time and full-time during the holidays.
Initially coming to study for six months but extending to a year
If you initially come to study on a visitor visa and wish to extend your exchange for a further semester, studying at Bath Spa for a year in total, you'll need to apply for a Student visa.
It's possible to apply for a Student visa to complete the second semester, but you'll need to return to the country you normally live in and apply for your Student visa from there .
This is because those on a visitor visa are not allowed to apply for a Student visa from inside the UK.
If you initially came on a Student visa for one semester and now wish to extend your stay, you will still need to return to your home country to apply for a new Student visa.
This is because you would not meet UKVI’s academic progress requirements for making an application inside the UK.
If you enrol in one of our low residency courses which does not qualify for a Student visa, you're expected to primarily study overseas and apply for a visitor visa when you need to make campus visits, such as for residentials.
Depending on your nationality and method of visitor visa application, you may choose to apply for a new visitor visa for each visit or you may choose to apply for a visitor visa that is longer in duration.
It is possible to apply for a visitor visa for two years.
Your academic department will be able to issue you with an invitation letter with all the required dates you need to be on campus.
This will be handy when crossing the border and also as part of your supporting documents for the visa application (if applying in advance).
Students and their family members who wish to attend graduation may wish to apply for a Standard Visitor visa to do so.
A Standard Visitor visa is the correct type of visa if attending graduation is the main purpose of a person’s visit to the UK.
If your graduation ceremony takes place before your Student visa expires, or if you have since been granted permission (or made an in-time application to extend your stay) in a different immigration category (such as Graduate or Skilled Worker) then you can use your existing permission to attend your graduation ceremony.
However, if you will no longer have a valid visa on the date of your graduation, then you're expected to leave the UK and return on a Standard Visitor visa for your ceremony.
If attending your graduation ceremony is the main purpose of your visit to the UK, then we would recommend including a copy of your ceremony invitation as part of your supporting documentation.
This includes carrying a copy in your hand luggage if you are a non-visa national coming to the UK without applying for entry clearance.
If your family members wish to attend your graduation ceremony, and if this the main reason for their visit to the UK, they should apply for a Standard Visitor visa.
The main thing you should provide to assist their application is a letter of invitation.
This letter should come from yourself and be addressed to your family member – it is not written or issued by the University.
You should also provide them with a copy of your invitation to your ceremony, and proof of your UK immigration status (unless you are also outside of the UK when they apply).
If you're visiting Bath Spa University for a different reason, other than study or graduation, you may also need to apply for a Standard Visitor visa.
Examples would be if you're visiting from a partner institution, or if you're coming as an Academic Visitor.
If you would like us to provide a supporting letter for your application, please complete this form to explain the purpose of your visit and send a copy of the information page of your passport to immigrationcompliance@bathspa.ac.uk.
We assess requests received through this form on a case-by-case basis and will only issue a supporting letter if we're happy that the reasons for your visit
Requests should be submitted in good time, as they may take several weeks to assess.
Requests that don't include details of a Bath Spa University contact will not be considered.
Visitor visa letter request form
How the application is made will depend on whether the Home Office consider you a 'visa national' or 'non-visa national'.
The Home Office maintain a visa national list that advises which nationalities need to apply for a visa before arriving to the UK.
If you're a visa national then you must apply for entry clearance as a visitor before you travel to the UK.
For the application, you will need:
You must submit original documents.
You'll also need to provide a translation of any documents which are not already in English.
Once you've applied online, you must then submit your completed immigration application with your supporting evidence to your nearest UK visa application centre .
You do not need to apply in the country where you live.
If you're a non-visa national it isn't compulsory to apply for entry clearance before you travel; instead you can apply to enter the UK as a visitor on arrival at the border.
However, you will need to apply for an electronic travel authorisation before travelling.
An ETA is only permission to travel and does not guarantee entry into the UK, and you can still be refused entry if a Border Force officer does not believe you meet the eligibility requirements of a Standard Visitor visa , or if they believe the purpose of your visit does not meet the visitor rules .
For further details about electronic travel authorisation, including how to apply, please visit this page .
Coming to the UK without applying in advance for entry clearance is only recommended for those who do not have either a criminal record or previous UK visa refusals.
If you have either of these, you should apply for entry clearance before travelling.
You should familiarise yourself with all the eligibility requirements of a Standard Visitor visa if you are going to come to the UK without applying for entry clearance first, and you should carry hard copies of all relevant documents (such as documents relating to your studies and finances) in your hand luggage in case required.
A useful guide to the supporting documents required can be found here .
If you are from an EU country, Australia, Canada, Iceland, Japan, Liechtenstein, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, South Korea, Switzerland or the USA, you have the option of using the eGates instead of applying for entry clearance or permission to enter in advance online or applying with documents at the border.
You still need to apply for an electronic travel authorisation before travelling.
Further details about electronic travel authorisation can be found on this page .
If you use the eGates to enter the UK as a visitor, you won't receive a stamp endorsed in your passport as you do not have to see a Border Force Officer in order to use one.
Following using the eGates, you'll be permitted to enter the UK as a visitor for a period of six months.
In order to use an eGate, your passport must have a biometric symbol on the cover and you must be above the age of twelve in order to use one.
Visitors between the ages of twelve to seventeen must be accompanied by an adult.
It's important that you retain some form of evidence of your date of arrival in the UK if you use the eGates such as an e-ticket or paper or electronic boarding pass.
This will help you to remember the exact duration of your six month stay.
If you're coming to the University as a guest or to study, we'll also need to see your boarding pass as evidence of arrival to the UK.
Coming to the UK without applying for entry clearance is only recommended if you have no criminal convictions or previous UK visa refusals.
We would recommend familiarising yourself with all the eligibility requirements of a Standard Visitor visa if you are going to come to the UK without applying for entry clearance first, even if you plan to use the eGates.
You should carry hard copies of all relevant documents (such as documents relating to your studies and finances) in your hand luggage in case required.
All visitors should be aware of certain activites that are permitted and prohibited on a visitor visa.
You can visit the UK as a Standard Visitor:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/visas-and-immigration/evisas:
If you'd like to know more about the introduction of eVisas, these pages have lots of useful information:
We've included the answers to some frequently asked questions below.
How you'll be affected by the introduction of eVisas will depend on the type of immigration document you currently have:
If you hold a BRP card:
If you have a BRP card that expired on 31/12/2024, you now need to get access to your eVisa as soon as possible if you have not already done so.
If you have a BRP that expires later than this, UKVI still recommend that you access your eVisa as soon as possible to avoid potential problems proving your status in the future.
If you have an eVisa:
If you already have an eVisa, there is nothing further you need to do.
If you can successfully use this service to generate a share code, then you already have an eVisa.
Please make sure that you are generating a ‘View and Prove’ share code and not a right to work or right to rent share code – only accessing a ‘View and Prove’ share code guarantees that you have an eVisa
If you have a different form of immigration document:
If your current visa is not in the form of either a BRP or an eVisa (i.e.
if you have a vignette, wet ink stamp, or ILR in an expired passport) then you may need to make a no-time limit application before you can access your eVisa.
Once your NTL application is decided, you will receive an eVisa.
You will be told how to access your eVisa in your decision email or letter.
If you have been issued an entry clearance visa that is six months or less in duration (such as a visitor visa, or a Student visa for a standalone pre-sessional course or single-semester exchange) you will have been given a vignette instead of an eVisa.
This is normal, and you do not need to make an NTL application in this scenario.
If you already have an eVisa, there is nothing you need to do.
Please make sure that you are generating a ‘View and Prove’ share code and not a right to work or right to rent share code – only accessing a ‘View and Prove’ share code guarantees that you have an eVisa.
UKVI have created a video that guides you through the process of setting up your account.
You can access it on this GOV.UK page .
If you are still having difficulties after watching this video, you can contact UKVI’s eVisa assistance service .
Yes, UKVI have advised that you should keep your most recent BRP, as you may need it for creating or accessing your UKVI account, especially if your passport does not have a biometric chip.
UKVI have now stopped producing new BRP cards, so it no longer possible to apply for a replacement.
You still need to report the loss to the Home Office.
You can be fined up to £1,000 and made to the leave the UK if you do not report the loss of your BRP card.
As it is no longer possible to apply for a replacement, you will need to prove your immigration status in a different way when required.
You'll usually be expected to use a share code to prove your immigration status.
Your eVisa must be linked to your current passport if you wish to use it to enter the UK.
Therefore, you should make sure your up-to-date passport details are held in your UKVI account before travelling.
You can update your UKVI account details on this page .
If the details in your UKVI account are accurate, then your valid passport should be all you need to enter the UK.
For general guidance on what to expect at the UK border, please use the following links:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/support:
As a close-knit community of global citizens, we'll provide you with many opportunities to thrive while at Bath Spa University.
As part of our dedicated support service for international students, we'll welcome you at your halls of residence.
We'll send you the latest news and updates in a regular newsletter to your student email, so please make sure you check your email regularly.
If you have any questions prior to your arrival, please make sure to let us know.
Based in Commons, the ASk (Academic Skills) team is here to help you with your academic pursuits.
We offer one-to-one appointments to help with assignments and a wide range of Academic and Digital Literacy Skills workshops.
Interested in exploring our accommodation options before you arrive?
Our Accommodation team can provide you with all the help you need, whether you’re planning to live in halls of residence, private housing or a homestay.
Our Careers team is here to advise you on how to work towards your personal career goals.
We can advise you on:
You'll also have access to Student Circus , a global career resource for international students.
With over 70 clubs and societies for you to choose from, you'll have plenty of opportunities to make friends and take a break from your studies.
If English isn’t your first language, studying your degree in it can be challenging.
The English Language Unit (ELU) is here to make sure you meet those challenges with confidence and make the most of your student journey.
We run individual one-to-one tutorials, language surgeries and six week short courses throughout the academic year.
If you’re studying at Bath Spa University as a visiting international exchange student, the Go Global team is your first point of contact.
For any queries, please email BSUexchange@bathspa.ac.uk .
The Go Global office is located in room G02 in Main House .
We’re open every day during term-time, 10am - 4pm.
Until the end of 2024, you'll still need to carry your physical documents when travelling.
However, UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) have introduced a digital immigration system.
You can now access an eVisa, an online record of your immigration status, which confirms your permissions to enter or stay in the UK.
In the future, you'll be able to use an eVisa to travel to the UK.
You can find more information on accessing and using an eVisa on our dedicated eVisas page .
If you have any queries relating to your tuition fees, how to make a payment or how to transfer money from overseas, please contact our Finance Team who’ll be happy to assist you.
Graduation is a chance to celebrate your academic achievement with friends, family and fellow students.
We know how important this day is for our students and our Graduation team is here to help answer all of your questions.
We offer a wide range of scholarships and bursaries to support you financially during your time at Bath Spa.
The Students’ Union (SU) promotes your interests and welfare during your course.
We provide free, confidential advice and support to all Bath Spa students and host a range of events for you to get involved with.
The Student Wellbeing Services are here to help you get the most out of your time at Bath Spa.
We offer drop-in sessions and bookable appointments and aim to respond to all initial enquiries within 36 working hours.
We're open all year round and encourage you to get in contact if you have any queries or concerns.
The Immigration Advice Service provides high quality, impartial and free immigration advice to current students, applicants and recent graduates.
If you require more in-depth advice and guidance, we can arrange in-person or online appointments.
For any immigration-related queries, call +44 (0)1225 875645 or email immigrationadvice@bathspa.ac.uk .
Alternatively, join one of our online drop-in sessions or meet us in person on campus on Tuesdays.
These sessions are run by the Immigration Advice Service and Immigration Compliance Team.
We're doing things a little differently and visiting Student Hubs on different campus from February 2025 to April 2025.
We also run an online drop-in service if you are unable to attend an in-person session.
You can visit us at The Student Hub , Newton Park campus, to speak with the Student Information Officer (International).
The Hub is open 9am-4pm, Monday-Thursday and 9am-3:30pm on Friday.
The winners of BSU’s annual photo competition were announced at an exhibition on 8 May 2025 at the Bath Royal Literary and Scientific Institution ( BRLSI ).
The winners in each category received £100 and a certificate from the Mayor of Bath, Councillor Michelle O’ Doherty, who also attended the exhibition.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/support/english-language-unit:
If English is not your first language, you may feel worried about your ability to communicate or your academic writing.
We're here to help you improve your English, reach your full potential and boost your confidence.
We can arrange an individual tutorial with you, or you can join one of our short courses.
All our services are free to use and available throughout the year.
If you're a current student, please email elu@bathspa.ac.uk to book an individual tutorial or visit us in our office at Gatehouse (GH.101) on Newton Park campus.
You can book individual one-to-one tutorials to get personalised, in-depth help with your assignments.
Each tutorial lasts about 50 minutes.
If you're a current student, please email elu@bathspa.ac.uk to book.
We hold a number of language surgeries across our Newton Park and Locksbrook campuses.
You don't need to book in advance - you can simply turn up to one of our sessions with your specific questions.
If you're a current student, please email elu@bathspa.ac.uk for more information.
Our six-week short courses will help you improve your English language and academic skills, so you can make the most of your time at Bath Spa University.
The courses run twice a year.
As an international student, you will receive notifications of these workshops.
"The ELU have the best and most supportive team.
They look at the student as an individual, and with their guidance, you will find that you have learned much more than you would have thought possible."
"It's great when we can help international students to remove the language barrier, so that they can achieve their true potential."
“I love supporting students with their English and sharing different cultures and perspectives to enrich their student experience at Bath Spa.”
"The ELU supported me in many different ways.
They helped me to improve my writing fluency and vocabulary.
Thanks to their courses, I was also able to communicate better in day-to-day situations."
Develop your reading and writing skills in our language-focused workshops.
You'll learn about the skills you need to achieve academic success at university including planning and organising assignments, turning your reading into writing, and developing a critical approach in your work.
In our language-focused sessions you'll have the opportunity to meet other international students and practise and develop your English listening and speaking skills.
You'll develop your spoken confidence and improve your vocabulary, grammar and pronunciation, which will help you to listen more effectively in lectures and contribute to discussions and seminars.
If there are any other language skills that you would like to study, let us know by emailing elu@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/support/international-photo-competition:
We're proud to have students join us from over 85 countries and even more who are studying around the world – and we want to show this to the city of Bath!
The International Photo Competition is designed to highlight and celebrate the international diversity of our University, while giving you the opportunity to reflect on your international identity or experience.
This year’s competition took place from 24 March to 21 April 2025 and is now closed.
Click here to learn more about the event.
Winners in each category won £100.
We are very thankful to our sponsors of this year’s competition: Bath Spa Go Global, Bath Spa Sustainability, and the Royal Commonwealth Society Bath.
Follow the links in the dropdowns below to find out more about each and their amazing initiatives.
Step off the common path and find the beauty tourists often miss.
Through your lens, reveal a part of Bath that feels special, surprising, or personal to your journey as an international student in this World Heritage City.
This category is sponsored by the Royal Commonwealth Society Bath.
To learn more about the RCS and their mission, visit their website.
Capture a moment that reflects the beauty of embracing the unknown.
Whether it’s building a connection with someone from a different background, immersing yourself in a new culture, or discovering similarities in unexpected places, let your photo tell a story of growth, understanding, and the transformative power of curiosity.
This category is sponsored by the Go Global team.
Learn more about semester abroad, summer schools, global work experience opportunities and ways to fund international experiences on the Go Global pages .
What does a sustainable future look like to you?
Capture an image that represents your hope for a greener, more sustainable world—big or small, real or imagined.
Need inspiration?
Check out the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
This category is sponsored by the Bath Spa Sustainability Team.
Discover more about their initiatives and commitment to achieving a net zero emissions goal.
Ashley Mcdonald, Australia, Go Global Exchange Student
Nathan Beudin, France, Business and Management
Keying Li, China, Arts Management
Bath Spa University is excited to be running this photo competition in parallel with the University of Bath.
University of Bath students will be participating in the first two categories with their own spotlight theme for the third category.
Students from both universities will be invited to the celebratory event and photos from both institutions will be on display.
Winning photos will be printed and mounted (along with their titles and descriptions) at the celebratory event on 8 May.
All students submitting entries will be invited to the event.
Winners will be announced at the event.
There is a £100 prize for each category.
Prize money will be deposited in the student’s bank account on record with the University.
If you are unable to attend the event and your entry wins, you will still receive the prize money.
After the event, photos may be displayed on any Bath Spa University campus.
By entering this photo contest, you give permission for Bath Spa University to use your photo(s) in future promotional material and/or web-based media.
Photos will be credited but you will receive no additional payment.
If you have further questions about the competition, please email studentvoice@bathspa.ac.uk .
You can find the winning photos from last year's competition on this page .
Image credit: Abhinav Kukreja, Masters of Business Administration: Leadership.
Alfie Topham, UK National, Film television and Digital Production Single Honours.
Maria Eralinna, Finland, International Exchange Programme.
Jade Thompson, South Africa, Creative Writing and Publishing Joint with Professional Placement Year.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/go-global:
Want to gain insights into a different culture, grow in ways you've never imagined, and make friends from all over the world?
Broaden your horizons by venturing abroad.
Gin
          Darcy
Andy
          Boyns
Lulu
          Richards Cottell
Louisa
          King
Go Global Coordinator
Lizzie
          Bryant
"I was looking for an opportunity to travel on my own, and I wanted to experience teaching and learning at a different university.
You change so much and come home a different person."
"Studying abroad in Denmark was by far one of the best experiences I have ever had!
It wouldn't have happened if I hadn't trusted myself to step out of my comfort zone."
Our handy International Opportunities guide contains everything you need to know about the global opportunities available to you throughout your degree.
Thursday 21 November, 10am-2pm, Commons Atrium, Newton Park Campus Monday 25 November, 10am-2pm, The Street, Locksbrook Campus
Check out last year's fair in the video.
You'll find us in Main House (G02) at Newton Park .
Feel free to drop in anytime between 10am-4pm, Monday to Friday, with no appointment required.
If you'd prefer to arrange a specific time to meet, please email us to book a one-to-one meeting:
Global Citizenship: globalcitizenship@bathspa.ac.uk Semester Abroad: bsuexchange@bathspa.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/go-global/opportunities-for-incoming-students:
Studying abroad is a fantastic opportunity, and we know just how much it enriches the life and culture of our University!
We welcome students from all over the world to spend either a semester or a year studying alongside our home students from across the UK.
BSU offers the following programmes:
"The months I spent in Bath have definitely been the best few months of my life.
As soon as I arrived in Bath, I instantly felt like it was home.
I miss Bath dearly and I can’t wait to visit again soon!"
We pride ourselves on a diverse student body and recognise the positive contribution that this makes to student life and the student experience.
Fostering communication and connections beyond borders has never been more important.
International exchange students arriving at Bath Spa University will be treated as full-time BSU students, with full access to all of the University’s support services and facilities.
For information about entering the UK as a student, please email our specialist Immigration Compliance Team via immigrationadvice@bathspa.ac.uk .
From our picture-perfect campuses, to our unique range of courses and our strong sense of community, there are so many reasons to come to BSU.
Bath's stunning scenery is often used as the backdrop for films and TV shows!
The Holburne Museum , one of our cultural partners, is one of the iconic settings in Netflix series Bridgerton , and you may recognise the streets of Bath in the recent Timothée Chalamet movie, Wonka.
Venture outside of the city, and you can visit Lacock Abbey – the halls of Hogwarts in the Harry Potter films – or the small city of Wells, where Hot Fuzz was filmed.
Coming to BSU from one of our Partner Universities ?
Download our fact sheet for important information, all in one place.
At Bath Spa, you're given the chance to find your own path.
You might not know exactly where that journey will take you, but you'll be surprised by how far you can get with your talent and the support of your peers.
If you're studying at one of our overseas partner universities , we offer you a chance to spend a semester or academic year studying at Bath Spa University as part of the International Exchange programme.
If your university is not on our partner list, you may still be able to join Bath Spa either as a Study Abroad or a Freemover student.
In order to apply, you need to be registered on an undergraduate course at one of our exchange partner institutions .
You'll need to complete the following steps in order to apply:
Supporting documents:
You also need to meet our general academic and English language requirements .
For most undergraduate classes, this is an IELTS score of 6.0 with a minimum of 5.5 in each component (or equivalent).
If you enrol as a Study Abroad or Freemover student, you are required to pay international tuition fees to Bath Spa University.
You can apply to study for one or two semesters and will need to submit an application confirming the modules you are interested in studying.
To request an application form and more information about Freemover / Study Abroad, please click on the button below.
Request more information
Download and complete the application form which will be sent to you by email, ensuring that your study abroad advisor at your home university has signed it.
After consultation with the department in question, and subject to entry requirements and any prerequisites for the modules, Study Abroad and Freemover students can attend courses and lectures and acquire credit points.
At Bath Spa University, classes are called modules.
Your home institution can help you select modules that fit in with your own academic programme.
Each module has a certain number of credit points allocated to it.
It's your responsibility to gain pre-approval of the modules you'll study at BSU before arriving at the University.
Your home exchange or international team should be able to provide you with all the information you need.
You'll be required to engage in more independent study than you would perhaps do at your home university.
Many UK higher education Institutions focus less heavily on in-class contact time and you should be prepared for this when you begin studying here.
You'll normally receive your timetable just before you arrive at Bath Spa University.
If you are taking any undergraduate Level 4 (year one) modules, then you are likely to receive your timetable after you arrive at Bath Spa University, as these modules can change during the first weeks of term.
After the end of the semester, your tutor or lecturer will notify you of your grade.
A few weeks after the end of your study period an official Bath Spa University transcript will be sent directly to the study abroad office at your home university.
There is less in-class and contact time than some other countries, and you'll be required to engage in more independent study than you would do at your home university.
It is important that you take your final exams, because it will form a substantial part of your grade.
The exam timetable is posted around Easter for the spring semester.
The Exam Period lasts two weeks, usually during the end of May.
If you are taking Art, Music, Drama, or Dance classes, you may also have assessments after this period.
Please always check with your module tutors for full information before booking any return flights.
If you have any questions about studying at BSU as an international student, please contact us.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/go-global/opportunities-for-outgoing-students:
Whether you've been planning an international trip for a long time, or the idea has only just piqued your interest, the Go Global Team can advise on the options available to you.
As a BSU student, you can:
Unsure which international opportunity is right for you?
The Go Global brochure covers everything you need to know.
There are a range of scholarships and bursaries available to support you with the cost of travel and accommodation during your trip, such as the Outward Mobility Award and the Turing Scheme .
We have over 50 partner universities worldwide.
During your second year as an undergraduate student, you could spend one semester studying at one of them.
Doing a semester abroad is an excellent opportunity to experience education in a different country, immerse yourself in a new culture, and learn a new language.
To be eligible you need to:
Bath Spa participates in the Turing Scheme , the UK government’s scheme to provide funding for international opportunities in education and training across the world.
A Turing Scheme grant is provided as a contribution towards the cost of living whilst undertaking a period of mobility abroad.
It is not intended to cover all expenses.
If you are eligible to receive the funding, you will be required to complete some essential Turing Scheme paperwork before you travel, including a Grant Agreement.
The amount you may be eligible to receive will depend on the destination country, the duration, and whether you meet the criteria under the scheme for additional support, if you are a student from a disadvantaged background.
To see if you fall under this category, you can visit the Widening Access section of the Turing Scheme website .
To apply for the Turing Scheme funding, please complete the application form .
Please note that we do not accept retrospective applications.
Our in-depth guide to the Semester Abroad programme contains all the information you'll need, covering finance, the application process and where you can go for your subject!
Application deadline: Friday 23rd February 2024
You can only apply to study abroad once you become a current Bath Spa student and have a Bath Spa student number.
Students apply in their first year, to go abroad in their second year for one semester (either semester one or semester two).
For some subjects, students may apply to go abroad for a full academic year which would add an additional year onto an undergraduate degree.
It is important to conduct research to understand where you can study for your subject area.
You can find a full list of our partner universities on our website.
Please note, you may only study at one of our approved partner universities.
Yes!
Students on any undergraduate degree programme at Bath Spa can apply to spend one semester studying abroad as part of their degree.
This will not add any time to your overall degree and you'll study the same number of credits abroad as you would do if you were at Bath Spa.
You'll not study the exact same modules, as these vary from university to university, but what you study abroad will be within your subject area.
You'll need to be enrolled as a full-time student and apply within your first year of studies.
You must have good attendance and good academic standing to be eligible (achieving 2:1 or above).
Your placement will be for one semester during the second year of your undergraduate degree.
You'll study at your host institution on a full-time basis.
Some universities, especially in the US and Canada, start their semesters at the beginning of January.
This means there might be a cross-over of dates if you're undertaking a semester 2 exchange.
If this is the case, we encourage you to speak to your module tutors to ask how this may impact on your submission/participation in assessments.
Depending on the country you go to, you may be required to apply for a residence permit or a visa.
It is usual, as part of this process, to prove you have access to sufficient funds in a bank account.
Your host university will support you throughout this process to ensure you're able to study in your host country.
Most universities in the US and Canada require students to purchase mandatory health insurance.
If you're in receipt of student finance, then you may be able to be reimbursed for these costs through the Travel Grant .
Regardless of where you study abroad, you'll continue to pay your tuition fees to Bath Spa University.
No tuition fees are paid to your host institution.
You'll need to do some research about your financial position and the cost of living in your destination of choice to work out if you can afford to do the placement that you're interested in.
Costs will vary depending on where you are going, as well as your own lifestyle.
As a budget starting point, you should factor in the cost of:
Most of our partner universities offer help and guidance in estimating your living expenses prior to your departure, but we also encourage you to do your own research to ensure that you'll be able to fund your period spent abroad.
Please be aware that whilst the Bath Spa can provide you with free travel insurance, there are some countries where you will also need to purchase additional health insurance, such as Australia, USA and Canada where specific health insurance is needed as part of the visa application.
We'll let you know how much money you may be eligible to receive through the Turing Scheme, which is additional grant money that you can be paid, in addition to the money you receive through Student Finance.
We also recommend looking at the External Scholarships and Awards for Current Students sections on our Scholarships and Bursaries page to see what you may be eligible to apply for.
You'll need to notify Student Finance of any changes in your circumstances.
This includes spending a semester studying abroad.
If you're in receipt of a student loan, this will usually be adjusted to help facilitate the placement financially.
Depending on your household income, you may also be able to apply for the Travel Grant to help towards your travel costs.
Your studies abroad will be a continuation of your degree at Bath Spa.
You'll return with the equivalent number of academic credits that you would have achieved if you’d stayed in the UK.
You need to acquire the equivalent of 60 BSU credits per semester.
Different universities have different credit systems.
If you're going to Europe, for example, 60 Bath Spa credits is equivalent to 30 European Credit Transfer System (ECTS) credit points.
The modules you study abroad will be graded on a pass/fail basis.
This means the final classification for your degree only be based upon the modules you take at Bath Spa, in second and final year.
The vast majority of our partner universities teach in English.
There are some partner universities that teach in their native language but we can inform you of these before you apply.
If you're going to live in a country where English isn't the official language, then we would highly recommend that you learn the basics.
There may be funding available for you to take language lessons too.
Your host university will provide accommodation options for you.
This varies from university to university.
You could be offered on-campus accommodation, a shared student flat or house in private rented accommodation, or living with a host family.
You'll receive further information from your host university once you have received an official acceptance letter.
Most students on the Semester Abroad Programme choose to live with friends in private rented accommodation in Bath during second year.
You could either try to get a short-term contract, or sub-let your room whilst you're abroad.
However, if you decide to sub-let, you must have written confirmation from your landlord.
There might be the option of a short-term contract with Bath Spa-managed accommodation, but this is not guaranteed, and it'll depend on which semester you're in Bath.
You must speak to your tutors at Bath Spa who will be able to talk you through the academic requirements of a placement abroad.
For example, depending on your course, there may be assignments that you will need to complete before or after you go on placement.
We recommend that you stay in regular communication with your personal tutor to update them of your progress.
To apply, please download this application form , and once completed, send it to BSUexchange@bathspa.ac.uk by 23 February 2024 at midday .
After we've received your application, you'll be invited to attend a short interview (approximately 15 minutes) with members of the Go Global Team to discuss your application further.
Meeting each applicant individually will help us to allocate students to our partner institutions.
If your application has been successful, we'll inform you of your host university.
And once we have nominated you, the host university will be likely to communicate directly with you from this point on.
The application process differs from institution to institution but the host will usually provide you with full guidance notes.
There will be paperwork to complete, and a pre-departure session to attend before you go abroad.
The Go Global Team will be on hand to support you from beginning, middle and end of your study placement abroad, and we hope that you will have a fantastic time.
Contact us at BSUexchange@bathspa.ac.uk if you have any questions.
"Don't worry about funding, don't worry about your loved ones back home, don't worry about anything.
And don't let anything stop you from taking this opportunity by the horns.
Just go for it!"
For all International Exchange enquiries:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/go-global/partner-universities:
As part of your undergraduate degree, you'll have the opportunity to study at one of our partners through our Semester Abroad programme.
Your chosen university must offer your subject area, so we encourage you to conduct your own research into the universities you are interested in applying to.
Unless otherwise specified, the taught language at all of our Partner Universities is English.
Please note: Christmas is not recognised in China and is not a national holiday.
Chinese New Year is usually celebrated in January or February and is a national holiday.
Please note that some subjects at these partner universities are taught in German only.
However, language classes are usually offered by most of our partners.
Please note that some subjects at these partner universities are taught in Italian only.
Please note: Students must have a basic understanding of the Japanese language to conversation level.
Many classes are taught in Japanese with support being given in English.
Please note that some subjects at Tec de Monterrey are only taught in Spanish.
However, language classes are offered to all exchange students.
Please note that some subjects at these partner universities are taught in Dutch only.
Please note that some subjects at these partner universities are taught in Norwegian only.
Please note that some subjects at these partner universities are taught in Spanish only.
Please note: Classes taught in English will be identified for students as part of their study programme.
A basic understanding of Mandarin is preferred but not essential.
Please note: It is usual in American universities to share bedrooms with one or two other students.
There are limited self-catering facilities in American accommodation.
American universities make use of 'meal plans' which students can normally purchase to be entitled to 3 meals a day in the food halls.
Please note that the exchange partners listed are subject to change and cannot be guaranteed.
We advise that you research a range of destinations when choosing where you would like to study abroad.
Please check the host university admissions requirements for up-to-date admissions information.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/regional-recruitment-offices:
"Anything you want to know about Bath Spa University or life in the UK, just ask me!"
Do you have any questions about our courses, entry requirements or anything else you'd like to find out about Bath Spa?
Get in touch with your Regional Manager or email us at international@bathspa.ac.uk !
Bath Spa Contact: Jiemin Tomita , Regional Manager Email: j.tomita@bathspa.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 1225 875 816
Find out more about regional representatives in Africa on our contact page .
Bath Spa also operates a network of local agents, and we can help you locate an adviser who can provide application support close to your home.
Get in touch to find out more!
For students from China who wish to study at Bath Spa University, we have a regional representative located in the heart of Shanghai.
They also operate a network of local agents, and can help you locate an adviser who can provide application support close to your home.
You can find out more on our regional contact page .
Bath Spa Contact: Ryan Smith , Regional Manager Email: r.smithb@bathspa.ac.uk Tel.
+44 (0) 1225 875345
For students from India who wish to study at Bath Spa University, we have a regional representative located in India.
Bath Spa also operates a network of local agents, and we can help you locate an adviser who can provide free application support close to your home.
Bath Spa Contact: Jiemin Tomita , Regional Manager Email: j.tomita@bathspa.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)1225 875 816
For students from Nepal who wish to study at Bath Spa University, our regional representative located in India will be able to help you.
Find out more on our regional contact page .
For students from the USA who wish to study at Bath Spa University, we have two regional representatives, one on the East Coast and one on the West Coast.
We can offer personal support with your application, wherever you are.
Our representatives also visit local schools and college fairs.
BSU Representative Office - East Coast Carlisle, Pennsylvania 17015 USA
Main contact: Meghan Meeks Email: BSUEastCoast@bathspa.ac.uk Tel: +1-724-487-4771
BSU Representative Office - West Coast Anaheim, California 92802 USA
Main contact: Eric Tiettmeyer Email: BSUCalifornia@bathspa.ac.uk Tel: +1-714-520-1180
"I welcome anybody to approach me for anything regarding studying at the University, as I really enjoy talking to students from different backgrounds.
The human touch is vitally important in the international recruitment process."
Our friendly team can talk you through the process of applying for your course and answer your questions via email, phone or personalised Skype sessions.
We can also help you find a representative in your country.
Head to our International Student Support webpages for more information or get in touch.
Email: international@bathspa.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0) 1225 875777

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/international/country-advice:
Wherever you are joining us from around the world, we can provide you with specific information for your country; including English Language entry requirements , scholarships , tuition fees and bank accounts , visas and other useful information.
The International Relations Team also has dedicated country representatives and Regional Offices that can help, support and guide you throughout the whole process.
A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers:
Welcome to Careers and Employability.
We’ve got lots to share to help support you, highlight your skills, and get you to where you want to be!
All of our programmes will help you along your way into the world of work.
During your time at Bath Spa University, you’ll be continually exploring your options and experiencing different paths to progression, but all roads start at our online portal, MyCareer .
Discover our one-stop-shop portal for access to: thousands of jobs (including all of the available on-campus part-time jobs); one-to-one appointments that are personalised to you; information on when our events are happening; helpful resources on our most common topics (and then some!); and, if you don't quite have room in your schedule for these things, an ask a question feature where we’ll get back to you with the help you need.
We'll post particular highlights from MyCareer on our social media accounts throughout the year.
You can find us on @bathspacareers on Instagram and TikTok .
Explore your options and job possibilities
It’s common to not know what you want to do next.
Exploring your strengths and interests will help you to recognise what you could develop into a potential career.
You could do this by consulting our resources , asking questions at our events , or by getting a mentor to find out what industries are really like and need from employees.
Experience work through exclusive internships
Gaining work experience will help you to develop skills as well as identifying what you like when looking for a job.
We run a variety of different work experience options through our Bath Spa Works programmes.
These programmes present exclusive opportunities only available to BSU students.
We also support several placement modules that you can choose to take as part of your degree.
Progress your ideas and career plans
We have lots of graduate support , including more exclusive job options exclusive for BSU graduates through our very own Graduate Scheme, an internship programme, and a Studio Residency scheme that includes local partners as well as the university’s unique creative graduate studio Emerge .
We also offer freelance and business start-up support programmes that include significant funding if you’re keen to be your own boss after graduating.
If you want a chat, you can also visit our Careers Space on the ground floor of Commons (opposite Costa) at Newton Park.
We're open during term-time:
Our friendly student Career Champions are here to help.
They understand what you're going through and can guide you to the right resources and offer helpful peer advice.
Did you know that as a student, you could work part-time for us alongside your studies?
Earn extra cash and gain valuable work experience.
Explore our roles across a range of departments.
"Follow your dreams and do whatever you want to do, but get as much experience as you can en-route … You've got to work at it and take every opportunity that comes your way."

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/find-a-job:
Whether you're looking to work part-time, on-campus, or full-time after graduation, we can help you find a job that suits your current needs.
MyCareer's opportunities pages will help you find vacancies relevant to you.
With thousands of jobs on offer every year from hundreds of local, national and international employers, our service will help you identify the right role for you.
If you want to search for on-campus jobs, visit our Jobs on campus page .
Each year, during Welcome Week, we also host a part-time jobs fair.
Come along and talk to local companies who have exciting part-time jobs on offer.
We advertise a wide range of roles with local, national and international organisations on MyCareer .
You may also wish to use the job sites below to search for vacancies, or to sign up for job alerts.
Visit our resource library to read our Guide to Finding Graduate Jobs and Opportunities , which can also help you get started in your job hunt.
There are specific organisations that support diversity in the graduate job market and help people from diverse backgrounds to find graduate jobs; a good example is Diverse Hires .
Graduate schemes are jobs designed specifically for recent graduates, of any discipline, that focus on learning and development – some will also include additional professional qualifications funded by the employer.
Most graduate schemes offer attractive salaries and benefits, so they can be competitive.
There's often a lengthy application process involved, including psychometric tests and assessment centres, and deadlines are usually before Christmas for schemes starting the following summer.
It's important to research, plan ahead and allow plenty of time to produce a strong, high quality application.
Visit our Resources page to read more in our Guide to Graduate Schemes.
You can search for vacancies on MyCareer, drop into the Careers Space in Commons (opposite Costa) to speak to us in person, or check out our Resources page , where you can find guides on:
If you’re an international student, we encourage you to access support through the Job Shop.
We recommend that you don't work more than 15 hours per week, in order to keep up with your studies – and you must adhere to the working restrictions placed on you by your visa (usually 20 hours per week during term time).
To work in the UK, you'll need to apply for a National Insurance (NI) number .
Please visit our Resources page for further information on working while you study, sample CVs and more.
For legal reasons we're not allowed to give you advice on your visa – if you're unsure whether you can legally work in the UK and how many hours you can work, please contact the Visas and Immigration team.
Deciding what you'd like to do and where you'd like to go after graduation can be a big decision.
We have the following guides on MyCareer to help with the process:
You can find information on visas for graduates on the UK government website .
Plus, you can access Student Circus - a free job-searching and advisory website available to Bath Spa University students and graduates -that lists visa-sponsored jobs in the UK as well as opportunities in your home country.
On our Resources page , you can find our:
You may also want to check the additional resources below.
Our Resources page includes a number of how-to guides and sample documents to help you with any stage of your career search.
They cover such topics as:
At Bath Spa University, we understand the importance of balancing your studies with gaining valuable work experience.
That's why we offer our students a range of part-time job opportunities throughout the academic year.
Find out more on our jobs on campus page .
Postgraduate study and research provides the opportunity to continue to explore your chosen subject in more depth, and to specialise in a sector, further enhancing your career.
Whether you decide to pursue a postgraduate degree with us, or at another university, we can help.
We outline a good way to start looking for a postgraduate degree in our resource library , but you might also want to check other resources on the web such as Find a Masters , Find a PhD and jobs.ac.uk .
Our guides to postgraduate study on Ultra may be helpful as you put together your application.
We can offer feedback on your personal statement via our ask a question service on MyCareer, or you can book an appointment with one of our coaches.
You can read the Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding , a searchable database of funding open to Bath Spa University students.
To use this resource, choose option 1 to ‘register for a username and password’ using your full BSU email address.
Many Bath Spa graduates choose to train as a teacher after their undergraduate course.
Teaching can be a rewarding and fulfilling career choice with various opportunities for progression and development.
Most people have heard of PGCEs, but there are actually multiple training routes available including school-based routes and graduate schemes.
It is important to have recent school-based work experience, to be prepared to take numeracy and literacy tests and to apply as early as possible in the academic year prior to commencing your training, as places on certain routes are limited.
Guides for teacher training according to subject (Primary and Secondary, Early Years, Higher Education and TESOL) are also available in our Resource library .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/resources:
All of our resources are available online on Ultra , under the "Careers and Employability" option on the "Organisations" tab.
You can also find enhanced versions of some topics' resources on MyCareer .
MyCareer will also allow you to book an appointment with our Coaches, and ask us a question if you still have queries after consulting our helpful materials.
Our resources cover the following topics:
Interviews are a crucial part of the recruitment process - for a placement, job, or a place on a postgraduate course.
Their purpose is to give you a chance to demonstrate that your abilities and personality match what's being looking for, and vice versa.
On MyCareer , we cover:
On Ultra , we cover:
Choosing a career and career planning is an exciting time, but it may also seem daunting and can be time-consuming, so it's important to give yourself the time to research.
We can help you plan ahead and feel able to make informed choices about your career direction.
Your CV is a marketing tool that promotes your skills, achievements, knowledge and experience.
Alongside a cover letter, it's often the key to unlocking opportunities by selling your qualities to an employer.
We have some helpful advice and guidance on career planning and application considerations when you have a disability, including whether to, how or when to disclose a disability to an employer.
You might wonder how equality and diversity could play a role in your future work environment, or how you can contribute to a positive experience.
We have a handy guide for just such a topic.
Freelance work brings both benefits and risks, so you need to be aware of these before you decide if self-employment is for you.
There are lots of useful external resources that we link to on Ultra that can help you kickstart your business or creative project, and you can also gain support by booking a Freelance / Business Enterprise appointment on MyCareer .
When looking for employment after graduation, graduate schemes, jobs and internships are the three types of opportunities that are the most common to look out for.
Networking is a natural element of cooperation at work, helping you to build relationships with people which in turn enables you to create opportunities for one another.
This could manifest itself as a job, internship, industry event, a chance to work shadow, or anything that gets you a step closer to where you want to be.
Many students and graduates choose to seek work-based opportunities abroad, be it casual, seasonal, placement or voluntary work.
Heading abroad requires careful consideration and research – you may want to consider things such as your reasons for going, where to go and what to do, and how to prepare for other practical issues, such as money, travel, and visas.
Working whilst studying (or as part of your course in a Professional Placement Year ) is a great way to gain experience that has a direct impact on your course, giving you fresh perspective and engagement with your subject matter, fellow students, and the industry at large.
Below you can find some guidance on finding working opportunities during your studies, whether you're a home or international student.
Postgraduate study offers a great opportunity to specialise in a certain sector and enhance your career.
There are many courses and funding options available - we've created these resources as an overview, but we've also included some hints and tips to help you explore other issues around postgraduate study, such as techniques for effective applications and interviews.
Additionally, we partner with the Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding which is a very helpful guide for those looking to fund PhD, Masters, and PGCE study in the UK through grants from charities, trusts, and foundations.
Access for this is free when registering with your @bathspa.ac.uk e-mail address.
Interested in a career as a teacher?
This section covers different types of teacher teaching routes as well as strategies to help secure your first school-based teaching job.
Volunteering is a great way to donate your time to a worthy cause, while also building on your skills and experience for the job market.
Below we have created guidance on how to choose and find volunteering opportunities, as well as options for considering volunteering abroad and more.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/startup-or-freelance:
Many of our Bath Spa students and graduates go on to either work as a freelancer or to run their own business.
We can help support and signpost you, either by getting your idea off the ground, or, if you’ve already started, by accelerating your idea to where you want it to be.
Developing a business idea, freelancing or enterprise opportunity isn't all about the idea; it can also be a great way to develop your skills, confidence and understanding of a particular industry, as you look at the best career pathways for you.
If this interests you, please do ask a question on MyCareer to find out more.
We offer one-to-one appointments to support you, whether you want to talk through your idea, get start-up information, have questions about funding, or something else.
Book a Freelance / Business Enterprise / Funding appointment through MyCareer .
When you book, just add some details about what you wish to discuss to help our advisors prepare in advance.
We offer a range of short courses and bootcamps , both self-funded and free courses which are funded by the government.
Many of these have been created specifically to support people who are self-employed and/or looking to start their own business.
There are lots of useful resources to help you kickstart your business or idea.
Here are some great places to start:
Our funding and support packages are open to all current students and graduates who finished their course on or after 1 February 2023.
You can find out more about our various options for start-ups and freelancers via the schemes below.
Explore It gives you the opportunity to apply for up to £500 to support the early exploration and creation of your idea.
You could be looking to sell your work, thinking of a creative entrepreneurial project, a social enterprise, a freelance side hustle, or anything else that requires innovative thinking and a little bit of cash.
Whatever your idea or its stage of development, we're here to help you Explore It.
You can start your application on MyCareer .
Are you already working on a start-up business or enterprise?
Thanks to our partnership with Santander Universities, our Launch It enterprise support package is designed to help you get started with your business.
We can give your idea the kickstart it needs through the opportunity to apply for up to £1,500 and access to a range of start-up support.
We've previously helped people to launch apps, retail platforms and prototype products, as well as assisted artists and designers in creating a strong commercial focus in their work.
Now it's your turn to Launch It!
The Grow It funding and support package, available thanks to our partnership with Santander Universities, offers up to £3,500 to grow or scale an existing business.
This is the support package for you if you have launched your business, are generating revenue, and are ready to grow or scale.
For example, you may want to grow by adding a new product line, a new service, or reaching a new market, or maybe you want to scale by automating or outsourcing the production of your products or services.
The key is that you need funding in order to make your business growth possible.
If you're earning money from freelance or self-employment, it's important to ensure that you're paying your tax correctly and on time.
You may need to set yourself up as a sole trader or register your company with HMRC, as well as filling in an annual tax return.
For more information on this, visit the HMRC website .
Have more questions about starting your own business, or how to set up as a freelancer?
There are regional organisations and groups that can help via workshops, one-to-one sessions and more.
A few of these are provided below:
If you live in Bath and North East Somerset, we recommend Invest in Bath and Cool Ventures .
If you live in Bristol, Outset provides a practical support programme.
If you live in Wiltshire, you can reach out to the Swindon & Wiltshire Growth Hub for their business support and workshops and events, or download a form to apply for 12 hours of support from Cool Ventures .
If you live in Gloucestershire, Start and Grow Enterprise provides a free support programme.
Unfortunately, no, our funding can't be used to fund a degree show.
Please check with the University's Immigration Advice team at immigrationadvice@bathspa.ac.uk to talk about your individual circumstances before applying.
Even if you're ineligible to apply for funding, we'd still be happy to provide you advice and support at an appointment .
Yes, you will be required to confirm that you agree to our terms and conditions before receiving any funding.
Please do get in touch by asking a question on MyCareer and we'll be glad to help.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/applications-and-interviews:
In this section, we'll cover the dos and don'ts of writing your CV, filling out job applications, and preparing for job interviews.
Applications and interviews are your opportunity to convince an employer that you're the right fit for the job.
In both, you'll need to highlight your skills, experience, knowledge and personality, which will enable you (and the employer) to assess whether the position is a good match.
If you have a query or would like feedback on your CV, covering letter or application, please ask a question on MyCareer using the button below, and one of our Careers team will get back to you.
If you’d like to discuss things in more detail or have a mock interview, our Careers team can also help through a personalised one-to-one appointment.
Your CV is your marketing tool to promote your skills, knowledge, experience and personality.
As your key to unlocking opportunities and experiences, they require your time and energy to make them as strong as they can be.
If you aren’t going to sell yourself, who is?
To give yourself the best opportunity of getting an interview, our CV resource on MyCareer will help you develop a strong CV for a range of purposes.
Most job applications call for a covering letter or email to accompany your CV.
It’s an important document, because it acts as your chance to introduce yourself to a prospective employer and show them how you meet the job requirements – or to explain your skill set, if you are applying speculatively.
It's vital to tailor your covering letter to the requirements of the role, as employers will be able to tell if you've simply copied and pasted a generic version.
See our Ultra page for the following guides that will help you:
Some employers ask for applications through a form, rather than by CV and covering letter.
However, it's still just as important to use the form to demonstrate your skills and abilities, and how these match the employer’s requirement.
See MyCareer for our full application forms resource .
Getting to interview stage is your opportunity to shine.
This is your chance to meet (and impress) future colleagues and demonstrate your suitability for both the role and the organisation.
You will also have the chance to learn more about the employer, and whether you feel they are a good fit for you.
In addition to face-to-face interviews, employers may also use phone or video interviews, psychometric tests or assessment centres.
Visit MyCareer for our full helpful resource on interviews .
Strengths-based questions are all about understanding what energises and motivates you, as well as what you do well.
These do not have a right or wrong answer, but are particular to you and how you work.
Because of this, they tend to be more personal than a typical competency based one – for example, they may ask what activities come naturally to you, or what tasks on your ‘to do’ list do you enjoy the most?
Psychometric tests are another form of assessment used by employers to a gauge your suitability for the role.
These can take the form of numerical, logical or verbal reasoning tests, as well as personality quizzes.
It is a good idea to prepare by taking some practice tests so that you know what to expect.
Assessment centres are often used as part of the recruitment process for graduate schemes, and usually comprise a full day of activities, including group work, interviews and practical exercises.
We explain this more in our Guide to Assessment Centres in our resource library .
A key thing to remember is that you are likely to be under observation for the entirety of the event – even when on breaks – so it’s important to show yourself in your best light and engage with other candidates in a professional manner.
Competency-based questions are the most common type of interview question, and ask you to provide an example of how you have demonstrated key skills or competencies needed for the job in the past.
These questions are ideally answered using the STAR format.
This stands for ‘ S ituation, T ask, A ction, R esult’ and enables you to structure your answer by explaining how your actions contributed to completing a particular objective and delivering a positive outcome.
Practice psychometric tests provided by Assessment Day
Networking with employers is a great way to talk to someone with first-hand experience in a specific industry or profession and it allows you to explore the career opportunities available.
We offer plenty of opportunities for you to meet industry professionals face-to-face, including regular Employer in the Foyer events and employer presentations on-campus.
Book your place .
Networking is about using your existing relationships with people you know to build new relationships with people you don't, in an effort to create opportunities for one another.
These can include jobs or internships, free entry to an industry event, an informational interview, or anything else that gets you a step closer to where you want to be.
Networking in person can take place at specific events, at workshops on-campus, or even in the workplace or on a placement!
For tips on how to get the most out of your interactions with potential new contacts, check out our Guide to Networking in our resource library .
The growth of social media means that networking is no longer confined to just in-person meetings – contacts can be made online before you even meet in person.
If you plan on using your social media accounts for networking, it’s important to keep them professional – see our resource library for our Guide to Using Social Media for Job Hunting for help on this.
LinkedIn has become one of the most commonly used networking tools, so it’s important not only to have a profile, but also to make it the best it can be.
Some top tips include:
Is your profile up to scratch?
Take a look at our LinkedIn Profile Checklist in our resource library to see how it shapes up.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/graduate-support:
If the last university you graduated from was Bath Spa University, we have a range of services available through our Grad Support Unit to help you make successful steps into employment, further study or working for yourself.
As a recent graduate, you can continue to receive support by registering for a graduate account and then the dedicated Grad Support Unit on MyCareer.
Our support package includes:
We run the Grad Internship Programme that matches your talents with opportunities that are fully paid, exclusive and tailored to recent Bath Spa University graduates.
These types of opportunity typically take place with local businesses and are either six weeks long, working 30 hours per week, or 12 weeks long working 15 hours per week.
Applications for this programme usually open in summer every year, and always begin with an application on MyCareer .
The Bath Spa Graduate Scheme enables you to begin your career at Bath Spa University and helps you smoothly transition into the workplace.
Roles last for 18 months, are available in a variety of departments, start each September and have a starting salary of £26,338.
As well as developing skills in your role, you'll also take part in an 18-month structured training and development programme.
Part of this will include being matched to a mentor who is a senior leader, and they'll support your personal development and help expand your network.
You’ll also have a network of fellow Graduate Scheme participants, forming connections that can last a lifetime.
Applications usually open in spring every year, and graduates registered for the Grad Support Unit are the first to hear when the Scheme opens and get exclusive application support.
If you have any queries about the scheme you can ask a question on MyCareer .
We teamed up with Santander Universities to open Emerge , our creative studio based at Sion Hill.
Emerge is a space to collaborate, share ideas and network with other creative graduates and industry practitioners.
Every year we welcome 30 recent Bath Spa graduates from across four key areas of the creative industries – art, design, performance, and media – for a studio residency to develop or continue a successful creative practice.
If you have any enquiries about Emerge, please email emerge@bathspa.ac.uk .
Continuing your creative practice after university can be challenging, which is why we work with local studio providers to help support new creative graduates with work space needs.
Our Studio Residencies scheme provides new Bath Spa graduates with up to ten months of free studio space (including utility bills) and access to a range of facilities and peer support, funded by the University.
Find out more about our workspace providers and how to apply on our Studio Residencies page.
We have specialised resources that cover freelancing and self-employment and ways to support you in becoming your own boss.
Thanks to Santander Universities, our three support programmes of Explore It, Launch It and Grow It can award up to £3,500 to help support your idea, whether on your own or with others.
You can find out more information and how to apply on the start-up and enterprise support webpage.
You can book dedicated and personalised 30-minute career coaching appointments to discuss any aspect of your employability needs, such as:
Need to discuss something else?
No problem!
Just let us know what you need help with.
You’ll find hundreds of vacancies from approved employers on MyCareer , including graduate schemes, permanent opportunities and internships that will get your career started.
We run career-enhancing events designed to help you connect with industry, meet employers and improve your employability skills, as well as informative workshops designed to help you master job searching, CV-writing, application forms, interviews and more.
Our events are open to graduates from all courses.
You're welcome to attend any session, as it'll include information that's transferable to different industries and allow you to plan ahead.
Whatever your employability question is, the Grad Support Unit can provide the advice you need.
Need your CV reviewed after tailoring it to a dream job application?
We'll help take a look.
Feel like you've reached the end of where to look for opportunities?
We can provide fresh angles.
Simply ask a question on MyCareer.
We still look forward to supporting you when you register for a graduate account on MyCareer.
Please include your student number so that we can quickly verify your registration.
If you graduated between 15 and 36 months ago, we offer information, advice and guidance in a variety of ways such as through one-to-one appointments as described above, as well as our ask a question feature, events and specialist freelance and business start-up support.
The hundreds of vacancies available on MyCareer are also still available for you to browse and apply for.
If you graduated more than three years ago, support and advice is still available to you through the following useful online resources:
We want to hear about what you're doing after graduation!
Don't forget to keep in touch; if you've updated your contact details since graduating, please let us know by emailing alumni@bathspa.ac.uk .
Bath Spa University graduates, along with all UK university leavers, will be contacted 15 months after graduation to complete the national Graduate Outcomes Survey .
You'll be asked questions about whether you're in employment, freelancing, further study or doing something else, and to reflect on the value your studies have played in your current activities - although not every path or destination is expected to be totally straightforward!
Your responses also help the University to shape and improve services for future and current students, as well as giving them an insight into career destinations, so all shared experiences are really valuable.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/graduate-support/emerge:
EMERGE launched in the Autumn of 2020 in partnership with Santander Universities.
It's a unique multidisciplinary creative practice studio for Bath Spa University alumni who have graduated within the last two years.
EMERGE is a creative incubator, designed to help emerging talent through giving vital space, training, and meaningful support at a pivotal time within an individual's career pathway, bridging the gap between University and the professional world.
Unlike conventional incubation spaces, EMERGE focuses on value beyond the economic to empower graduates to find sustainable and fulfilling creative practice careers.
The EMERGE studio is a collective made up of 30 Bath Spa University graduate residents, creative mentors (who are established creatives within BANES and work alongside our residents) and three dedicated members of the University's Careers and Employability team.
It's an exciting mix of people who work together to simultaneously celebrate and challenge each other's creative thinking, develop skills and learn from one another.
Over the residency, we'll be running a range of events, exhibitions and workshops, led by our residents, creative mentors and partners.
We aim for EMERGE to become a space to support creativity within the wider community and welcome ideas and opportunities to collaborate.
Find us on Twitter and Instagram , or get in touch via emerge@bathspa.ac.uk .
EMERGE is a free space for collaboration, collisions and opportunity, bringing together creative practice across four disciplines - art, design, music and performance and creative media - to work alongside each other.
We're here to support and celebrate new, brave ways of working and thinking across creative practices, especially for emerging creatives.
Through a combined offer of free workspace, skills development, workshops, small bursaries and creative business and mentor support, EMERGE will enable creative practitioners to develop sustainable, impactful careers and thrive within their industries.
EMERGE offers 17 artist studios (shared and individual) and 8 design stations, along with fixed office desks and spaces for co-working, projects, meetings and rehearsals, to support our emerging creative practitioners as they transition from graduates to professionals within their chosen pathway.
Our Creative Mentors also have access to free space, suitable for their own creative practice in exchange for their professional input and mentorship.
As we grow, EMERGE aims to:
Our residents work across a range of creative practices, from art, design, performance and music and creative media.
Meet our residents .
We have a select number of creative mentors with experience across our specific areas of expertise, who support and work alongside our residents whilst developing their own practices.
Meet our creative mentors .
Our Collective Membership benefits those who have been part of our EMERGE story, as well as other creatives and individuals who are helping to build a strong creative community in the Bath area.
Meet our collective members .
EMERGE has been made possible through a partnership between Bath Spa University Careers Team and Santander Universities .
We are actively looking to expand our partnerships within the city and beyond as our EMERGE collective grows.
To find out more around our partnerships and to explore ways EMERGE could work with your organisation email: emerge@bathspa.ac.uk
EMERGE is based on the ground floor at the Sion Hill campus , in what was the old library space.
We are fully accessible and are happy to discuss any access requirements before your visit.
There is a small car park and we may be able to book a parking space for you, subject to availability.
Visits are currently by appointment only, but we would love to show you around!
Email: emerge@bathspa.ac.uk
EMERGE intern Anna Malina finds out more about the programme's origins.
EMERGE media resident Freya McIvor explores the hopes of the programme's first residents.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/graduate-support/emerge/residents:
The EMERGE studio hosts around 30 residents each year.
All are recent graduates from Bath Spa University, and work alongside each other and the EMERGE creative mentor team.
EMERGE is unique in its offer as the studio residents have been selected based on their creative practice and desire to collaborate, rather than evidence of enterprise and innovation alone.
The graduate residents have a strong sense of collaboration, and many work across multiple disciplines.
All are striving towards creating a sustainable practice as they emerge into their chosen professional sector.
Alisha is a mixed-media textile artist exploring the body and theories of the abject withinbody horror, intersectional feminism, and psychoanalysis.
She works predominantly through process as she is constantly exploring new methods and combinations of unusual materials that instigate feelings of uncanniness and provoke unsettlement.
Materiality is a key factor of her practice, and has found liquid latex to be her specialist material as it can provide an abstracted yet undeniably human visual and tactile experience.
Amber's practice revolves around experimenting with imagery in painting, with the aim to explore the translation (or indeed, mistranslation), of the image through paint and the juxtaposition created when utilising the differences in historically formed languages of painting.
Amber is attracted to the thicker than impasto forms that paint can take as it is applied to a multitude of surfaces, exploring paint as a sculptural object.
Isaac is a documentary and conceptual photographer with an interest in stories that exist on the fringes of society and photography that challenges the viewer to bridge gaps between truth and fiction.
Isaac’s practice has recently been focused on strange and seemingly invisible phenomena in the UK, ranging from UFO conspiracy theories to alleged sightings of big cats across the English landscape.
Finding different perspectives on what’s considered mundane and banal allows Isaac to explore objective and subjective photography and what happens when they crossover.
Josh Empson is a fine art documentary photographer based in Somerset and the Cotswolds.
His practice stems from the loss of his mother – his work reflects the subconscious feelings associated with the grief and memories of her.
Josh’s work uses processes of analogue photography to create imagery and relies heavily on the use of large format photography as well as the darkroom to further his knowledge of the photographic narrative.
Juliet Duckworth is a multimedia artist working in sculpture, installation and painting.
Her artworks show concern with temporality and topography of the earth’s surface and deal with materiality, scale and physical process.
She works from the principles that form should be derived from the inherent qualities of the materials she uses.
The layering of process and reconfiguration create a visual dialogue around her exploration of the earth’s surface.
Artworks are constructed using organic, indigenous materials which, when transformed into sculptural forms, are often ephemeral.
Her immediate surroundings supply a wealth of material and inspiration and her work is deeply rooted in a sense of place.
Often humble, unnoticed materials are scavenged and regenerated into artworks that are fragile, precarious and on the edge of material presence.
Entropy is evident in her work – while her initial control of site, source and material is ordered, she then lets the elements of nature, and chance, alter and sculpt her work, realising the temporality of natural phenomena.
Kamil aims for his work to stay open to a wide variety of interpretations and aspires to convey an idiosyncratic outlook on the world.
He believes that ambiguity within art is a quality worth pursuing, as it naturally attracts attention and inspires interesting conversations to emerge around it.
Acknowledging the mind’s innate fascination with mystery, Kamil steers away from conveying obvious and direct messages, which he believes has a greater capability to captivate the viewer and stimulate the imagination.
Kamil's practice could be seen as an exploration of the psyche through the creation of scenes (paintings and drawings) and sculptural objects, that address not so much specific issues or subjects, but instead hold space for a particular atmosphere and aesthetic quality to flow through.
Such works are predominantly inspired by peculiar folk traditions, dreamworlds and rituals that nurture a greater connection to the natural and the mystical realms.
Lara is a fine art photographer.
Lauren discovered oil painting at the age of seventeen, and since then, has held a significant role in her life.
She often draws inspiration from mythology and storytelling, which has meant these elements have become a key theme within her practice.
Her paintings take a dreamy approach to the ‘mundanity’ of the human condition; to find the beauty in the mundane is something she has awoken to within the last two years, and is a principle she tries to live by, both through art, and in her life outside of her work.
Lauren sells both prints and originals as part of her freelance work, which can be found on her website.
Lille’s practice begins with digital design before taking form in the physical world.
Specialising in fine art has allowed her to work with many materials that have an unexpected physicality – materials that Lille is able to depict, sculpt and form anew.
Lille’s working style is predicated on her interest in surrealism, absurdism and psychedelia, with a strong awareness of the undercurrents and trends that shape society combined with an attempt to disconnect from the seriousness of life.
This approach creates possibilities for viewers to imagine realities beyond the norm of the everyday.
Lille’s interests, both conceptual and aesthetic, were placed in her from a young age by art forms that have intense colours, free-flowing lines and kaleidoscopic patterns.
Lou Baker is one-third of Social Scaffolding: a practice-led research collective that provides mutual support for its three member artists who are all past and present residents of EMERGE.
Together, Lou, Juliet Duckworth and Alyson Minkley facilitate socially engaged art for wellbeing with new and diverse audiences.
They develop immersive and participatory exhibitions in vacant commercial premises as ‘meanwhile’ occupants.
Each artist has their own distinctive practice and uses different materials and processes, but there are links that run between their works.
For the first series of exhibitions, visitors are invited to try on Lou’s wearable knitted cocoons and become living sculptures, climb into Alyson’s womb-like sculpture and stitch into its canvas surface and immerse themselves, and wander and wonder at Juliet’s installation of nests and scaffolding.
Through their tour, Lou and Social Scaffolding will share their experience right to the heart of communities in the south-west, countering isolation by inspiring connection and conversation.
Matt Dart is an unsuccessful conceptual artist who is neither young nor emerging.
He’s not represented by any galleries and is yet to receive an award for his work.
A photograph has the power to reveal yet conceal, confuse yet explain, distract yet compel.
Melissa's work examines this dichotomy within a research-led practice that explores both analogue and digital photography.
She considers the photograph as both an object and a message, taking particular interest in methods of construct, their use and then their eventual reception.
Since completing a PhD (researching depiction and an appropriate definition for the contemporary photograph), Melissa has worked using photography within an increasingly expanded field.
She's currently researching ideas concerning the questionable existence of a contemporary sublime.
Emphasising the beauty in ordinary and overlooked everyday objects is an important aspect in Ruby’s practice.
Taking inspiration from her own home life, her latest works explore one of the most popular, yet desensitised animals: chickens.
Ruby's current pieces express their unknown beauty and importance, as she explores them as both a flock, and as individual characters.
Taking inspiration from 17th-Century still life, her practice has taken the form of more abstract representation with symbolic references.
Through the exploration between painting and printmaking, she enjoys the processes involved with making, focusing on small details with the use of pattern.
Often inspired by literature, mythology and history, Saffron’s work uses the human form as a vehicle to communicate and express theoretical ideas.
No artwork can stand alone or avoid associations with other works - when oil paint is used it will hold the association of hundreds of years of painting, desired or no.
In her work, Saffron acknowledges and appropriates this relationship, using deliberate references to historical works of art and traditional motifs.
Colours and lines are chosen instinctively, rather than looking to faithfully represent the subject.
Vibrant, primary colours – that break from the traditional history of painting – deliberately appear as a painted surface rather than a portal.
Bold lines and noticeable brushwork serve as a reminder of the artist’s presence in the work, and the process of the painting is left visible, inviting viewers into its past.
Tallulah Lloyd-Allum is a mixed media artist, working predominantly in ceramics and paper.
She applies these different materials and processes, across 2D and 3D, to explore a bodily interaction with form, weight, and space, whilst also using drawing and print as a method of discovery and as a means of adaptation.
Tom is currently a full-time PhD student at Bath Spa University.
Using the properties with which painting is defined, while employing a variety of different painterly styles, manners, materials and sizes, Tom’s practice-led PhD is exploring how far a traditional notion in painting, such as memento mori, can be excavated, translated and stretched.
In doing so he’s questioning and endeavouring to answer what happens to a notion in painting up to and beyond its visual comprehension and purposeful dissemination in light of our remarkable ability as humans to attribute a meaning to everything.
Alongside this research he’s interested in how contemporary painting’s place is being affected within an age of expanding artistic practices, and also in the nature of research and knowledge – specifically where it could be found.
He sees his reciprocal participation within EMERGE as a practical way of tackling, head-on, these concerns.
Objects are a principal product of humanity.
Some we keep, some we discard.
Zac Merle is fascinated by the latter – rejected materials that he finds treasurable – and is inspired by the things that humanity chooses to surround themselves with.
His creative process begins with a collection of elements from his immediate surroundings, often newspaper scraps, cardboard and odd bits of fabric.
In his artwork, Zac focuses on mixed media and enjoys using collage techniques through a layering and build-up of textures, primarily using found images in a hands-on process to form his compositions.
He strives to convey the mundane through the combination of photographs, paint and found materials, using his favoured collage technique as a method of creating dysfunction and emphasising visual anarchy.
As a person living with epilepsy, Zac draws inspiration from his own experiences with this illness to feed his creativity, intrigued by the fragility of memory.
Jessie Payne is a designer and artist specialising in hand-woven constructed textiles and mixed media painting.
She’s fascinated by technical weaving and the intricacies that go into creating a finished cloth.
Because of this, Jessie often works with double cloth weaving and manipulative collapse both on and off the loom.
Her deep care about the environment means that she has progressed her woven work to be 100% vegan and naturally dyed, and uses pure materials that can be recycled or biodegraded to ensure she supports the circular economy.
Jessie’s mixed media painting is a newer practice that she discovered and became enamoured by.
She works with different mediums in acrylic pouring, finding beauty in the mess of the craft.
She looks forward to continuing to discover this method of working and incorporate it into her business, merging it with her textiles for exciting new outcomes and methods.
Olivia is a Bath-based textiles designer, specialising in knit.
She draws from images of often overlooked textures and the mundane to inspire patterns demonstrated in her knitted samples.
Locally sourced materials and natural dye experiments are at the forefront of Olivia's practice.
Alex's creative practice primarily revolves around the future and investigating it as a form of escapism, typically manifesting as various pieces and scenes in the genre of science fiction.
He primarily uses digital media to create, as this format typically pertains to the subject matter at hand as well as being a field Alex is new to and enjoys exploring.
Legacy is a current mainstay of Alex’s practice, particularly exploring the boundaries between the biomechanical and where the flesh ends and the metal begins, and the tension that exposes.
Charlie is an actor and director, with an MA in Performing Shakespeare.
His creative goal has been to make Shakespeare more engaging for modern audiences.
In working towards this, Charlie has staged versions of classical plays, taken his one-person, Shakespeare-based show Rock Bottom on tour, and run Shakespeare workshops in schools.
He programmes most of his work through his theatre company, Fresh Life Theatre, which focuses on shedding the tights and ruffles of classical theatre and shedding new light on its larger-than-life characters.
After a successful run at Edinburgh Fringe with Rock Bottom, Charlie is hard at work on the exciting next step for himself, Rock Bottom and Fresh Life Theatre.
Debbie is a creative producer and writer focused on live theatre and puppetry, exploring traditional stories and modern issues.
Her company, Debdo Adventures, has created a series of short puppetry-based film for international festivals.
Debbie is currently developing a project that explores Darwin's journey to the Galapagos Islands, evolution, extinction and how to develop a greener world through storytelling, spoken word and puppetry.
Her latest script, Battle Scars, is a modern tragedy combined with a ghost story that tells the story of three veterans camping on a Salisbury plain as they hide from civilian life and struggle with PTSD.
Divija Melally is a trained contemporary and Bharatanatyam dancer who’s dedicated to spreading the intricate nuances of dance through performance, teaching, choreography and therapy.
Divija graduated from Bath Spa University with BA (Hons) Dance, and completed a two-year diploma in Movement Arts and Mixed Media from Attakkalari Centre for Movement Arts, India that focused on ballet, contemporary and martial arts.
Her creative practice revolves around exploring the amalgamation of contemporary and Indian classical dance.
She’s interested in creating works that explore social and political themes, and hopes to help the audience be more aware of the world that they live in through her art.
Divija has recently received the ‘Moving With The Times’ commission from Pegasus Theatre to create a work on intergenerational trauma from a racial perspective.
She wants to inform her practice further by conducting workshops for participants of different age, needs and abilities.
Eryn McDonald is an interdisciplinary artist with a practice based in dance, drama and poetry.
Their writing focuses mainly around queerness, identity and politics, and they've performed at events including NozStock, UniSlam, and The Lyra Poetry Festival Slam.
Their short documentary Queer Is A Tender Feeling was screened at Watershed as part of the Queer Visions programme during Bristol Pride.
They’ve worked as an assistant in various youth creative classes including theatre, circus and fine art, and are looking to develop their skills as a creative facilitator, as well as furthering their own creative practice.
WhimsiCo is a theatre company based in Bath co-founded by Bath Spa University graduates Ewan Wyatt and Lottie Dance.
WhimsiCo is all about creating stories full of magic, nostalgia and whimsy (see what they did there?) that makes new work feel like a classic, whilst also breathing life into classics to make them feel new.
The WhimsiCo ethos is about giving unrepresented voices the opportunity to take part in a professional production, with many company members making their professional debuts with their shows.
WhimsiCo’s goal is to tell tales and run workshops that uplift and take the audience back to the childhood wonder of a bedtime story.
Raina Greifer is a Bristol-based theatre maker and producer interested in exploring themes around sex, consent, and grief.
Her work uses puppetry, poetry, and comedy, and often examines the intersection between the personal and political.
Her debut solo show MANIC looks at the grey area between bad sex and violation, and won Best Solo Show at FUSE International 2022, being described as “bold and important” by Richard Stamp of The Wee Review.
MANIC has been featured at festivals like NSDF and Edinburgh Fringe, and toured nationally in spring 2023.
Raina’s other work includes a short form solo piece i love me when he loves me too , which was first commissioned by Tobacco Factory Theatres.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/graduate-support/emerge/creative-mentors:
Our mentors are volunteers who share our values around building a dynamic community of creatives.
They work alongside our residents within the studio and benefit from the shared opportunities within EMERGE, including facilities and space, training, skills and network sharing.
Our creative mentors are there to help inspire, connect and collaborate with the graduate residents and bridge the gap between student and professional practitioner.
Angel Greenham presently lives in Bristol and her studio is based at Bath Artist Studios.
She received a BA from University of Wales Trinity St David in 2006 and an MA in Fine Art at Bath School of Art and Design 2017.
Her practice continues to be influenced by the transformative effects of light, architecture and technological advances with its impact on the human race.
She employs an array of everyday materials in her work, ranging from found objects and household hardware to recycled plastics and salvaged wood.
In 2018 she participated in a four month Cells Residency at Trowbridge Townhall Arts and was selected for the Visions of Science exhibition at The Edge and The Andrew Brownsword Gallery.
Her sculpture ‘Beyond Human’ is currently on permanent loan at The University of Bath physics department.
I started making children’s books about happiness four years ago, when I decided that my happiness was the most important thing.
My stories reflect real challenges that I am facing in my own life, and how I can approach them in a positive and constructive way.
My most recent book ‘Geoffrey Finds A Bike’ is about story of a giraffe on a bicycle who just wants someone to play with.
It explores friendship, creativity, and how life is always more fun when we’re together.
I’ve published three books under my own small press, The Happy Book Company, and absolutely love visiting schools and bookshops with my books.
I have just completed a year of creative development funded by Arts Council England to take my books about choosing happiness to new and exciting places.
I also commenced an MA in Children's Book Illustration at the Cambridge School of Art in September.
Nigel Fryatt is a web developer, facilitator, and generative artist known by the moniker 'datarav3'.
His work spans the domains of technology, communications and art.
His commercial offerings adeptly guide public organisations, corporations, SMEs and freelancers through transformative change and growth.
With over a decade of experience in web development and a deep understanding of digital communication, he creates visually appealing and user-friendly websites that find their roots in detailed communication strategies.
Alongside his technical work he also provides consultancy and workshops to a wide range of organisations and individuals based in the UK, covering a broad range of topics related to websites, digital communication, and commercial strategy.
His facilitation skills offer effective interdisciplinary collaborations across sectors.
He recently co-presented the workshop “From Algorithms to Artefacts - Creativity, AI & IP” as part of the Bath Digital Festival 2023, in collaboration with patent attorney Judith Coghlan from law firm Script IP.
The workshop discussed the extent to which artificial intelligence can create and then own what it creates.
In 2022, he co-presented “Entering the NFT Art Space: Challenges and Possibilities” at Oxford University’s inaugural blockchain conference “OxBAT”, in collaboration with writer Joanne Rush (Creative Mentor at EMERGE) and oil painter Saffron Murray-Browne (resident at EMERGE).
This workshop presented a mixed media artwork created by the team and critically discussed the challenges and possibilities of entering the NFT space.
Through his generative artworks, he seeks to unearth the emotional possibilities of code, fuelled by a fascination with the interplay between technology and human expression.
Alongside creating his own art, he also regularly partners with artists and creative practitioners to explore the opportunities created by embedding creative technology into their projects.
A Freelance Surface Print Designer.
I formerly worked as a Womenswear Fashion Designer for LFW Designers and in Casual wear.
I also worked as a Fashion Small Business Consultant and as a Fashion Lecturer.
For a couple of years, I was also a Supperclub host cooking fusion Chinese menus for 20 people at a time.
Working as a Print Designer allows more freedom to work from home and have a better work/life balance.
I am currently expanding my portfolio.
I am experimenting with various painting techniques producing artworks and surface print designs.
James Shaw is an established graphic designer with a passion and drive for creative education and career development.
With more than five years in design, James has transitioned from working within design agencies to establishing himself as a freelance graphic designer and founder of Volley Design, working with startups and global companies to implement and deliver branding, print design and corporate presentations.
James's other passions lie in the creative education sector, working as a Design lecturer at Wiltshire College and Associate lecturer at Bath Spa.
Both roles support creative courses in the delivery of design led workshops and lecturers.
Theatre and Film: Specialising in bringing live work to the streets, found locations and unique, accessible theatre spaces.
Matthew is a dyslexic, working-class, award-winning filmmaker, theatre maker and street artist.
His last film, Othello Noir, won the Sir Kenneth Branagh Award for Best Film Inspired by Shakespeare, awarded by The Birthplace Trust (2018).
His theatre commissions include a solo street show, funded by Coburg University, Germany (2018), and a playwright commission by Wassail Theatre, funded by ACE (2020).
With Emergency Arts Council funding, awarded via UK Outdoor Arts, Matthew recently collaborated with Bath Spa University to create digital immersive theatre during Lockdown.
In September 2020, with the theatre company Three Inch Fools, Matthew produced two COVID secure outdoor theatre events in Bath, engaging 250 audience members.
Matthew is also an associate artist with The Natural Theatre Company, devising and performing in street theatre events and shows across Europe.
Matthew’s recent play BackPAGE (2019) was shortlisted for the Charlie Hartill fund at the Pleasance Theatre London, and was described in the press as "a chaotic and chilling fusion of high emotion, fantastic choreography and direction" (London Theatre1).
Currently, Matthew is writing and filming a new online web series for the charity DHI, about drug harm reduction, which will be created with young people from Wiltshire.
Areas of expertise: Instaling live theatre in streets, parks or immersive spaces.
Creating working in collaboration with business stakeholders.
Directing, devising, writing and producing in Theatre and Film.
Fundraising.
I am also a musician, that is embedded in my work.
Joseph Wilk is an artist exploring automative forms of expression that utilise new interfaces to work with alternative bodies.
His experience of disability — living with pain, physical limitations, disillusionment and disconnection— strongly impacts his practice.
He deconstructs, misuses and repurposes software and hardware to challenge notions of ownership, narrative and visibility.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/graduate-support/emerge/collective-members:
Our collective membership benefits those who have been part of our EMERGE story, as well as other creatives and individuals who are helping to build a strong creative community in the Bath area.
We aim to encourage collaboration, conversation and opportunities across multidisciplinary creative practice.
EMERGE collective membership offers support and opportunities for the wider creative community and our EMERGE resident alumni, and helps our current residents by providing a wider and more diverse collective of EMERGE creative partners.
Illustrator, muralist, curator and designer.
Having spent many years in the media industry, Emma took the plunge and set up her own art business and works as a freelance artist, designer and curator based in Bath.
She was lucky enough to be mentored through a grant the Network for Creative Enterprise and Arts Council were running which finally gave her the confidence to go it alone.
She has recently launched her own collection of luxury silk scarves and prints that depict her artwork and illustrations.
She takes on a variety of projects varying from murals in offices, hotels and private homes, curating artwork collections for hotels and supplying international retail companies.
Areas of expertise: Curating, creative resourcing whether it's exhibition space or artists resources, help in promotion, motivation to achieve goals
Creator of visual digital experiences using code, to provoke, communicate, connect, engage and motivate.
Dave is a creative technologist and artist in digital media.
After completing an MSc Creative Computing at Bath Spa University, he was awarded a residency at The Studio Palace Yard Mews alongside other established creative practitioners.
Dave is part of a collective awarded a Data Prototype grant by SWCTN to promote citizen awareness of the Circular Economy using art, data and technology.
Dave is a member of the Bristol-based art and technology collective Control Shift Network, and delivers workshops on creative uses of code and technology to those with limited or no experience.
Dave collaborated with fellow Studio resident and artist Ximena Alarcon to create The Studio Breathes , a mobile web app that invites residents to slow down, reflect and send their breathing rhythm to The Studio as a proxy for your presence during lock down.
Areas of Expertise: Web, digital technologies, AI, basic game design, interactive installations, creative coding, generative/algorithmic art
Zoe is a textile designer who uses print and embroidery to created fabrics.
She then uses her own fabrics to create products which she sells.
These products include lampshades, cushions, wall-hangings, scarfs, bags and more.
Working media: Textiles, digital embroidery
Naughty Water provides a safety blanket for all small and growing artists to turn to when they find themselves struggling for freelance or commissioned work.
It provides mechanisms to maintain the growth and progression of their careers, such as clothing collections, print collections, pop up events and promotional campaigns.
This is what fills Zoe's time as a creative and business owner, as well as being the printer behind the clothing and print collections that run.
Working media: Textiles, screenprinting, embroidery, business support
Abi is a sculpture and installation artist that focuses on materiality through play.
Objects are produced through the collective use of play, materiality and touch.
The forms of these sculptures are her unconscious translation of existing objects.
This allows the shape to develop freely to become disassociated with the familiar.
In essence, they act as devices of unlearning, freedom and playfulness.
The need for forms to exist purely out of aesthetic relationships results in installations of balance and tactility.
These objects gravitate and respond towards each other as if paused in the act of play.
Working media: Sculpture, installation
Jodie's works attempt to investigate a sexually ambiguous identity which may come across in the structures she makes with fabric or clay that resemble female and male genitalia.
Working media: Textiles, ceramics, sculpture, installation
Mateja is building her own brand, Perosa Design: stories told in linen.
Textiles is her main medium of expression, through hand and machine embroidery and print.
Mateja is also trying to integrate dressmaking into her professional practice, as there is an increase in demand of hand made clothing.
Working medium: Textiles
Megan Kimble is a Textile Designer who uses her love for botanicals and nature to translate into her specialist work of print and embroidery.
Megan’s work often uses a range of processes to build surface patterns within her designs through illustrations that are translated into digital embroidery and hand stitching finishes.
The print bases and embroidery techniques used throughout her work all closely relate to the subject matter within the use of found materials that are developed into unique embellishments.
Megan produces work that is tailored to a fashion clientele for womenswear and has made a range of products to support her practice.
Working media: Textiles, print, embroidery
Alongside her decade-long career in digital marketing, Amy is a recent graduate from the Bath Spa MA in Children's Publishing, and now freelances in specialist digital content for publishers.
Sunny Side Up is the umbrella name for both Amy's digital content specialist freelance work, but also a community bonded by a love of children’s literature and eco-positivity.
While these two streams are quite separate for now, Amy plans on unifying them into a positive, focused business that can offer creative digital content to a whole host of publishing and indie clients, while exploring offline messaging of eco-positivity through the production of magazines and child-focussed workshops.
Working media: Digital content, publishing, marketing
Exploring ecologically conscious ways of thinking about, valuing and interacting with urban places and spaces.
Jonathan is interested in exploring people’s relationship to and with place, particularly in urban contexts.
His practice looks at new ways of experiencing place through art and place-based conversations which allow unheard of or othered voices to shape how we think about, interact with and value place.
He often examines the boundaries and borders between different places, and how these act as porous membranes through which information and bodies pass.
''In a globalized world, our relationships to and with place can appear overwhelmingly complex, we find it hard to grapple with interactions between the micro and the macro, how we relate to the world and how our cities and towns are formed by processes, persons, animals and materials that have their origins elsewhere, or are completely uncoupled from any specific location.
I hope to offer tools by which we can navigate this complexity and the fragility of our position within our inherited, dynamic ecologies.''
Working media: Writing, poetry
At Dumb Found Theatre we create work that immerses our audience fully into easily accessible, hilarious, punchy and poignant stories.
We are a bold and brand new voice in the arts.
We're always testing our creativity - trying new forms, experimenting and playing.
We collaboratively devise all of our work, each of us contributing equally to shows that evolve constantly, stories that we care about, and work that feels wild and alive, every time we perform.
Dumb Found Theatre is run by Bath Spa graduates Joe Topping, Jacob Aldcroft, and Aaron May.
Working media: Performance, devising, comedy, acting
Sam is a comedian and writer who focuses on the surreal, satirical and absurd nature of the world around him and the people who reside in it.
“Writing, recording and performing are the cornerstone of my practice.
I have a particular interest in Comedy Writing, Voice Over and Voice Acting practice.
Through observation and obscurity, I unpick social norms through satire and hyperbole.
This takes its form as audio sketches, stand-up comedy performance material and curated comedy shows in partnership with local comedy collective 'Fast, Fresh and Dirty Comedy'.
Through my work I intend to explore the incongruous nature of our world and our lives using humour as a means of relaying that information to an audience.
I'm constantly in awe of the comedian's ability to neatly package a large and confusing concept into an understandable and funny piece of content.
I believe we all need humour in our lives to help us cope with the bad times and elevate us during the good times.
EMERGE collective membership is by invitation only at this stage, but you can register your interest by emailing: emerge@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/help-with-your-ppy:
Research shows that those who undertake a Professional Placement Year (PPY) are more likely to see a positive impact on both their final-year academic performance and employability.
It helps to increase confidence and can really help you to stand out in the job market.
Some employers use it as an early recruitment tool, and as many as 59% of graduate jobs are filled by someone who has already worked for the company before.
While the responsibility to find a placement during your PPY lies with you, the Placements Team can provide support and advice to you at every stage of the process.
If you are interested in working with us while you look for a placement, we recommend following the below steps.
Welcome to Pathways!
We have introduced a new way for you to navigate your way through your Professional Placement Year (PPY) journey.
Each Pathway has been carefully designed for each year of study to guide you through the need to know information, useful resources, where to access support and much more.
Depending on your year of study, find the Pathways you need on MyCareer and get started now!
The PPY Expression of Interest Pathway is open to 1st and 2nd year undergraduate students who have an interest and would like to find out some basic information about the Professional Placement Year (PPY).
If you are not already enrolled on a 4 year degree, complete the PPY Expression of Interest Pathway on MyCareer.
You will find the Pathway on MyCareer .
The PPY (First Year) Pathway is available to students in their first year who are already enrolled on a 4 Year degree (with a PPY) and/or have recently completed the PPY Expression of Interest Pathway.
This compulsory Pathway will guide you alongside the timetabled support sessions, give you key information about the PPY, outline the support available and introduce some useful resources to you.
We highly recommend that you also engage with the Placements Team at some point during your first year.
There is information on how to do this on the Pathway.
You will find the PPY (First Year) Pathway on MyCareer .
The PPY5000 (Second Year) Pathway is available to students in their second year who are already enrolled on a 4 Year degree, with a PPY and/or have completed the PPY Expression of Interest Pathway.
This compulsory Pathway will guide you alongside the timetabled support sessions and through the support provided while you search, apply and ultimately secure a placement.
You will find a variety of resources, links and guides that we highly recommend you make use of.
You will find the PPY (Second Year) Pathway on MyCareer .
For an overview of the Professional Placement Year, take a look at the Student PPY Guide , which will fill you in on all the information you need to start thinking about ahead of your PPY.
If you’d like to get in touch with us about a Professional Placement Year, or if you have any questions regarding the Pathways, you can use the Submit a Query function on MyCareer or call +44 (0)1225 875 525 .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/studio-residencies:
Continuing your creative practice after university can be challenging, which is why we're working with local studio providers to help support new creative graduates (from undergraduate courses) with workspace needs.
Our Studio Residencies scheme provides new Bath Spa graduates with several months of free studio space (including utility bills), access to a range of facilities and peer support, and £300 to help with materials and set-up costs.
We currently work with the following workspace providers:
Information about each residency and how to apply can be found on MyCareer , with applications typically beginning in April each year.
Jackson
          Woodcock
BA (Hons) Fine Art
Anna
          Lambert
Amelia
          Hopgood
Benjamin
          Jones
BA (Hons) Photography
If you would like to find out more, please ask a question on MyCareer.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/mentoring:
Bath Spa University's mentoring scheme – MentorMe – will support your career goals and broaden your horizons by directly connecting you with industry insiders.
Mentoring will help develop your confidence and work skills, all whilst equipping you with valuable insights.
This knowledge will aid your transition into the world of work and make you stand out as your mentor can advise what employers will be looking for and expecting from a candidate.
Ready to start your mentoring journey?
Of course you are!
“Mentoring is a brain to pick, an ear to listen, and a push in the right direction.”
Join MentorMe There are two variations of our mentoring scheme - one that caters to current students, and one to recent graduates.
There are two variations of our mentoring scheme - one that caters to current students, and one to recent graduates.
The first, MentorMe , is available to all undergraduate and taught postgraduate students, and has a broad and varied bank of mentors ready to offer their support to guide your ambitions.
The scheme will typically last for four to six months, and becomes available from November in the current academic year before closing to new applications in the February after.
To enjoy the benefits of MentorMe, register on MyCareer .
The second, MentorMe Bitesize , is available for graduating students and graduates from the past two years.
If you’d like the asset of a mentor to help you with entering the working world after leaving Bath Spa University, register on MyCareer .
The scheme will typically last for three months, and becomes available from the September after graduation before closing to new applications in mid-October.
When you register for either option, we'll ask you to create a profile which we'll use as the basis to present you with a choice of several helpful mentors.
You'll be able to decide who would be the most suitable mentoring match.
Alongside the helpful mentor meetings, you'll also benefit from helpful online training materials and our mentoring handbook.
“A learning partnership, with a primary goal of mentee development.”
Once you’ve completed a scheme, you'll benefit from improved industry awareness and knowledge and have more contacts.
Naturally, the Careers team will also have further support options if you would like them.
If you want to find out more, please ask a question on MyCareer.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/careers-events-and-workshops:
Throughout the year we run a number of events to help connect you with employers, develop your skills, hear from industry experts and explore different career paths.
Have you ever felt unsure when thinking about jobs, work or your future plans?
You're not alone, believe us!
Our Coaches frequently hear the same concerns from students who believe they're the only one in such a situation.
On Thursdays from 1pm to 1:50pm, we host a Group Coaching chat that will connect you with likeminded peers to share experiences, gain insights and support one another.
Each chat is themed differently, so you can sign up for the one that resonates the most with your current needs.
Each event provides a welcome and supportive space for up to ten students, with our Coaches facilitating conversations to offer guidance, advice and support, for whatever stage you're at.
There's also free tea, coffee and biscuits available!
Check out which topics will be getting covered next on MyCareer .
We run weekly check-ins on our absolute number one most popular subject - CVs!
Every Tuesday between 2pm and 4pm, feel free to drop in (you don't need to book) and get the help you need.
If you'd like to plan ahead, register on MyCareer and send us your CV in advance and we'll be ready to chat to you about it when you turn up.
Come and say hi to your possible future employer, either in the Commons Atrium at Newton Park or in The Street at Locksbrook.
These ad-hoc events give you the chance to chat to representatives from businesses from all over the country, gain insight into what working for their company would be like, explore different industries that you may be interested in, and even get tips for catering your application for the business' needs so that you'll be top of the pile when opportunity comes around.
Keep an eye on MyCareer for information about when the next employers will be visiting.
Our Career Essentials Workshops cover our most popular topics in greater detail than time at an appointment would allow.
In this lecture-style format, we'll speak about CVs and cover letters, interview tips, how to access the hidden jobs market, preparing for freelancing work, exploring postgraduate study options, and so much more.
We regularly promote relevant external events which can help with your career progression, including industry specific webinars, graduate scheme information events and more.
These events can be found and booked on MyCareer .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/bath-spa-works:
You'll see that job listings frequently ask for relevant work experience as well as a degree, but if you need the degree to get the work experience, and can't get the work experience without the degree, how are you expected to win?
Well, BSU have the answer with our Bath Spa Works programmes.
Through Bath Spa Works, you can enhance your CV and improve your career prospects with short, medium, or long-term work experience options like Projects, Internships and the Professional Placement Year.
Bath Spa Works: Projects offer students from any discipline the opportunity to get paid to work collaboratively on real life social, environmental or sustainable projects.
Projects become available throughout the year and last for a number of weeks.
As well as helping local and regional non-for-profit and purpose-led organisations, these projects will help you develop your employability skills, broaden your work experience, and build your contacts and network.
View Bath Spa Works: Projects on MyCareer .
Bath Spa Works: Internships are paid opportunities with local businesses that are available exclusively to BSU students.
They take place throughout the year (including the summer) and vary in length, but will typically be for at least three months.
These roles can be worked remotely, in-person or a mix of both.
If you’re looking to do something that adds extra value to your degree, helps you develop key skills, provides a meaningful impact on the company you’re working for and earns you some money, then visit MyCareer to see all of the exciting opportunities are available.
The Professional Placement Year (PPY) is available to any undergraduate on any course, takes place between your second and third year, and provides substantial dedicated support to help you get substantial and long-term work experience that will include at least 900 working hours over a minimum of 30 weeks.
The support offered includes a bursary of up to £1,500 for every PPY student to use toward placement costs like commuting, food, or work outfits.
You can learn more about PPYs on MyCareer .
The Placements Team behind Bath Spa Works also support the several module options that are available as part of our degree courses.
Two of the most popular options to help you gain meaningful work experience are these two undergraduate open modules:
There's a vast range of placements that are suitable for these modules on MyCareer .
If you're curious about any of these options and would like to know more, please ask a question on MyCareer.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/meet-the-team:
The Careers and Employability team’s purpose is to create opportunities that empower students and graduates to develop the skills, confidence and vision for their personal and professional future.
We are dedicated to providing exceptional support to our students across all stages and graduates of their student and early career journey.
Learn more about what we do below.
The leadership team of Bath Spa’s Careers and Employability Service is responsible for the development and delivery of the employability strategy and the overall operations and continuing enhancement of the service.
As experts in employability and career development, they act as strategic enablers, ensuring that good practices around employability, entrepreneurship and employer activity are integrated across the university’s culture and operations, enabling students to become career ready and thrive in their futures.
Laura Ingham , Head of Careers and Employability l.ingham@bathspa.ac.uk
Peter Tribe, Deputy Head of Careers and Employability - Employer Engagement and Enterprise p.tribe@bathspa.ac.uk
Sarah Outamast Brown , Deputy Head of Careers and Employability - Academic Alignment s.outamast-brown@bathspa.ac.uk
Central Services provide comprehensive operational support for Careers and Employability, encompassing events, digital systems, internal marketing, resources, and financial support.
They also manage extracurricular activities, Student Career Champions, and a mentoring scheme .
Tim Beale , Career Service Manager t.beale@bathspa.ac.uk
Dominic Stroud , Digital Systems Lead d.stroud@bathspa.ac.uk
Jessica Carey , Projects Coordinator j.carey@bathspa.ac.uk
Martin Chiffers , Digital Storyteller m.chiffers@bathspa.ac.uk
Rhianna Broad , Engagement Coordinator r.broad@bathspa.ac.uk
Shelley Knowles, Student Scholarship and Bursaries Coordinator s.knowles@bathspa.ac.uk
Polly Milburn, Service Administrator p.milburn@bathspa.ac.uk
The Curriculum and Academic Alignment team work with academics across all schools to support the embedding of employability and enterprise good practice into curriculum, enabling students to progress into positive graduate outcomes.
Each of our Partner colleagues has specific school links.
Aquar'ielle Singer , School Employability Partner: Bath Business School and Bath Spa University London a.singer@bathspa.ac.uk
Heledd Ager, School Employability Partner: School of Education h.ager@bathspa.ac.uk
Louisa Clark , School Employability Partner: Bath School of Art, Film and Media and Bath School of Design l.clark2@bathspa.ac.uk
Pandora Manton , School Employability Partner: School of Writing, Publishing and the Humanities p.manton@bathspa.ac.uk
Vivien Yorke , School Employability Partner: Bath School of Music and Performing Arts and School of Sciences v.yorke@bathspa.ac.uk
Chloe Whittaker-Davis , Employability Coach c.whittaker-davis@bathspa.ac.uk
Hayley Johnson , Employability Coach h.johnson@bathspa.ac.uk
Jenny Williams, Employability Coach j.williams2@bathspa.ac.uk
The Placements team oversees the Professional Placement Year (PPY) and our Bath Spa Works: Internships programme.
They work with local businesses to provide exciting work opportunities, and ensure that students’ placements are meaningful and support them in their development.
Jamie Bradbury , Placements Manager j.bradbury@bathspa.ac.uk
Charlotte Marshall , Placements Coordinator c.marshall2@bathspa.ac.uk
Eleanor Freeman, Placements Coordinator e.freeman@bathspa.ac.uk
Jessica Scott , Placements Coordinator j.scott@bathspa.ac.uk
Katie Ward, Placements Coordinator k.ward@bathspa.ac.uk
Evie Smith, Graduate Placements Advisor
Bath Spa students are renowned for their creative and entrepreneurial spirit, and this specialist team supports our large community of students and graduates who are interested in setting up their own business or working freelance.
Tiffany Frye , Enterprise and Entrepreneurship Manager t.frye@bathspa.ac.uk
Jai Tyler , Employability Coach: Enterprise Specialist j.tyler@bathspa.ac.uk
The Graduate Success Team run the Grad Support Unit , offering BSU-exclusive employment opportunities through schemes such as the Grad Placement Programme and the Bath Spa Graduate Scheme.
They also provide 1-2-1 and e-guidance and digital resources that enable final years to successfully transition into their future after graduation.
Samantha Pennington, Graduate Success Manager s.pennington@bathspa.ac.uk
Iona Jones , Employability Coach: Graduate Success i.jones@bathspa.ac.uk
Rajinder Boucher , Employability Coach: Graduate Success r.boucher@bathspa.ac.uk
Blessing Mururi , Graduate Success Coordinator b.mururi@bathspa.ac.uk
Our experienced Employer Relations Team is the first port of call for businesses looking to employ our students and graduates and benefit from our talent pool, collaborate and engage with our student community, and grow by raising their profile amongst the next generation.
John Hector , Employer Relationships Manager j.hector@bathspa.ac.uk
Matthew Warden, Employer Relationships Advisor m.warden@bathspa.ac.uk
Mehrunnisa Tariq, Employer Relationships Advisor m.tariq@bathspa.ac.uk
Simon Taylor , Employer Relationships Advisor s.taylor4@bathspa.ac.uk
Victoria Brenton, Employer Relationships Advisor v.brenton@bathspa.ac.uk
Emerge is a creative incubator, designed to help emerging talent through giving vital space, training, and meaningful support at a pivotal time within an individual's career pathway, bridging the gap between University and the professional world.
Charlotte Godfrey , Emerge Studio Manager c.godfrey@bathspa.ac.uk
Joanne Rush, Professional Development Officer j.rush@bathspa.ac.uk
Stuart Matson, Professional Development Officer s.matson@bathspa.ac.uk
The service isn’t part of a combined careers service and we currently work with the following third-party providers to supply services:
We’re a proud member of the Association of Graduate Careers Advisory Services (AGCAS) and follow their work experience standard guide and position on impartiality .
We have advertising guidelines that all employers must adhere to before any position becomes available for students to view, and have several guiding principles as part of our ethics and sustainability statement on how we work with businesses involved with sensitive environmental, social and governance matters.
This statement is reviewed and updated annually and approved by the Senior Leadership Team.
The last review was completed in August 2024.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/jobs-on-campus:
We offer a variety of part-time job opportunities exclusively for our students.
These roles not only provide financial support but also help you develop essential skills and enhance your university experience.
We employ students across a range of departments.
Here are some examples of the sorts of roles that could become available:
Bar / Cafe Steward
Department: Students' Union
Contact details: bathspasu@bathspa.ac.uk
Role description: Operationally running the bar and kitchen, serving, cleaning, preparing food.
Hours and flexibility: Various, around 10-15 hours per week.
Campus Life Ambassador
Department: Campus Life
Contact details: studentcomms@bathspa.ac.uk
Role description: Campus Life Ambassadors will support Welcome Activities across our campuses, including one position at BSU London.
There are two key strands to the work:
Hours and flexibility: 5 hours per week during term time, with shifts posted to all Campus Life Ambassadors for you to opt-in and sign up.
The first month of term is like to be the busiest time.
Recruitment Period: July - September.
Skills you’ll develop: Communication, leadership, independence, confidence, organisation, self-agency.
Gym Instructor
Role description: As a Gym Instructor at the Students' Union gym, you'll lead 1:1 sessions, create training plans, undertake administration and help keep the facilities clean.
Library Support Assistant
Department: Library
Contact details: library@bathspa.ac.uk
Role description: Delivering front-end library enquiry and support services to students and staff.
Overseeing the building and spaces in the evening and weekends.
Enabling students to collect reserved items and explore our physical and online collections via 1:1 support.
Hours and flexibility: Between 4 - 20 hours per week depending on your availability.
Shifts are set around the Library's opening hours: 8am-10pm during term time.
Recruitment Period: June - September (vacancies can become available at any time of year).
Student Ambassador
Department: Future Students
Contact details: studentambassadors@bathspa.ac.uk .
Role description: Representing Bath Spa University and/or your course at a variety of on campus and external recruitment events as well as online as a Digital Ambassador through Unibuddy.
Hours and flexibility: Work opportunities are ad hoc, so you can work as much or little as you like up to 20 hours per week.
Recruitment period: September - January.
Skills you'll develop: Communication, leadership, independence, confidence, organisation, self-agency.
Student Career Champion
Department: Careers and Employability
Contact details: careers@bathspa.ac.uk
Role description: As a Champion, your main duty is to provide frontline support and guide students to the Careers and Employability services.
We recruit Champions based on specific projects to ensure you gain relevant skills while contributing effectively.
Hours and flexibility: 6 hours per week, with flexible hours depending on your schedule.
Skills you’ll develop: Interpersonal, personal, digital proficiency, adaptability, career development and teamwork skills.
Student Community Leader
Role description: The purpose of this role is to embed representation within community building, social, extracurricular and development activities within each School at undergraduate level.
Hours and flexibility: 10 hours per week.
Student Outreach Ambassador
Contact details: educationliaison@bathspa.ac.uk
Role description: Supporting the outreach team to deliver engaging workshop activities in schools and colleges within the Bath and North East Somerset and Wiltshire regions.
This role is suitable for all students but as a key aspect is working in schools and colleges, it could be highly beneficial for Education students and/or those interested in gaining experience in an education setting.
Hours and flexibility: There are no set hours and most opportunities are ad hoc.
You're free to sign up to the shifts that integrate well into your studies, putting you in control of your time.
Recruitment period: September - October, with ad-hoc opportunities throughout the year depending on specific projects.
Student Wellbeing Navigator
Department: Student Wellbeing Services
Contact details: studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk
Role description: Representing Student Wellbeing Services (SWS) at a range of events, implementing a social prescribing model for peers, working alongside SWS team members within the Sitting Room service and trialling a 'buddy' system for disabled students during the transition period into university.
This role will suit students with a passion for supporting their peers and for wellbeing.
Hours and flexibility: Various – roughly 8-16 hours per week depending on wider activity.
You'll be offered optional shifts that you can sign up to when you're available.
Recruitment Period: September – October.
Skills you’ll develop: Communication, confidence and supporting peers through signposting and active listening.
Various (Engagement / Office roles)
Role description: The SU is looking for various opportunities assistants, communications assistants, welcome assistants and crew members to help with events and campaigns.
We also need content creators, photographers and graphic designers who can take an 'agency' approach to communications.
Hours and flexibility: Various.
Welcome Week Ambassador
Department: Academic Registry
Contact details: welcomeweek@bathspa.ac.uk
Role description: Supporting students on campus during Welcome Week with directions, how to find their Welcome Week schedule, downloading the app, student ID cards, how to register and enrol, queue management and generally providing a warm welcome.
This role is suitable for students who enjoy dealing with queries and being approached by others.
You'll need to be able to work independently and in small groups.
Hours and flexibility: 5 - 20 hours per week.
You'll be able to select your own shifts during Welcome Week.
Recruitment Period: May - June.
Skills you’ll develop: Communication, confidence, dealing with queries, reliability and timekeeping.
Interested in joining Bath Spa in one of our part-time roles?
Follow these simple steps to apply:
To help you to find and apply for on campus jobs, Careers and Employability have curated some bespoke resources which will guide you through the process.
For any questions or further information, please contact the relevant department through their contact email.
For general queries about searching and applying for jobs, Careers and Employability offer support.
If you're looking for a part-time job that's not on campus, explore MyCareer where there are hundreds of jobs on offer every year from a range of local, national and international employers across different sectors.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/careers/graduate-outcomes-survey:
The survey aims to understand what graduates have gone on to do 15 months after graduation, and to what extent their degree qualification played a part.
It's important because it gives an insight into career destinations and helps Bath Spa University to shape programmes for current and future students.
The Graduate Outcomes Survey is administered by the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) and replaced the Destination of Leavers from Higher Education (DHLE) survey in 2017.
HESA contacts graduates by email or phone call 15 months after they've graduated.
Graduate Outcomes data is the most complete data available on the labour market for graduates from higher education institutions.
The responses will not only help current and future students gain insight into career destinations, they will also help us to evaluate and promote our courses and impact the reputation of Bath Spa graduates amongst employers.
It helps to:
The survey is a series of questions about the employment, further study, or other activities that graduates are engaged in.
It also asks some subjective questions about how graduates feel about their current situation and general wellbeing; however, these questions are not mandatory.
Any information provided by graduates as part of the survey will be held securely and confidentially in line with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and Data Protection Act 2018.
The data is used to inform the development of Bath Spa courses and services and will not be shared with any external organisations.
Bath Spa University’s data protection statement can be accessed here .
The Graduate Outcomes survey information is used by HESA for statutory functions and publications.
HESA also supply a summary of the data to third parties such as government bodies, academic researchers and journalists.
All data published by HESA and supplied by them to third parties are kept anonymous so individuals cannot be identified.
If you are a graduate who is yet to be contacted by the survey, please keep an eye out for communications from Bath Spa University and HESA around 15 months after graduation .
When HESA contact you, please complete the survey – it should take about 10 minutes to complete.
It’s important to highlight that employment is not the only ‘positive’ outcome of the survey, and your completing the survey is important regardless of the activity you are currently undertaking.
Positive outcomes cover a wide range of activities such as:
As a reminder, if you would like Careers support and advice, you can continue to access this for up to 3 years after graduation.
Please see the Graduate Support Unit pages for more information.
If you are yet to graduate, you can update your personal contact details with the Careers team by signing up to the Graduate Support Unit .
If you're already a graduate, you can update your contact details here .
If you are a member of staff, you can help by raising awareness of the Graduate Outcomes survey and communicating the following messages to your final year students, and any graduates you are in contact with:
You can find helpful resources and more information to support you on the Graduate Outcomes Staff Toolkit .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance:
Find out what our courses cost and how you can finance your studies.
Undergraduate and PGCE students
If you're a UK student you may be able to borrow money to help pay for university tuition fees and to help with living costs by means of a student loan.
The student loan system is there to make sure everyone who would benefit from university is able to do so.
Further information is available.
Postgraduate students
If you're a UK student a Postgraduate Master’s Loan can help with course fees and living costs while you study a postgraduate master’s course.
Find out more about the Postgraduate funding system and how the loan works.
Please note that the University is required to share confirmation of your student status and attendance with loan providers in order for the loan provider to administer your funding.
Please see privacy notices for students and applicants for further information.
Bath Spa have partnered with Blackbullion , the ultimate destination for students to master money management.
Blackbullion is an easy-to-use digital learning platform that can help you be smart with money and take control of your financial future.
It’s filled with videos, articles, quizzes, and tools covering a range of financial subjects, including topics such as getting money-ready for university, student life, budgeting, saving, earning and investing.
You can also create a personalised learning plan and search for additional sources of funding that may be available to you and more.
You can register for free if you’re an applicant, a current student, staff member or a recent graduate of Bath Spa University.
Simply sign up with your bathspa.ac.uk email on their website.
Alternatively, you can register in the app (search ‘Blackbullion’ in the App Store or Google Play Store).
The majority of students at Bath Spa University will need to pay tuition fees, but there may also be other charges incurred depending on the course of study.
Progression through and completion of a programme of study may be affected if this financial obligation is not fulfilled.
This policy aims to make sure that students understand the fee collection process and debt management steps the University may take.
Read the Tuition fee and debt management policy
Sometimes, things can happen that mean fees and charges cannot be paid as previously agreed.
The University will always seek to be sympathetic to individual circumstances, but students must seek help at the earliest opportunity by contacting the Student Fees team via MyServices.
There's help available if you need it.
For more information on cost of living support , scholarships and bursaries or other sources of funding, please visit the relevant pages.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/tuition-fees:
Get an overview of tuition fees for different levels of study.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/tuition-fees/undergraduate-and-foundation-fees:
Our tuition fees vary according to the type of degree programme you study, your mode of study and where you study.
Fees specific to each course are listed on the individual course pages , however this page will give you an overview of the types of costs for our range of undergraduate and foundation courses.
Tuition fees are chargeable for the academic period required by the programme, with annual amounts charged for each academic year of the programme unless otherwise stated.
It is to be expected that tuition fees will rise by a modest amount, for the duration of study.
This is to take into account inflationary pressures.
Tuition fees for BA/BSc courses delivered at Bath Spa University and Bath Spa London.
If you need to re-take a module you'll be required to pay for the whole module again.
The re-take cost will depend on the credit weight of the module.
Re-take fees for 2025/2026 year are:
Students who are re-taking a module and funding their undergraduate study via Student Finance will usually fund one additional year to allow for a re-take/restart of a year of their course.
In usual circumstances this is only agreed for one occurrence.
If the student has not repeated, re-started or studied at the same level of study with Bath Spa University or another institution they should be eligible for one year of additional funding.
If a student has already received additional funding for the restart or re-take of a year, they may still be able to obtain funding if they apply for ‘compelling personal reasons’.
Our Student Wellbeing Services team may be able to support them with this process.
We do strongly recommend that students contact the Student Finance team to check eligibility for funding prior to registering to continue study.
You can email fees@bathspa.ac.uk .
See individual course page for specific tuition fee.
If students need to retake a module they'll be required to pay for the whole module again.
The retake cost will depend on the credit weight of the module.
For more information, please contact fees@bathspa.ac.uk .
Fees for courses delivered at Boomsatsuma, Circomedia, Elizabeth School of London, Fairfield Business School, Global Banking School, University Centre Weston (UCW), The Brighton Academy, New City College, William College and City of Bristol College.
Business and Management Integrated Foundation Year courses delivered at
All other Integrated Foundation Year courses delivered at
Foundation courses delivered at University Centre Weston (UCW)
Foundation courses delivered at City of Bristol College
Whichever payment method you use, you can pay the full amount online for the upcoming year in one go.
If you wish to do this, please ensure that payment is received prior to registration for your course or before 18 September (whichever is earlier).
First-Year International students joining the University are required to pay 100% of the tuition fees on or before arrival and commencement of the course.
If you'd like to pay your fees in full, payment is due by 11 September.
Alternatively, if you are just paying for tuition fees, you can select 'pay now' at registration and make full payment then.
Three instalments are available to pay tuition fees, for UK and returning International students:
If you're staying in University accommodation, your accommodation licence fee is due by 15 October.
All students can pay their accommodation fees in 3 or 8 instalments.
Students who are using maintenance loan payments to help with payment of accommodation fees are advised to select 3 instalments.
The 3 instalment dates are arranged to coincide with or be just after the date you receive your maintenance loan payments.
We can allow up to 8 months for payment of accommodation charges, but this is not recommended for students paying from their maintenance loans.
To choose this option, please select the 3 instalment option and email fees@bathspa.ac.uk to let us know your preference for 8 instalments.
We can then make the adjustment to the payment plan.
Please note: if you leave your studies before the first payment date, you'll be liable to pay the accommodation fee according to the terms of your licence.
Find out more information about the different kinds of financial support that you may be entitled to as a student, both from the UK government and from the Bath Spa University, visit our Funding pages .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/tuition-fees/pgce-fees:
Fees specific to each course are listed on the individual course pages , however this page will give you an overview of costs for our range of PGCE courses.
Tuition fees may vary depending on the programme of study and attendance.
Information regarding tuition fee amounts is also displayed during online registration.
The due date for payment in full is before registration or by 18 September.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/tuition-fees/postgraduate-fees:
Fees specific to each course are listed on the individual course pages , however this page will give you an overview of the types of costs for our range of postgraduate courses.
Full-time fee
MBA Leadership - London
If you wish to do this, please ensure that payment is received prior to registration for your course or before 18 September (whichever is earlier).
International students joining the University are required to pay 100% of the tuition fees on or before arrival and commencement of the course.
Home students who decide to pay in one instalment can do so at the point of registration.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/tuition-fees/international-fees:
Fees specific to each course are listed on the individual course pages , however this page will give you an overview of the types of costs for our range of postgraduate research courses.
6/5 week course: fees £1,970
12/11 week course: fees £3,950
16/15 week course: fees £4,920
Find our more about our Pre-sessional English Language courses .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/funding:
Get an overview of the funding options available to you, including awards, scholarships and bursaries.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/funding/undergraduate-funding:
The funding that you are eligible for depends on your fee status, the type of programme you are studying and when you start your Bath Spa University studies.
If you are unsure of your fee status, please refer to our definitions for determing fee status .
This guide will help you understand the financial support available to you whilst at university.
It covers everything from important dates, Bath Spa funding and some top tips.
To fix this, you can either change your cookie consent to 'Allow all cookies' (you can change this back later if you prefer) or you can acc https://issuu.com/bathspauni/docs/your_guide_to_student_finance_2025?fr=xKAE9_zcdDg ess this content on ISSUU.
It is important to check out your own funding situation by referring to the official webpages.
The information below is a broad overview only and subject to change.
You can apply for funding depending on where you live before attending university.
You should not delay making your application, see the links below for the deadlines for ensuring your funding will be in place ready for September.
For information about your student finance entitlement and how to apply, please visit:
You can apply for a non means-tested loan up to the maximum of £9,535 each year to cover the full amount of your tuition fees.
You can choose to borrow a lesser amount (or none).
The fee loan is paid directly to the University.
Eligibility for the loan may be affected if you have previously studied in higher education even if you paid the fees yourself.
If you change your mind about the amount of tuition fee loan that you want to borrow for an academic year, you can still amend the loan up or down (up to the maximum tuition fee loan entitlement).
If you decide, during the academic year, that you wish to change the amount of tuition fee loan that you have requested, you should contact Student Finance England .
Maintenance loans are available for your living costs during the academic year.
The maintenance loan is paid into your bank account once your registration has been confirmed at the University.
The amounts will differ if you are a student from England, Wales, Northern Ireland or Scotland.
You may need to give details of your household income to be assessed for part of the maintenance loan.
The GOV.UK website explains what is meant by household income in more detail.
Use the Student Finance calculator to estimate how much maintenance loan you could receive.
You can find out more on the Student Finance studying abroad webpage.
The tuition fees charged and the funding available is different if you take a placement year as part of your degree.
The tuition fees are between £1,430 and £1,905.
You can apply for a tuition fee loan to cover the fees.
You may get a grant to cover some of your travel expenses if you normally live in England and:
There’s a different process if you’re a student from Scotland , Wales or Northern Ireland .
Please see GOV.UK website for more information.
Please see Student Finance website for more information.
For information on the loan interest, please see the Student Loans Company website on how they calculate interest.
This will depend on whether you are employed, self-employed or working abroad.
You may be eligible for a scholarship or bursary.
You can find a comprehensive list of all the available scholarships and bursaries on our Scholarships and bursaries pages .
If you're facing unexpected financial hardship, the Student Funding Team may be able to help you.
Find out more about our Bath Spa University Access Fund .
Are you facing unexpected financial difficulty because your Student Finance has been delayed?
The Bath Spa University Short Term Emergency Grant provides limited discretionary financial support for students who are unable to meet basic costs from other sources of support, until you are able to receive your first payment from Student Finance.
Bath Spa University is eligible to certify loan applications for William D.
Ford Federal Direct Loans (Direct Loans) including Direct subsidized loans, Direct Unsubsidized Loans, Parent PLUS loans and Graduate PLUS loans.
The Bath Spa University school code is: G35333 .
More information about US Federal Direct Loans is available on the Federal Student Aid website via the following link www.ed.gov .
For information on Federal Aid, fee payments and general financial information, please see the US Federal Loans webpages.
The only private loan currently available to students at foreign schools is the Sallie Mae Student Loan.
Please review the Direct Lending programme before you progress with a private loan as this may be a more favourable option
For information on private loans, fee payments and general financial information, please see the Sallie Mae Private Loans webpage.
Bath Spa University participated in the US Veterans Affairs (VA) Educational Benefits Program and some courses were approved to process VA Benefits under various GI Bill programmes.
However, due to changes in legislation for foreign schools, we are currently unable to request any additional courses are approved.
Even if you wish to study a course already approved by the VA, you may not be able to use your benefits.
Please contact studentawards@bathspa.ac.uk for further information.
The Government of Canada offers full and part-time loans to students with demonstrated financial need in all provinces and territories across Canada, with the exception of Quebec, the Northwest Territories and Nunavut.
The purpose of a Canadian Student Loan is to supplement, not replace, the financial resources that you (and your family, where applicable) are expected to contribute.
For information on Canadian Loans, fee payments and general financial information, please see the Funding for students from Canada webpages.
Bath Spa University offers a range of scholarship opportunities for high-achieving international students who would gain from studying in the UK.
The scholarship programme includes opportunities at undergraduate level.
The University also awards a Sanctuary Scholarship to students from refugee and asylum-seeking communities.
We can help you manage your finances and check that you’re getting all the funding you’re entitled to.
We have a number of bursaries and scholarships , and our Student Finance team can offer support and advice if you’re having financial problems.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/funding/pgce-funding:
PGCE studies are a big investment.
Bath Spa University has a wide range of funding possibilities to explore.
If you are a SCITT (School-Centred Initial Teacher Training) PGCE student then please contact your SCITT provider.
You can usually apply for funding from mid February if you are starting September of that same year.
Applications should be made by the end of May to ensure your funding will be in place ready for September.
You can apply for a non means-tested loan up to the maximum of £9,250 each year to cover the full amount of your PGCE tuition fees.
Use the student finance calculator to estimate how much maintenance loan you could receive.
For information on the loan interest, please see the Student Loans Company website on how they calculate interest .
This will depend on whether you're employed, self-employed or working abroad.
UK funding - PGCE
It's important to check out your own funding situation by referring to the official webpages, please see above section.
The funding option available to you depends on your personal eligibility, your fee status, the type of programme you are studying and when you start your Bath Spa University studies.
Initial teacher training funding is administered by Bath Spa University in accordance with criteria determined by the Department for Education (DfE).
For further information on eligibility, applying and payment information, please see our ITT bursaries and scholarships webpages.
Subject knowledge enhancement (SKE) courses are designed for graduates who are interested in teaching a secondary priority subject but who may not necessarily have a degree in that subject
For more information, please visit our courses or the Department of Education .
Designed by groups of schools in partnership with Bath Spa University, our School Direct routes are a popular choice for trainee teachers.
For more information, please visit our School Direct webpages or the Department of Education .
The Bath Spa University Access Fund provides limited discretionary financial support for students who are experiencing financial difficulty and are unable to meet basic or unexpected additional costs from other sources of support.
The Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding is a searchable database of funding from the voluntary sector which is available to Bath Spa students.
To use this resource, choose option 1 to ‘register for a username and password’ using your Bath Spa email address.
For information on scholarships, please see the Scholarships webpages.
The Bath Spa University Overseas Emergency Access Fund provides limited discretionary financial support for full-time international and EU (pre-settled) students who are experiencing financial difficulty and are in need of emergency funding.
You must have made realistic provision at the start of the course to fund your tuition fees and living costs throughout your course.
These arrangements must have been affected by unforeseen circumstances or events beyond your control, occurring after the start of your course.
The Bath Spa University Overseas Emergency Access Fund is intended to support a temporary financial difficulty rather than be a main source of income.
Awards are discretionary and even if you meet the criteria to apply, awards are not guaranteed.
The size of the fund is limited and we may not be able to meet your need in full or guarantee that funds will be available, especially towards the end of an academic year.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/funding/postgraduate-funding:
Postgraduate studies are a big investment.
This booklet will help you understand the financial support available to you whilst at university.
A Postgraduate Loan can help with course fees and living costs while you study.
For information on how to apply and you student finance entitlement, please visit:
The loan is not means tested and is paid directly into your bank account in three instalments during the academic year.
If you study part-time, you can be considered for a loan provided your study is no more than twice the length of the equivalent full-time course (up to a maximum of four years).
You can get student finance for the following postgraduate teacher training courses:
If you study part-time, the Initial Teacher Training course needs to be at least 25% intensity in order for students to be eligible for a part-time loan for tuition fees and maintenance.
If you'd like to find out more about available funding, please visit our PGCE funding webpages.
The University Access Fund provides limited discretionary financial support for students who are experiencing financial difficulty and are unable to meet basic or unexpected additional costs from other sources of support.
The fund can also offer limited support to students who have experienced a change in financial circumstances due to unforeseen events.
Bath Spa University offers a range of scholarship opportunities to help you fund your postgraduate study with us.
More information on Scholarships is available on our webpages.
For information on Federal Aid, fee payments and general financial information, please see the US federal loans webpage.
For information on private loans, fee payments and general financial information, please see the US private loans webpage.
Bath Spa University participates in the US Veterans Affairs Educational Benefits Program and is approved to process Veterans Affairs Benefits under various GI Bill programmes.
The University is unable to process Yellow Ribbon Benefits Programme.
US Veterans or their dependants can use funding to contribute towards tuition fees and living expenses whilst studying at Bath Spa University.
Bath Spa University will need to confirm your attendance before your benefits will be released.
This confirmation is sent via VA 22-1999 form.
For information on Veterans Affairs Benefits, fee payments and general financial information, please see the Veterans Affairs Benefits webpages.
For information on Canadian Loans, fee payments and general financial information, please see our funding for Canadian students webpage.
For information on Scholarships, please see the Scholarships webpages.
Living costs, sometimes called maintenance, includes; accommodation, food, clothing, books, entertainment and travel in the UK.
As per UK Visas and Immigration, estimated living costs for an international student on a degree course are estimated to be £9,135 per 9-month academic year (£1,015 per month), or £12,180 for a full year.
These figures are approximate and vary with different lifestyles.
For help with budgeting, the UK Council of International Students support the International Student Calculator.
Each academic year, the SWWDTP funds places for doctoral students across the arts and humanities.
Applications for funding open in November 2023 and close in January 2024.
Each academic year, the SWDTP funds places for doctoral students across the social sciences.
Once you've identified a suitable supervisor, you should submit your application through the Bath Spa University admissions portal .
The deadline for submitting both your funding application to the ESRC and your PhD application to Bath Spa is 12 January 2024 .
As of August 2018, loans are now available from the UK government for those wishing to undertake doctoral research – further information can be found on the UK government website .
A large online database of funding opportunities, FindAPhD is a helpful tool for those looking to fund their Postgraduate Research Degree.
The Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding is a web resource for current and prospective postgraduate students (any subject, any nationality) who are looking to fund PhD, Masters and PGCE study in the UK through grants from charities, trusts and foundations.
Jobs.ac.uk is an online searchable portal, showing hundreds of funded PhD opportunities from across the UK.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/funding/international-funding:
The funding that you're eligible for depends on your fee status, the type of course you're studying, and when you start your Bath Spa University studies.
The Bath Spa University Overseas Emergency Access Fund provides limited discretionary financial support for international students who are experiencing financial difficulty, having made realistic provision before the start of your course to fund both tuition fees and living costs.
These arrangements should have been affected by unforeseen circumstances or events beyond your control, after starting University.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/additional-costs:
Your tuition fees will cover most of the costs for your study including teaching and supervision, non-residential trips, access to the library and learning resources, access to student wellbeing services, careers advice and academic skills and support services.
There may be some additional course costs connected to your programme which are listed on the programme document for each course.
These include residential field trips and travel, professional memberships or specialist equipment.
For further details on any costs specific to your course, please check the programme document for the specific course.
At Bath Spa University, we provide a number of scholarships and bursaries and have highlighted a number of our sources of funding that can help you to manage the cost of your education.
For further details on the University's policy on the charging of any 'additional course costs' please refer to the Additional Course Costs policy .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/scholarships-and-bursaries:
If you’re looking for financial help for students, you’ve probably heard of scholarships and bursaries.
But what are they, and how can you access them?
This page covers how university grants work and links to all the awards available to Bath Spa University students.
Remember, securing your funding for university is the first and most important step you can take in organising your student finances.
In the UK, funding for students usually takes the form of a tuition fee loan to pay for your course, and a maintenance loan for living costs.
Your student loan entitlement informs the automatic payments you receive.
Scholarships and bursaries can provide extra financial help for students on top of your funding.
You don't need to pay them back, and you don't need to pay tax on them.
Funding for students organising out-of-classroom activities
The Extracurricular activity fund is an opportunity for individuals or groups of students who are undertaking an out-of-classroom activity, which will benefit the local community and the University, and who would like financial contribution to realize this.
View details and apply
Funding for final year students
An opportunity for individuals or groups of students who are undertaking an extensive final year project.
This Final Year Project Fund provides successful applicants with a financial contribution to help support such activity.
High Performance Sports Scholarship
A scholarship that supports Bath Spa University students who are also competing nationally and internationally in sport.
Porthleven Prize
Open to all students, this prize gives you the chance to collaborate on an exhibition.
Successful applicants will participate in a fully-funded residency in Porthleven, Cornwall.
Professional Placement Year Bursary
The aim of this bursary is to make work experience more accessible, providing money which can be used towards placement costs such as travel, food, workwear or accommodation.
The bursary is paid in two instalments, and the total amount you receive will depend on which eligibility criteria you meet.
View details
Sanctuary Scholarship
Scholarship for asylum seekers, refugees, and those in UK government's Homes for Ukraine and Ukraine Family Schemes.
Santander Brighter Futures Grant
You can use this grant to help with the cost of living expenses and study resources such as laptops, textbooks and stationery.
Student Opportunities Fund
Created to help you make the most of your time at university, this fund supports projects that enhance your studies and/or future career.
Santander Summer Internship Award
Current undergraduate BSU students can apply for funding to support unpaid or low-paid summer work experience.
The Santander Summer Internship Award has been created in partnership by Santander Universities, providing students with funding to support them in gaining valuable work experience to support their future goals.
Undergraduate Scholarship
For undergraduate students who have achieved better than predicted or outstanding grades in their A-levels (or equivalent).
Hall Commonwealth Scholarship
For one undergraduate student from an international commonwealth country to assist them in their studies at Bath Spa University.
International Recruitment Office Scholarship
For high achieving students from outside the UK who are entering undergraduate or postgraduate studies with us.
Latin-America Scholarship in Creativity and Culture
Financial support for students from Latin America who hold an offer for one of our eligible courses, have high academic results and can demonstrate a commitment to creativity, culture and enterprise.
Overseas Emergency Access Fund
Provides financial support for full-time international and EU (pre-settled) students who started study with funding in place to cover tuition and living costs for their course, but have experienced financial difficulty as a result of unforeseen circumstances after they started their studies.
Regional Office Scholarships
For students from China, India, Africa and the Asian Pacific who can demonstrate a commitment to creativity, culture and enterprise.
Asia Pacific scholarship
China scholarship
India scholarship
Africa scholarship
Royal Commonwealth Society Bath and District Scholarship
Supports two students (undergraduate or postgraduate) from an international commonwealth country with their studies at Bath Spa University.
USA Transfer Scholarship
For international students who have completed the first two years of their undergraduate degree in a USA Community College and want to transfer to Bath Spa to complete their course.
Access Fund
Are you facing unexpected financial difficulty?
This fund is for undergraduate students receiving a means-tested maintenance loan, and postgraduate students receiving student finance and who have additional income to meet the cost of study (full details available) but who still may need financial help.
Accommodation Bursary
This one-off bursary of either £500 or £1000 (depending on household income) will be awarded to eligible students to help pay towards rental payments and other housing-related expenses.
Bath Spa University Bursaries
A grant to help students from under-represented groups with education costs.
Eligibility is based on where you live and your household income.
Bath Spa University Laptop Fund
The Bath Spa University Laptop Fund provides limited discretionary financial support of up to £500 for Bath Spa students (in Bath or Bath Spa London) who are experiencing financial difficulty and are unable to meet the costs of a laptop from other sources of support.
Explore It!
Launch It!
Grow It!
Our flagship funding programme supports students and graduates at all stages of business development, from ideation to growth, by providing funding, coaching, and skills-based workshops.
There are two cohorts each year, one during the academic year and one over the summer.
Grad Support Unit Fund
This fund is designed to help final-year students and recent graduates access financial assistance with the costs that can arise from getting started in your career.
It's open to undergraduate or postgraduate students at Bath Spa University or Bath Spa University London.
Some additional criteria apply.
MyWorld Scholarship
The MyWorld Scholarship supports home (UK) fee-paying students who are from underrepresented groups in higher education to access taught postgraduate study linked to the creative technologies industry.
Placements Award
For undergraduate students who want to support their career aspirations by completing work experience or attending an event.
Receive £500-£1,500 to support you during your Professional Placement Year.
The Professional Placement Year Bursary is a new award, introduced in 2024.
It will be available for the 2024/25 academic year.
Short Term Emergency Grant
Has your Student Finance been delayed?
Are you facing unexpected financial difficulty as a result?
Gane Travel Award
Are you a second-year undergraduate within Bath School of Art, Film and Media, or Bath School of Design?
This grant helps you travel abroad and study art, design or craftsmanship.
International Travel Fund
Open to current undergraduate and postgraduate students, the f und supports a study trip or work placement abroad, which will have a direct impact on your studies, research and/or career.
Global Horizons Award
An award for undergraduate students who want to undertake an international placement, research or study trip.
Placement Flights Fund
The Placement Flight Fund allows all undergraduate students to claim back the cost of a flight to their chosen destination to complete a placement or internship abroad.
You could receive up to £1,000.
Turing Global Dissertation Research Award
A UK Government programme is for students who are going abroad to undertake research for their dissertation.
It can cover some of your travel and living expenses.
Turing Scheme Global Placement Grant
This award is aimed at undergraduate and postgraduate students who are going abroad to undertake a work or volunteering placement.
The placement must be at least 28 days long, and other criteria apply.
Freelands Foundation Fellowship
Open to any graduate of Bath Spa who is a practising artist.
This fellowship offers studio space within a prestigious art school, a grant, and mentorship.
Postgraduate Alumni Scholarship
A scholarship for BSU graduates (undergraduate or PGCE/PGDE) progressing onto a Taught Master's degree.
You don't need to apply; we apply this scholarship as a fee waiver.
Gunn Chit Ean Scholarship
The scholarship is awarded annually to a student studying education.
The recipient must commit to working in the field for at least two years after receiving the scholarship.
Initial Teacher Training (ITT) bursaries and scholarships
The funding available to you from the Department for Education (DfE) depends on your eligibility, your fee status, the type of course you're studying and when you start.
Betty and Peter McLean Prize
All graduating MA Fine Art (Ceramics) students who submit work for the Master's Project module can win this award.
Foundation Progression Scholarship
A scholarship for our Integrated Foundation Year students progressing to an Art or Design degree.
No application is necessary.
Wilfred Southall Sustainability Awards
This award is for postgraduate students in Bath School of Art, Film and Media and Bath School of Design.
It is based on three sustainability categories.
Doris Southcott Bursary
An award to support local students aged between 18-25 and studying Fashion Design or Textile Design.
The Writing Award
Supports an MA student on our Creative Writing , Nature and Travel Writing or Writing for Young People courses.
Taunton Maids Bursary
Supporting students studying music subjects at both undergraduate and postgraduate level, with the amount awarded based on household income.
How do scholarships and bursaries work?
The university funds some awards, while governments or external bodies fund others.
Some are donated to Bath Spa by former students and their families.
You’ll need to apply for many of them, while others are automatic.
You can use these awards in a range of ways, from helping with the cost of living to specific purchases that you need for your studies, such as books and laptops.
Others help you make the most of your time at university by funding projects and travel costs for trips.
What's the difference between a bursary and scholarship?
Universities may award students a bursary to help them with the cost of university life.
They're often designed to help students from underrepresented groups or low-income households access education.
If you’re eligible, you may receive a bursary automatically once you’ve started your studies.
A scholarship is similar, but it’s often awarded to students based on a set of criteria.
For example, you may have achieved high grades or demonstrated athletic excellence.
Or you may have completed one phase of your Higher Education studies and be ready to progress to the next.
You're more likely to need to apply for a scholarship, rather than receiving one automatically.
How do I qualify for a bursary or scholarship?
There are lots of ways to qualify.
Eligibility can depend on where you live and your household income, but many are not means-tested.
Awards may be based on your talents and abilities.
Sometimes you’ll need to explain in your application why you need the money and how it will help you.
You could be eligible for more than one award, so it’s worth exploring the categories that are relevant to you.
How will my award be paid?
If we need to make a payment to you (such as a bursary, award or to reimburse you for expenses that the University has agreed to pay), you'll need to provide your UK bank details.
We can't accept your bank details by email due to financial regulations.
Instead, please provide your bank details securely using your student account on the AppHub .
Please ensure you register your bank account details rather than your card details.
Please enter your details correctly, as mistakes could mean your money is paid to somebody else.
I can't log into my student account
You may need to reset your password .
Please watch the video guide on the IT Services webpage.
What if I need to change my bank details?
You can update your bank details securely using your student account on the AppHub .
What if I don't have a UK bank account?
If you don't have a UK bank account, we can still make payment of your award to you but a different process has to be followed.
Please contact the team overseeing the award to let them know and they will be able to advise further.
If you're experiencing financial difficulties, we'd encourage you to apply for the Bath Spa University Access Fund .
This fund has been specifically set up to support you if you're unable to meet your basic costs as a student (such as food, rent, utility bills and travel) or an unexpected cost.
Once we receive your application, we'll assess your financial situation and if you're eligible, we'll make the award direct to your bank account.
If you have any questions, please email studentawards@bathspa.ac.uk .
If you’re eligible to apply for an award, please do.
This is money that organisations have set aside to help you.
It’s essential that students apply for these grants.
If they don't, organisations may feel students don't need the money, but we know they do.
You may be wondering: "What if someone else needs the money more than me?" Where funding is limited, a panel will often decide who will benefit most from the money.
Don’t take yourself out of the running too early.
If you have any questions about any of these scholarships and bursaries, please see the 'view details' option in the relevant award link for information on who to contact.
To help us respond as efficiently as possible, please make sure your email includes your full name , BSU student ID and the name of the award you're enquiring about.
This is a searchable database of funding from the voluntary sector which is accessible to BSU students.
To use this resource, choose option one to 'register for a username and password' using your BSU email address.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/scholarships-and-bursaries/bath-spa-university-access-fund:
The Access Fund is currently closed to new applications.
The fund will re-open in the 2025/26 academic year.
Students currently on their long vacation can apply to the Vacation Access Fund, see below for more information.
The Bath Spa University Access Fund provides limited discretionary financial support for full-time students who are unable to meet basic costs from other sources of support.
Students may receive one of two types of awards:
The Access Fund is restricted to home fee status undergraduate students in receipt of a means-tested maintenance loan and postgraduate students in receipt of student finance.
EU or international students may be able to apply to the Emergency Access Fund .
To be eligible for funding, you must be:
You'll be able to apply six weeks after your course start date (as long as you are fully enrolled and in attendance) but no later than eight months after your academic year has begun.
The 2024/25 fund is now closed for new applications.
The 2025/26 fund will open in October 2025.
During your long vacation (when your academic year has finished, but you haven't completed your study and are enrolling for the next academic year) you may only apply if you are a non-final year undergraduate student and can prove that you:
Final-year students must apply at least four weeks before their reassessment date and no later.
If you meet the above criteria then please complete this application form within the application deadlines stated on the form.
We'll email the outcome of your application to your Bath Spa email address.
If you're granted an award, we'll provide full details on how you'll receive it.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/how-to-pay:
All payments should be made in £ sterling.
The tuition fee payment is required in full on or before arrival and commencement of the course.
If you arrange to pay your accommodation fees by instalment it is your responsibility as a student, to ensure you have sufficient funds to cover any agreed payment.
The easiest way to make a debit or credit card payment is online .
Please note that we will never send an email with a direct payment link for any of our online payment methods.
Please be aware of scams targeting students offering to pay fees on your behalf, often at reduced rates or under special conditions.
Fraudsters may present themselves as legitimate agencies or associates and this is a scheme to steal money and personal data from students.
Never respond to these offers and always pay your tuition fees direct to Bath Spa University using the authorised payment methods below.
Visit our s cams targeting students page to learn more about spotting fraud and protecting yourself from these scams.
Debit or credit card payments can be made online .
If you want to pay by cheque/bank draft, you can either send them to the Income Office (Bath Spa University, Newton Park, Newton St Loe, BA2 9BN) in advance, or present them in person at one of the registration sessions.
Please make cheques payable to ' Bath Spa University ', write your student number and identify what you are paying for on the reverse of the cheque/bank draft.
The tuition fee deposit will be a minimum of £3,000 rising to 100% of the tuition fee.
The deadline for the tuition fee deposit is 23 August.
Bath Spa University has partnered with EasyTransfer as one of our preferred payment method for international payments.
This quick, safe and secure service allows you to make payments in your local currency and local payment methods easily with low fees and transparent exchange rates.
International students from India, China, Nigeria, Indonesia, Thailand, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Hong Kong, Malaysia, and 170+ countries and regions can pay with EasyTransfer.
EasyTransfer’s team of payment specialists will guide you step by step and give you peace of mind that your full payment is delivered to the university.
From checking their live rates, submitting your order to completing your payment, you'll be guided through the process by a dedicated human customer support staff over the instant messaging platform of your preference.
You can make the following payments with EasyTransfer:
To get started, please click the link to access EasyTransfer's payment portal.
Pay now with EasyTransfer
No online payment methods can be deemed 100% secure due to the security weaknesses inherent in global IT networks.
Be advised that if you use these methods, you do so at your own risk, so please take care to protect your financial information.
Payment portals such as Flywire are run by third party providers.
For more information, see privacy for students and applicants .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/how-to-pay/scams-targeting-students:
Studying at university is an investment, especially for international students.
It’s understandable to be tempted by offers of discounts, but these are likely to be a fake, and you could lose your money.
Remember, you should only pay your university fees directly to Bath Spa University.
For details on how to do this, visit How to Pay.
If you make a payment in any other way, you could lose your money.
Always report anything suspicious to the University.
Email income@bathspa.ac.uk for advice if you're unsure.
Remember: making payments in any other way than the University’s recommended payment methods may result in a loss of funds.
Scams can affect students from all over the world.
For example, a scammer might falsely use a university’s name and ask you to 'validate your account' or provide personal, security or banking details.
We never ask you to confirm information in this way.
Ignore such emails and report them as phishing.
See how to report phishing emails in Outlook .
Scammers may reach out to international students to tell them they have a way to reduce the cost of university tuition fees.
The person approaching you might be another student (at Bath Spa or elsewhere) or could be a friend or family acquaintance.
Offers like these are usually part of a card scam.
The scammer will offer to arrange a discount for you, by paying the university on your behalf.
They may ask you to pay someone else, or use a website which could look genuine but is not.
Everything may seem legitimate at first.
The person may make the payment as agreed, but will often do so using a stolen card.
The payment will then later be declined or declared invalid.
The result is that you've lost your money and unknowingly become involved in illegal activity – and your tuition fees will still be payable.
In recent years, fake emails pretending to be from the Student Loans Company (SLC) and other student finance organisations have been sent to students at UK universities.
These emails falsely notify students that their account has been suspended due to incomplete information.
They often contain a link to a fake website to gain personal details.
Don't click on the links within these emails.
Our team will never ask for your login, password, bank details or personal information by email.
Around the three loan payment dates in September, January and April, fraudsters may target students to trick them into disclosing personal information to access their online accounts and steal their money.
We never email you a link to pay your fees.
All students are advised to pay online on our payments page directly or by international bank transfer using Flywire.
University students are increasingly becoming targets for money mule schemes, a form of financial fraud that can have severe outcomes.
What is a money mule?
A money mule is someone who transfers illegally acquired money on behalf of others, often unknowingly taking part in money laundering schemes.
They act as a middle person, moving funds between accounts to hide the money's origin and make it harder for authorities to trace.
University students are attractive targets for several reasons:
There are many different scams.
Be suspicious of the following:
If you’re contacted by suspicious individuals or receive emails that you’re not sure about, please report them to us via income@bathspa.ac.uk .
If you have any queries about tuition fees or funding and you can’t find the information you need on our website, please email us via fees@bathspa.ac.uk .
If you believe you're the recipient or are the victim of an attack, please report it to our IT Security Team via MyServices.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/international-finance:
International students joining the University are required to pay 100% of the tuition fees on or before arrival and commencement of the course.
We recommend that the 100% of fees is paid before leaving your home country as your bank may need to verify your bank password or may need to text message a confirmation code and this will not be received if you are in the UK and have changed your mobile phone SIM to a UK network.
The 100% tuition fee must be paid in full by 18 September for those students commencing courses in September and 31 January for those courses starting in February.
All payments should be made in £ sterling and the easiest way to make a payment is via Flywire.
Students can also pay using EasyTransfer.
Please note that we will never send an email with a direct payment link for international payment methods.
Debit or credit card payment can also be made online .
Tuition fees are expected to rise by a modest amount each year for the duration of study; this is to take inflationary pressures into account.
If you receive an offer of a place on a full-time programme, you'll need to pay a tuition fee deposit to confirm your place.
The deposit must be paid by 31 July for those students commencing courses in September and by 30 November for those starting courses in February.
The deposit amount for 2022/23 entry is £3,000, rising to 100% of the course fee in some circumstances.
Please ensure you quote your six-digit student ID with any payment.
Any deposit or advance payment made will be allocated against your student account.
The balance of your course fee should be paid prior to your arrival at the University.
The 100% tuition fee must be paid in full by 18 September for those students commencing courses in September and 31 January for those courses starting in February.
Bath Spa University has partnered with Flywire to provide an easy and secure international payment method (see International payment methods for further information).
We strongly advise that you do not carry large sums of cash with you, and cash payment (for payment of fees) is limited to a maximum of £500 per term, per student.
100% of the tuition fee payment is required in full before you commence your course.
For how to pay your fees please see International payment methods .
If you're residing in Bath Spa University halls of residence, you can also pay in advance, or we allow instalments for payment of accommodation fees.
We offer three instalment dates throughout the academic year to pay for accommodation.
In 2022/23 the instalment dates are:
International students looking for funding, scholarships or other financial assistance towards covering fees and living costs should start thinking about how to fund their studies as early as possible.
For more details, see our funding pages for undergraduate and postgraduate students.
See also our available scholarships and additional funding options .
International students should open a UK bank account as soon as possible after arrival.
If you are an international student, you'll be asked to provide documentary evidence of your status in the UK in order to open a bank account.
Once you've enrolled on your course, you can request this letter via MyServices or by visiting the Student Information Desk with a form of photo ID.
Our budgeting in Bath guide includes a section on finding the best bank account for you.
We also recommend that you read the UK Council for International Students' (UKCISA) guide to opening a UK bank account .
If you have any questions that we haven't answered on this page, please email fees@bathspa.ac.uk for further help.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-finance/student-finance-handbook:
This handbook provides financial information and guidance on payment of all fees and fines whilst studying at Bath Spa University or one of Bath Spa University Partner Colleges.
It also covers instalment dates, deadlines, sanctions and penalties for non-payment as well as information on the various funding schemes that the University has on offer.
Download a copy of the Student Finance Handbook .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services:
Questions about mental health, money or wellbeing?
I need help now
The Wellbeing Helpline is a confidential service to give Bath Spa University students immediate access to advice and support 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year.
Call 0800 028 3766.
There are a range of 24/7 and digital services available via phone and online that you may find helpful in supporting your wellbeing and mental health.
To contact the Student Wellbeing Helpline call: 0800 028 3766.
We recognise that being a trans or non-binary student, or questioning your gender identity while at university, can sometimes come with specific challenges.
We're here to help – find out more about the support we can offer .
We recognise that receiving culturally appropriate support is important for students and we partner with Nilaari to provide this.
Please speak with a mental health advisor to be referred to this service by making an appointment via MyWellbeing .
Dogs can have a very positive impact on an individual's wellbeing, so Bath Spa University offers students the opportunity to engage with a team of Care Dogs through a series of drop-ins and walks as a core offering from Student Wellbeing Services.
The dogs are very popular with our students - there's even a dedicated 'Care Dog of The Year' Award!
We can provide urgent assistance out of hours, and we also work with external partners to provide free access to a range of 24/7 digital services .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/need-help-now:
The Wellbeing Helpline is provided by Student Wellbeing Services to offer professional and free additional wellbeing support alongside our on-campus services.
If you are currently experiencing a mental health crisis or supporting someone in crisis, contact the Avon and Wiltshire Mental Health Partnership NHS Trust: 0800 953 1919 .
If a health professional has already given you the telephone number for a specific Crisis Line number, call it.
Not in the Bath area?
Find your local crisis support service .
You should call 999 if someone is seriously ill or injured, or their life is at risk.
You can make your way to any hospital that has an Accident and Emergency (A&E) department.
It might help to ask someone to accompany you.
There are several hospitals with A&E departments in the Bath area, including:
Find your nearest hospital .
If you are on campus or on University premises, you can call the University Security team at any time to report an incident/emergency on 01225 87 5555 .
You can phone Samaritans on 116 123 or email jo@samaritans.org .
If you need a response immediately, it is better to call, rather than email.
This number is free to call, and you don’t have to be suicidal.
Other organisations, including PAPYRUS ( 800 068 4141 or text: 07860 039 967 ) and Student Minds , offer support and helpful resources.
Next steps
If you request emergency or crisis support from one of the services above, we also recommend that you make contact with the University’s Student Wellbeing Services when you can.
Although we are not an emergency service, it is important for us to know what you are experiencing so we can offer any support that would be helpful to you.
Contact us via MyWellbeing , where you will be able to view available appointments and access our other services.
MyWellbeing
Please do not forget the importance of talking to someone you trust.
Let family or friends know what's going on for you.
They may be able to offer support and help keep you safe.
If you're having suicidal thoughts , talk to someone.
There's no right or wrong way to talk about suicidal feelings – starting the conversation is what's important.
You can contact your GP/medical practice during its normal opening hours.
Contact the medical practice at which you are registered and ask for an urgent appointment.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/cost-of-living:
University can sometimes bring new or unexpected financial challenges; you may be managing your finances for the first time, or balancing work or caring responsibilities alongside your studies.
You’ve probably heard a lot about the cost of living crisis, which can make managing your money feel a little daunting.
While it’s true that prices are rising, there are services and support available within the University and many other things you can do to help feel in control of your money.
Please also visit the Students' Union Cost of Living Crisis Support Hub for more advice and support.
You may be able to access help through the University Access Fund if you're in financial hardship.
You can find more information including the application form on the Funding pages .
The University has food larders available to students, located in the laundry rooms in Sophia building and Langton on Newton Park Campus.
The larders are stocked with non-perishable goods such as tinned foods, pasta and rice, and are available to any student in need of food.
Food Poverty
SWS believe no one should experience food poverty and will issue food bank vouchers if you are experiencing financial hardship.
To apply for one of these please book an appointment with a Wellbeing Advisor who can issue these.
Many students work alongside studying to subsidise their income.
The careers team is available to support students with finding employment, you can access the JobShop through MyCareer .
Any student with concerns about cost of living can book a Wellbeing Advice Appointment .
Wellbeing Advisors can talk to you about your financial situation, any support you may be able to access, and help you to plan a budget.
The Newton Park Library provides long opening hours and a welcoming environment with a variety of study spaces to suit all students.
We offer free borrowing from our extensive physical and digital library and charge no fines if anything is overdue (only if someone else has requested the item and you do not bring it back when asked).
Our Wellbeing Collection includes a number of titles on cooking on a budget and managing your money which are available in the Quiet Space in Main House or online.
The University has installed 28 vending machines across Newton Park, Locksbrook and London campuses dispensing free, sustainable period products.
We are working to end period poverty at our university and remove the single-use plastic associated with periods.
Key toilets across our campuses will have these vending machines installed, featuring bamboo tampons and bamboo pads with plant-based packaging.
The University has opened the 'Student Eats' counter at the Refectory, which allows students to buy a hot meal and drink for just £3.25.
The deal is also available every day at Locksbrook Cafe and Sion Hill from lunchtime.
The Students' Union serves soup with bread for £1.40, Monday to Friday.
Students can get free hot meals at Foodcycle Bath and make use of the Bath Foodbank .
Bath Spa have partnered with Blackbullion, an easy-to-use digital learning platform that can help you be smart with money and take control of your financial future.
Free for BSU students, applicants, staff and recent graduates, it's filled with videos, articles, quizzes, and tools covering a range of financial subjects.
You can even create a personalised plan to help keep control of your finances.
Receive up to £500 to purchase a laptop to support your studies.
The Bath Spa University Laptop Fund provides financial support for students who are experiencing financial difficulty and are unable to meet the cost of a laptop from other sources of support.
Creating a budget as early as possible can help you to stay in control of your finances and promote positive financial wellbeing.
You can find useful tips on how to budget on websites such as Money Saving Expert and Save the Student .
Student Wellbeing Services have also created a simple budget planner (.pdf) you can use to map out your income and expenditure.
To get help with writing your budget planner, book a Wellbeing Advice Appointment .
Working part-time alongside your course can help to give you more financial stability and allow you to meet your living costs, but it's important to keep your work and studies balanced so that you reach your full potential.
How much should you work?
If you're a full-time student, we recommend that you don’t work more than 20 hours per week during term time, but we recognise that this isn’t always possible.
If you're an international student, you must follow the rules of your visa.
For more information, read our guide to working while you study .
How to find a part-time job
The University Careers service can support you to find work that fits around your studies and give advice and guidance on applying for jobs.
You can access the job shop through the MyCareer service, where you can find job opportunities including those on campus.
Wellbeing support
Student Wellbeing Services offers a range of support and guidance for students who may wish to discuss any worries or concern that working long hours may be causing, including signposting and helping you to apply for the University’s hardship funds - you can book an appointment with one of our Wellbeing Advisors through MyWellbeing .
Paying for travel is sometimes a significant expense while at university, whether you’re commuting to campus or travelling home to see family or friends.
By purchasing a 16-25 railcard , you'll get a third off train travel, with an average saving of £159 a year.
Mature students are also eligible, so don’t worry if you’re older than 25.
Make sure you always carry your railcard with you on train journeys, as you’ll be asked to pay the full adult ticket price if you can’t produce it.
Cars are a really convenient way of travelling, but the current prices of petrol and diesel can eat into your budget.
Make sure you know where your cheapest petrol station is, and make the most of loyalty systems such as Nectar points to get money off.
You can also car-share with friends and course mates to reduce the cost and help the environment.
If you’re bringing your car with you to university, make sure you know if you’re able to access parking – it might be better to leave it at home.
If you’re travelling across the country to visit friends at other universities or to go home, a great option is the Megabus .
Megabus travels to 90 locations, including airports, and you can bag yourself a journey for just £1!
You can also use your TOTUM student card to get a discount.
Using public buses is a great way of travelling in and around Bath and First Bus offers student fares to make things a bit easier.
You can even purchase a weekly, monthly or yearly pass depending on your requirements.
Another way to cut the cost of your train ticket is to split your ticket.
For example, if you’re travelling from Bath to Liverpool and the train stops at Birmingham on the way, you could save money by buying a ticket from Bath to Birmingham and then another ticket from Birmingham to Liverpool.
Money Saving Expert has more information about the process and tips on how to purchase your tickets online.
Spending money on gas and electricity is essential, but there are ways to ensure you’re making savings where you can.
Energy Saving Trust have compiled a list of helpful tips .
The British Gas Energy Trust is an independent charitable trust established to support people who are struggling to pay their bills.
They offer support no matter which energy company you’re with.
Many broadband providers offer great deals for new customers, but when these come to an end, your monthly tariff could increase massively.
Money Saving Expert has advice on how to negotiate your broadband deal so you’re not paying sky high prices.
Your weekly food budget doesn’t have to leave you out of pocket.
Developing good habits at university could stand you in good stead for later life.
Pick where you shop carefully.
You’ll make some serious savings by shopping in cheaper supermarkets – rather than higher-end ones – while you’re studying.
Explore price comparison websites such as Which or speak to your housemates about any low cost gems they’re aware of.
By writing a list before you go shopping, you know exactly what you’ve already got in the fridge, freezer and cupboards and what you still need.
This limits food waste as well as overspending.
You’ll be tempted to buy more food than if you shop when you’ve already eaten, because you’ll be thinking with your stomach rather than with your head.
Make sure you have a snack before you go shopping.
This will also reduce the likelihood of spending money on snacks at the till to keep you going until you’re home.
Delivery services can be handy, particularly if you live on campus, but they can add to your total bill.
If you do your food order along with your flatmates, you’ll all share the cost of delivery.
When you’re writing your shopping list, make a plan of the meals you’re going to have that week.
Being organised in this way will limit any impulse-buys when you’re wondering what to have for dinner.
Plus, you can cook in batches and use extra portions for lunches or stick them in the freezer for another day.
Big brand names often come with big brand prices.
Every supermarket does its own, cheaper version of a huge variety of foods.
Next time you’re after your favourite ice cream or sauce, try the supermarket’s own brand version.
A simple but effective way of saving the pennies.
Buying two reusable bags a week could be costing you £19 a year.
Take your own bags shopping with you to cut the cost and help the environment.
Canned and frozen fruits and vegetables are just as nutritious but are cheaper and last longer.
They may be delicious and convenient, but the price of one takeaway (main, side, drink and delivery) could be the same as half of your weekly food shop, if not more.
Save these for special occasions and even then, make the most of student discounts and other special offers.
Local markets and greengrocers tend to be cheaper than supermarkets, and the produce is much more organic and fresh.
So while you’re buying some delicious apples and peppers, you’re supporting a local business and helping the environment.
Out of season foods are pricier due to shipping and storing expenses – not the case when you eat fruits and vegetables that are in season.
This chart from Eat Seasonably shows which foods are in season during which months.
They’re also tastier because they haven’t been preserved for shipping.
Taking your lunch and snacks for the day to campus will save you big when you start to get peckish.
Bring leftovers from last night’s dinner in a tupperware and a couple of snacks to keep you going for the day.
If you need a coffee to get you through your 9am lecture, why not make your own at home and bring it in a reusable cup?
There are also hot water points around campus to make your own drinks throughout the day.
If you really can’t give up your café coffee, then many coffee shops offer their drinks at a discount to those who bring their own cup.
Cut the plastic and save yourself a couple of pounds every time you get thirsty.
Many reusable bottles are now specially designed to keep your water cool, too.
There are plenty of water stations around campus to keep you hydrated.
Save the Student has written an article on how to make food fresh again , give it a go if you’ve got some soft bananas or stale bread!
Looking for inspiration?
BBC Good Food , NOSH , Save the Student and Instagram food accounts like The Body Coach have hundreds of free recipes, including different dietary requirements.
You won’t run out of ideas for a while with these!
You may need to access regular prescriptions and medication which can become expensive.
It’s important to identify the most cost-effective way to pay for any prescriptions.
Firstly, you should check if you're entitled to free or reduced cost prescriptions.
The NHS can issue exemption certificates in certain circumstances, including for specific medical conditions, pregnancy and low income.
You can find out more about the criteria for free prescriptions on the NHS website .
If you're not entitled to free or reduced cost prescriptions, it may be beneficial to consider paying for prescriptions in advance.
This can save you money if you require multiple prescriptions over a period of time by purchasing a prepayment certificate .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/mental-health:
University can be an exciting and happy time, but it can also bring with it stress and challenge.
You might seek help because you want to change the way you're thinking, feeling or behaving, or you may be worried about someone else.
At Bath Spa University we offer many ways to support you.
If you or someone you know is at imminent risk of harm you should call 999 immediately.
If you are on campus you should also contact Security on 01225 87 5555 , so that they can direct first responders to your location.
Our team of professional Mental Health Advisors are available to speak to you about your mental health and any challenges you may be experiencing.
You can book 50 minute mental health appointments, where you’ll have the opportunity to explore these challenges and receive support and guidance to help you navigate them and feel better able to engage with university life.
These appointments are offered for booking on a ‘one at a time basis’.
We have a counselling service, staffed by both trainee and qualified counsellors, where you can access up to 6 sessions.
If you're interested in this service, please book a mental health appointment; your Mental Health Adviser will explore all available options with you.
SWS is here to support all students at Bath Spa and is committed to appreciating individual differences within our diverse community.
We are partnered with Nilaari who provide culturally appropriate counselling for students of colour.
Please speak with a mental health advisor to be referred to this service by booking an appointment via MyWellbeing .
The Enhanced Support Process is for students who are in crisis, experiencing significant struggles with their studies or with independent living due to their mental health.
Students supported within this process will be allocated a Mental Health Adviser who will work closely with them to improve their situation.
At Bath Spa University, we care deeply about the wellbeing of our students.
This guide explains how we support students experiencing eating disorders, ensuring you receive the help you need in a safe and supportive environment.
For any questions, or to book an appointment to see a Mental Health Advisor, visit MyWellbeing .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/medical-service:
All students are encouraged to register with the University Medical Service.
Provided by Fairfield Park Health Centre, Medical Surgeries are held in Sophia at Newton Park Campus every weekday during term-time.
Students can access the Medical Service on campus in term time and at Fairfield Park all year round.
You can register online with the Medical Service during your registration with Bath Spa University, or register directly via the Fairfield Park Health Centre website .
Our aim is to provide a high-quality, friendly service and we welcome any feedback.
The University Medical Service at Newton Park Campus is provided by Fairfield Park Health Centre in Bath.
To book an appointment with the GP or Nurse contact Fairfield Park Health Centre directly as they book appointments for the on-campus surgeries and the health centre.
How to book an appointment:
Call Fairfield Park Health Centre on: +44 (0)1225 331616 .
Choose option one to speak to a receptionist.
All appointments will initially be by phone or secure video link .
If an in-person consultation is necessary the Doctor will arrange this with you.
You need a username and password to access the range of online services.
If you haven't received this two weeks after registering with the Medical Service, call Fairfield Park Health Centre or email them on: BSCCG.fairfieldpark@nhs.net .
When you know your username and password , you can either book via the Fairfield Park homepage , or via the NHS app for Apple/Android phones.
Emergency appointments can be booked both over the phone and online .
These appointments are released at midnight for the online system and 8.00am for phone bookings: +44 (0)1225 331616.
There's also a drop-in clinic (no booking needed).
These appointments are also by phone and can be accessed by calling Fairfield Park Health Centre on +44 (0)1225 331616, Monday to Friday between 8.00am and 10.30am .
What is Meningitis?
Meningitis is an inflammation of the protective layers that surround the brain and spinal cord.
Key facts
Find out more at Meningitis Now .
What are the main symptoms of meningitis?
The common signs and symptoms associated with meningitis and septicaemia can appear in any order, and some may not appear at all.
What is the rash?
When meningococcal bacteria multiply in the blood stream, they release toxins (poisons) that damage the blood vessels.
The rash is caused by blood leaking from the damaged blood vessels into the tissues underneath the skin.
What does it look like?
The rash can start anywhere on the body.
It begins as tiny red pin pricks, but may quickly develop to look like fresh bruising.
The Glass Test can be used to see if the rash might be septicaemia.
If you press the side of a clear drinking glass firmly onto the spots or bruises, they will not fade.
A rash will not always appear with meningitis and can be one of the last symptoms to be displayed.
Never wait for a rash if you suspect meningitis.
Are signs and symptoms different for septicaemia?
If someone has septicaemia alone, the common signs of meningitis, such as a severe headache or neck stiffness, may not be present.
The early signs and symptoms of septicaemia include:
What is Men A, B, C, W and Y?
Meningococcal bacteria, the most common cause of bacterial meningitis in the UK, can be divided into several groups.
The groups that most commonly cause the disease are A, B, C, W and Y.
MenACWY Meningococcal group W (MenW) disease has historically been rare in the UK, but since 2009 cases of MenW have increased year-on-year and continue to do so.
From Autumn 2015, the MenACWY meningitis vaccine replaced the MenC vaccine for children in school.
It's offered to pupils at around 14 years of age.
To ensure all older pupils also received this vaccine, it was offered to 17-18 year olds in a three year ‘catch up’ programme and continues to be offered to new university entrants up to the age of 25 years.
Uptake levels of the vaccine in this catch up programme and amongst young people continues to be low (44%), meaning large numbers are still at risk.
How to get the free vaccine
To receive this free vaccine in the UK, check with your GP / Medical Service.
If you're registered with the University Medical Service / Fairfield Park Health Centre, you can make an appointment online or by telephone.
More information
There has been a recent increase in mumps amongst students.
Please read this important advice on how to protect yourself.
Over the past four years there has been a large outbreak of mumps in young adults across the UK.
At this present time, mumps is mainly affecting older teenagers and young adults in their early twenties, and is mostly found in those further or higher education establishments.
Some in this age group may only have received one dose of MMR.
The number of cases has increased more steeply in recent years because many of the young adults in this cohort (born between 1980 and 1992) are now at university or in further education colleges where the disease tends to spread rapidly from person to person because of greater social mixing in further educational establishments.
Students of any age who have no history of MMR vaccination should now seek the protection it affords.
Any young person who has not had two doses of MMR vaccine is at risk of contracting measles, mumps or rubella.
Mumps is a serious, highly infectious illness caused by a virus.
It usually starts with fever and headache for a day or two.
In most cases this is followed by swelling and soreness of the glands between the ear and the jaw.
Mumps virus can also cause other problems.
Men can get swollen, painful testicles and women can get swollen, painful ovaries.
Ear infections, swelling of the pancreas and meningitis can also result from mumps, which is usually more severe in adults than in young children.
The time from becoming infected to becoming unwell is around 14-21 days.
People with mumps are most infectious just before they become unwell and for 5-10 days afterwards.
Students coming to University/FE colleges should make sure they have had 2 doses of MMR vaccine.
If you have not had 2 doses of MMR, please see your GP as soon as possible.
Please tell the doctor or nurse if you think you may be pregnant or if you are planning a pregnancy as MMR vaccine is not recommended in pregnancy.
You should not be charged for this vaccine.
Do not go into university.
Phone your GP or 111 for advice.
Further information on mumps is available on the NHS website .
We encourage you to ask your GP if you are up to date with these immunisations and get boosters as necessary.
Public Health England (PHE) is reminding teenagers and young people to make sure they are vaccinated against measles after new cases were reported across England.
A significant number of cases have been reported since June.
This follows an increase in measles over the year with 234 cases confirmed between January and June, compared with 54 for the same period last year.
Teenagers and young people who are unsure if they have been fully vaccinated should check with their GP and make an appointment to ensure they receive the 2 doses of MMR vaccine required.
Measles is extremely infectious and events where people are mixing closely with each other provide the ideal place for the infection to spread.
Measles can be more severe in teenagers and adults, with some of the recent cases needing hospital treatment.
People are urged to be aware of the symptoms of measles, such as a high fever and rash, and not to attend festivals if they are unwell.
Visit the NHS vaccinations website for further information.
Exercising is a great way for you look after yourself, both physically and psychologically.
Find out more about the Student's Union Gym to keep active.
We recommend that you register with a doctor as soon as you arrive.
Fairfield Park Health Centre provides the University Medical Service which runs a term-time surgery at the Newton Park campus.
You must be living in Bath to register with this surgery.
You can register in person at Student Wellbeing Services in Sophia (Newton Park campus) or online on the Fairfield Park Health Centre Website .
Before coming to the UK you should obtain your European Health Insurance card.
This card entitles you and your family to full NHS treatment.
Please note: you won't be covered by the NHS until you've registered on your course.
We recommend that you take private health insurance for the period covering your travel and stay in Bath prior to registration .
The UK has reciprocal health agreements with some countries which may entitle you to free or reduced treatment costs.
Check with the health authorities in your home country before you travel.
The NHS is a system in the UK that enables individuals to receive free hospital treatment and healthcare.
Once you have been seen by a Gender Identity Clinic we will collaborate with the clinic in the initiation and on-going prescribing of hormone therapy, organising of blood and other diagnostic tests as recommended by the clinic.
The Gender Identity Clinic is expected to assist General Practitioners by providing relevant information and support, including the provision of guidance regarding the interpretation of blood test results.
Once a shared care agreement has been put in place between the Gender Identity Clinic and Fairfield Park, we can prescribe hormonal treatment.
Please note that Gender GP is not an approved clinic and we cannot take over prescribing on the NHS for patients who have been referred to us by this clinic.
The approved and commissioned clinics can be found on the NHS website .
Bath Spa University Medical Service provides a dedicated student service on Newton Park Campus every weekday during term time and in town at evenings and weekends.
The Medical Service is provided by Fairfield Park Health Centre .
Student Wellbeing Services is your point of contact at Bath Spa University: studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/disability:
Please tell Student Wellbeing Services if you identify as disabled and/or neurodivergent, even if you don't think it will affect you while you're at university.
The information you provide is treated as personal and sensitive data in accordance with the Data Protection Act 2018 and is made available on a "need to know" basis only, to university staff involved with your application, the organisation of any arrangements and/or the implementation of reasonable adjustments.
Disability Advisors can help coordinate additional support and give advice and guidance on the following:
We'll:
This checklist outlines the steps you should complete prior to commencing your studies at Bath Spa.
Doing so allows us to work with you and explore any arrangements that might be helpful to you accessing your studies and university life.
If you’re not sure what to do at any stage, please contact Student Wellbeing Services through MyWellbeing .
You can ask questions, book appointments and see upcoming events and workshops by logging into ‘ MyWellbeing ’.
We've created Access Guides for Bath Spa University campuses (Newton Park, Locksbrook and Sion Hill) and buildings.
These guides are available to view on AccessAble .
All applicants offered a place at the University are invited to complete a questionnaire requesting some information about their disability, dyslexia, ADHD, autism spectrum or medical or mental health condition.
This information will be used to produce an Academic Access Plan (AAP).
Complete the questionnaire
With your consent, we share information about your requirements for learning with colleagues via an Academic Access Plan (AAP).
Your AAP will include recommendations for study in class, for timed examinations (including in-class tests), tutorials, other assessments, placements and field trips.
Please note that if you have declared a mental health condition, according to codes used in Higher Education, the following language will appear on your AAP on eVision: depression, anxiety, schizophrenia.
This is not visible to any members of academic staff and is confidential to Student Wellbeing Services and does not indicate you are diagnosed with these conditions
If you have access requirements but haven't had contact with Student Wellbeing Services , please get in touch with us:
Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA) pays for extra support for eligible disabled students e.g.
neurodiversity including Autism Spectrum Condition, dyslexia or dyspraxia, medical or mental health condition.
It is a non-means tested allowance for eligible UK students, which pays for extra costs incurred as a result of a disability.
DSA may provide:
Students are required to make a contribution of £200 towards the cost of IT equipment.
Please note: DSA doesn’t cover the disability-related costs you would have if you weren't attending a course, or costs that any student might have.
Apply as early as possible before arriving at university to ensure your support is in place.
Please see the links below on how to apply, depending on where you live:
Autism&Uni helps young adults on the autism spectrum to gain access to Higher Education and to navigate the transition successfully.
Click here to access the BSU toolkit.
When completing your UCAS application form, please use these codes to indicate what disability you have:
If you think you may be dyslexic you can access an online Quickscan assessment , free for applicants and students of Bath Spa University.
If the assessment shows indicators of these, please contact studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk to discuss next steps.
A Personal Emergency Evacuation Plan (PEEP) is a working plan of escape in an emergency evacuation for students who may require assistance or special arrangements to escape to a place of safety from University buildings (this includes anyone with a temporary impairment or who is in the later stages of pregnancy).
A PEEP is written by Student Wellbeing Services, in collaboration with the student, their Area Safety Managers, Health and Safety, and Student Accommodation (as appropriate).
The PEEP is subject to review for each new academic year and following any changes in the student’s condition, regular locations or buildings used.
The Care Plan is a document for students who have intermittent medical conditions that may require assistance in the event of an incident.
It is shared with the School(s) of Study via the course leader(s), First Aiders, Library, Accommodation and Security to ensure that the appropriate actions are undertaken in an emergency situation.
A Care Plan is written by Student Wellbeing Services, in collaboration with the student.
It's subject to review for each new academic year and following any changes in the student’s condition, regular locations or buildings used.
UCAS have produced a helpful list of FAQs about DSA that you can find on their website .
Student Wellbeing Services will be operating face-to-face and virtually for the 2022/23 academic year.
When preparing Needs Assessments, please make students aware that they can receive support in the format they'd prefer.
If you are supporting a student with study skills or mentoring please see our handbook for useful information.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/disability/exam-arrangements:
Examples of such arrangements include:
If you wish to discuss special examination and/or assessment arrangements, please read the information below.
You should note that to ensure fairness to all candidates, you will be asked to provide supporting documentation to confirm why special arrangements are required.
The deadline for all requests for special arrangements will be four weeks prior to your first examination.
Students with specific learning difficulties (such as dyslexia or dyspraxia) often qualify for extra time in which to complete examinations and timed assessments.
In some cases, students with specific learning difficulties are also allowed to use a computer, scribe or reader in examinations.
If you've already been formally diagnosed as having specific learning difficulties, please let us know and send a copy of your Educational Psychologist or Specialist Teacher Assessor's assessment report to studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk .
Provided that your report is sufficiently recent and contains enough information, they'll make recommendations for your University examinations and assessments based upon it.
If your report is more than three years old, or doesn't contain enough detail, you may be asked to make an appointment for a new assessment.
We're able to refer you to an Educational Psychologist and ask you for a contribution of £50 towards an assessment or re-assessment for specific learning difficulties if you're an undergraduate or taught postgraduate student.
Students who wish to be assessed but are concerned about the charge are invited to discuss this with Student Wellbeing Services.
If you think you may have a specific learning difference, but haven't yet been formally assessed, you may wish to discuss this with an Accessibility Advisor.
You can access Dyslexia Screening at Newton Park and Sion Hill campuses.
If you need special examination and assessment arrangements because of a disability or health condition other than dyslexia or dyspraxia, please contact Student Wellbeing Services to discuss your requirements as soon as possible after commencing your programme of study.
If special arrangements were made for previous examinations you've taken (for example, at school or college), it's helpful if you can provide documentation giving details of the arrangements that were put in place.
Student Wellbeing Services will liaise with the Examinations Office to ensure that appropriate provision is made for your University examinations and assessments.
If you have medical or personal issues that mean you may need special examination and/or assessment arrangements, please discuss your requirements with Student Wellbeing Services as soon as possible.
Issues for which special arrangements in examinations can be made include:
In the unfortunate event that you experience unexpected medical or other issues immediately before or during your examinations, please alert both Student Wellbeing Services and the Examinations Office as soon as possible.
If you're still able to sit your examinations, we'll try to make special arrangements so that your needs can be accommodated.
All requests will be subject to approval by the Head of Student and Registry Services.
If you fall ill on the day of an examination, you should first seek medical help.
If your issue means that you're unable to sit your examination(s), or that your performance is badly affected, you should complete an application for exceptional circumstances as soon as you're well enough to do so, and before the published deadline.
Once complete, this form should be returned to the Student Information Desk via MyServices , with the appropriate documentation attached.
Where special arrangements are set up in advance for your centrally timetabled examinations, we'll write to you about a month before they begin to confirm the practical arrangements.
Student Wellbeing Services : studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk Exam Office : exams@bathspa.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/care-leavers-estranged-students-and-carers:
If you're under 25 and have been in local authority care for more than 12 weeks since the age of 14 – whether you’re a current student or thinking of coming to Bath Spa University – we’re here for you.
Bath Spa has signed the Care Leavers Covenant , demonstrating our commitment to enabling care leavers in higher education.
If you're under 25 and currently living at an accredited Foyer or have moved out of an accredited Foyer in the past 12 months, we are here to help.
If you're under 25 and no longer have any contact with your parents or guardians and you're thinking of coming to Bath Spa University, or you're already a student here, we can help.
Bath Spa University has taken the Stand Alone Pledge to show our commitment to estranged students in higher education.
A young adult carer is someone aged 16-25 who provides non-parental, unpaid care to a partner, relative, friend or neighbour who couldn’t manage without this help because of frailty, physical or mental illness, disability or addiction.
Students with care experience, Foyer leavers, estranged students and young adult carers all have access to a named Student Wellbeing Services Advisor who can act as a dedicated point of contact throughout their time at Bath Spa University.
Their role is to provide practical advice, guidance and support and work with students to enable engagement with their studies.
Student Wellbeing Services also facilitates access to a non-repayable Independent Student Bursary of £1,000 per academic year (for the standard course duration) for students with care experience, Foyer leavers or estranged students who:
Students studying at partner institutions may be eligible to access The Independent Student Bursary subject to meeting eligibility criteria, please contact your partner wellbeing/support team for more information.
Care leavers, Foyer leavers, estranged students and young adult carers are given priority consideration for any applications to the University Access Fund .
If you're assessed as a care leaver, Foyer leaver or an estranged student by Student Finance, you could be entitled to the maximum entitlement for support with living costs.
You can find further information on eligibility and the application process on UCAS.
If you need help making your claim, please contact Student Wellbeing Services.
Young adult carers may qualify for additional financial support – the Adult Dependants' Grant – if they're studying an undergraduate programme, or PGCE leading to QTS.
Care leavers, Foyer leavers, students estranged from family and young adult carers may also be eligible for the institutional Bath Spa Bursary – up to £4,000 over the duration of a three year course.
As part of the support for young adult carers, the University can consider and suggest reasonable adjustments which are designed to help balance the demands of study with the responsibilities of being a carer.
If you are estranged from your family or a Foyer/care leaver, we can help you to find suitable accommodation for the duration of your course, including vacation periods if required.
Students who are estranged from their parents or are a care leaver can also apply for the Unite Foundation Scholarship .
The scholarship gives care leaver/experienced and estranged students a free ensuite student bedroom in a purpose built Unite Students building for a maximum of three years of your university life.
No rent, no bills; 365 days a year for up to three years of eligible study.
Carers can qualify for additional support through their local councils and other approved agencies by undertaking a carer's assessment.
This is an assessment offered by social services and other organisations that can help identify any additional support needs and provide access to specialist services within the local area.
You can find more information through the NHS .
Carers' charities in and around the region can offer support, advice and ways to get in touch with other carers and services within the local area.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/support-to-study:
Bath Spa University is committed to supporting students’ health and wellbeing.
Our Support to Study Procedure (StS) is designed as an enhanced support approach, with the aim to ensure that students are offered every reasonable measure to enable them to complete their studies and have a positive experience of university life.
An initial StS meeting is an informal meeting with your (Mental Health, Accessibility or Wellbeing) Advisor.
Other members of staff may be invited e.g.
your tutor.
The meeting is a space for you to speak about the situation and explore options, enhanced support or other measures that may be helpful.
A Support to Study Action Plan will be completed during the meeting, which contains an overview of your discussion, what measures are already in place, additional measures required and any agreed actions.
A date will be set to review the actions and your progress.
There are 2 levels of the procedure and it can be started at either level, depending on your situation (please see the Support to Study Procedure for more details).
When you are invited to a meeting the StS procedure will be sent to you along with a summary of the concerns that have been raised and you will be informed whether it’s a level 1 (emerging concern) or level 2 (enhanced concern) meeting.
Level 1 StS is for students who have arrived at University with pre-existing conditions or complex life circumstances who may need extra support to transition into University.
It is also for students who are finding their course or University life challenging.
Level 2 StS is for students where there are more serious concerns, or where a student has already had a Level 1 plan and has not been able to engage with it or concerns have escalated.
Yes - if you have been invited to attend a StS meeting we advise that you still attend even if you have Exceptional Circumstances in place.
StS aims to ensure that you are getting all the support needed to thrive at university, and while Exceptional Circumstances is able to offer you alternative dates for submission of academic work it does not address the problems which have caused you to apply in the first place.
The StS Procedure is intended not only for students who are struggling academically, but also to provide a framework where circumstances are adversely impacting the wellbeing, health, safety of the student or other students.
Yes - you can ask your tutor or advisor from Student Wellbeing Services for a StS meeting.
We would encourage all students who have been asked to attend a StS meeting to attend.
The aim of these meetings is to support you in a collaborative manner whilst highlighting any support resources you may not be aware of and signposting you to these.
However, if you are unable or unwilling to participate in the management of your wellbeing, the procedure allows the University to proceed without your input.
For example, if a student does not engage, the staff member can escalate to level 2 of the procedure and/or consider whether escalation to the Fitness to Study Procedure is more appropriate.
In the first instance we would encourage you to contact the person requesting the meeting and explain your reasons for not attending, if it is an inconvenient time you will be able to rearrange.
If you are unable or unwilling to participate in the management of your wellbeing the procedure makes provision for proceeding without your input.
For example, if a student does not engage, the staff member would escalate to level 2 of the procedure and/or consider whether escalation to the Fitness to Study Procedure is more appropriate.
Any records or notes relating to Support to Study will be stored securely and separate to your main student record.
They will be safely destroyed once you have completed your studies.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/the-chaplaincy:
Our Chaplaincy team is here to ensure a culture of spiritual curiosity and inclusion for both students and staff at Bath Spa University, whatever your faith or world view .
We care about you and we want you to flourish as much as you can in these complicated times.
Our chaplains are always happy to meet new people, whether virtually or in a park, in a coffee shop or in the multi-faith room.
You will never be wasting our time , we are always really happy to talk with you about anything – be that a joyful event or something that i s causing you concern .
Our program me includes morning prayer virtually on Mondays at 9am, and two regular drop-in sessions at Newton Park (Wednesday 11am-2pm ) and at Locksbrook (Thursday 11am-1pm ).
A t both drop-in sessions, our care dogs Pippa and Daisy will be available to you.
However, w e are also happy to arrange to meet you at other times as well.
Each year, students have come up with fantastic ideas for new initiatives to help develop their curiosity in spiritual matters.
Please do let us know if you have an idea we can help set up.
I am the lead Chaplain for Bath Spa University.
I am an ordained Anglican priest with a long history of being a student!
My last job was being the vicar for a parish just outside Bristol.
I live in Bath with my husband and I particularly enjoy walking my two spaniels, Daisy and Pippa, swimming (especially wild swimming) and travelling the world.
I am a Chaplain from the Methodist church at Bath Spa University and have a background in teaching and youth work.
I live in Oldfield Park with my family and love reading books, trying new recipes, going for walks and meeting people from different backgrounds .
I am a retired Anglican priest living in Keynsham, a few miles west of Newton Park.
For most of my adult life, I have worked among young people.
I enjoy the outdoors, camping holidays, walking and exploring the countryside.
I also delight in the arts - theatre going, art galleries, music and reading.
I am especially attracted to literary fiction and sci-fi.
In my spare time I write creatively and have self-published several novels, mostly Young Adult.
If you'd like a break from studying, or just a chat and a cuppa, please get in touch:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/247-and-digital-services:
Nilaari is a Black-led charity delivering mental health assistance, talking therapies and training to adults and young people across Bristol and the surrounding areas.
Shout!
is a free 24/7 text messaging service for anyone in crisis, anytime, anywhere.
It’s a place to go if you’re struggling to cope and you need immediate help.
To use the service just text SHOUT to 85258 .
What happens when you text Shout?
How do other people feel about the service?
Take a look at the blog page on their website for more about their mental health campaigns.
Student Space (led by Student Minds, the UK’s student mental health charity) is a service that aims to make it easier for you to find the support you need.
There are three ways that Student Space is here to help.
The support provided by Student Space is safe, confidential and developed with students and experts in student wellbeing and mental health.
We will be adding new services and information to the platform on a regular basis in line with emerging student needs to ensure that it is relevant to you.
Report and Support is an online reporting tool for when you see or experience something that is not OK.
You can submit a report anonymously, or request a callback from an advisor.
Report incidents of sexual assault and harassment including domestic abuse anonymously (or named if you would like to be referred for support).
The Survivor Pathway is an online resource for anyone wanting to know more about specialist sexual violence support services in the South West.
The section for the South West area contains links to local charities, support groups and important information about what to do if you have something to report on the following:
Refuge is a UK-based domestic violence charity that supports women, children and men experiencing domestic violence with a range of services .
They have offer support on a range of different issues including:
Safelink offers support and advice around sexual violence with independent support for anyone who has been the victim of rape and sexual abuse across the whole of Avon and Somerset area.
You can also contact the Student Wellbeing Services team directly for initial advice and support:
SARI provides support for victims of any type of hate crime or discrimination.
The Monitoring Group is one of the most experienced anti-racism organisations in the UK.
Their core objective is the eradication of racial discrimination and exploitation.
Their lived experience shows that this can be achieved by transforming society where peace and justice are foundations of a permanent reality.
Tell Mama is an independent and confidential support service for those who face anti-Muslim hatred and prejudice across the United Kingdom.
Call 0800 456 1226 , Text 0115 707 00 07 or WhatsApp 0734 184 6086
If you need support in your academic work, Academic Skills (ASk) offers drop-ins about assignments as well as written feedback.
It also offers help with referencing and other academic issues.
If you are particularly stuck or need help t he Library runs a 24/7 web chat service where you can speak to someone about your worries.
If something unexpected or outside of your control happens that would be likely to have an effect on your ability to successfully complete an assessment or would adversely affect your studies, you can find advice on how to apply for exceptional circumstances claims online .
It is important you inform the Student Wellbeing Services about any disability you may have as you begin your time at Bath Spa University so that we can help you access tailored support and enjoy the all the experiences university life has to offer.
We have a range of different resources available online including frequently asked questions and information about how we can help you make the most of your time at Bath Spa.
For additional information you can also contact us directly by email .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/care-dogs:
We have a growing number of accredited Care Dogs that get involved in events, drop-in sessions and wellbeing walks.
Why not take a study break and spend some time with them?
All of our Care Dogs are assessed and registered through Canine Concern , to make sure they are well-behaved… most of the time, at least!
Upcoming events will be shared on our social channels, or you can check out the events section on MyWellbeing .
If you're a student in an emergency or crisis, or need out-of-hours assistance, there's always support available .
Student Wellbeing Services provides professional advice, guidance and a range of 24/7 and Digital Services to help you make the most of your studies and university life.
Students may ask questions, book appointments and view upcoming events via MyWellbeing .
Staff may log a call via ‘ MyServices ’.
Alternatively, get in touch with the team directly:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/wellbeing:
Student Wellbeing Services Advisors offer advice with:
Our Student Wellbeing Services Advisors provide non-clinical advice and guidance and can help coordinate the right additional support for you.
Our role is to:
Available 11am-3pm, Monday-Friday, in the Student Hub at our Newton Park Campus .
You can pop-in during these times and speak to a Student Wellbeing Services advisor about any in the moment queries or issues you may have - we will listen without judgement, help you problem solve, action plan, and signpost you to other internal and external services if useful.
When you arrive at the Student Hub you will need to check-in using the tablet available - we'll ask you for your student number and a few words as to what you would like to speak about.
You'll then be able to see your place in the queue and how long it'll be before your appointment.
When we're ready, an SWS Advisor will meet you in the Student Hub before heading to a comfortable, confidential, meeting space for a 10 minute chat.
If needed we will book you in for a longer appointment.
We'll follow up after your appointment to confirm any key points and actions.
The Sitting Room Service is a dedicated space for wellbeing activities located in the Sitting Room, Main House at Newton Park.
It offers a quiet and welcoming space from 4pm-11pm seven days a week.
Wellbeing Facilitators are available to provide a range of activities aimed at enhancing your wellbeing.
Whether you want to enjoy a hot drink, engage in a creative activity, or simply relax in the calm space, the Sitting Room Service is there for you.
Mediation is a voluntary, confidential, and impartial service that helps students resolve conflicts in a structured and supportive way.
Whether it's a disagreement with a housemate, a group issue in accommodation, or a personal dispute, mediation provides a safe space to find solutions that work for everyone involved.
Students can find out more and submit a mediation request via MyServices .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/sexual-violence-and-domestic-abuse-support:
Whether you've experienced sexual violence or domestic abuse yourself, or you're supporting someone who has, you'll find information here about options for support, how to report and how to access further advice and guidance.
Content warning: This page contains explicit reference to sexual violence and domestic abuse.
It includes advice and how to access help.
If you, or someone else is in danger, please call +44 (0)1225 875 555 for on campus Bath Spa University Security, or 999 for emergency services.
If you are on campus and need an ambulance please call 999 and let Bath Spa University Security know on +44 (0)1225 875 555 .
This information is also available in a downloadable, interactive pdf document.
Our team of Sexual Violence Liaison Officers (SVLOs) and Gender-Based Violence Caseworker have had specialist training to support and advise students who have experienced any form of sexual violence and/or domestic abuse.
This service is available to all students, regardless of gender, sexuality, age, and when or where the incident(s) took place.
Your SVLO will be led by you.
They will listen to you and discuss the options available to you.
They will:
SVLOs aren't therapists and they won't ask you to tell them lots of details about what's happened.
They will ask you a few questions to ensure they give you the right information but you won’t be asked for a detailed account.
Get support online
Book an appointment with a Sexual Violence and/or Domestic Abuse appointment through MyWellbeing with a Gender-Based Violence Caseworker/Sexual Violence Liaison Officer (SVLO).
Get support by phone
You can make an appointment with an SVLO  by calling +44 (0)1225 876543 .
You don't have to say what you want to talk about.
All you have to do is give is your name and student number and request an appointment with an SVLO.
What will happen during a meeting with an SVLO?
An SVLO will speak with you either in person, on the phone or by video call (camera on or off) depending on your preferred option.
The SVLO will email you before the appointment to explain their role and how the appointment will work.
Appointments are 45 minutes but may be shorter if less time is needed.
In the meeting the SVLO will:
What happens next?
After the meeting, the SVLO will send you a summary email and links to any relevant information.
You can take your time to think it through and then confirm with them which options are right for you.
The SVLO can then make referrals to support and advice services.
Will my information be kept private?
The SVLO will normally keep the information you disclose confidential within Student Wellbeing Services.
If they consider you or any other person to be at risk of harm, they will need to share relevant information with senior managers for consideration about any action the University needs to take to ensure your and/or others’ safety.
You are under no obligation to name the other person(s).
If SVLOs are given the names of any BSU staff or students who are named as having committed any kind of sexual violence or domestic abuse, SVLOs are obliged to pass the names to senior University staff.
Senior SWS staff will complete a risk assessment to decide whether the University needs to take action in relation to your and/or others’ safety within the University Community.
SVLOs must share any Safeguarding concerns relating to under 18s or adults at risk to the Safeguarding Lead, in accordance with the University’s Safeguarding policy.
Key points about SVLO support
Things that SVLOs can discuss with you:
If you've experienced any form of sexual violence or domestic abuse, there are several ways you can access support.
For information on how to report via a Sexual Violence Liaison Officer, visit the SVLO section above.
If you prefer to report directly, the following options are available:
Report to the police
If you’d like to speak to an SVLO , they can explain your reporting options and connect you to relevant people to make your report to.
To report to the police:
There are also specialist agencies who can provide Independent Sexual/Domestic Violence Adviser (ISVA/IDVA) support with police reporting and throughout a police investigation.
Local agencies for this in the Avon and Somerset/Bath area are:
Report an incident of sexual violence or domestic abuse to the University
A Sexual Violence Liaison Officer can connect you to the Student Disciplinary Team for you to formally report sexual misconduct or domestic abuse by a Bath Spa University member, or you can contact the Student Disciplinary Team directly on complaintsofficer@bathspa.ac.uk.
Formal reports of misconduct of this nature are dealt with under the sexual violence and misconduct procedure for students.
Specialist helplines
Your nearest Sexual Assault Referral Centre can help with:
Your nearest domestic abuse service can help with:
Specialist helplines include:
You can find some useful self help resources to support you through this difficult experience:
Any kind of sexual activity or act (including non-physical, such as sexual harassment and online sexual abuse) that took place without consent.
There are lots of different types of sexual violence, and no one form of it ‘counts’ more than the other.
The perpetrator is often known to the survivor and it can happen within a relationship as well as outside of one.
Anyone can be a survivor or perpetrator of sexual violence.
An incident or pattern of incidents of controlling, coercive, threatening, degrading and violent behaviour, including sexual violence
In the majority of cases by a partner or ex-partner, but also by a family member or carer.
Domestic abuse can include, but is not limited to, the following:
Domestic abuse can happen to anyone, regardless of gender, sexuality, age or relationship status (you do not need to be living together), and it is never the fault of the person receiving the abuse.
Some of the terminology and concepts around domestic abuse may feel alien to you, as there is a pervasive stereotype of domestic violence happening only within heterosexual couples, a male perpetrator of a female victim-survivor.
It’s often envisaged that this couple are older, live together, are married, have children.
There are many abusive relationships that fit this description, and it may be that this reflects your situation.
But many students have experienced/are experiencing abuse within their relationship that looks different to this – we’re here to support all students, of all genders, sexualities, ages, social background, race, ethnicity or nationality.
The Harassment and Gender-Based Violence Framework webpage is our single source document which brings together all information relevant to harassment and gender-based violence at BSU.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/student-wellbeing-helpline:
Students can speak with a trained practitioner about a range of subjects including stress and anxiety, debt, education pressures, low mood, relationships, legal queries or anything else you feel is impacting on your mental health and wellbeing.
The Wellbeing Helpline is delivered by an external partner, Howdens Health Assured on behalf of Student Wellbeing Services, who oversee and monitor the quality of the service provided to Bath Spa students.
You can access the service through a confidential, freephone telephone line, an online chat function through the platform or by requesting a call back.
Access this service directly by calling the number below.
You can also download the app where you can video call or live chat.
The Wellbeing Helpline is a free, confidential, in the moment support service.
The service is available 24/7, 365 days a year and covers topics including (but not limited to):
As a Bath Spa Student you have access to the Wisdom app which is provided alongside the Wellbeing Helpline.
The app can help you track your wellness, improve your mental health, and stay resilient during tough times as well as many other things.
Search for Wisdom in your Google Play or Apple Store.
Once you have downloaded the Wisdom app, you will need the code MHA173635 to get access.
The Helpline is confidential.
In order to provide the best service, however, advisors will ask for a few details.
They'll need your name, address, contact number and date of birth.
They'll also ask if its ok to leave a voicemail or send you an SMS - its fine to say no to these.
Health Assured treat your data with total confidence.
All employees are bound by ethical and legal frameworks and the service is ISO27001 accredited.
Health Assured provide a confidential service.
They won't contact your College or University when you call the Helpline.
However, if it is deemed that you are an immediate risk to yourself or others, we may require to inform the Emergency Services and your university.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/suicide-prevention:
Content warning: This page contains explicit reference to suicide.
It does include advice and how to access help.
If you or someone you know are experiencing thoughts about ending your life, help and support is available.
One in five people will experience suicidal thoughts at some point in their lifetime.
This ranges from wishing you weren’t here anymore or thinking others would be better off without you to making plans to end your life.
These thoughts can feel frightening, overwhelming, and difficult to talk about – but whatever you’re going through, you're not alone.
On this page you can find support, advice and resources to help us all cope, respond and start to have honest and open conversations.
Please don’t keep suicidal feelings to yourself.
Tell someone you trust.
If you've seriously harmed yourself – for example, by taking a drug overdose – or you feel that you may be about to harm yourself, call 999 for an ambulance or go straight to A&E.
You can also ask someone else to call 999 or take you to A&E.
External sources of support are also available 24/7, including the Samaritans , who can be contacted for free from mobiles and landlines on 116 123 .
HOPELINEUK is also available for confidential support and practical advice for young people contemplating suicide.
This line is run by the suicide prevention charity Papyrus.
If you're thinking of taking your own life and not sure you can keep yourself safe, or are with a friend or colleague who is feeling this way, Staying Safe offers straightforward and practical advice, including how to make a safety plan for right now until you can get some support.
SOBS has resources and support for those bereaved by suicide including a monthly meeting held in Bath.
Cruse promotes the wellbeing of bereaved people and helps to enable anyone bereaved by death to understand their grief and cope with their loss.
They also provide support, information, advice, education and training services.
Facing the Future provides support groups for those bereaved by suicide.
Help is at Hand – Support After Suicide is another resource for people bereaved by suicide and for those helping them.
We encourage everyone in our Bath Spa community to do the Zero Alliance Training .
There's also a training specifically for university students .
It takes 20 minutes and will help you have a better understanding of suicide, why it happens and ways you help to prevent it.
It also breaks down the stigma surrounding suicide including the discomfort many of us feel about having direct conversations about suicide, encouraging and giving permission for open communication about it.
It’s important to be able to speak openly with other students and staff about suicide, particularly when someone you know has attempted or completed suicide.
This can help everyone to grieve and process the trauma.
Talking to others and listening to their concerns can also help to highlight when someone is having difficulty coping or needs extra support.
Most people don’t know exactly what to say or do.
Being there for each other and listening is much more important than feeling you have to have the right words or answer.
If you're struggling, please reach out to others, whether that's Student Wellbeing Services , friends, colleagues, family or external support organisations (some are listed above).
Whether or not you know the person, an attempted, suspected or completed suicide can be traumatic and distressing.
How you respond can be unpredictable – often people respond or react in different ways and it’s important to be aware that there is no right or wrong way to feel.
All our feelings are valid regardless of your connection to the person.
If you need support after losing someone to suicide or have been affected by someone’s attempted suicide, please contact Student Wellbeing Services so that we can support you both practically and emotionally in ways that are right for you.
If you (or someone you know) is struggling with your mental health there is help available.
Please don’t try and cope alone.
Here are some options:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/support-for-bsu-london-students:
Our Wellbeing Advisors in Student Wellbeing Services provide non-clinical advice and guidance, and are here to support you by listening, providing information and signposting to additional support.
More information about wellbeing and money advice .
If you've been the victim of sexual violence or misconduct, whether recently or in the past, support is available for you.
We know it can be very difficult to disclose if you have been raped, sexually assaulted, harassed or abused.
We encourage you to come forward safe in the knowledge that you will be believed, respected and supported.
Find out more information on options for support, how to report the incident, and how to access further advice and guidance on the sexual violence prevention and support page .
During term time, our Student Digital Learning Assistants are available online every weekday between 10am-2pm.
We believe that a positive approach to the management of physical and mental health is key to academic achievement and student experience.
Our Support to Study Procedure (StS) is designed as an enhanced support approach with the aim to ensure students are offered every reasonable measure to enable them to complete their studies whilst having a positive experience of university life.
Student Wellbeing Services provides professional, short-term interventions and enables students to access external services where helpful.
You might seek help because you want to change the way you’re thinking, feeling or behaving, or you may be worried about someone else.
If you or someone you know is at imminent risk of harm, you should call 999 immediately.
More information on mental health support .
City & Hackney Centre for Mental Health provides a range of services for people who require mental health support.
City & Hackney Wellbeing Network provides free support to prevent, alleviate and help those experiencing mental health conditions.
Samaritans is a Suicide Prevention Charity, and you can call a Samaritan at anytime for someone to listen to you, without judgement or pressure.
NHS Urgent Mental Health Helpline gives you access to a 24/7 urgent mental health helpline near you, where a mental health professional will answer and provide support.
Nafsiyat is an intercultural therapy centre making psychotherapy and counselling accessible to London's diverse religious, cultural and ethnic communities.
We want you to get the best out of your course and university experience, and additional support is available if you're a care leaver, foyer leaver, estranged from family or young adult carer.
If you meet the eligibility requirements you may be able to access additional funding from the University to support you during your studies.
More information on support for independent students .
As a University, we recognise that being a trans or non-binary student, or questioning your gender identity whilst at university, can sometimes come with specific challenges.
Whether you’re an applicant or a current student, please know that Bath Spa is here for you, and we encourage you to get in touch with Georgie Eggar in Student Wellbeing Services to discuss how we can be of help.
Georgie is the lead contact within Student Wellbeing Services for any student who identifies as trans or non-binary, or is questioning their gender identity, and who may require any additional practical or therapeutic support.
More information on Trans and Non-Binary Support .
Galop is the UK’s LGBTQ+ anti-abuse charity, supporting survivors of domestic abuse, sexual violence, hate crime and more.
London Friend supports the health and mental wellbeing of the LGBTQ+ community in London.
Rainbow Mind is a LGBTQ+ mental health service based in London.
NHS Gender Dysmorphia Support provides advice and guidance for those experiencing gender dysmorphia.
All students have an equal opportunity to thrive at university.
We provide information, guidance, advice and practical support to students who identify as disabled or neurodiverse.
Please tell if you identify as disabled and/or neurodiverse, even if you don't think it will affect you while you're at university.
You can do this by logging into ‘ MyWellbeing ’ and selecting ‘ask a query’.
More information on accessibility and disability support .
Bath Spa University's Student Wellbeing Services work with external partners to provide students with free access to a range of 24/7 digital platforms and services.
Please sign in with your university email address.
More information on 24/7 and digital services .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/navigators:
Student Wellbeing Navigators positively contribute to the student experience by representing Student Wellbeing Services at a range of events and activities, and delivering peer-led initiatives that build a sense of community and belonging.
Navigators promote Student Wellbeing Services to the University community and deliver the Look After Your Mate initiative, aimed at enabling effective peer-led conversations that build awareness of services available and how they can be accessed.
The Look After Your Mate training is an initiative led by Student Minds, the UK’s student mental health charity.
This training is designed to empower students to support friends experiencing mental health difficulties, while looking after their own wellbeing.
​Navigating university life can be tricky at times and we know how important it is for an individual to reach out to their friends in times of need.
We want students to have the knowledge, confidence and skills to support their friends and feel comfortable confiding in each other.
If you're interested in the scheme, or have any questions, please contact wellbeingambassadors@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/fitness-to-study:
Are health concerns impacting your studies?
If so, you may be referred to the Fitness to Study procedure.
We’re committed to supporting students’ health and wellbeing, and aim to do this through a series of supportive measures including the Support to Study Procedure and the Student Engagement and Attendance Policy and guidance.
You could be referred to the Fitness to Study procedure if:
The procedure aims to provide a transparent, thorough and fair process for students.
We want you to feel comfortable throughout this process.
You can bring a friend, family member or colleague to accompany you in a supportive capacity during your Fitness to Study panel meeting.
Since this is not a legal process, you won’t be able to bring a lawyer to represent you.
In some instances, you might not feel fit to attend your Fitness to Study panel meeting.
To make things as easy as possible, there’s no obligation to attend.
In circumstances where students can’t make it, they can nominate someone they trust to attend as a witness on their behalf.
You'll receive an email explaining the University’s concerns, together with a copy of the Fitness to Study procedure.
Information and evidence will be shared with you that explains the concern.
This might include statements from academic staff and others involved.
You'll be asked to respond to the concerns through a written statement and invited to a Fitness to Study Panel meeting to discuss your views on the situation and the options available to you.
The Panel meeting will be virtual and you can be accompanied in a supportive capacity by a friend, family member, or Students’ Union Advisor.
You don’t have to attend the Panel meeting if you don’t want to, and the Panel can review written submissions and consider the next steps in your absence.
Who will be at the panel meeting?
You’ll be able to write a statement for the panel and provide statements from relevant professionals such as your GP, therapist or medical consultant.
If you’re well enough, you can continue with your studies during the Fitness to Study procedure.
However, if your health is of significant concern to us, we may ask that you pause your studies as a precautionary measure until the panel meeting.
Yes, you can appeal the decision of the panel.
Further information can be found in section five of the Fitness to Study Procedure .
If the panel decides to temporarily suspend your studies, you’ll be asked to provide appropriate medical evidence that states you’re fit to return, meet the academic and professional requirements of your course, and can live independently.
For further information please read the Fitness to Study Procedure carefully and contact the Head of Student Wellbeing Services: studentwellbeing@bathspa.ac.uk if you have any questions.
Your wellbeing is our number one priority.
We want to ensure you’re supported throughout this challenging time and recommend you seek help and advice from our Student Wellbeing Services .
This free and confidential 24/7 support for your concerns, big or small, allows you to talk to someone right when you need to.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-wellbeing-services/neverok:
The campaign aims to tackle sexual misconduct, all forms of harassment, bullying and discrimination.
Gender-based and sexual violence are global, national and local issues, which can affect anyone, including students.
#NeverOK is a campaign that encompasses support for victim-survivors, awareness raising, and training with the primary aim of changing the culture around gender-based and sexual violence.
The #NeverOK campaign formally launches on Tuesday 28 November , when we'll be in the Commons Atrium at Newton Park from 10.45am–2pm.
Enjoy a hot chocolate while you find out more about what the University is doing, the support the University offers and share your views on the messages of the campaign.
In 2021 the University employed specialist consultants Lime Culture to advise on the University’s services, strategy and next steps.
Some of the services listed below were already in place, and others were informed by this consultation.
The University was one of the first Universities in the country to introduce the Report and Support platform to make it easy for anyone to report misconduct, harassment, bullying or discrimination so they can receive support, or anonymously let the University know they have seen or experienced something.
In 2020 the University appointed its first Sexual Violence Liaison Officer (SVLO) and subsequently trained another five members of University staff to take on this role alongside their main roles.
SVLOs act as a point of liaison for students who have experienced sexual or gender-based violence, managing procedures and contact between different departments and agencies who may be involved (e.g.
police, external support agencies, internal complaints procedure).
In 2021 the University employed a part time Sexual Violence and Harassment Specialist Caseworker, a role that focuses exclusively on supporting students to access everything they need following an incident of gender based or sexual violence or harassment.
This role has recently been changed to a full-time post.
Appointments with SVLOs can be booked via My Wellbeing.
If you need help right now, click here .
The disciplinary process was improved by:
You can find the Disciplinary Procedure here .
The University has strong links with a number of specialist agencies which support victim-survivors of gender-based violence, including Safelink who are at Newton Park campus once a month to support and work with students.
Moving forward, the focus for Bath Spa University and its Students’ Union is to change the culture so that the whole University community knows that sexual misconduct and gender-based violence will not be tolerated at Bath Spa.
The RE:SET project (running from September 2023 to January 2025) aims to do exactly that.
With a focus on raising awareness of domestic/relationship abuse and sexual violence, the project involves:
This academic year, all new Bath-based students received training on sexual misconduct (delivered by Good Course to student’s mobile phones in the week before Welcome Week), as well as a workshop and module on sexual consent called Active Consent.
Find out more about sexual violence and prevention and support at Bath Spa by clicking here .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/registration-and-enrolment:
You're in.
Whether you'll be joining us for the first time or you're a returning student, make sure you're prepared.
Have a look at our guide to getting started.
Please check the enrolment arrangements for your course.
There's plenty of support available to help you settle into life at Bath Spa.
Have a look at our informative Welcome pages to find out more.
Find out how to get here and how to get around once you're here.
"From the first moment, I felt at home...
It was the best experience of my life.”

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/registration-and-enrolment/getting-started:
We can't wait to welcome you to the Bath Spa community.
Take a moment to work your way through these steps to ensure you're prepared.
You'll receive an email letting you know when online registration has opened for your course.
If you are a new student, you will need to create a Bath Spa online account using your six-digit student number.
You will use this account to log in to all BSU online platforms, including online registration, so it's important that you make a note of your login details.
As part of this process, you'll be asked to set up the Self Service Password Reset Tool.
The tool will give you the ability to change your password from anywhere at any time.
Next, you'll need to log in to the online registration portal using your six-digit student number (this acts as your username) and the password you chose when creating your account.
If you need help with your online registration, please read through the FAQs and watch our handy video tutorial .
Check your enrolment arrangements .
Once you've completed your online registration, you should receive confirmation that you've successfully enrolled with the University.
You'll need to complete your enrolment in order to have access to University online services and to ensure you are eligible to attend teaching.
If you're studying at Newton Park, our Locksbrook campus or Corsham Court, be sure to take a look at our Welcome Activities page for useful information to help you get started at Bath Spa.
Studying at a partner institution?
Please check induction arrangements with your Course Leader or partner institution.
Once you've created an account in online registration, you can read up on the modules you'll be studying (please create an account in online registration first to access this page).
You'll be automatically enrolled on your core, compulsory modules, but you may have some optional modules to pick too.
Your module timetable containing your core, compulsory modules will be made available to you before the week commencing 6 February.
Instructions will be sent via email, and instructions on how to access your timetable will also be provided during your first introductory week.
For the first weeks of your course, you'll only be attending your core, compulsory modules.
If you do have optional modules to pick, you'll be talked through this process by both the Timetabling team and Course Leader during your initial introductory week, and you'll be given further guidance by your tutors in your first lessons for your core, compulsory modules.
Your optional modules will then be added to your timetable after you have made your selections, ready for when lessons for these modules begin.
If you have any questions, please raise an inquiry via MyServices (please create an account in online registration first to access this page).
Please check module arrangements with your Course Leader or partner institution.
We're looking forward to welcoming you back.
Before you can progress to the next level of your course, you'll need to get a few things sorted.
Complete online registration by the enrolment deadline in your registration email.
If you need help with your online registration, watch our handy video tutorial or visit our FAQs page .
All other returning students are required to complete enrolment by clicking the 'confirm enrolment' button in Step 3 of online registration.
Studying at a Bath Spa campus?
Returning undergraduate students have mandatory course-related sessions over Welcome Week, while returning postgraduate students will be contacted by their course team if there are any welcome sessions planned.
On another course or at a partner campus?
Please check any 'welcome back' activities with your Course Leader or partner institution.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/registration-and-enrolment/register:
You'll be emailed when online registration opens for your course.
If you need help with your online registration, watch our handy video tutorial or have a read through our FAQs below.
New and returning students are required to complete online registration every year.
If you're a returning student, you won't need to create a new account.
Just log in using your student ID number and password.
Your online registration will open approximately two weeks before your course start or course induction date.
At this time, you'll be sent an email from Bath Spa University inviting you to create an account and complete online registration.
The email will be sent to the correspondence email address you provided at the point of application.
Our handy video tutorial will help you to get started with your online registration.
Completing online registration will take about 15 minutes, and you'll need:
You won't need:
Please note that if you have a sponsor other than Student Finance England, you'll need to provide a sponsor letter to fees@bathspa.ac.uk .
In Step 3 of online registration you are required to upload a photograph of a government-issued ID in support of your enrolment.
Although a passport or driver's licence is preferred, you may upload one of the following ID types:
* Please include photographs of both the front and rear sides of your BRP card.
** Adoption and Naturalisation certificates are also accepted.
Please ensure that the ID is in date.
Do not upload a photocopy or scanned image of your ID - it must be a photograph .
If you encounter any difficulty when uploading your government-issued ID to the online registration portal , please contact studentregistration@bathspa.ac.uk so that we can support you.
If you've forgotten your password, please use the Self Service Password Reset Tool.
Our short tutorial will help guide you through the process.
If you've forgotten your password before you've fully completed online registration, or think you may have been locked out of your account, please call the IT Service Desk on +44 (0)1225 876500 .
To ensure a smooth enrolment process, we encourage all students to complete as many of the online registration steps as possible before arrival – particularly the student ID card section in Step 2.
However, if you're unable to complete online registration prior to your arrival, don't worry.
If you have a question, please log a call on MyServices .
If you haven't yet set up your student login details, please email studentregistration@bathspa.ac.uk .
So that your query is solved as quickly as possible, it's helpful to include a screenshot of any issue you may be experiencing.
Online registration will open approximately two weeks in advance of your course start or course induction date.
At this time, you'll be sent an email from Bath Spa University inviting you to first create an account (new students only).
You'll be unable to create an account until you've received your welcome email inviting you to complete your online registration.
If you've received your online registration email and are having issues setting up your account, please email studentregistration@bathspa.ac.uk quoting your 6-digit Bath Spa student number and date of birth so that we can check that these details are correct on your record.
If you've applied for a tuition fee loan and this isn't displayed on the Fee Summary section of online registration , the Fees Team may still be awaiting confirmation from Student Finance England/Wales/SAAS.
Until the Fees Team receives confirmation directly from Student Finance, you're required to enter your Customer Reference number (this would've been provided when you commenced your online application).
Although you'll be required to enter card data, the Fees Team will withhold any attempt to charge your card for six weeks from your course start date.
The Fees Team receives daily notification of approved fee loans via electronic download.
If your tuition fee loan hasn't been confirmed, you'll receive notification from the Fees Team when the scheduled charge is due.
At this point, you'll need to contact Student Fees at fees@bathspa.ac.uk if you have insufficient funds to make the payment.
You're required to leave your bank account details in the ‘Bank Account Details’ section of online registration in case we need to make a payment to you (such as the payment of an award, to reimburse you for expenses that the University has agreed to pay, or to refund monies).
You won't be charged any payments from this account.
If the fees showing in the Fee Summary section of your online registration are not as expected, please contact the Student Fees Team at fees@bathspa.ac.uk .
If your fees are due to be paid by a private sponsor/employer, please email scanned evidence as soon as possible to fees@bathspa.ac.uk to avoid entering your card details during online registration.
You'll need to do this before your enrolment deadline.
Please contact the Student Information team via MyServices and the team will be happy to check the status of your loan.
If you don't have access to MyServices, please email studentregistration@bathspa.ac.uk .
Your Bath Spa email address will be generated once you create an account in online registration.
Details will be emailed to your personal email address, so keep an eye out for the notification.
It may be worth checking your junk mail too if you don't think you've received the notification.
If your name has changed and no longer matches your official ID, you'll need to send a copy of your Marriage Certificate / Deed Poll document to the Student Information team via MyServices .
If you don't have access to MyServices, you can email studentregistration@bathspa.ac.uk .
As part of the online registration process, you'll be asked to upload a photo of yourself for your student ID card.
You're encouraged to complete this step as early as possible so that we can have your student ID card ready when you arrive.
It's easy to do – you can even access online registration from your mobile phone and upload a photo.
If you're studying at a Bath Spa campus, please check where and when to collect your student ID card.
ID cards for students studying at Partner Institutions will be posted to their offices for distribution.
New students will receive an email to confirm that their enrolment is complete once their government-issued ID has been approved.
International students will be informed if they need to attend an in-person enrolment session.
You can find out more information on our enrolment arrangements page.
While you're completing online registration, you can click on the "?" icons for further guidance about particular sections.
So that your query is solved as quickly as possible, it's helpful to include a screenshot of any issue you may be experiencing.
If you have an urgent query, please call the Registration Team on +44 (0)1225 875530 .
If you've forgotten your password, please use the Self-Service Password Reset tool .
If you haven't set up this tool yet, please call the IT Service Desk on +44 (0)1225 876500 .
All returning students, including students on a placement year, are required to re-enrol online either before the start of the new academic year or at the point of progression to the next level of study.
You'll be able to log into your online registration using your existing student ID number and password.
You'll only be able to complete re-enrolment once you've received your invitation email.
This will be sent early September for September starters.
Forgotten your password?
See the password reset section below.
Online registration will open for returning students approximately two weeks before your course start date.
At this time, you'll be sent an email from the University inviting you to complete online registration.
The email will be sent to both your personal and Bath Spa email accounts.
Our Self Service Password Reset tool gives you the ability to change your password from anywhere at any time.
As a returning student, you should have already registered your details for this.
Please watch our short tutorial on how to reset your password.
If you encounter any difficulties, please call the IT Service Desk on +44 (0)1225 876500 .
You won't be able to access online registration if you have outstanding debt from a previous academic year.
You'll need to contact the Student Fees Team at fees@bathspa.ac.uk to set up a repayment plan in order to complete enrolment for the current academic year.
You won't be charged any payments from this account.
If the fees showing in the Fee Summary section of your online registration aren't as expected, please contact the Student Fees team at fees@bathspa.ac.uk .
Your student ID card can be used until the end of your course – just be sure that your course end date is accurate.
There may be instances in which a new card is required.
Returning for a new academic year at a Bath Spa campus?
For returning undergraduate students studying at a Bath Spa campus, your next step is to check your online Welcome Activities schedule (available in early September from our Welcome Activities page) to see what 'Welcome Back' sessions are in store.
Returning from a break?
We would advise that you contact your course team about your return to studies.
Students studying at a partner institution
Your partner institution will be in contact about your next steps.
You'll need to get in touch with the Student Information team via MyServices before your enrolment deadline if you are planning to:

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/registration-and-enrolment/in-person-enrolment-sessions:
If you've completed your online registration, you'll now need to finalise your enrolment.
You'll receive an email letting you know when online registration has opened for your course.
Once you've completed your online registration, you'll need to follow the instructions below to complete your enrolment.
The majority of BSU and partner students will be able to enrol online.
Non-international students will not be required to attend and in-person enrolment session.
If you are an international student, you will be directly notified if you are required to attend an in-person enrolment session.
This will be clearly stated in Step 3 of the online registration portal.
If you have been invited to attend an in-person enrolment session, you can check the upcoming dates and locations here .
Please note that when picking up your Bath Spa University ID card, you'll need to show proof of ID e.g.
passport, driving licence, bank statement.
ID cards will only be available for fully enrolled students.
You can collect your ID card from the campus where your course is based at the locations below.
If you're on a combined course across different campuses, please pick up your ID card from Newton Park.
Once you've completed all mandatory sections in step 2 of your online registration, complete step 3 by uploading a clear photograph of one of the following documents:
Please ensure that the ID is in-date.
If you encounter any difficulty when uploading your government-issued ID to the online registration portal, please contact studentregistration@bathspa.ac.uk with an image of your ID attached so that we can support you.
By uploading a copy of your photo ID, you'll be confirming that you wish to be enrolled on your course at Bath Spa University.
Please complete this step before the start of your course.
Once your photo ID has been checked, you'll receive an email confirming your enrolment.
Non-international students are not required to attend an in-person enrolment session.
If you're a new international student studying at a Bath Spa University campus, you'll need to attend an in-person enrolment session.
An international student is any student with a nationality other than British or Irish.
Please note that all students who are subject to immigration control are required to attend an in-person enrolment session.
This includes students with a settled or pre-settled status.
International In-Person Enrolment for PGCE Courses:
International In-Person Enrolment for Bath Based Undergraduate and Postgraduate Courses
What do I need to bring?
Please ensure that you've completed your online registration before your enrolment session.
Please note that it may take five working days for your international fee payments to be processed and for your online registration to be updated.
If you have any questions, help will be available on the day.
Please see our Right to Study Documentation guidance for details of the documents you need to bring on the day.
GBS Malta
You aren't required to attend an in-person enrolment session at Bath Spa.
Please complete your Bath Spa enrolment remotely in step 3 of online registration.
You'll be contacted shortly about attending a GBS Malta enrolment session at the campus in Malta.
Future Education World
Students continuing on to the next stage of their course are required to re-enrol online.
You'll be sent an email letting you know when online registration has re-opened for your course.
Please ensure that you self-enrol in Step 3 of your online registration before the enrolment deadline as stated in your email.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/ask:
The Academic Skills team is here to help students and staff in their academic pursuits.
Whether you’d like some feedback on your writing or help with Maths and Stats, we offer a range of support, both in-person and online in Bath and London:
Make an appointment to see us, drop in with a quick query, use our resources on Ultra or attend one of our workshops.
Academic Skills (ASk) is open during the vacation.
1:1 appointments are available in-person at Newton Park and BSUL as well as online.
Book an appointment at a time that suits you.
Appointments are available Monday-Friday 9am-5pm (when the university is open) and there is a choice of online or in-person.
If you've chosen an online appointment, you'll be sent a calendar invite so that you can log into the appointment at the correct time.
Our in-person appointments are available across our BSU campuses:
We can work with you on a one-to-one basis to provide feedback on your academic assignments, including advice on structure and academic writing styles.
Here’s what you need to know:
Speak to our Maths and Stats Advisor about any aspect of numeracy and statistics including support with tools such as Excel, JASP, SPSS and R.
Appointments are available during semester Tuesday - Thursday; 10am-3pm and there is a choice of online or in-person.
In-person appointments are held in Newton Park's Commons building (opposite Costa).
Do you want some quick help with your assignments?
In-person drop-in:  you can have up to 20 minutes with an advisor to get some quick advice.
For example, we could help with referencing or some aspect of your writing, such as conclusions or paragraph structure.
In Newton Park find us 9am-12pm, Monday-Friday in Commons G06 (opposite Costa).
In London find us in the Common Area (next to the student kitchen) 1-2pm Wednesday -Thursday.
Online drop-in: Monday – Friday , 12:00pm - 1:00pm during term time.
Feedback is available by email for students on placement or low residency courses.
Please send us a query ; attach your work and include your student number in the message headline.
Let us know what kind of help you need, for example, referencing or structure.
Please include the assignment brief as well.
We do our best to reply to queries within 3 working days, but at busy times there may be a delay of up to 5 working days before your essay feedback is available.
Alternatively, you can book an online appointment.
Ever wondered how to use AI tools as a student – or if you should use it at all?
Our guide on Generative AI for students will clear up some of your questions, and you can also get help from us in our workshop on how to use Generative AI ethically for your assignments.
Watch our videos on using GenAI for students.
Need a dedicated space to focus on your writing?
Join our two-hour hybrid writing retreat on Wednesdays from 2.00pm - 4.00pm.
You can choose to join online or in-person and come for as many sessions as you like.
This writing retreat offers a structured, distraction-free environment to help you make progress on assignments or creative projects.
With timed sessions, tips and regular breaks, you'll have the support you need to achieve your writing goals.
Perfect for students at any stage of their writing process.
Join us in-person at Newton Park, CM223 or join online at our ' ASk Writing Retreat space ' , every Wednesday from 12 March – 28 May.
You can chat online with an advisor about any referencing queries.
The service is available Monday – Friday, 12:00pm - 1:00pm during term time.
We offer a wide range of Academic and Digital Literacy Skills workshops to all students and staff.
To book, simply scroll to the event that you’d like to book or use the filters to narrow down your search.
Students – are you and your peers interested in a workshop?
We may be able to offer student workshops to groups of five or more.
Please contact us at academicskills@bathspa.ac.uk
Staff – do you want to book a workshop for your students?
Please complete this form to book a workshop.
Request ASk workshop form
Academic Integrity is one of the most important principles in Higher Education and research.
It means making sure that the work you produce for assessment is your own.
For more information on how to make sure your work keeps to the principles of academic integrity and how to avoid academic misconduct, we've put together a detailed guide .
There's even a section on how to use GenAI with integrity.
We support staff with their writing and teach academic skills workshops to support students within the curriculum.
Please contact us at academicskills@bathspa.ac.uk with any queries about our support for students.
To book a workshop, please fill out the following form:
Resources in our Ultra space (find us under 'Organisations') offer hints and tips on a wide range of academic skills including academic writing, referencing; Maths and Statistics; digital literacy and critical thinking.
ASk was formerly known as the Writing and Learning Centre.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/ask/genai-guidance:
On this page, we cover:
Generative AI (GenAI) uses artificial intelligence to complete tasks that normally require human cognition.
For example, AI writing tools such as Copilot (which is linked to your university Microsoft account), ChatGPT and Claude produce text in response to user prompts or questions.
Images can be generated using Adobe’s Firefly and Canva.
Everyday tools such as Grammarly have also now incorporated GenAI options, and Bath Spa now has access to Read and Write to help with accessibility.
Recently, these tools have become much more popular, and universities have responded in a range of ways:  At Bath Spa, your lecturers are free to specify the extent to which you may use AI in your work and will make this clear in your assessment guidelines.
If your lecturer has given permission for you to use GenAI, the university recommends the use of Copilot, as it is safe and secure so long as you are logged into your university account.
To access Copilot in Edge, open Microsoft Edge and ensure you're signed in , then click on the Copilot logo in the top-right of your Edge browser window.
Video: Pros and cons of GenAI
Using GenAI can have many benefits and can be particularly helpful in the brainstorming and planning stages of working on an assignment.
You can ask Copilot for topic suggestions, feedback on ideas, or help writing emails.
It's also important to remember that this technology has several drawbacks:
Most importantly, GenAI can invent facts that seem plausible (‘hallucinations’), therefore you must check everything it says with a reputable source, such as resources from the Library, for example academic journals, and textbooks.
Think of GenAI as a bit like Wikipedia – it's a helpful starting point, but your evidence should come from the reputable sources you've used to check those facts.
We know that you'll probably use GenAI in your future career, and we want to make sure you know how to use this technology, so that you're ready for life after university.
Artificial Intelligence is an area which is evolving rapidly.
Different courses and modules may have different approaches to the use of GenAI.
The Academic Skills team (ASk) offers a workshop on using generative AI with integrity .
During the workshop, you can discuss these guidelines in more detail, and learn how to get the best out of Copilot.
Video: Using GenAI
Think about your privacy
Always be mindful of the information you share online, including with AI platforms.
Make sure you don’t share personal, sensitive, or confidential details.
If a tool is free, you can assume that all the prompts, questions, images, videos and responses you enter are saved as chat history; details about your device, browser, location and IP address may be collected.
This is why the university recommends Copilot.
As the university pays for Copilot, your data is more secure than when using other forms of AI.
Copilot encrypts your chat data; prompts and responses are not retained after the session ends; nobody at Microsoft can view your conversations; and the data from your chats is not used to train the underlying AI models.
Consider how much text to use
An AI writing generator might produce phrases that you think would translate well to your writing – but how much of these should you use?
We think it's reasonable to base the extent to which you can copy and paste from a tool such as Copilot, on how much is acceptable to copy and paste from a source such as the Academic Phrasebank , which is widely used in academic circles.
This means that you can copy word-for-word, without referencing, sentence fragments that don't contain facts.
These should be no more than 5-8 words long, and you should limit the amount of these: it is suggested that you use a maximum of 3 of these per 150-word paragraph.
Get help with planning
If you have been given permission to use GenAI, it can be most helpful in the planning stages of your work.
The more information you add to your prompts, the better and more specific the responses you receive will be.
Rather than asking it for a list of topic ideas, you could provide a list of topics that you plan to cover and ask it for feedback or further suggestions.
Ask for feedback
You can also ask GenAI for feedback on what you've written, and the more specific you can be the better.
For example, you could give Copilot a section of your writing and ask questions such as:
Remember that GenAI hasn’t studied your subject, at your university, with your lecturers.
Use your own judgement and critical thinking skills to assess any recommendations it makes.
Get help with your academic reading
You can cut and paste a section of open access text into Copilot and ask for a summary to help you understand the original.
Open access texts are freely available academic resources that you can use without any copyright restrictions.
AI use and copyrigh t
Guidelines for copying any text or image or part thereof into any AI tool
You must ensure one of the conditions applies:
If you are not sure the content, text or image is under copyright you must assume it is.
Generation of images and sounds
AI tools such as Adobe’s Firefly can also generate images and audio which might serve as starting points for projects.
As in many subjects, art, design, film and media tutors value creativity and originality, so you should check your lecturers' specific recommendations for individual assignments.
Video: Academic integrity
Can the University detect AI-generated writing?
At Bath Spa we have no current plans to use AI detection tools as they are currently inaccurate; however, the writing produced by GenAI can often be identified by its bland and repetitive nature.
Lecturers will also be looking for work that's beyond your current capability, or expressed in a way that's clearly different to your normal style.
If your lecturer suspects that your assignment contains larger sections that have been pasted from AI, they'll first have an informal chat with you to find out more about how you produced your work.
This means you'll need to be able to discuss and show understanding of the concepts and evidence that you've presented in your essay.
You must not directly copy larger chunks of text or images that have been produced for you by AI without attributing the source, as this will count as ‘passing off the work of another as your own’ and is against our academic integrity policy .
This includes using the AI function in Grammarly to rewrite whole sentences.
Include references and an appendix
If you choose to copy and paste a large amount of text from GenAI, it is important to cite this correctly as outlined in Cite them Right .
If you use any generative AI tools at any stage of your assessment, include information on how you have used it as an appendix at the end of your piece of work.
Include the following information as an appendix at the end of your assessed piece of work.
The appendix should:
Name the generative AI tool(s) you have used and summarise how you have used them.
For example (select all that apply):
I acknowledge the use of <insert name(s) and url> to generate information for background research.
I acknowledge the use of <insert name(s) and url> at the drafting stage of the writing process with the creation of an outline structure for this essay.
I acknowledge the use of <insert name(s) and url> to identify improvements in the writing style.
I acknowledge the use of <insert name(s) and url> as an information source to generate materials that were included within my final assessment in my own words.
I acknowledge the use of <insert name(s) and url> to create the images included in this presentation.
No content generated by AI technologies has been presented as my own work

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/ask/academic-integrity:
It's based on the ethos that how you learn is as important as what you learn and means that your work must be your own and come from your own research and ideas.
Academic integrity means making sure that the work you produce for assessment is your own, including the research you do.
To show academic integrity, you must:
Academic integrity is a really important part of studying in higher education.
It also lays the foundations for future professional life.
As a student, you're part of a scholarly community.
At Bath Spa, we encourage all members of our community to subscribe to the International Center for Academic Integrity (ICAI)’s values:
You can find more information on the ICAI's values in this document .
At Bath Spa University, all students will be judged on their own ability.
Therefore, all assessment work submitted must be original.
Plagiarism
Plagiarism is a form of academic misconduct.
It is submitting the work or ideas of someone else as your own, without appropriate referencing.
Examples include, but are not limited to:
Contract cheating
Contract cheating is a form of academic misconduct and occurs when a student arranges for a third party to complete an assignment that they intend to submit as their own work.
This may occur if a student swaps an assignment with another; a family member or friend completes an assignment as a favour; an assignment is downloaded from a free essay site or if a student pays a third party for an assignment and that assignment is submitted as the student’s own work.
Collusion
Collusion is a form of academic misconduct and occurs when students work together, in whole or in part, to complete an assignment that should have been completed individually.
While students can find it helpful to work in small study groups do make sure that when working on individual assignments you do not share your plan or final draft with others to avoid similarities in work that might be construed as collusion.
How is academic misconduct detected?
Potential academic misconduct in a student’s work may be identified by a member of staff marking the work, the internal moderator, an External Examiner, or reported by another student.
Further information can be found under section 3 of the Academic Integrity and Misconduct Policy .
What happens if academic misconduct is found in my work?
The Academic Integrity and Misconduct Policy (section 3) explains the procedure for any student suspected of academic misconduct.
What support is available?
The Academic Skills service (ASk) can support students to show academic integrity in their assessments.
They offer a wide range of workshops, online resources and 1:1 appointments.
The Bath Spa University Students' Union's Students' Advice Centre can provide you with independent support and advice regarding an alleged academic misconduct report.
Email su-advice@bathspa.ac.uk for assistance.
The FAQ section of the Academic Integrity page provides information on commonly asked questions about the academic misconduct process.
We expect our students to be honest in their studies, acknowledging the work of others where appropriate and giving credit where they have legitimately used other people’s ideas as part of presenting their own work.
See the sections below for more on how to improve some key academic skills.
Harvard referencing
Harvard is the referencing style used in most courses at BSU.
Open the Academic Integrity and Referencing module in our Ultra space for an interactive resource  on Harvard referencing and how to use it correctly.
Oscola referencing
Oscola is the referencing system used by Law students.
Use Cite Them Right Online for guidance and examples in how to use it.
Support for referencing
Paraphrasing
Learning to paraphrase will help ensure you use information with integrity and help improve your criticality in your writing as well.
Watch this video in the Academic Integrity module in the Academic Skills space on Ultra
Note-taking
Good note-taking skills can help you keep track of your resources so you have all the information you need to hand to help you reference correctly.
Time management
Many students inadvertently make mistakes due to a lack of time.
Good time management makes sure that you give yourself time to find good resources; take excellent notes and reference correctly in your work.
Watch this video in the Academic Integrity module in the Academic Skills space on Ultra for good time management tips.
Teamwork
Working collaboratively is a vital skill for study and work.
Watch this video in the Academic Integrity module in the Academic Skills space on Ultra for ways to work successfully in a team.
Critical thinking
Thinking critically about the resources you are using is key to a good assignment - whether it's a text-based or visual assignment.
Thinking about the material critically also encourages you to use it with integrity:  whether that's by using correct referencing or by using the information itself honestly.
To watch the recording of our Critical Thinking workshops,  go to the Study Skills video section in the Academic Skills space on Ultra
Research Integrity means undertaking and conducting research in a way that makes sure it's trustworthy and ethical.
It's about applying rigour, high-standards, and professionalism to ensure the most robust and successful outcomes.
It also includes a set of professional standards that researchers should adopt.
Here at BSU, we have developed processes and mechanisms that enable you to consider, articulate, and plan your projects in ways that are trustworthy, ethical, and enables the very best possible outcomes for you as a researcher and an academic scholar.
Our Research Support Office has created a step by step guide on SharePoint on how to get ethical approval for any research project.
For advice and support, please contact the team at researchsupportoffice@bathspa.ac.uk .
If you're looking for further training around Research Integrity and Ethics, please check out the dedicated Research Ethics Training section on SharePoint.
You must complete any test or examination by yourself, unless the assessment brief requires you to complete the assessment with another student.
You may have agreed reasonable adjustments that include being accompanied or supported by another person (e.g.
an amanuensis or scribe) or by GenAI, but your academic output will remain solely yours.
Unacceptable practice in a test or exam is the attempt to gain advantage for you and/or for another student/s and includes, but isn't limited to:
We know that Gen AI will be used in the wider world and the workplace and it's important we help you make use of this new technology.
It's up to your individual lecturers how much you can use AI in your work and they'll make this clear in your your assessment guidelines.
If you use AI when completing an assignment, you'll need to state how you used it and reference it both in the text (as an in-text citation) and in your reference list.
Remember you mustn't directly copy assessment materials that have been AI generated as this will count as plagiarism.
If you're in any doubt about what constitutes good practice, what constitutes plagiarism, and how to reference correctly - we're here to support you.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/parents-supporters:
We're here to help you to support your student through their journey to Higher Education.
It's great that your student is thinking about joining Bath Spa University.
Whether they’re just starting to think about studying at university, or are half-way through the application process, it’s natural to have lots of questions and concerns.
We hope the pages here will provide you with lots of useful information and resources to support your student take their next steps.
Please sign up for updates i f you’d like to hear more from us .
What do our students like most about BSU, and what advice do they have for people applying?
We asked a handful of our students to answer applicants' most-asked questions.
Our Open Days give you and your student the chance to explore what the BSU community has to offer.
An Offer Holder Day is a great opportunity to dig deeper into our courses and student life at BSU.
Applicants with offers to study are invited to a day-long event, where they'll take part in sessions aimed at replicating the student study experience, while parents and supporters will have the opportunity to meet staff from key student experience teams at a panel session.
Your student can apply for a four-year course which includes a Professional Placement Year (PPY) – sometimes known as a 'sandwich year'.
Learn more about the PPY

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/graduation:
Autumn Graduation will take place on Tuesday, 28 October 2025
Register via our TicketSource platform ( a link will be in your invitation email from Georgina Andrews, Vice Chancellor ) by the booking deadline.
Sadly, we can’t guarantee availability if you miss the deadline.
In order for everything to run smoothly, please make sure you've done the following by Friday, 5 September 2025 :
Links to guest tickets will be sent out after registration has closed on 5 September 2025 .
You will receive an email by noon on Monday, 8 September which will contain a link to book your guest tickets
Book your guest tickets through TicketSource using the link we’ll send by email.
You will have a minimum of 2 free guest tickets.
Extra tickets will be available at £15 per person.
Please check out the ‘ How to get there ’ information to familiarise yourself with the various venues and locations so you know where you’re going on the day.
Back to Quick Links
Online Registration will open in August and remain open until Friday, 5 September 2025
When you register you will receive a PDF registration document via email straight away.
This document contains the links you need – please retain it.
Links to guest tickets will be sent after registration has closed on 5 September 2025 to the email you registered with.
You can book 2 free guest tickets, you may be able to purchase additional tickets at £15 per head.
We will tell you this when we send out your guest ticket booking link.
During the registration process and buying guest tickets you can let us know if you or your guests have access needs.
Refer to the Accessibility section.
For queries about booking, access and robes please email: graduationbookings@bathspa.ac.uk .
All students who attend Graduation must wear a robe.
If you have any issues relating to this, please email graduationbookings@bathspa.ac.uk outlining your concern.
Once you’ve registered your place, you’ll immediately receive a link to book robes and photography.
Use the link provided in your email confirmation when you register to attend.
Robes can be hired or purchased only from official suppliers Ede & Ravenscroft .
To book robes you will need your student number.
Bath Spa University robes are dark blue (except PhD robes, which are a lighter  blue) and the hoods are blue and silver; the design of the hood varies depending on which level of award you are receiving.
Please do not send robe orders to the Graduation Office.
Robes can be collected at Bath Pavilion , prior to your ceremony start time.
Please leave enough time before your ceremony – we recommend around 2 hours.
Please refer to our FAQs for any further information or contact Ede & Ravenscroft directly.
After a welcome from the Pro-Vice-Chancellor or University Secretary, the academic procession enters the auditorium.
The running order for each Graduation ceremony will be as follows:
We expect each ceremony to last about 60 minutes.
Once your ceremony has finished, we advise you to remember to return your hired gowns to Bath Pavilion by 6.30pm on the day of your ceremony.
You must have registered online by 5 September 2025 so that we have a space for you.
Gowning and photography at Bath Pavillion will open from 8am.
We recommend collecting your gown at least 2 hours before your ceremony.
Allow extra time if you have booked photography.
Allow time to sign in at the Forum.
Signing in for your ceremony will begin 1 hour before the start time The auditorium will open around 45 minutes before the ceremony begins.
Remember, you must be registered, robed and seated at least 30 minutes before the ceremony is due to start.
Graduate and guest latecomers will not be admitted.
Please don't carry anything with you onto the stage, you will be returning to the same seat.
Graduation ceremony at The Forum
The graduation ceremonies will take place at The Forum in Bath (street address: St James's Parade, Bath BA1 1UG).
This Grade II listed building was originally an Art Deco cinema, and with up to 1600 seats is Bath's largest events venue.
Seating is upholstered and is raked so everybody has a good view of the stage.
The Stalls on the ground floor are fully accessible for wheelchair users.
The Circle (first floor) is accessible only via stairs.
There are toilets on both floors, including an accessible toilet on the ground floor.
Robes and photography at The Pavillion
The Pavillion (street address: North Parade Rd, Bathwick, Bath BA2 4EU) is opposite Bath Cricket Club and is in the same location as Bath Sports and Leisure Centre.
This is where you'll collect your academic robes, and where official photos are taken and is also next to Bath Recreation Ground where Gradstock will take place.
Gradstock will be the perfect place to meet your fellow graduates and celebrate your success together.
There will also be the opportunity for more informal photos as well as meeting with our colleagues from careers and the Students Union, who will be selling BSU merchandise.
Clean Air Zone
If you're driving into Bath for your graduation event, please note that Bath's Clean Air Zone (CAZ) is now in operation and that some vehicles may be subject to these charges.
For more information, please visit the Bath & North East Somerset Council website .
Parking in Bath
There is limited parking at the Pavilion and no parking at the Forum.
The nearest large car parks to The Forum are in Avon Street and Southgate, and there are a number of car parks in Bath .
The city also has good public transport links and several Park and Rides; you may find these websites useful when planning your journey:
Travel by train
Bath Spa train station is located in the heart of Bath’s city centre and is only a five minute walk from The Forum and a 10-15 minute walk to the Pavilion.
There's a taxi rank outside the train station.
At Bath Spa, we pride ourselves on making our events as inclusive and accessible as possible.
If your requirements are not covered here contact graduationbookings@bathspa.ac.uk
When booking your tickets you can tell us if you or your guests require a wheelchair space.
At The Forum:
There is no disabled parking at The Forum.
The nearest disabled parking is Avon Street or Southgate.
If you have specific questions about access email graduationbookings@bathspa.ac.uk .
Your child is welcome to join you at Graduation, please note these points to ensure your child is happy and safe at this special occasion.
Graduation is an occasion which mixes formal elements with celebrations.
Everyone has their part to play in ensuring the day is  respectful and joyful for everyone.
Am I eligible to attend?
How do I book guest tickets, and how many can I have?
Tickets are booked online via Ticketsource.
Your invitation will include the booking link, and will tell you the opening and closing dates for booking and how many guests you can bring.
What if I don't pass my course in time for Graduation?
Should you not complete the course in time to graduate at your expected ceremony, you can obtain refunds on any of your purchases by contacting each of the services involved.
Please don't wait until you've passed your course before obtaining your tickets as the closing date for booking falls before some results have been announced.
Should you complete your course after your expected graduation, your certificate will be issued within six weeks of when the award is achieved, and you'll be invited to the next ceremonies.
I'm an international student - do I need to make special arrangements?
We're not able to provide letters to help your guests arrange visas for their travel, but you can write one yourself.
Please email: immigrationadvice@bathspa.ac.uk for more information and help on what to include in your letter.
If you require a letter to confirm your completion of studies please email the alumni team: alumnirecords@bathspa.ac.uk .
What do I wear?
You must wear the correct academic robes in order to take part in your ceremony.
These may be hired or bought from our official suppliers, Ede and Ravenscroft .
Graduation is a formal event, and we advise that you dress to suit the occasion in clothing which will be manageable and comfortable beneath your robes.
How many guests can I bring?
You are guaranteed two guest tickets (in addition to yourself) at no charge.
You may purchase additional tickets (as outlined in your invitation) at a cost of £15.00 each.
We'll be looking to ensure that we can accommodate the number of guests, depending on the capacity of the venue.
Guests are classified as any age and do include small children and babies.
Please see the section on Children to see if your youngest guests need a ticket.
If you'll be driving to the city please try to travel with your guests if possible.
What if I need to cancel?
Please email the Graduation Office at graduation@bathspa.ac.uk as soon as possible so that we can update our records.
If you've purchased additional tickets you'll be reimbursed for these.
What if I have special requirements?
You can book wheelchair spaces, aisle seats of stall seats when you book your guest tickets.
When you register for your own ticket you’ll be able to tell us about any access issues you have (not your guests) and we’ll contact you nearer the time.
If you need help please email the Graduation Office at graduation@bathspa.ac.uk.
If we are not aware that you have any special requirements, we may be unable to meet them on the day.
You can also provide us with details on your preferred name and/or how to pronounce your name.
During the ceremony, your name will be read by someone but they may not know you personally, so if you would rather have a different name read out than that of your official name or think that it would be useful to provide guidance regarding the pronunciation of your name, please let us know via the link which was provided in your invitation email.
I'm experiencing financial difficulty – is there any assistance available?
Although we are providing two guest tickets free of charge, for some students the cost of hiring academic robes for the event may present difficulties.
We can assist a limited number of students with the cost of hiring academic robes for graduation.
Any student who has been allocated funds from the Bath Spa University Access Fund during the current academic year, or who has received a Bath Spa University Bursary , will be given a 50% discount on their robe hire – this will be applied automatically when you book your robes with Ede & Ravenscroft.
This discount will be applied only once.
What if I don't achieve my award in time for Graduation?
Should you not complete your award in time to graduate at your expected ceremony, you can obtain refunds on any of your purchases by contacting each of the services involved.
When you do complete your course, you'll be invited to the next available graduation ceremony.
Do I have to wear robes to my Graduation ceremony?
Yes, all students who attend Graduation should be wearing a robe.
How do I order my robes?
Robes can be ordered through Ede & Ravenscroft (the University’s official gown supplier).
You'll receive a link to book robes and photography once you have registered your place to attend Graduation.
Where can I collect my robes?
Robes can be collected at Bath Pavilion, we recommend 2 hours prior to your ceremony start time, and should be returned there by 7:00pm on the same day.
What kind of clothes should I wear?
Graduation ceremonies are formal events and we advise that you dress to suit the occasion, in clothing which will be manageable and comfortable beneath your robes.
The hood is designed to be attached to a button on a shirt or blouse, but can also be pinned.
You will be walking between the venues, so wear or bring comfortable shoes.
I need to change or amend my registration – how do I do this?
Any changes to your booking (changes to any special requirements, change of address, etc.) should be made by contacting the Graduation Office directly: graduationbookings@bathspa.ac.uk .
Who can I contact about a refund on my gown hire, photography or other service?
Refunds for other services (gown hire, photographs, souvenirs) should be sought directly from the supplier.
Please note that you may be subject to an administration fee.
When will I get my degree certificate?
Certificates will not be handed out at graduation; your documents will be sent by post to your home address after the ceremonies .
Documents are sent to the home address recorded in the student records system (SITS).
If your details have changed, then these can be updated via the Evision portal or you can raise a call via MyServices and we will update SITS records on your behalf.
Is there anything to be aware of if bringing a child or vulnerable adult?
We warmly welcome younger members of your family to join us in celebrating Graduation.
To help make your day enjoyable and safe for our younger guests it is important that the children in your care remain with you at all times.
We ask that you accompany younger children, and any vulnerable adults in your party too.
Please also refer to the quick link information regarding Children at Graduation that can be found towards the top of the Graduation page.
Is there anything else I should know?
Perhaps most importantly, Graduation is your big day – remember to slow down, take it in and enjoy it!
Animals at Graduation
Assistance dogs are welcome, no other animals are permitted at the Forum or Gradstock.
Please make alternative arrangements for your pets.
What time do I need to be there?
You'll need to register for your ceremony and collect your academic robes before your ceremony starts.
We recommend you allow at least two hours for this.
What happens during the ceremony?
Before the ceremony, while guests and students are taking their seats, music is played.
The ceremony will begin promptly at the advertised time, and it will not be possible to admit late arrivals.
After welcomes from a senior member of staff, the academic procession enters.
The Order of Ceremonies is as follows:
For the presentation of your award, stewards will direct you to the side of the stage at the appropriate time, your name will be read, and you'll cross the stage to be congratulated in the centre by the Chancellor or another senior member of staff.
You then leave the stage on the opposite side, and stewards will direct you back to your seat.
At the end of the ceremony, the academic procession will leave first.
We expect each of our ceremonies to last about 60-90 minutes.
Can I film the event?
The use of cameras and video recorders during the ceremony is strictly prohibited (this includes mobile phones) as they distract those taking part and  spoil the enjoyment of other guests.
You may of course take photographs before and after the ceremony.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/graduation/terms-and-conditions:
It's your responsibility as a graduate to read through and understand the terms and conditions below and to contact the Graduation Office on graduation@bathspa.ac.uk if you have any queries.
By registering to attend a Bath Spa University graduation ceremony, you're agreeing to the following:
Academic dress
Academic dress is obligatory at Bath Spa University graduation events and should be ordered from the University’s gown hire provider, Ede & Ravenscroft .
The charge to hire or purchase academic dress is made directly to the gown hire provider and any enquiries about a gown order should be directed to them.
Children and babies
Children and babies are eligible to attend however, regardless of their age, they will be included as a guest and will count towards the two guest limit for each graduand.
Out of respect for other guests, we request that small children are taken outside the auditorium if they become unsettled during the ceremony so as not to disturb proceedings.
Parents/carers are responsible for their children at all times whilst on site and children must not be left unsupervised at any time.
Dogs
Dogs (other than assistance/guide dogs) will not be permitted at the graduation celebration events and should not be left in cars during the celebrations.
Data protection
In accordance with the Data Protection Act (2018), the Graduation Office can only discuss a graduand’s ceremony with the graduand.
Any contact details given during online booking will be used for graduation purposes.
Graduands who attend a graduation event will have their full name(s) and surname announced, as it is recorded in their official student record.
If a graduand has a query about their name they should contact graduation@bathspa.ac.uk to make an amendment to their officially registered name.
Names cannot be amended after an award has been made.
Graduands' names are also printed in full in the graduation programme, which is a public document given to all graduands at their ceremony.
Programmes for those not attending an in-person celebration event are available upon request by contacting graduation@bathspa.ac.uk .
The names of all graduands eligible to attend the congregation will be printed alphabetically by surname under the heading of their award; there will be no indication of the classification of degree awarded.
Graduands should contact the Graduation Office by emailing graduation@bathspa.ac.uk to discuss any issues arising in relation to this use of personal information.
Debts
Outstanding tuition fee debts to Bath Spa University must be settled in full before an award certificate or transcript can be issued.
An outstanding debt does not prevent a graduand from attending a graduation ceremony.
If a graduand has a query about any debts, they should contact myfinance@bathspa.ac.uk .
Eligibility
Eligibility to graduate in July 2024 is subject to your award being agreed at a Central Assessment Board on or before Wednesday 15 July 2024.
Filming and photography
Photography is not permitted during the ceremony, as this can be distracting and obstruct the view of others.
The University may have an official photographer present.
Please note: footage may also be used for media publications and advertising as well as social media.
All graduands and guests should be aware that they may feature in this footage.
By registering to attend the graduation ceremony, both students and guests are giving permission for their image to be recorded and used in the manner described above.
Graduands should contact the Graduation Office by emailing graduation@bathspa.ac.uk to discuss any issues arising in relation to this.
Luggage and other belongings
There's limited space at The Forum and in the auditorium, so we ask you to try to limit the amount of items you bring with you.
We're unable to store items.
Mobile phones
Graduands and guests must ensure that their mobile phones are on silent or switched off during the celebration event.
Registration and tickets
Graduands must register online for graduation by the closing date indicated in their invitation.
Those who do not register by the deadline are not guaranteed attendance at their graduation ceremony.
No tickets will be allocated until online registration has been completed.
Any graduand who registers before the deadline is guaranteed a ticket for themselves and a number of guest tickets, up to the limit we specify in your invitation.
Tickets for the graduation ceremonies will be issued only to eligible graduands who have registered to attend the ceremony.
Right to refuse entry
The graduand must be robed and seated prior to the start of the Graduation ceremony.
No graduand or guest will be allowed to enter a ceremony once it has commenced.
Bath Spa University reserves the right to ask any person to leave the venue(s) if their behaviour is disruptive to the proceedings.
Bath Spa University reserves the right to refuse entry to the Graduation ceremonies or venue.
Specific seating
The graduand agrees that any special requirements for themselves or their guests such as wheelchair access, sight or sound facilities are submitted during the booking process to allow for appropriate seating allocation.
Unforeseen circumstances
Bath Spa University aims to provide Graduation events as advertised but reserves the right to make alterations to events if necessary, or in the case of unforeseen circumstances such as adverse weather conditions, national events, government guidelines or staff absence.
In the event that a Graduation event has to be cancelled, rescheduled or postponed, the University will make every effort to contact graduands and in addition will announce information on the University website and via other channels available.
Glossary of terms
Academic dress/robes: The collective term for the robe, hood and hat worn by graduands and academic staff.
Deferral: The process by which an invited graduand postpones their Graduation ceremony attendance to a future event (at the discretion of the Academic Registrar).
Eligibility: Eligibility depends on your degree being awarded at an Assessments board before the relevant graduation ceremony.
Graduand: A student who has been invited to attend a graduation ceremony.
Once your award has been conferred you will become a graduate.
Certificate: A document issued by the University to signify that a student has attained a specified level of academic achievement.
The certificate bears the signature of approved officials, the University name, and details of the award.
Transcript: Document issued by the University that shows the modules that have been taken in each year of study; the assessment marks and grades for each module (where applicable); the total number of credits gained in each module taken; the final overall mark (where applicable) the total number of credits gained; the qualification awarded, degree classification (where applicable) and date of award.
It's important to note that the University reserves the right to cancel any or all of the graduation ceremonies up to 48 hours in advance should circumstances mean it is not safe for the events to go ahead.
Contact the Graduation Office on graduation@bathspa.ac.uk and we'll be happy to help!

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/graduation/winter-graduation-2025:
The Winter 2025 Graduation ceremonies will be taking place at The Forum in central Bath on the 4th February 2025.
Gown collection and photography will take place at Komedia, Bath.
We’ve put together this guide on everything you could possibly need to know about this very important event in your Bath Spa University career.
Don’t forget to make your booking via our TicketSource platform (links in your invitation email) by the booking deadline.
Online Registration for graduation is now open.
Once you’ve registered to confirm attendance, we’ll contact you separately through our ticketing system with information on how to book guest tickets.
All tickets will be sent to you by email through our TicketSource booking system.
For general enquiries email the Graduation Office at graduation@bathspa.ac.uk .
For queries about booking and robes please email: graduationbookings@bathspa.ac.uk .
Once you’ve registered your place, you’ll receive a link to book robes and photography so keep an eye on your inbox.
Remember, you must wear the correct robes for the ceremony.
Bath Spa University robes are dark blue (except PhD robes, which are a lighter blue) and the hoods are blue and silver; the design of the hood varies depending on which level of award you are receiving.
Remember to leave enough time to collect your robes from Komedia before your ceremony – we recommend around 2 hours .
The graduation ceremonies will take place at the Grade II listed building The Forum in Bath.
Komedia is where you'll collect your academic robes, and where official photos are taken.
We recommend you allow at least two hours from checking in at Komedia to seating at The Forum.
The Stalls on ground floor are fully accessible for wheelchair users.
Robes and photography at Komedia
Komedia (street address: Komedia, 22-23 Westgate St, Bath BA1 1EP).
This is where you'll collect your academic robes, and where official photos are taken.
It is approximately a 8 minute walk between The Forum and the Architect.
Graduation celebration event at The Architect
Celebrate your Winter Graduation by joining your staff and subject leaders for a drink and a nibble at the stylish The Architect in Bath.
The pay bar will be open for your guests, making it the perfect way to toast your achievements with friends and faculty.
Please book a ticket for each of your attendees to join in the festivities.
Street address:
Why not extend the celebrations?
The Architect is offering an exclusive three-course set menu with a glass of Piper Heidsieck Champagne to mark the occasion.
Download the menu .
Spaces are limited, so reserve your table early!
To book, email events.architectbath@brunningandprice.co.uk .
Visit Bath
The Bath Visitor Information Centre can provide help and information.
Address: Bridgwater House, 2 Terrace Walk, Bath BA1 1LN Email: tourism@bathtourism.co.uk
Phone: 01225 614420
There is no parking at Komedia or The Forum and on-street parking is very limited.
Bath Spa train station is located in the heart of Bath’s city centre and is only a five minute walk from The Forum and a 10 minute walk to Komedia.
Graduation is a very special day, with lots of different elements - not least the ceremony itself.
For many, this will be your first experience, so we’ve put together this guide on what to expect .
Timings are incredibly important, so please remember to take your seats at least 20 minutes before the event is due to begin.
In order for everything to run smoothly, please make sure you've done the following by 15 December 2024 :
You may purchase additional tickets (as outlined in your invitation) at a cost of £12.50 each.
If you need help booking wheelchair spaces or other access support for yourself or your guests, please email the Graduation Office at graduation@bathspa.ac.uk .
During the ceremony, your name will be read by someone from your School, but they may not know you personally, so if you would rather have a different name read out than that of your official name or think that it would be useful to provide guidance regarding the pronunciation of your name, please let us know via the link which was provided in your invitation email.
Robes can be collected at Komedia , no earlier than 2 hours prior to your ceremony start time, and should be returned there by 6:00pm on the same day.
We ask that you accompany younger children, and any vulnerable adults in your party too, if they need to use the toilet facilities, which will be clearly marked to indicate whether they are a single sex or open communal facility.
It is also useful to know that some of Bath's historic buildings, while stunning, can have bumpy flagstone floors and steep stone staircases.
Graduation doesn't mean goodbye!
We'd love to stay in touch and support you as you start the next part of your journey.
Please tell our sign up to secure graduate support about your plans, and Careers team .
Ede & Ravenscroft are our official photographers.
You can order photographs online through their website - but please remember you must get to graduation on time.
If you're late, we can't wait.
Contact them via photography@graduation-services.co.uk or by calling +44 (0)1223 861854 .
On the day, the Students' Union will have a stand selling a range of Bath Spa University merchandise.
Alternatively, you can pick something up online .
Why not try our Graduation Selfie Trail (pdf download) and show off the beautiful surroundings of Bath to your guests?
Don't forget to share your pictures with us!
#BathSpaGrad #BathSpaProud

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/graduation/winter-graduation-2025/what-to-expect:
We expect each ceremony to last about 60-90 minutes.
Once your ceremony has finished, we advise you to remember to return your hired gowns to the gowning room at Komedia by the specified time on the same day.
You must have registered through TicketSource online by the deadline so that we have a space for you.
On arrival in Bath, please make your way to Komedia, as you'll need to collect your pre-booked academic robes.
All hired gowns must be returned to the gowning room at Komedia by the specified time on the same day.
You can purchase pre-booked official photos, taken by Ede & Ravenscroft at Komedia, before your ceremony only.
For further details, please visit the ' memories of the day ' section of this website.
In order for your name to be called out at the ceremony, you must register at the Forum before your ceremony.
Please come to the Forum no earlier than an hour before your ceremony.
Gowning and photography will open 3 hours before and close 30 minutes before the start of your ceremony.
The auditorium will open around 45 minutes before the ceremony begins and live music will play as people take their seats.
Remember, you must be registered, robed and seated at least 20 minutes before the ceremony is due to start as we can’t admit latecomers.
We'll be checking tickets prior to entry, so please allow time for this.
You'll receive a QR code which will allow you to access the Graduation programme for yourself and your guests.
Please don't carry anything with you onto the stage.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/results:
You've received your official results email.
What happens now?
Your official results will be sent to both your Bath Spa University and personal email addresses on set Results Publication Dates throughout the academic year.
For 2024-25, please click on the links below to view the Results Publication Dates:
Your official results email will be sent to your Bath Spa University email address and your personal email address.
At the bottom of your results email, there will be a transcript of your module results, against which each module will be marked as:
There will also be a mark and a grade code.
These will show the mark and grade for your successfully passed modules.
If a module is not successfully passed, there will be one of the following grade codes against the module:
Please be aware that any marks given to you by your module tutor prior to the official results publication for that module are provisional-only .
Please refer to the schedules linked at the top of this page for the official results publication dates for Undergraduate and Postgraduate courses.
Each assessment goes through a rigorous process to make sure grades and marks are fairly awarded.
For more information, this marking and moderation flowchart outlines the journey each of your assessments takes to ensure that the mark you receive is fair.
Once you have completed your degree, your official results email will confirm the details of your award.
Please note that undergraduate and postgraduate award classifications are not “rounded up” and all award classifications will be in line with the bandings below.
For undergraduate awards, the final degree mark for all Honours degrees will be calculated from the best 100 credits at level 5 and the best 100 credits at level 6 weighted at 30% level 5 and 70% level 6.
For postgraduate awards, all award classifications will be in line with the bandings below.
Following your official results email, you will be sent further information regarding your award certificate and transcript.
If you have any questions about your award certificate or transcript, please contact the Alumni records office at alumnirecords@bathspa.ac.uk .
If you withdraw from the University before completing your registered award, or you fail to pass with sufficient credit for your registered award, you may be eligible for an Exit Award.
(Please note that, if you are awarded a CertHE or DipHE, you will not be eligible to attend a graduation ceremony).
You may be eligible for one of the following Exit Awards, provided you have met the requirements outlined below*:
*Direct-entry Level 6 students are not eligible for exit awards
If you choose to withdraw from the University before completing your full award or if you fail to successfully complete your studies, you may be eligible for a Certificate of Higher Education (CertHE), provided you have met the award requirements.
If you have any questions about the award information in your official results email, please contact the Assessments team via My Services .
If your module has 'Reassessments' next to it in your results email, you still have a reassessment opportunity in that module.
For more, click on the 'ResultsHub' link in your official results email.
If your module has “Failed” next to it in your results email, there are no reassessment opportunities in this module.
Your results email will explain if you are allowed to redeem the credit or not.
If you've received your official results email and feel that you have valid grounds to appeal, you must do so within 15 working days of receiving your results email.
Follow the link below for more.
Whether or not you can progress onto your next level of study will depend on how many outstanding credits you have by the end of the academic year.
For more information, this Results Flowchart explains the Progression Rules.
Your official results email will also confirm your progression options to you.
If you've received your results email and have questions about the progression information in the email, please contact the Assessments team via My Services .
With postgraduate degrees, the progression rules do not apply in the same way.
For postgraduate students, failure of 60 credits or more will automatically result in exclusion.
If you have received your official results email and you have any questions about your email, please contact the Assessments team via My Services.
We understand that receiving your results can be a worrying and unsettling time and we have a wide range of support services to help you.
Student Wellbeing Services
Student Wellbeing Services provides a wide range of information, specialist advice and guidance, allowing you to fulfil your potential whilst at Bath Spa University.
Students' Union advice centre
You can access independent help and guidance with your studies from the SU Advice Centre .
Your academic advisor
You'll be allocated an Academic Advisor at the beginning of your course and they'll offer you support and guidance with your studies throughout your time at University.
If you have any queries regarding Academic Advisors, please contact the Academic Advisors Office at academicadvisorsoffice@bathspa.ac.uk
Academic Skills
ASk (Academic Skills) is based in Commons .
It operates online services and offers online and in-person appointments with advisors.
ASk provides support with:
The English Language Unit is also available to support students whose first language is not English.
Careers and employabiliy
The Careers and Employability team are available to provide support and advise about your career plans, interview tips and practice and support with your CV.
The team offers one-to-one appointments, which can be booked online, and also offers a Careers Space in Main House on the Newton Park campus.
Support with finances
The Student Finance team can provide a wide range of support and advice regarding financial matters.
Contact them by email: fees@bathspa.ac.uk
If you’re facing unexpected financial hardship, the Student Funding Team may be able to help you.
For more information, contact them at studentawards@bathspa.ac.uk or visit their pages for information on funding such as the Bath Spa University Access Fund .
You can also find information and advice to help you navigate the cost of living on their pages.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/results/results-extended-information-page:
If you haven't passed a module, there are a number of options available, including reassessment or appeal.
Find out more about your different options on this page.
If your module has “Reassessments” next to it in your official results email, this means that you still have a reassessment opportunity in that module.
We recommend that you click on the “ResultsHub” link in your official results email, which will take you to information about your individual reassessment items.
Your official results email will include the reassessment submission deadline.
Details of the reassessment brief and how to submit your reassessment should be available on your module’s Ultra page.
If you have any questions on the reassessment brief or how to submit your reassessment, contact your module tutor as soon as possible for confirmation about these points.
Your reassessment will either be referred (capped at the pass mark) or deferred (uncapped).
This will be shown by the letter “R” for referred or “L” for deferred for each of your modules in your official results email.
If there's a number in the “Mark” column and a “R” or a “L” in the Grade column on your official results email, this means that you have passed one or more of your assessment items within your module, but you still have at least one assessment item within that module still to complete.
You'll need to successfully pass all assessment items within a module to successfully pass the module.
If you have any questions about the reassessment information in your official results email, please contact the Assessments team via MyServices.
If your module has “Failed” next to it in your official results email, there are no further reassessment opportunities in this module.
Your results email will explain if you're allowed to redeem the credit from this failed module or not.
If you're allowed to redeem the credit, then you'll need to retake a module during the following academic year.
If the module is a core module on your course, then you'll need to retake this module.
If the module is an optional module or the failed module is not running in the next academic year, then you'll be able to choose an equivalent module.
You'll need to attend all lectures and seminars in the new module and submit new assessment items, in order to redeem the credit for the failed module.
If you've received your official results email and feel you have valid grounds to appeal, it is possible to do so - but it must follow due process.
Find out more below.
If you've received your official results email and you feel that you have valid grounds to submit a Stage One: Formal Appeal, please submit your claim form to appeals@bathspa.ac.uk within 15 working days of the date of your official results email (which contains the results against which you wish to appeal).
The Appeals pages have information regarding the Appeals processes, including a FAQ section.
Please note: You cannot submit a valid Stage One: Formal Appeal claim when you have only received provisional marks and feedback from your tutor.
Marks are provisional-only until they are taken to a Central Assessment Board and your official results email is sent to you on the Results Publication Date following that Board.
You then have 15 working days from the date of your official results email to submit a Stage One: Formal Appeal.
Have you received your official results email and you haven't submitted for an assessment item which you feel you've an Exceptional Circumstances claim for?
If so, you have 10 working days from the date of your official results email to submit a Retrospective Exceptional Circumstances claim.
Details on how to submit Retrospective Exceptional Circumstances are available on the exceptional circumstances page.
You can submit your claim on MyServices.
As part of your studies, it’s important for you to know that the University operates a Fit to Sit/Submit principle as part of our Exceptional Circumstances policy.
This is based on the principle that when you submit an assessment or sit an examination, you’re declaring that you’re fit to do so.
You should not then claim at a later date that your performance in an assessment or examination was affected by exceptional circumstances.
If you've received your official results email and there is a Grade Code of “UP” against a module, this means that an Academic Misconduct penalty has been applied to that module.
You should already have received confirmation of this penalty following an Academic Misconduct Panel in a separate email.
If you have any questions about the Academic Misconduct penalty, please contact the Assessments team via My Services .
For more information on the processes around Academic Integrity, please visit the academic misconduct page .
GenAI can have many benefits and can be particularly useful in the early planning stages.
However, it's important to remember that this technology has several drawbacks and must be used carefully to avoid jeopardising the academic integrity of your work.
For tips on how to use GenAI, visit our GenAI guidance page.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/supporting-you-in-your-studies:
Here are some of the key services and support systems that are available to help support you to be successful in your studies.
Find further information about all our other support services or log a call via MyServices and your query will be directed to and answered by the appropriate department at the University.
Student Wellbeing Services provides a wide range of information, specialist advice and guidance, allowing you to fulfill your potential whilst at Bath Spa University.
Student Wellbeing covers three key areas:
Student Wellbeing Services also operate a Report and Support service , from which you can report a number of different issues to an advisor and receive the appropriate support.
Contact Student Wellbeing Services
Login: Student Wellbeng Services system
Call: +44 (0)1225 876543
Their services are accessible Monday to Friday, 10:00am – 4:00pm.
You'll be assigned an Academic Advisor who is usually affiliated to your course of study.
Academic Advisors will meet with you throughout the academic year and will offer support and guidance to you during your studies.
Academic Advisors are named University contacts who you can also reach out to for advice and support.
You’ll meet with your Academic Advisor during Welcome Week, then periodically during your studies each academic year.
If you have any queries regarding your Academic Advisors, please contact academicadvisorsoffice@bathspa.ac.uk .
ASk (Academic Skills) which is based in Commons , operates online services and offers online and in-person appointments with advisors.
ASk provides the following support services:
Contact the Academic Skills service:
Email: academicskills@bathspa.ac.uk
Your lecturers are here to help you with your studies, so if you have any issues with your modules or coursework requirements, please speak to your module tutor(s).
They'll be able to clarify what’s required and make suggestions to help you.
The University has support processes relating to extensions and exceptional circumstances, which are designed to help you if you encounter issues that may impact you being able to submit or undertake an assessment on time.
If you don’t feel that you’re fit to submit or undertake an assessment, or if you feel that you need more time in order to submit an assessment item (or more than one assessment item), you can either:
i) Request a short extension from your module tutor (usually one week but can be longer than this at the tutor’s discretion) by submitting an Extension Request Form (PDF) to your module tutor;
or
ii) Request exceptional circumstances for assessments in one or more modules - this will defer the coursework hand-in date to the next assessment period.
You can find out more about this process and our Exceptional Circumstances policy on the Exceptional Circumstances webpages .
This tells you about eligible exceptional circumstances, possible evidence which may be required and the approval process.
As part of your studies, it’s important for you to know that the University operates a Fit to Sit/Submit principle as part of our Exceptional Circumstances policy.
Students should not then claim at a later date that their performance in an assessment or examination was affected by exceptional circumstances.
It is really important that you ask for support and let your module tutor know if you don’t feel that you’re fit to submit or undertake an assessment.
If you feel that there was either an administrative error in the assessment process, that the assessment of your course was not carried out as published in the course material or that there was demonstrable prejudice or bias against you by one or more examiners, you are able to submit an appeal.
If you wish to submit a formal appeal (known as a Stage One: Formal Appeal) following the receipt of your official University results, the Appeals team can support you through this process.
Detailed information regarding the Appeals policy is available on the following pages:
The Student Finance team can provide a wide range of support and advice regarding financial matters.
Contact the Student Finance Team
Email: fees@bathspa.ac.uk
They can be contacted by email at studentawards@bathspa.ac.uk and details of the Bath Spa University Access Fund are available on their webpages.
Information and advice to help you navigate the cost of living is also available.
The Careers and Employability team are here to help spotlight your skills, support you, and get you to where you want to be.
They're available to help you find work, review your CV, provide support and advise about your career plans (whether or not you have any yet), and much more.
You can ask them questions or book a personalised one-to-one appointment online through MyCareer , or you can visit them at the Skills and Careers Space in Commons (opposite Costa) at Newton Park campus.
The Students’ Union Advice Centre can provide a range of independent support and advice on academic matters and policies at the University, such as academic Appeals, Academic Misconduct and Mitigating Circumstances.
Contact the Students' Union Advice Centre
Email: su-advice@bathspa.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/break-from-studies:
For more information on what a Study Break is, the support available, how to apply and actions the University will take, please refer to the Study Break Policy .
If you're thinking of taking a break from your studies, take a look at the information on MyServices for further information.
We'd advise that you consult your Academic Advisor about taking a break from your studies before formally requesting to do so.
We'd also recommend that you speak to the Finance Office in order to understand how taking a break from your studies may affect your fee liability and finances, by email ( fees@bathspa.ac.uk ) or phone ( +44 (0)1225 87 5870 ).
If you'd like to discuss your finances, please make an appointment with the Student Wellbeing Money Advice service.
For independent advice, or a conversation about taking a break from your studies, do use the Students’ Union Advice Centre or email su-advice@bathspa.ac.uk
If you have any questions regarding taking a break from your studies, you can contact the Student Information Team via MyServices .
Once you feel you have made a decision, and would like to make a request to take a break in your studies, please can contact the Student Information Team via MyServices .
Your request will be processed and assessed.
You will be contacted should we require further information and to confirm the status of your study break request.
Once approved, you will receive a formal communication confirming your study break request, and outlining your return to study date.
If you are living in University or privately owned halls of residence; we would recommend that you contact the Student Accommodation Team and/or your halls of residence provider, to find out what your licence agreement or rental liability will be if you take a break from your studies.
The Student Accommodation Team can be contacted on: accommodation@bathspa.ac.uk
With regards to council tax, your local Council will be able to advise you about eligibility for council tax exemption during your study break:
Bath and North East Somerset (B&NES) Council Tel: +44 (0)1225 477777 Email: counciltax@bathnes.gov.uk
If you live outside of the B&NES area, you can find out who your local council is .
Whilst you're on your break, the University will continue to contact you with key information, so please keep an eye on your student email account.
Find out more about services and support for students .
Download a handy guide to taking a break from your studies .
While you're on a break from your studies, whether you're on study break, placement, or exchange, you can still access key University services and resources.
The list below outlines the resources available to you.
We're here to provide support and assistance should you require it, so please do get in touch with us.
We’ll also keep in touch with you, so keep an eye on your student email address.
If you have any questions at all regarding your break from your studies, please contact the Student Information Team via MyServices or on +44 (0)1225 876115 .
If you're a research student, you can contact the Graduate College on PGRcurrentstudents@bathspa.ac.uk .
The Student Wellbeing team provides a wide range of support services.
More information can be found on the Student Wellbeing Services webpages .
We also offer 24/7 and digital wellbeing services .
If you want to discuss how the time spent away from your studies can help you shape your future career or further study you can book an appointment with the Careers and Employability team.
The full range of physical and virtual resources can still be accessed whilst you are on your break – view the full library catalogue .
You can also book an appointment with ASk (Academic Skills) .
View a full list of the services and support available to you.
You can still access the full range of opportunities on offer from the Students’ Union.
Take a look at the SU website to find out more.
Are you planning on returning to your studies soon?
If so, please continue to keep an eye on your Bath Spa University email account for important information.
If you have any questions regarding restarting your studies, or your proposed return date, please contact the Student Information Team via MyServices or on +44 (0)1225 876115 .
For advice and information regarding student accommodation, please visit our accommodation pages , or contact the Accommodation team on accommodation@bathspa.ac.uk .
You should make sure your funding is in place before you return to study.
If you have any questions around this, please contact the funding team on studentawards@bathspa.ac.uk , or take a look at our funding webpages .
You'll need to register before returning to your studies, please look out for information from our registration team.
If you have any questions regarding registration, please contact the Student Information Team via MyServices or on +44 (0)1225 876115 .
There are lots of activities and opportunities for you to participate in as you return to your studies.
Take a look at the clubs and societies available through the Students’ Union .
For information regarding returning to your course or research degree, contact your Academic Advisor or PhD Supervisor.
You can also contact your course representative for more information about how to get involved with your course.
If you're looking for part-time work to support your studies, take a look at the advertised opportunities through the Job Shop .
If you have any questions at all regarding your return to study, please contact the Student Information Team via MyServices or on +44 (0)1225 876115 .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/harassment-and-gender-based-violence-framework:
This page is the University’s single source of information on policies, procedures and campaigns for prevention, support and response strategies in relation to harassment, gender-based violence (including domestic abuse) and sexual misconduct.
At Bath Spa, we are committed to safeguarding and promoting the wellbeing of all staff and students.
Our policies, procedures, support and training aim to promote gender equality, dignity and respect, both on and off the campus.
The Office for Students new condition of registration (E6) requires the University to provide a single comprehensive source of information which sets out policies and procedures on subject matter relating to incidents of harassment and sexual misconduct, including intimate personal relationships between relevant staff members and students.
What is harassment?
Harassment is defined as being subject to unwanted behaviour or conduct which has the purpose or effect of violating a person’s dignity or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating, or offensive environment because of, or connected to, one or more of the following protected characteristics:
Harassment can incorporate domestic violence and abuse, which can encompass control, coercion, threats, and stalking.
It also includes incidents of physical violence towards another based on a protected characteristic, and hate crimes, such as those criminal offences which are perceived by the victim or any other person, to be motivated by hostility or prejudice.
Information here explains further what harassment is, what stalking is, and police reporting options.
Information here clarifies whether the harassment is discrimination or hate crime, and outlines specific options for each.
What is sexual violence?
Sexual misconduct encompasses any sexual behaviour that is unwanted and takes place without consent of the individuals involved, including sexual violence, sexual harassment, sexual assault, and gender-based violence.
Sexual misconduct can also occur remotely e.g.
through social media, e-mail,  texts and phone calls.
Sexual misconduct can be perpetrated by anyone, and anyone can be a victim of sexual misconduct.
Sexual misconduct causes significant psychological and physical distress.
Sexual misconduct and gender-based violence can include:
What is domestic abuse?
Sometimes referred to as relationship abuse or intimate partner violence, the term ‘domestic abuse’ refers to:
An incident or pattern of incidents of controlling, coercive, threatening, degrading and violent behaviour, violence or abuse, between those aged 16 or over, who are or have been intimate partners or family members, regardless of gender or sexuality.
What is gender-based violence?
Gender-based violence refers to any type of harm that is perpetrated against a person or group of people because of their factual or perceived sex, gender, sexual orientation and/or gender identity.
This type of violence is rooted in the social and cultural structures, norms and values that govern society, and is often perpetuated by a culture of denial and silence.
Gender-based violence can affect people of any gender and disproportionately affects women.
You can read more about gender-based violence on this page.
GBV can happen to anyone.
As outlined above, Gender-Based Violence disproportionately affects women, girls and other marginalised groups Sexual violence and/or domestic abuse may be experienced at the intersection of gender and other marginalised aspects of identity such as race, disability, sexuality.
Men and non-binary people can also be survivors of sexual violence and/or domestic abuse; disclosures from male and non-binary student survivors will be believed and fully supported every bit as much as those by female student survivors, as will disclosures where the perpetrator is not male.
We are here to support everyone regardless of identity or gender.
We recognise that marginalised groups are at higher risk.
We also recognise that marginalised groups and male survivors may face additional barriers to seeking support.
The Sexual Offences Act 2003 says that someone consents to sexual activity if they: 

Agree by choice and 
Have both the freedom and capacity to make that choice.
If someone says ‘no’ to any kind of sexual activity, they are not agreeing to it.
But, if someone doesn't say ‘no’ out loud, that doesn’t automatically mean that they have agreed to it either.
What is ‘freedom and capacity to agree to sexual activity’?
For someone to have freedom and capacity to consent to sexual activity, they need to be fully awake and aware of what is happening.
They need to be able to make a choice about whether or not to engage in sexual activity, free from coercion, pressure, being forced or manipulated into it.
What does consent look like?
Some cannot consent to sexual activity if:
Support for sexual harassment, sexual violence, domestic abuse and stalking
Our team of Sexual Violence Liaison Officers and Gender-Based Violence Caseworker have had specialist training to support and advise students who have experienced any form of sexual violence and/or domestic abuse.
Support for non-sexual harassment
For more information on how to contact an SVLO, please visit the SVLO section on the Support pages.
If you've experienced harassment, sexual violence or domestic abuse, you have the option to report.
You can discuss reporting options with support workers, as detailed in the Support sections above.
Reporting sexual harassment, sexual violence and/or domestic abuse:
For reporting options relating to sexual harassment, sexual violence and/or domestic abuse, BSU students can speak to an SVLO , who can explain reporting options and connect to relevant people to make your report to.
Local agencies in the Avon and Somerset/Bath area are:
Formally report an incident to the University
You have the option to report formally to the University, who can investigate incidents of harassment, sexual misconduct and domestic abuse under the Harassment and Sexual Misconduct policy and procedure.
This involves making a formal statement to the Student Disciplinary team (or HR, for staff misconduct) who will carry out an investigation.
Further information about formally reporting harassment, sexual misconduct or domestic abuse are detailed in the Making a Formal Report section below.
How to report anonymously
You can anonymously report something that has happened to you.
Sometimes people find this a useful first step towards telling someone what’s happened, while not yet feeling ready to engage further in support.
You can submit an anonymous report via our secure Report and Support system.
If you choose to submit an anonymous report, please be aware that no action can normally be taken.
If you do choose to name the other person/people involved in any of the free text areas and they are either a University student or staff member, the University will consider appropriate action to safeguard you and/or members of our community, in accordance with the Safeguarding Policy and Procedure .
Disclosing an incident means telling someone what happened.
Disclosing doesn't automatically lead to formal reporting (i.e.
the University investigating it as a disciplinary matter).
It may be that you want to disclose in order to seek support, or find out your academic options.
It could be you simply want to be able to tell someone else and for that to not lead to any particular action, such as support or reporting.
Whatever you decide in this respect is a very personal decision; there's no right or wrong, and it's important that you make the decision that feels best for you.
Where BSU staff receive disclosures relating to sexual violence and/or domestic abuse, they are obliged to share these with a colleague in the Sexual Violence Liaison Officer (SVLO) team.
This won't oblige you to receive their support if you prefer not to.
The information is shared so that the SVLO can check if any risk concerns need addressing, and/or to ensure that important information about specialist support is shared with you, if appropriate.
Making a formal report refers specifically to reporting to the Student Disciplinary team, requesting that the University investigates misconduct perpetrated by another BSU student or staff member.
The University would investigate this as a disciplinary issue.
The process for this is described further in sections below.
If you'd like to discuss the process further or specifically in relation to your circumstances, you can contact the Student Disciplinary Committee team through:
You don’t have to provide details of the incident in your email/Report and Support submission – you can say a gender-based violence incident has occurred and you’d like to discuss reporting options.
Having this conversation won’t oblige you to go ahead with reporting but it can also serve the purpose of initiating the process if you do decide to go ahead with reporting.
Reporting is a very personal decision.
It's important to remember that you’re under no obligation to report.
In rare circumstances, if the University becomes aware of a disclosure which causes concern about risk to you and/or others, we may need to act.
Generally speaking, we only investigate misconduct if you as the reporting party wish to go ahead with formally reporting.
Making the decision
The decision to formally report misconduct may be a very difficult decision to make – there is no right or wrong.
You should be guided by what feels best for you, and seek any support/advice that you need throughout the process.
Whilst we encourage and welcome reporting, we also respect the wishes of survivors.
We also know there may be various barriers and concerns about reporting, which we address further in this section.
Factors to consider
Is there evidence?
You can report whether or not you have evidence.
It’s also worth checking with the Student Disciplinary Team what would constitute evidence, as sometimes people do have evidence (e.g.
photographs, videos, screenshots, voice notes, witnesses), without realising it.
Timescales
You can report something that didn’t happen recently, as long as the person being reported for misconduct is still a current BSU student or staff member.
Not having reported immediately/sooner won’t count against you – we understand that reporting is a difficult decision and can take time to make.
The maximum timescale for the reporting process, from start to finish, is 60 working days.
It’s useful to bear this in mind, particularly to consider when the Responding Party may be due to graduate, if they are a student.
Will I and/or the person I report be identified?
A Report cannot normally be investigated without both you and the reported person being identified.
We realise this can be off-putting and worrying for people considering reporting.
For more information on precautionary measures taken towards ensuring your protection and safety in this respect, please visit this section .
We recommend discussing any concerns with the Student Disciplinary Team by contacting complaintsofficer@bathspa.ac.uk.
We can also talk to you about safety planning and additional support that may help manage the anxiety provoked by reporting.
Support will be available to you regardless of your circumstances and decisions about reporting.
Confidentiality
We know that understanding what happens with the information you share and the limits on confidentiality may form an important part of your decision-making.
Reports are treated confidentially, except where there are concerns about risk of harm to self or others which requires the University to take action to mitigate risk, for example in instances where there are Safeguarding concerns relating to risk of harm to under 18s or adults at risk.
In such instances, the University may consider reporting to the police and/or social services, as appropriate.
Who can report?
Bath Spa University students can formally report to Bath Spa University any harassment, sexual misconduct and/or domestic abuse incidents where the person being reported is a current Bath Spa University student or staff member.
Who can be reported?
Bath Spa University can only investigate misconduct where the reported person is a current Bath Spa University student or staff member.
If the reported person is not a current Bath Spa University student or staff member you have the option to report to the police .
(You can also report to the police if the person you are reporting is a Bath Spa University member.
More information about how that works in relation to also reporting to the University can be found here ).
If they are a student or staff member at another institution, you may also have the option to report to that institution.
When can I report?
You can report misconduct at any time after it has taken place – but be aware that Bath Spa University can only formally investigate misconduct while the reported person is a current Bath Spa University student/staff member.
It’s important that you take time to think through your decision if you’re unsure about it.
Bear in mind that the University aims to reach an outcome within 60 working days from the report being received and the investigation formally commencing; you may need to factor this in in terms of when the reported person is due to graduate, so that the process can be completed ahead of this happening.
Who do I report to?
BSU students report to the Student Disciplinary Team, who can be contacted by emailing complaintsofficer@bathspa.ac.uk .
You don't need to write all the detail about the incident(s) in your initial email to the Student Disciplinary Team.
You can say that you would like to discuss a harassment/sexual misconduct issue and request to talk further about how the formal reporting process works.
If the allegation of sexual misconduct involves a member of BSU staff, you can disclose to the Student Disciplinary Team or directly to HR.
Whichever reporting route you choose, you'll be invited to a meeting with a member of the HR team at the University to discuss the reporting options available to you in relation to the staff staff Sexual Violence and Misconduct procedure.
Student Wellbeing Services will support you throughout this process in conjunction with any HR investigation process.
If you decide to make a Report, the next steps will be as laid out below.
For a flowchart version of the process, click below.
Contact the Student Disciplinary Team
You can initiate the reporting process in a number of different ways:
You don’t need to include details of the incident in the email to the Student Disciplinary or Report and Support submission.
You can say that you’d like to formally report harassment, sexual misconduct and/or domestic abuse.
Meeting with Student Casework Investigator
The Student Casework Investigator (part of the Student Disciplinary Team, who has been trained in investigating incidents of harassment, sexual misconduct and domestic abuse) will invite you to meet with them.
The meeting will be conducted sensitively, using a trauma-informed approach.
You can be accompanied for support by a member of the University community, including a Students’ Union representative, a student, family member, or friend.
If you’re being supported by an Independent Sexual Violence Adviser (ISVA) from an external specialist agency such as Safe Link, you can request that your ISVA support you throughout the reporting process.
A Sexual Violence Liaison Officer (SVLO) can connect you to this support.
During the meeting, the investigation procedure will be explained (if not covered already in an informal meeting, as detailed here ) The Investigator will ask you to confirm the report details – this will include giving the Responding Party’s name (if you have it, or any identifying details you have if not).
The Investigator will explore the following with you:
What is a 'witness' in this scenario?
Witnesses include people who witnessed the events before and after the incident(s), not just the incident itself, e.g.
people who saw events that led to the incident(s) or saw you afterwards and heard from you about what happened.
It’s ok if you don’t have witnesses, you can still report.
If there are witnesses, the Investigator will talk to you about whether you wish to identify who they are, for them to be contacted to contribute a statement for the investigation.
The Investigator will explain what this will involve for them.
You may want to discuss this with witnesses first and see whether they’re happy to be involved.
What if I do/don’t report to police?
During the Investigation meeting the Student Casework Investigator will also ask whether or not you’ve reported or wish to report to the police – this isn’t because there is any expectation or obligation to report to the police, but so that we can ensure that the University doesn’t interfere with a police investigation, if one is due to take place.
Your wishes with regard to police reporting will be respected and the University will not normally go against your wishes by reporting directly to the police ourselves.
Rare exceptions to this are detailed in the section on Confidentiality .
You can report to the University regardless of whether you report to the police.
If you do report to the police, the University will open and adjourn the University process until the police investigation has concluded.
The University will carry out the formal reporting process at this point (provided you still want this to happen), regardless of the outcome of the police investigation/court case.
After meeting the Investigator
The Investigator will write up your statement based on what was said in the Investigation meeting The Investigator will send you a copy of the statement and will ask you to confirm that it is factually accurate You’ll have the opportunity to make any adjustments to the statement, as needed.
What if the allegation of sexual misconduct involves a member of BSU staff?
Risk assessment
After you meet with the Investigator and confirm your statement, the Student Feedback and Complaints Manager will carry out a risk assessment with relevant senior staff members (for example, the Head of Student Wellbeing Services, the Safeguarding Lead) to determine whether any precautionary measures need to be put in place.
Precautionary measures
Precautionary measures may be put in place to ensure that potential risks posed to the you (and/or others) by the Responding Party are mitigated as far as possible during the investigation process and beyond.
Precautionary measures are context-specific; we can’t guarantee what would be put in place as it will depend on the circumstances but it could include things such as:
What to expect from an Investigation meeting
The Investigator will meet with any witnesses and ask them to provide a statement.
Any witness statements will be later provided to both you and the Responding Party.
If a witness requests that their statement be anonymised, this will be done if possible, i.e.
where the witness is not identifiable by the information they have provided.
The Responding Party will receive written notification of a report having been made, with an explanation of the process which is being followed.
They will receive a copy of your Statement alongside any additional supporting evidence you submitted, and any Witness Statements.
The Responding Party will be required to attend a meeting with the Investigator, usually within a maximum of two weeks of the information being shared with them, and they will be given a fair opportunity to respond and present their version of events in response to the Report.
The Responding Party can choose whether to submit an initial written response to the documentation provided; this must be provided at least two working days before their meeting with the Investigator.
The Investigator will produce a document summarising the meeting with the Responding Party.
Where there are differences between your account and that of the Responding Party, the Investigator will make you aware of those differences.
You’ll be given an opportunity to comment on the perpertrator's reply.
If the Responding Party has provided any additional evidence, you’ll also be made aware of this.
This gives you a right to reply before the Investigator proceeds further with the case.
All students involved in the process can be accompanied for support by a member of the University community, including a Students’ Union representative, a student, family member, or friend.
The companion is there to provide moral support and may not be a legal representative.
All individuals involved in this process should respect the sensitive nature of the process and not discuss or share details of the case outside of the investigation or disciplinary meetings.
This is because sharing information could make an already difficult situation worse for everyone involved, and in some cases may undermine the disciplinary process.
This does not mean that those involved cannot seek appropriate advice and support.
Investigator determines next steps based on evidence
On the balance of probabilities (which means that, on the evidence, the occurrence of the event was more likely than not), the Investigator will determine whether the evidence available indicates a breach of the Student Disciplinary Policy.
The next steps may be one of the following:
Outcome
Following the Hearing, the Panel will deliberate in private to determine whether they believe that misconduct has occurred or not, on the balance of probabilities.
If a Responding Party is found guilty of misconduct, one or more penalties may be imposed by the Disciplinary Panel members, as detailed in section 7.26 of the Student Disciplinary Procedure.
If both you and the Responding Party have attended the Panel Hearing, a copy of the Panel Chair Report will be provided (separately) to you both.
This will include a summary of the Hearing, the Panel’s decision, the penalties applied (if misconduct has occurred) and the factors considered in reaching a decision.
If the Reporting Party has not attended the Hearing, they will not receive a copy of the Panel Chair Report.
You and the Responding Party will also receive a letter via email, outlining the outcome of the case, any penalties which may have been applied, and ongoing support options for both parties involved.
Appeal
Following the conclusion of the investigation, you and/or the Responding Party may appeal against the outcome, following the process detailed in section 9 of the Student Disciplinary Procedure .
If you are a member of staff who has experienced any form of sexual harassment or sexual violence at work, you can reach out to one of the HR Business Partners who can listen, discuss the options available to you and signpost you to relevant support organisations/resources.
They will ask you a few questions to ensure they give you the right information, but you won’t be asked for a detailed account.
If you are a member of Staff who has experienced an incident of harassment, you can seek confidential support from:
More information on all these support routes can be found through our Sharepoint guidance here .
We have a number of policies and guidance documents available to advise staff on procedure and protocol.
Copies of these policies, and further information associated with any procedures can also be found on the HR SharePoint available to all staff members.
You will need to use your BSU log in details to access these resources.
You can contact a member of the HR department by following any of the below routes:
What's the difference between disclosing an incident and making a formal report
Disclosing doesn’t automatically lead to formal reporting (i.e the University investigating the incident as a disciplinary matter).
It may be that you want to disclose an incident in order to seek support.
You can speak to your HR Business partner confidentially to discuss potential options without this necessarily leading to any particular action.
Making a formal report refers specifically to reporting the incident to HR and requesting that the University investigates the misconduct perpetrated by a BSU staff member or BSU student.
The University would investigate this as a disciplinary issuefollowing the relevant procedure - either the Sexual Violence and Misconduct Procedure for Staff or Harassment and Sexual Misconduct Policy and Procedure for Students .
You don’t have to provide details of the incident in your email to HR or your Report and Support submission – you can say a gender-based violence incident has occurred, and you’d like to discuss reporting options.
Further information about the formal reporting process can be found in the Making a formal report of an incident to the University (staff) section below.
If you have experienced harassment, sexual violence or domestic abuse, you may choose to report this directly:
Alongside this support, BSU staff members can also speak to their HR Business Partner who can confidentially explain the University reporting options you may also wish to consider.
Making a formal report of a sexual misconduct incident to the University (Staff)
You have the option to report formally to the University, who can investigate incidents of sexual harassment and sexual misconduct under the Anti-harassment policy and Sexual Violence and Misconduct procedure for staff.
This involves making a formal statement in writing to the HR department for staff misconduct, who will carry out an investigation.
Your report should be submitted in one of two ways:
If you are a member of staff, you will be invited to meet with an HR Business Partner following your report where the formal investigation process will be explained and the report details confirmed.
The HR Business Partner will check whether you have any immediate concerns which need to be considered, explore what you would consider a positive outcome of the process and advise what can be achieved within the scope of the formal procedure being followed.
The HR Business Partner will ensure that you are aware of all the support options available to you, if this was not covered during the earlier disclosure process.
If formal action is pursued under the relevant policy, an Investigator will be appointed, and the anticipated investigation timescale will be discussed.
You will be supported and updated throughout any investigation process.
Further detailed information on the investigation, outcome and any appeal process can be found in the Sexual Violence and Misconduct Procedure for Staff document .
You can submit an anonymous report via our secure Report and Support portal .
If you do choose to name the other person/people involved in any of the free text areas and they are either a University student or staff member, the University will consider appropriate action to safeguard you and/or members of our community, in accordance with the Safeguarding Policy and Procedures .
If you choose to submit an anonymous report, please be aware that no formal action can normally be taken.
Sexual violence
Harassment-related support
Domestic abuse
Specialist helplines:
#NeverOK
#NeverOK is a city-wide campaign between Bath Spa University and its Students’ Union, University of Bath and its Students’ Union, Komedia and the Student Community Partnership.
The campaign aims to tackle sexual misconduct, domestic abuse, all forms of harassment, bullying and discrimination.
NeverOK educates students and staff about unacceptable behaviours, empowers students to speak out when they see inappropriate behaviour and encourages students to speak to support services if they witness or experience harassment or assault.
It includes a poster campaign placed in prominent positions across Bath Spa University campuses which dispel common misconceptions about Gender-Based Violence and connects student survivors to support services.
Find out more about #NeverOK resources .
Events
Awareness raising also takes place at a number of planned events during the academic year.
This includes a combination of events designed to actively encourage engagement in specific Gender-Based Violence and Harassment themes, often in tune with national events and awareness days/weeks, as well as having a presence and visibility at events for mental health and wellbeing more generally.
Gender-Based Violence and Harassment-specific events generally consist of having a stand, banners and take-away information, members of the Sexual Violence Liaison Officer team present to engage students in conversations about Gender-Based Violence and Harassment and the support available, alongside activities.
Activities could include students creating a post-it note vision board of different behaviours constituting healthy and unhealthy relationships.
Local specialist agencies such as The Bridge, Bristol and Somerset's Sexual Assault Referral Centre, often join us at these events.
Gender-Based Violence and Harassment awareness raising at events take place each year during national campaigns, such as the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence and Sexual Violence Awareness Week.
We also run events in conjunction with Bath Spa Student Union’s Sexual Health and Guidance Week.
Communications
Awareness raising also takes place via social media and online newsletter posts in tune with national awareness dates such as Domestic Abuse Awareness Month and Sexual Violence Awareness Week.
Consent Collective training
From academic year 2025-26, all new BSU students are signed up to the Consent Collective pathway when they register, which requires them to complete modules which combine video content with interactive questions.
The modules explore the nuances of consent, both sexually and more generally, and advise how to practice active consent and mutual respect in all walks of life.
The modules include exploration of how gendered inequalities and unequal power relations are reflected in and reinforced by harassment, sexual violence and abusive behaviours.
They also include modules on bystander intervention, links to support services and how to respond to disclosures from others.
Bath Spa University’s Gender-Based Violence Network, comprised of academic and professional services staff working in the field of Gender-Based Violence, is collaborating to expand upon the above consent modules.
Staff and student training sessions
The Tender RE:SET Award included training for Student Officers to develop and deliver projects and campaigns about domestic abuse and sexual violence.
Three members of staff (two from Bath Spa University Student Wellbeing Service and one from the Bath Spa Student Union) completed the OCN Level 3 Developing & Delivering Domestic Abuse Training, which will enable the delivery of in-house training sessions to staff and students.
The Gender-Based Violence Caseworker in Student Wellbeing Services delivers regular training sessions to student-facing services and academic departments; currently this training focuses on definitions of Gender-Based Violence and how to respond to student experiences of Gender-Based Violence.
From academic year 2025-26, staff will also receive online training content via the Consent Collective resource).
Future plans for staff training will embed training within the mandatory staff induction training programme.
In addition to regular campaigns and communications, BSU is committed to providing ongoing training to staff and students.
At Bath Spa, we're committed to ensuring that the whole community feels safe on campus.
Report and Support is our online tool to let the University know about any concerns relating to bullying, harassment, abuse or violence.
Report and Support
Appointed Sexual Violence Liaison Officers
SVLOs act as a point of liaison for students who have experienced sexual violence and/or domestic abuse, informing students of their options and connecting them with relevant specialist agencies to report and/or receive support (e.g.
In 2024 the role became a full time Gender-Based Violence Caseworker post.
Improved the Disciplinary Process
Developed relationships with external organisations that support victim-survivor
The University has strong links with a number of specialist agencies which support victim-survivors of gender-based violence.
You can find details of support agencies in our external support section .
Tender RE:SET Universities Award
Bath Spa University has recently been awarded the Tender RE:SET Universities Award for 3 years.
RE:SET Universities Award recognises excellence in the prevention of domestic abuse and sexual violence, including embedding effective sustainable prevention within our campus culture; and empowering, supporting and educating our staff and students.
The RE:SET Project Delivery team (comprising staff in Student Wellbeing Services, Students Union, Communications team, Events, HR and BSU students) collaborated over 18 months to complete a framework of tasks focused on reviewing and improving current training, policy and support relating to domestic abuse and sexual violence.
The framework included auditing, training, policy and service updates, and student engagement, whilst equipping senior leaders and frontline staff with the knowledge and skills to lead the sector in preventing gendered violence and developing a positive campus culture.
Some of the tasks undertaken as part of the RE:SET project:
#NeverOK and other campaigns
Training for students and staff
From academic year 2025-26, All new BSU students are signed up to the Consent Collective pathway when they register, which requires them to complete online modules.
From academic year 2025-26, staff will also access online training content via Consent Collective (see above).

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/your-learning-experience:
Our programmes of study are inspiring and relevant, operating at the intersection of professional, creative and sustainable approaches to real world issues.
We take an inclusive approach that enables transformational learning journeys and prepares you for a career that's meaningful to you.
We do this through a personalised and compassionate approach to learning and wellbeing.
Your educational experience is fuelled by our strengths in research, innovation and professional practice.
Our networks of local, national and international partnerships ensure that the economic and cultural life of the region and beyond influences our curriculum and teaching.
We take a blended learning approach with mostly in-person teaching through interactive and inclusive lectures, seminars, workshops, labs, studios and other opportunities for active, work-related learning and authentic assessment.
Across our campuses we have a wide range of facilities available to you including food and drink, relaxation and study spaces, practice and rehearsal spaces.
You can get in-person help and advice to enhance your academic skills , your employability skills and your mental health and wellbeing, and these services are also available online and digitally for you to access at any time that suits you.
The University Library provides physical spaces and collections, as well as a comprehensive range of digital resources to underpin your learning experience.
As a professionally creative university for the future, we ensure that your learning and teaching engages with up-to-date digital technologies.
As an Adobe Creative Campus we can develop your tech skills from the moment you join BSU, boosting your employability.
We promote and support a critical and ethical approach to the use of Generative AI and other emergent and evolving technologies.
As part of the BSU collaborative community you have agency and are valued.
You can know it is OK to get help when you need it.
You can be curious about the world and make the most of your learning opportunities.
You can be confident to share your thoughts and opinions about your BSU experience.
You are welcomed to contribute creatively to our vision for education.
Your engagement is at the heart of how we teach and how you learn.
This statement outlines further information about:
Please note that some aspects of learning and teaching delivery for some courses and students may be required to be varied from this model where professional and regulatory bodies require, including for accrediting, funding and visa compliance purposes.
Please see the Student Terms and Conditions for more information.
Our delivery approach at Bath Spa University is centred around the importance of connecting students and staff to create a learning environment that is engaging and inclusive, participative and interactive, however the subject matter is delivered.
We’ve developed expertise in blended delivery and online learning through innovation and student feedback.
All our modules include in-person activities, and no module is fully online unless it has been designed and validated as distance learning provision.
All seminars and workshops are in-person.
Lectures are either in-person or online but always ‘live’ (in real time).
We are continuing to deliver some online teaching as we know that this can work very well for large groups.
It can provide a more accessible, flexible, interactive, and inclusive experience for students than attending in a large lecture theatre, and works well alongside smaller group activities on campus.
Most live lectures are recorded, as we know this is critical to providing an inclusive learning and teaching environment.
Tutorials and dissertation supervision can be on-campus or online, depending on your preference, and all written exams are online unless stated otherwise.
Seminars and workshops are not normally recorded because these have a different dynamic, and are designed as participative, on-campus activities.
Your learning is organised into modules which carry academic credits.
For an undergraduate (Bachelors) award, you will usually complete 360 credits across three years.
For a postgraduate (Masters) award, you will usually complete 180 credits over one year (full-time) or two years (part-time).
Each credit is equivalent to 10 student engagement hours: for example, a 20-credit module will require you to complete 200 hours of learning.
The academic year is divided into terms called semesters (for undergraduate provision) and trimesters (for postgraduate programmes).
Each semester is 14 weeks long, including 12 weeks of scheduled learning and teaching followed by two weeks that are used flexibly by each module (for example, for assessment and feedback, or revision sessions).
Each postgraduate trimester is also 14 weeks long but the number of scheduled learning and teaching weeks varies between courses.
Our academic timetable and calendar are designed to support your learning through careful pacing of teaching and assessment activity.
This means that to engage effectively with your course, you’ll be doing around 40 hours of study each week during term time.
Student engagement hours include attending scheduled learning and teaching activities (for example, seminars and lectures), which are always facilitated by lecturers or tutors.
Engagement hours also include independent study (for example, preparation for scheduled sessions, follow-up work, wider reading or practice, group work, the completion of assessment tasks and revision).
Scheduled learning and teaching activities change from year to year and tends to decrease as you move through your degree and as you focus more on independent study (for example, by completing self-directed projects or research).
Our undergraduate courses typically structure scheduled learning and teaching activities across the years of study in the following way:
Our postgraduate courses (Level 7) vary according to subject: a typical postgraduate taught degree course will offer around six hours of scheduled learning and teaching activities per week when you’re studying standard modules as a full-time student.
This will vary for modules which are taught mainly through one-to-one tutorials (such as dissertation or project modules).
This will also vary for PGCE courses, which are structured differently.
Please check the individual course page for details specific to your chosen course, and if you still have questions, please email the course tutor listed on the web page.
To get the most out of your time at Bath Spa University, you need to engage in your studies by attending all scheduled learning and teaching activities, by completing all your assessments and by undertaking independent study.
We have a University Student Engagement and Attendance Policy that sets out why we monitor student engagement and how we offer advice and guidance to enable you to make informed decisions about your engagement.
We have also set out how we support and measure student engagement , and also provides information about how you can use the new Bath Spa App to measure your own progress.
For any queries, you can get in touch with our Student Engagement team by email: myengagement@bathspa.ac.uk .
Across our campuses, we have a wide range of facilities available to you, as well as an extensive array of digital services and resources that can be accessed anywhere, anytime.
As a Bath Spa student, you can browse the library bookshelves, use on-campus study spaces, head to the Students’ Union for extra-curricular activities, and attend in-person sessions and events from a wide range of University services.
You can also book workshops and practice and rehearsal spaces across our campuses.
Most services also offer online appointments, too.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, there are no timetabled sessions for undergraduate teaching on Wednesday afternoons after 1.00pm to allow space for extra curricular activities.
Timetabled sessions for postgraduate teaching on Wednesday afternoons are kept to a minimum.
We continually review and reflect on our approach to the delivery of teaching, so that we can respond to both student feedback and to changes in the external environment.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-engagement:
Our research tells us that students who are most engaged with their course feel the most settled at Bath Spa University.
National research suggests that the more involved students are with their course, the better they do.
We want both of these things for you.
Fully engaging with your course means that you’re more likely to thrive at Bath Spa, and to be more successful in your studies.
Our mission is to help you do this.
Attendance is essential.
Being fully present in your classes is an important way to develop your subject knowledge, build interpersonal and communication skills (both key for the workplace) and get instant feedback on your ideas from fellow students and tutors.
Interaction matters, too.
Interacting with the learning and teaching resources available to you, such as recorded lectures and online library resources shared by your tutors, is an essential way to build up additional knowledge and experience.
A combination of consistent attendance and interaction will help you to achieve the best outcome from your course.
We proactively review student engagement data because lower engagement can be a sign that you might need more support.
If we notice your engagement dropping, we reach out to offer support and advice, rather than waiting for you to ask for it.
We work closely with other Bath Spa University teams to ensure that if your engagement drops, it can be quickly restored again.
If you’re dealing with any sort of issue that directly impacts your studies, we can put you in touch with the professionals and teams who can help.
For more information, you can read our Engagement and Attendance Policy here.
We also have some handy infographics to help explain this policy in an accessible way.
My Bath Spa gives you access to University services on your phone, tablet and desktop.
It brings together news, information and updates in one place.
You'll be able to use the app to view your Welcome checklist, check into your lectures and see your timetable.
You can download the app from the App Store or Google Play store , or you can view it in your browser .
If you're a new student you'll get your login details once you've registered with us, but in the meantime you can take a look around as a guest.
The Student Engagement team coordinates the University’s Welcome Activities , to welcome you to Bath Spa University and quickly help you find your feet.
Throughout your time at Bath Spa, we’re here to help you to stay fully engaged and on track with your course.
We support you with your transition to Bath Spa University and when you transition between phases of your course (for example, between your second and final year of your undergraduate course).
We help you to settle in, even if you have a later start date, such as a course that starts in February rather than September.
As well as engagement and attendance, we’re on-hand to support you with every stage of your student journey, including Welcome Week .
If you need support with any aspect of your student journey, you can reach us at myengagement@bathspa.ac.uk .
You can take a look at the full Student Engagement and Attendance policy online and learn more about our policies for students online

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/academic-advisors:
Your Academic Advisor will be a member of the teaching team from your course and will be available to help and advise you throughout your studies at Bath Spa University.
They'll be your key point of contact and offer you appropriate academic advice, guidance and structured support at key stages of your academic career.
They'll also be able to effectively signpost you to our relevant Student Services support service teams across the University.
Your Academic Advisor will contact you at the beginning of the academic year to set up an introductory meeting.
If you're not sure who your Academic Advisor is, please contact us at academicadvisors@bathspa.ac.uk .
If you'd like to request to change your Academic Advisor, please log a call via MyServices – you don't need to state a reason.
You'll normally be allocated an Academic Advisor from both of your courses.
If you have any queries regarding your Academic Advisors, please contact us at academicadvisors@bathspa.ac.uk .
The My Bath Spa App gives you access to University services on your phone, tablet and desktop.
It brings together news, information and updates in one place as well as your Welcome checklist.
You'll be able to use the app to check in to your lectures and see your timetable.
You can download the app from the App Store or Google Play store .
If you have any questions about your Academic Advisor or the Academic Advising scheme, please contact us at academicadvisors@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/student-hub:
The Student Hub is a drop-in space that offers all of our students the opportunity to speak to members of our friendly and experienced student-facing teams.
Bath Spa University's Student Information team is available in the Hub to offer advice and a range of support including guidance on the University’s processes and topics that you might come across during your studies.
If you’re not sure who to contact or you need help finding your way around our campuses, visit the Hub and we’ll point you in the right direction.
The Student Hub is located in:
Locksbrook Campus:
Please note that opening times can be subject to change and will be more limited out of term time.
Members of the Student Information and IT Service Desk teams are based in the Hub from Monday to Friday.
On select days, the Finance and Fees teams are also available, as are staff from Student Wellbeing Services team (for bookable appointments only).
At certain times of the year, other teams such as the University’s Accommodation, Careers, and Immigration Advice and Compliance teams will also be available.
Drop-in sessions will be advertised by those teams nearer the time.
The Student Information Team offers guidance, support and advice to all Bath Spa students on a wide range of areas.
In particular, we can help with:
We also have a private space available in the Newton Park Student Hub.
If you’d prefer to speak to us about your student record in confidence, you can do so there.
We can:
We also:
Get in touch online
You can also contact the Student Information Team by logging a call via the MyServices student portal.
There’s plenty of additional information on the portal which may assist you with your query or help you determine which University team to contact.
Get in touch by phone
You can phone the Student Information Team on +44 (0)1225 876115 (lines are open 9.30am to 3.30pm, Monday to Thursday and 9.30am to 3pm on Fridays).
Members of the IT Service Desk team are on-hand at the Student Hub on weekdays between 9.00am and 4.00pm to help with your queries, including:
You can also contact the IT Services Team by logging a call via the MyServices student portal.
MyServices is the one-stop-shop self-service portal, providing access to hundreds of resources including access to services, troubleshooting assistance and frequently asked questions.
You can use MyServices to find solutions to problems you’re having or submit a call to the right department.
Our student IT induction guide is also designed to answer many of your queries.
You can phone the IT Services team on: +44 (0)1225 876500 .
Finance consists of various teams that specialise in different areas.
Below is a brief overview of the teams, the areas they manage and their contact details.
Please remember to quote your student ID number with any correspondence.
There’s also a wealth of finance information on MyServices , as well as an online fee statement that will detail any payment plan you have with us and a link to the student finance handbook that provides further information.
Student Fees team: fees@bathspa.ac.uk
Offers advice and guidance to students in:
Income team: income@bathspa.ac.uk
Funding team: studentawards@bathspa.ac.uk
Accounts Payable team: accountspayable@bathspa.ac.uk
Please email accountspayable@bathspa.ac.uk to request an expenses reimbursement claim form.
Email accommodation@bathspa.ac.uk or phone +44 (0)1225 876777 (lines are open 10am to 4pm, Monday to Friday).
You can also explore our Accommodation webpages.
Log into MyServices or phone +44 (0)1225 876115 (lines are open 9.30am to 3.30pm, Monday to Thursday, and 9.30am to 3pm on Fridays).
Log into MyWellbeing or phone +44 (0)1225 876543 .
You can also explore our Student Wellbeing Services webpages.
Email immigrationcompliance@bathspa.ac.uk or visit our Visas and Immigration webpages.

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/unitu:
Bath Spa University students have access to Unitu, our online student feedback platform, 24/7 every day of the year.
Unitu is where students and student reps can raise issues, ask questions and offer ideas or praise.
It helps the University and the Students’ Union to work together with students to deliver faster improvements to the student experience.
Log in to Unitu
All Bath Spa students are registered on Unitu and can post anytime, either anonymously or using their name.
Each student's post will go into a private section of the school or university-wide board (where university staff can't see it), and reps or SU staff will initially help and respond.
In 2022 reps responded on average within two days, and often resolved the question, issue or idea within that time.
If a rep or the SU can't resolve or answer the post, they'll move it to the public section where university staff can see it.
The post will quickly be allocated to the member of staff who can best answer and resolve it with you.
At all stages of the process, in both private and public areas, other students can also comment to add their own questions or suggestions.
Once posts are moved to the public section, we aim to respond and resolve them on Unitu within 14 working days.
If you'd like to learn more about Unitu and how it works, there are many handy videos and tutorials on the Unitu Youtube channel .
You can also visit the Unitu Help Desk to see FAQs and how to use the platform.
Your feedback is important, and helps us to make improvements that benefit the whole Bath Spa community.
Here are some examples of how your feedback has helped to make positive changes:
As a Bath Spa student, you'll be able to access Unitu automatically.
After you've completed your registration, you'll receive an email from Unitu inviting you to complete and activate your Unitu account .
You can ask questions or raise issues about anything to do with the University.
Why not use Unitu to:
Students can see only their school board and the University board.
They can't see other school boards.
School boards
Your school board is monitored by staff and student reps related to those schools or courses within the school.
As issues and ideas are raised and discussed, staff and reps can respond and provide updates on progress.
They can also share the feedback at staff and student forums within the school.
University board
The main University board is monitored by the Students’ Union, as well as the University’s Professional Services Staff from Student Wellbeing Services, Student Experience, Library, Careers, Registry and Estates (Accommodation, Facilities and Services), who will be able to respond and provide updates.
Report it!
Click ‘report content’ next to any post or comment and let us know why you're reporting it.
It'll be hidden immediately and sent to staff or student reps to be moderated.
They can choose to either remove or reinstate the content, and you'll receive an email informing you of the outcome.
The three-strike policy
All users of the platform agree to the terms of use when activating their Unitu account, which includes the three-strike policy for inappropriate content:
Both staff and students can also report any inappropriate or defamatory comments to Unitu directly.
The content will be removed and, if appropriate, disciplinary action may be taken against the individual responsible for the post.
Read the Unitu Content Policy .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/module-evaluation:
At the end of semesters, students are asked to evaluate the modules they have undertaken by completing a module evaluation.
The questions are consistent across all modules, and overall results are shared with students.
From January 2024, we will be using a central module evaluation platform provided by Blue, by Explorance.
This solution allows all module feedback to be unified across all modules and embedded within our virtual learning environment for easy access by students.
Further analysis of the overall results will allow themes and any issues to be addressed both directly and at a university-wide level.
This platform allows full accessibility and a clear and simple user experience for students and staff.
Remember, your feedback is invaluable in shaping the future of education at the University.
By providing thoughtful and constructive feedback, you shape the learning environment for yourself and future students.
These surveys are one of the most important ways you can provide feedback on the different units that make up your university course.
They allow you to have your say in the learning and teaching you receive.
Whilst you may have many opportunities to feedback on your module during the teaching weeks, the end-of-module feedback survey is to find out how it went overall, and at the point that we can make improvements for the next time the module runs.
The success of your units and the features of your course that you enjoy are in part a direct result of previous student and staff feedback.
Completing evaluations also helps you reflect on your style of learning and builds your understanding of the sort of learner you are.
Module feedback is one of the key ways in which we gain insights into how students feel about Bath Spa University.
It is used to:
Staff will use the scores and feedback from them as part of their continuing professional development and as evidence at different stages of their career progression such as probation and promotion.
This is your opportunity to provide anonymous feedback about the delivery, content, learning resources and assessment for each of your modules.
Academic staff only see the responses as percentages or counts, they do not see individual or named responses and they do not nor cannot affect your marks.
Honest, constructive feedback helps us to know what works well and what we could improve!
If a student does not include anything in the open questions that makes them identifiable, no one in the faculty will know who gave which answer.
This includes staff who teach and mark on the module.
Centrally, the system can track who has responded so that reminders are not duplicated, and high-level analysis can take place.
The results of this analysis will be presented in a way that does not identify any individual.
However, the University reserves the right to identify a respondent under certain circumstances, such as where they suspect a breach of the law or University policy and regulation or a threat to the welfare of a student, staff, or another.
If you have any questions on student feedback or how we use your data, please contact studentvoice@bathspa.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://bathspa.ac.uk/students/support-for-final-year-students-and-graduates:
We understand your final year of university can be a stressful time, and you may need to access support from different parts of the university.
Careers and Employability , Academic Skills , Student Wellbeing Services , Accommodation and Library and Learning Services have teamed up to create this webpage.
It's been designed to direct you towards all the support available to help prepare for life after university, how to access ways to support your mental health, and how to get help with your learning to achieve your degree goals.
We want to see you succeed in your final year and help you to prepare for what comes next.
Support from Careers and Employability The Careers team are on-hand to help prepare you for the next steps after university.
There are a number of specific support options available.
The Careers team are on-hand to help prepare you for the next steps after university.
In your final year, we recommend securing graduate careers support for after you have left Bath Spa by signing up to the Grad Support Unit .
The Careers and Employability service has developed on-demand digital guides and resources to support your career journey.
To access our full range of resources on topics such as preparing job applications, networking, freelancing, self-employment and our sector guides, please see the Careers' resources page .
You can also log in to our online careers platform MyCareer to view further enhanced resources.
After you graduate, you'll just need to register for a graduate account to continue accessing MyCareer.
The Bath Spa Graduate Scheme enables you to begin your career at Bath Spa University, providing you with an insight into higher education as well as ensuring a smooth transition into the workplace.
You’ll be fully supported when it comes to learning and development for the duration of the 18 month graduate scheme.
This includes being matched with a mentor from the senior leadership team alongside an intensive structured training and development programme.
There are a range of roles on offer where you can support academic and professional services across the university.
Roles are for 18 months, start mid-August or early September and have a starting salary of £26,338.
Applications usually open by early Spring and are advertised for a month, with the offer of application support.
If you have any queries about the scheme you can ask a question on MyCareer.
The Grad Support Unit Fund
The Grad Support Unit Fund is designed to help final-year students and recent graduates access financial assistance with the costs that can arise from getting started in your career.
Please see the Grad Support Unit Fund page for more details.
Explore it, Launch it and Grow it
This funding programme supports students and graduates at all stages of business development, from ideation to growth, as well as those who are developing a freelance practice, by providing funding, coaching, and skills-based workshops.
Please see the Explore it, Launch it and Grow it page for more details.
Support from Student Wellbeing Services Recommendations for information, advice and support services for final year students.
Recommendations for information, advice and support services for final year students.
Support from the Library From dedicated Subject Librarians to bookable study spaces, the Library team are help to support you in your final year and are a fantastic resource.
From dedicated Subject Librarians to bookable study spaces, the Library team are help to support you in your final year and are a fantastic resource.
An invaluable source of support for your final year of study from the library is your Subject Librarian.
Each School has a dedicated Librarian, and they're on hand to provide expert guidance for your subject through personalised 1-1 support.
They can offer advice on search strategies, locating literature, evaluating sources and more.
Find out who your librarian is to book an appointment here: Subject resources A-Z – Bath Spa University
Can’t find a book on the topic you are interested in from the library?
Please contact your Subject Librarian to request a purchase and we'll try our best to plug those research gaps for you.
If you need access to a journal article, then you can request it to be sent to you electronically via the Inter Library Loan Service .
The library has a range of different study spaces to suit your needs; walk-in and bookable at Newton Park.
You can choose from quiet locations with easy access to browse the bookshelves, spaces with PCs, or spaces with tables and power where you can use your own device.
To guarantee a study space please book a seat using our booking system .
Don’t forget that we also have a 24/7 chat service so, if you need support and guidance, it's available at your fingertips wherever you are.
Support from Academic Skills The final year can mean a different type of workload.
The Academic Skills team are here to help with things such as dissertation writing skills and other research skills.
The final year can mean a different type of workload.
Book an appointment with an advisor to look at your research project or dissertation.
Each student can have up to four appointments for a dissertation or research project; appointments are available Mon-Fri, online and in-person.
Our Learning Development Advisors will help you improve your writing, referencing, structure and critical thinking across your work.
Completing primary research and needing help with statistical tools?
Our Maths and Stats advisor can support you with using SPSS, JASP, R and Excel.
Appointments are available Tues – Thurs 10.00-3.00, online and in-person.
This step-by-step guide outlines the dissertation process, gives advice on how to complete each stage and shows how to get help at each of these stages.
This document outlines the structure of a typical dissertation and gives advice on how to approach and write each section.
Writing a literature review is a key part of any dissertation or research project; this document lays out how to structure each element of a review of the literature and the content to include.
This project management video takes you through some key steps in managing a project and gives strategies to help you complete a project on time.
We're here to support you.
Whether it's advice on accommodation or careers services, there's a lot of support on offer to help you transition from university into employment and beyond.
We want to see you succeed and help you to prepare for what comes next.
Graduate support from Careers and Employability The Careers team can offer support after graduation through resources, advice and placements.
The Careers team can offer support after graduation through resources, advice and placements.
We recommend securing graduate careers support for after you have left Bath Spa University by signing up to the Grad Support Unit .
The Grad Internship Programme matches your talents with opportunities that are fully paid, exclusive and tailored to recent Bath Spa University graduates.
These types of opportunities typically take place with local businesses and are either six weeks long, working 30 hours per week, or 12 weeks long, working 15 hours per week.
Applications usually open in the summer every year.
If you have any questions or queries, you can ask a question on MyCareer.
All UK university leavers will be contacted fifteen months after graduation to complete the national Graduate Outcomes Survey.
Your voice will have a meaningful impact on students for years to come, so please share your journey after graduation with us by taking part.
To find out more, visit the Graduate Outcomes website .
To access our full range of resources on topics such as preparing job applications, Networking, freelancing, self-employment and our sector guides, please see the Careers' resources page .
You can also log in to MyCareer , our online careers platform, to view further enhanced resources.
Graduate support from the Library As a Bath Spa University alumnus, you have access to a number of resources after graduation.
As a Bath Spa University alumnus, you have access to a number of resources after graduation.
As a Bath Spa University alumnus, you can access the following online library resources for six months following your graduation using the links provided below:
After graduation, you will have free access to the library’s print collection for a period of one year.
You'll be entitled to borrow up to five books at time, browse the print collection, use the library study space and use the enquiry services.
Graduate support from Student Wellbeing Services In addition to the extensive list of useful links in the section above, there are also a number of places to find support with areas like taxation and Student Loan repayments.
In addition to the extensive list of useful links in the section above, there are also a number of places to find support with areas like taxation and Student Loan repayments.
Employment means you'll be paying certain taxes and contributions.
Links to useful web pages for more information below:
For more information on disability right in employment, visit the gov.uk pages.
Advice on accommodation for Graduates The resources below aim to highlight a few key points on how to find accommodation after you have finished university.
Please note that if you do have any queries or concerns, you can contact Citizens Advice.
The resources below aim to highlight a few key points on how to find accommodation after you have finished university.
There are multiple routes to finding housing after university.
It all depends on what you are looking for!
If you and two other friends are looking for a house/flat that you can share, then your best bet will be Rightmove or Zoopla.
If you're planning on moving somewhere brand-new and you don’t yet know anyone, then Spareroom or local Facebook Groups are a great resource.
If you're moving to an area where you already have established links, then try asking friends or family if they know anyone.
If you can get a personal recommendation, it'll give both you and the prospective landlord some security.
With all these routes, please exercise careful judgement moving in with people you don’t know.
If you have hesitations, carefully consider them; and if it looks too good to be true, chat with others about why.
It can sometimes be quite difficult to get your first foot into the rental market, but a bit of broad advice is:
What if I don’t meet these requirements?
If you don't meet these requirements, then you'll usually have two options:
If you don’t have anyone that can do this, then you are not completely lost!
You can still use a service such as Housing Hand .
This is a service where you can pay somebody a monthly or yearly fee to act as your guarantor.
Although they can sometimes be expensive, think of it as a long-term investment.
Once you're in the rental market and can get a reference, you can then move into a new property afterwards without the need for this service.
Once you've found a property that you like, you'll need to put down a holding deposit and a security deposit, so it’s worth trying to save some money ahead of time to do this.
For deposit protection rules, please see the Shelter website .
Depending on where you've lived before, you may be used to paying bills.
However, moving out after university will mean paying some new ones, such as Council Tax.
For a list of bills for which you'll be responsible, there's information on the Zoopla website .
There are a limited number of circumstances where Council Tax is reduced, which is further explained on the UK Government webpages on council tax.
For a wide variety of reasons, students can’t always move into the private sector straight after university.
Consider your options and work out what is most sensible for you.
If it's possible to move back home for a few months to save some money while you work, then consider doing that.
If you have nowhere to go, then you may wish to consider whether or not you might be classified as homeless.
If yes, then please consult the government information and contact your local council authority, who are best placed to guide you.