# Site: https://www.beds.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 494
# --------

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk:
Browse all Foundation, Undergraduate, Postgraduate and CPD courses.
Search all our postgraduate courses.
Your full guide to the process of applying to study at the University of Bedfordshire.
Find out about applying for Postgraduate study, including taught courses, research degrees and CPD short courses.
Support and information on admissions, fees and funding and courses for applicants from outside of the UK.
Our Higher and Degree Apprenticeships have been designed with employers in mind.
Apply to study a Research Degree.
We offer a range of generous bursaries and scholarships to support you during your studies.
Find out about our Open Days, including online events, campus tours and webinars.
Browse our prospectuses to find out what the University has to offer.
Information for teachers and advisors in preparing students for university.
Help and advice, so you can navigate your way through the University application process with your child.
The latest news and events from the University.
We are here to help every student at the University of Bedfordshire get the most out of their university experience.
Welcome new students.
Browse on campus accommodation options from our university accredited partners.
Find out about the processes we use to deliver and manage assessment-related processes, what support is available to you and how we agree and approve your results.
Discover more about joining alumni groups and staying in touch with the university.
See how you'll be supported during your time at the University.
We welcome people of all faiths and beliefs and offer personal and spiritual support to students from over 100 countries.
Find out about examinations at the University of Bedfordshire.
Find out all you need to know about attending your graduation.
Find out about timetabling at the University of Bedfordshire.
Discover what services we offer to improve your experience as a student.
Take a look at the support that is on offer to assist you through your time at Bedfordshire.
Discover more about sports teams, our get active programme and gym membership.
Find out more about applying for a research degree.
Explore world-leading research developed here at Bedfordshire.
Explore the research Bedfordshire Academics are involved with.
Latest research news.
Research events and conferences
Research & Innovation Service supports our academic colleagues with research and knowledge exchange activities.
We are committed to making a significant social and economic contribution to the local and national economy.
Whether you are a public, private or third sector organisation, we can help.
Get in touch with us via a simple form.
We can help you develop your business from idea to start-up.
We can support SMEs to boost their business performance and growth potential.
Whatever challenge you are facing, we can help you access the expertise to make it happen.
The Culture and Community Engagement team (formerly Arts and Culture Projects) brings together university expertise with civic and sector partners, acting as a bridge nationally and locally between higher education, business and local people.
Looking to invest in your team?
We offer a suite of Continuing Professional Development (CPD) short courses to add value to your business.
Discover our apprenticeship training for Management, Digital, Nursing, Healthcare and Social Work.
We offer top-quality spaces with IT support, catering, and accommodation to suit your event needs.
All you need to know about applying through Clearing
Find out more
Enquiries
Course Enquiries: 0300 3300 703 UK/EU: study@beds.ac.uk International: international@beds.ac.uk Ask Beds Submit an enquiry online
General contact
+44 (0)1234 400 400
Press enquiries
Contact the Press Office
University of Bedfordshire University Square Luton, LU1 3JU United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/alumni:
At the University of Bedfordshire, we believe that education is just the beginning of your journey.
We are committed to providing career-powered education that helps you achieve your goals and unlock your potential.
But your connection with us doesn’t end at graduation—it’s just the start of an ongoing relationship.
The Alumni Association is here to ensure that you continue to belong, no matter where life takes you.
We’re here to support your professional growth, provide opportunities to connect with fellow alumni, and help you achieve new goals as part of a dynamic and supportive community.
Whether you’re seeking career advice, looking to undertake further study, or simply a sense of connection, we’ve got you covered.
You are part of something bigger, and together, we can continue to build on the success you've worked for.
Stay engaged, stay driven, and always remember—you belong at UoB.
As an alumni of the University of Bedfordshire, your journey doesn’t end at graduation—it’s just the beginning.
Our Careers and Employability Service provide tailored lifelong careers support to help you at every stage of your professional journey.
Whether you’re seeking career advice, exploring new opportunities, or looking to progress in your career, we provide the tools, resources, and guidance to help you Succeed Beyond Beds.
We have outlined below some key support services available from the Careers and Employability Service:
Want to find out more?
Explore our Alumni Careers Support Package
Together, we celebrate your achievements and stand by your side as you progress to achieve your goals.
The University of Bedfordshire values its alumni and is proud to offer a scholarship worth 20% of your fees for postgraduate on-campus Master’s courses to those who have successfully completed an undergraduate Honours degree from:
This scholarship applies to both full-time and part-time Master’s courses and is valid for the 2025/26 academic year.
The 20% alumni scholarship also applies to the first year of fees for a research degree for University of Bedfordshire alumni.
Read the full Alumni Scholarship terms and conditions
Alumni are welcome to use the library for reference purposes.
You will have access to physical materials and study spaces, although borrowing rights and access to electronic resources may be limited due to licensing restrictions.
To arrange library access please complete their online application form (please allow 10 working days for your application form to be made up).
Your journey could inspire the next generation of graduates!
We’re incredibly proud of the diverse journeys our alumni have taken since graduating.Your story is a powerful example of what career-powered education can lead to.
By sharing your experiences through case studies, talks, mentoring, or alumni videos, you can inspire the next generation, show what’s possible, and support students as they navigate their own paths.
Your advice and industry insight can also make a real difference.
Whether you're speaking at events, offering mentoring, or contributing to curriculum development, your involvement helps ensure our students are career-ready and confident.
You’ll be helping them avoid common pitfalls, develop key skills, and connect what they’re learning to real-world opportunities, all while growing your own professional portfolio.
This is a great way to give back to the community that helped shape you.
You’ll build new connections, develop valuable skills like communication and leadership, and enhance your personal brand in the process.
If you’d like to get involved, email alumni@beds.ac.uk – we’d love to hear from you!
This privacy policy sets out how the University of Bedfordshire Alumni Association obtains, manages and uses your data.
This policy relates specifically to information held by the Alumni Association on alumni, supporters and friends of the University and is in addition to the University’s general privacy policy .
All data is held securely and in compliance with the Data Protection Act 2018.
If you have any questions about how we use your data please contact the University’s data controller.
The University's data protection registration number is Z5608378.
Data Controller University of Bedfordshire
Data Protection Officer Mo Casillas (she/her) mojgan.casillas@beds.ac.uk
Address Legal Office University of Bedfordshire University Square Luton Bedfordshire LU1 3JU
The University is a controller in this instance.
We work with a third party provider for Alumni record management SalesForce Inc.
SalesForce Inc.
have cloud data storage facilities in the US and are fully compliant with the EU-US Privacy Shield framework.
If you opt-in to join the Alumni Association a record is created for you on the Alumni database using information provided by you, either at graduation or by the Join Us form on the Alumni website or by filling in an alumni update form on the website.
The information stored and processed by the University may include:
Without this information, we may not be able to provide our Alumni services.
The lawful basis of processing used by the University is one of consent.
We use your data to communicate with you via post, email and phone, dependent on your preferences, about University of Bedfordshire.
This could include invitations to reunions and other events, information on courses, research, news, other updates from University of Bedfordshire and fellow alumni, such as further study opportunities, fundraising materials and information about how you can continue to support us and how the University can support you.
Please see the ‘Your rights’ section of this policy for more information about how you can update your communications preferences.
To try and make sure we are sending you communications that are relevant and of interest we may analyse and group data using a range of factors including demographic, geographic, education, employment details and details of past engagements with us.
Other academic departments (for example the school or department you studied in) and professional services (for example the Careers and Employability Service) may also wish to contact you from time to time or to find out more about specific groups of alumni.
A typical example would be identifying amongst our alumni how many professionals there are working in a particular sector.
Where this is the case we work with departments to provide them with up-to-date data and manage the sending of any associated communications.
We may publish details including your name, subject of study and year of graduation as part of case studies on our alumni website or in printed publications (for example ‘Noteworthy’).
We will not publish your contact details.
Your data is held in a secure database with controls in place to limit who has access to it.
We may make data available to academic and administrative University departments.
As required by law the University may also provide information to organisations such as Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) or organisations operating on their behalf.
If you Gift Aid your donations we are also required to share details with HMRC.
We will not share your contact details with other Alumni unless you give us permission to.
Similarly if you want to get in contact with a former classmate we may be able to send a message to them on your behalf but will be unable to share their details with you.
We will never sell your data to other organisations.
You can update your data by using our online update form , emailing us at alumni@beds.ac.uk or writing to us at Alumni Office, Room G004, University Square, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU1 3JU.
We believe that the relationship we have with our alumni, donors and friends is a life-long relationship and so we will retain your data until you request its removal.
The GDPR provides you with rights about your personal data.
We will regularly update our Privacy Notice in compliance with the GDPR and will update you if we need to amend our processing activity.
You may update your communication preferences and opt-out of receiving some or all communications from us at any time.
To do so please either email alumni@beds.ac.uk write to us at Alumni Office, room G004, University Square, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU1 3JU.
Should you wish to make a complaint please contact the Data Protection Officer using the contact information provided above.
If we are unable to comply with your request we will inform you of the reason(s) why.
If you are unsatisfied or have further concerns, you can contact the Information Commissioner’s Office at:
T: 0303 123 1113 W: ico.org.uk/concerns
The annual Luton’s Best Awards have recognised a local solicitor and graduate with a coveted award recognising their impactful career in the community.
Bilal Farooq , Director of Greystone Solicitors in Luton, was presented with the Adult Achiever Award at the ceremony, organised by Love Luton on 17 th February 2023.
The University of Bedfordshire is the sponsor of the Adult Achiever award category, which seeks to recognise an individual over the age of 21 who continues to achieve great things at work in their profession, either through arts and culture, in the field of education, sport or via a hobby.
This year’s winner, Bilal, has been qualified as a solicitor since 2015 after graduating from the University of Bedfordshire with a Master’s Degree in International Commercial Law and undertaking a Legal Practice Course (LPC).
He set up Greystone Solicitors in 2018, covering a wide range of legal matters including medical negligence and family law.
Bilal was awarded the Adult Achiever accolade for his tireless work to provide legal support and career insight to the local community.
Amongst other things, he has dedicated his time to hosting career talks for current Law students with the University’s Business School and was previously the recipient of the town’s Mayor’s Appreciation Award, where his commitment to providing free legal advice and service to the community was noted.
Speaking about taking home the award, Bilal said: “I am extremely honoured to receive the Adult Achiever Award presented by University of Bedfordshire.
I am grateful for the recognition I have received for the work I have done.
To see the hard work being recognised and awarded will always be an honour and a very proud moment for me.”
Professor Rebecca Bunting , Vice Chancellor of the University of Bedfordshire, presented Bilal with the award.
She said: “Congratulations to Bilal on this incredible achievement.
The University is very proud to sponsor this category every year and to help Love Luton recognise the people who are doing fantastic work in our community.
The fact that Bilal is a University of Bedfordshire alumnus makes this even more special.
It was an honour to be there on the evening to present Bilal with this award and I wish him the best of luck for all his future endeavours.”
These celebrations were the 13 th annual Luton’s Best Awards organised by Love Luton, aiming to honour the unsung heroes of the local community.
Linsey Sweet, Chair of Love Luton, said: “The Luton’s Best Awards is the highlight of the Love Luton calendar.
The awards highlight everything that is wonderful about our town and really does showcase some amazing individuals who have achieved fantastic things.
The Adult Achiever award is always a closely fought contest and we congratulate Bilal on his win – it was truly deserved.”
Richard joined the University of Bedfordshire in 2011 and earned a BSc Hons in Sport & Exercise Science and a Masters degree in Sports Performance.
During his studies his path into tennis began after he was selected to be a University Tennis Coordinator as part of the Lawn Tennis Association’s University Tennis network.
After graduating, Richard continued his career as a Research Officer at The International Tennis Federation – the world governing body for tennis – and was based in Valencia, Spain, where he oversaw the Federation’s international coach education resources, publications and coaching conferences.
He is now an Education Project Manager for the International Tennis Integrity Agency – the body responsible for combatting corruption and doping in all professional tennis globally.
While I was doing my final year project I applied for the QVC Floor Manager Internship.
I was lucky enough to get a place there for 5 weeks.
Towards the end of my 5 weeks I was offered a 6 month contract, and was then offered a permanent contract.
I have now been there for over a year, have received supervisor training, and have been able to work on higher skilled shows with higher personnel.
I am forever grateful for this opportunity that was supplied by my then lecturers Kathryn Wolfe and Anthony Greenbank.
I was given a lot of opportunities during my time and I was supported the whole way from all my lecturers and would say to anyone wanting to come to Beds, keep going, don’t give up.
Even if you get a few knock downs, keep trying.
Someone will say yes.
Don’t wait till you graduate, get the ball rolling now.
It’ll make it easier after!
I was given the opportunity to work at Luton Town FC as part of my course, which helped me to land a job as Media Executive at Tottenham Hotspur FC and then my current role as Women's Football Social Lead at UEFA.
I can't thank the University of Bedfordshire enough.
Jamie has recently finished his second year of study and will return to complete his third and final year after this one-year placement with the entertainment giant.
Based at their London office, Jamie will be working with Disney on producing and marketing video games for Disney and their license holders.
During his placement year Jamie said:
"I'm doing great so far at Disney – the team is very happy with my performance and everyone is so helpful when it comes to teaching me about my new role.
Working here is amazing, from the viewing of new films in their in-house cinema, to the fact that I have my own desk surrounded by other interns, it all makes the work place wonderful to work in.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses:
An Undergraduate course offers you a chance to grow.
To explore, discover and define who you are right now and who you are destined to become in the future.
Postgraduate study allows you to develop highly sought after transferable skills, to get a head-start in an increasingly competitive job market.
If you're not sure about going to university, or you're a mature student considering a return to education, a foundation year (FY) gives you the chance to experience studying a university course.
We value real-world experience to prepare you for life beyond university, which is why we’ve forged connections with thousands of companies locally, nationally and internationally.
The University of Bedfordshire offers a range of part-time study opportunities, both at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Designed for an aspiring manager, our full-time MBA will equip you with essential knowledge about leadership and strategic thinking
We understand that higher-level skills help people and businesses stay competitive.
By size of institution, the University of Bedfordshire is 10 th in the UK for delivering CPD into business that can really make a difference
The University of Bedfordshire’s Higher and Degree Apprenticeship programme has been designed with employers in mind.
The University places a strong emphasis on combining practical and professional skills with high quality education.
Our broad range of apprenticeship training includes Management, Digital, Nursing, Healthcare and Social Work.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy:
We recognise that going to university isn’t just about gaining a great degree; it’s also about developing skills and experiences during your time with us through a range of available opportunities that will help you become an all-round individual that will stand out, and differentiate you from other graduates.
That’s why we offer a range of events, activities and opportunities to broaden your horizons and help you get the most of your student experience, build your industry network, and develop transferable skills, helping you to graduate with far more than a degree.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/guide-to-applying-to-uob:
Your guide to applying to the University of Bedfordshire
We are delighted that you are applying to study at the University of Bedfordshire.
We want your journey through application to be as smooth as possible and hope this guide will answer all of your questions.
Find out from our students what they love about the University of Bedfordshire (and it’s not just how close we are to London!)

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/postgraduatestudy:
Applying for a postgraduate course
Our Students
Explore here
Alumni Discount
Details here
We are delighted you are applying to study at postgraduate level with the University of Bedfordshire.
We are committed to your success - to equipping you with a postgraduate qualification that acts as a springboard to the career you’ve set your sights on.
Whether you're looking for a full-time Master's, research degree or short CPD course, we hope this guide will help you have a smooth journey through application, answering all your questions about choosing a perfect course and how to apply.
If you are an international student, it's a good idea to also read the specific information given in our International section
There’s so many reasons to just go for it!
In the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024, the University of Bedfordshire ranks: 1 st in the UK for student engagement and sense of community 2 nd for the quality of our teaching and our course organisation 3 rd for assessment and feedback 3 rd in the UK overall for taught-postgraduate student satisfaction.
In the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024, the University of Bedfordshire ranks:
This MBA is one of the first of its kind in the UK.
It equips you with an advanced practical knowledge of strategic leadership alongside the skills you need to prepare you for work in this expanding sector.
Drawing on expertise from our Business and Sport Science schools, you develop your critical understanding of the issues facing sport and physical activity in the UK and around the world.
Designed to develop your strategic thinking, you uncover a range of approaches to widen participation in physical activity, setting you up for impactful leadership in this thriving field.
We increase the employability of our graduates by being a Higher Education Partner of the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA).
If you have a related Honours degree along with the commitment to study and work full time, then this course enables you to become a registered nurse in two years.
It supports you to develop the knowledge, skills, attitudes and behaviours needed to be an adult nurse, able to meet the demands of the role in a constantly evolving healthcare system.
You study in both academic and clinical settings, with assessments that encourage you to make links between theory and practice.
By taking this course, you may be eligible for NHS funding of at least £5,000.
Find out more about the NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF).
All our Nursing and Midwifery courses are regulated by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
On successful completion of your course, you can register with the NMC as an adult nurse.
This BPS-accredited course is open to Honours graduates from any discipline wishing to take the first step towards becoming a chartered psychologist.
You gain in-depth knowledge and skills around conceptual and historical issues as well as individual differences, social, cognitive, developmental and biological psychology.
We offer a range of assessment approaches, including podcasting and webpage design, to equip you with modern skills for the workplace.
You also carry out your own piece of empirical research aligned to your career aspirations and our staff expertise.
This Psychology Conversion course is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS).
Graduating from a BPS-accredited conversion with 50% or above makes you eligible for Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) of the Society.
It also enables you to enrol for Stage 1 postgraduate training.
Our PGCE courses are designed to give you a secure understanding of teaching and learning.
They will develop the skills you need to teach core and foundation subjects using a variety of teaching approaches, with the opportunity to put theory into practice in the classroom on your placements.
Your University-based sessions focus on developing your professional role, subject knowledge and principles of learning; the National Curriculum; and aspects of teaching such as lesson planning and assessment.
There is the option to take this course part time over two years, making it easier to balance study with your other commitments.
We have well-established partnerships with more than 500 schools and other associated organisations across the eastern region, a network that puts us ahead when it comes to national priorities, issues and developments in educational practice.
We are a Department for Education-accredited provider of Initial Teacher Training (ITT).
This course meets the requirements for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/international:
Fees and scholarships for international students
International students
Apply now
Your country’s application process
Explore now

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships:
Apprenticeships Enquiries
Higher & Degree
Apprenticeships
Enquiry
The successful delivery of projects in any business can promote growth and optimum running of an organisation.
Our Apprenticeship programmes are built around the needs of your organisation, giving your leaders the crucial skills they need to encourage successful transformation in your organisation.
Associate Project Manager
Project Manager
Business Analyst
Chartered Manager
Senior Leader
Marketing is dynamic, exciting and vitally important to all businesses, providing the insight to develop and deliver new and evolving products and services to meet ever-changing customer needs.
Occupations in digital marketing and marketing span most industries and sectors.
A Digital & Technology Solutions Professional provides technology enabled solutions to internal and/or external customers, in a range of areas including software, business and systems analysis, cyber security, data analysis and network infrastructure.
They implement technology solutions that enable businesses to develop new products and services and to increase an organisations productivity using digital technologies.
Marketing Executive
Digital Marketer
Digital and Technology Solutions
The Improvement Apprenticeship Suite develops the knowledge, skills and behaviours required to lead, develop and implement improvement projects.
across a wide variety of organisations.
Improvement projects use problem solving methodologies supported by change and project management, and data backed decision making to achieve business benefits.
A critical aspect of Improvement projects is the development and training of colleagues in these enhanced improvement techniques.
The Improvement Apprenticeship Suite has three courses:
Each course may be taken independently and Apprentices will be admitted following an interview and an evaluation of their prior experience and skills assessment.
Improvement Practitioner
Improvement Specialist
Improvement Leader
A career in health and social care can be hugely rewarding.
Here at the University of Bedfordshire we work collaboratively with our apprentices and their employers.
This is regardless of whether learners are at the start of their career or if they are moving on to an advanced level of care.
We take pride in ensuring we are a provider of high quality, supportive, health and social care apprenticeships.
Healthcare Assistant Practitioner
Nursing Associate
Registered Nurse
Midwife
Paramedic
Advanced Clinical Practitioner
Operating Department Practitioner
Social Worker
The University of Bedfordshire is celebrating a glowing report following an Ofsted inspection of its apprenticeship programme.
The University – which provides valuable apprenticeship courses to benefit local businesses and organisations in upskilling their workforce – saw its apprenticeship programme rated ‘Good’ in a recent inspection by Ofsted.
High-scoring areas included the quality of education, behaviour and attitudes, personal development, as well as leadership and management of its provision.
Read full article here

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/rgs:
The University of Bedfordshire’s Research Graduate School (RGS) administers and supports postgraduate students undertaking a research degree.
A research degree is an independent, advanced study programme, supervised by academic staff at our 10 research institutes and leading to a Master's, MPhil, PhD, DProf or DBA qualification.
The RGS works closely with our institutes to ensure all students have appropriate support throughout their studies, with access to training and development that complement their research and provide a foundation for their future careers.
When you decide to study a research degree at the University of Bedfordshire, you apply through the Research Graduate School.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/open-days:
Career-Powered Open Days with guest industry experts
See Upcoming Dates
Join a guided tour every Wednesday.
See our facilities, meet students, and experience campus life.
Book your spot today.
Our Open Days give you the chance to see how studying a course at Bedfordshire can get you closer to your dream career.
At this event, we'll guide you through potential Higher Education pathways and which one could be right for you.
Everything we do is designed to deliver career-powered education and, at an Open Day, you'll have the chance to see exactly what that means.
John Grisby is a Professor of Practice (Leadership), industry consultant and author.
He has a track record of helping leaders transform their roles, organisations and sectors.
John is a specialised Leadership Transformation Partner, accelerating leadership capacity building, driving change & transformation from strategy to execution in '4.0' environments of complexity, change, and problems.
John's leadership expertise results from 25 years of experience in human performance and development.
His multi-disciplined background/roles include Executive Coaching in Performance (EMCC Coaching Senior Practitioner), Cross-Cultural Organisations (Maastricht University), Organisational Change Strategy (Adizes Institute), Leadership Mindset Systems/Structures (Dr.
Don Beck, Spiral Dynamics), and Professor of Practice in Leadership (UBBS).
He holds an MA in Global Communications, HE Fellow, CMBE, and CMgr MCMI.
John has worked with leaders in family-owned, mid-sized and corporate organisations across multiple sectors and lived worldwide in Europe, the USA, Africa, South America, and the Middle East.
He is tri-lingual (English, Spanish, and Italian).
Matty is a dedicated and skilled network engineer with a passion for both wired and wireless network configurations.
His journey in the world of networking began during his university years and has since blossomed into a successful career at Switchshop Limited.
Education
Matty earned a First-Class degree in Computer Science from the University of Hull, where he discovered his passion for networking.
During his third year, he took a module in networking and wireless design, scoring the highest in his cohort and igniting a lifelong interest in the field.
Professional Experience
With nearly four years of experience at Switchshop Limited, Matty has honed his skills in configuring both wired and wireless networks.
His expertise and dedication have made him a valuable asset to the company and its clients.
Certifications
Matty's commitment to professional growth is evident in his impressive array of certifications:
Dominika Kalinowska (BSc, MSc, DHP Acc.
Hyp.) is a psychologist, certified hypnotherapist, and EFT Practitioner.
She also works as an Applicant Engagement Manager at Cranfield University, where she manages a team of 100 Student Ambassadors per year.
Dominika is the author of the "365 Reflections Journal," available on Amazon.
She runs two YouTube channels focused on studying in the UK and mental health, with over 100K views.
Currently, Dominika is building her therapy centre, Relief Therapies, in the heart of Bedford and online.
Open Days are an important part of your journey to Higher Education with the University of Bedfordshire.
Our Open Days give you the opportunity to find out exactly what it is like to be a student at the University of Bedfordshire and how you can graduate as a professional.
You will leave our Open Day with all the information on your course(s), support services, what to expect from being a student here, accommodation and, most of all, the wide range of activities available to you while studying.
Our aim is to help you enjoy your day on campus and show you how we prepare you for life after graduation from the first step you take on campus as a proud student at the University of Bedfordshire.
Join us for our upcoming open day, where you’ll have the opportunity to connect with leading professionals from various fields.
Our experts bring a wealth of knowledge and experience, ready to share insights and answer your questions.
Below are the profiles of our industry experts:
Psychologist, Certified Hypnotherapist, and EFT Practitioner | Self Employed
Professor of Management Practice | Independent Consultant
Creative Director | Self Employed
Associate Director - Grant Thornton
Head of Pre-Sales | Switchshop Limited
Head of Talent Pathway | Cricket East
David Harding is a noted advisor, speaker, management researcher, author, and teacher on business and technology leadership and transformational change.
David is founder/ owner of The Harding Method, a CIO advisory consultancy and Professor of Management Practice at the University of Bedfordshire.
He coaches, advises, and trains business and technology leaders in progressing aspirations for growth, digital maturity, and role effectiveness.
Exploiting these experiences, David brings new, current practitioner perspectives to post-graduate course design, delivery, and assessment.
A visionary in the arts sector, Glen is passionate about driving innovative projects that inspire creativity and engage audiences.
Paul is an Associate Director in the Financial Services Business Risks Service at Grant Thornton, with over 25 years of experience in audit and risk management across technology, finance, operations, and risk assurance in the financial services industry.
Beginning his career as a Certified Financial Accountant, he transitioned into technology assurance, merging expertise in financial and technology risk.
He holds an Accountancy degree, is a Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA), a member of ISACA, and has completed the UK Registered Representative Examinations.
Since joining Grant Thornton in 2008, Paul has held senior roles managing risk and assurance for global clients such as Barclays, Deutsche Bank, and the Bank of England.
Previously, he was VP of Technology Internal Audit at Morgan Stanley, Senior Manager in Enterprise Risk at Deloitte UK, and held audit roles at Nomura and Standard Bank.
Neil leverages his technical expertise to bridge the gap between sales and technology, ensuring that clients receive tailored solutions that meet their needs.
Sam Rose graduated from the University of Bedfordshire in 2012 with a BA in Sport Studies.
Since then, Sam has built a dynamic career in sports development, beginning as a Sport Development Project Officer for Bedford Borough Council.
He later transitioned into cricket, working as a Cricket Development Officer for Hertfordshire Cricket.
Sam’s expertise and leadership in the sport led him to Cricket East, where he first served as the Head of Cricket Development and then Head of Participation and Growth.
Since October 2024, he is now the Head of Talent Pathway at Cricket East, playing a pivotal role in nurturing and advancing emerging cricket talent in the region.
Planning to attend our upcoming Open Day?
Get a sneak peek of some of the friendly student ambassadors who’ll be there to welcome you.
These students are here to share their experiences, answer your questions, and give you an authentic view of what life is really like at the university.
From guiding campus tours to chatting about courses and student life, they’re here to make your visit insightful and engaging.
Look out for these friendly faces on the day.
We offer in-person campus tours led by our knowledgeable student ambassadors.
Experience our vibrant campus firsthand by booking your tour here.
Experience campus life from the comfort of your home with our immersive virtual reality campus tours.
You will be able to find most answers on our Open Day page here.
If you are unable to find what you are looking for please email us at opendays@beds.ac.uk.
If you wish to update any of your information please email opendays@beds.ac.uk
These can be found back towards the top of the page by clicking on the image of each campus.
Yes, all of our campuses have disability access throughout the buildings.
Yes there will be tours of the accommodation.
Yes there are subject talks running at 12pm on both campuses.
You will also have the chance to talk to academics one on one before and after these talks.
We will provide light refreshments on the day such as tea, coffee and biscuits.
There is a canteen where you will be able to buy food and drinks.
Please ensure the main ticket holder (student) is the name on the ticket.
This helps ensure you receive all the correct information and it is sent to the main ticket holder; the student.
No.
You do not need to download or install any software to participate.
You only need to have access to the internet.
Your login details will be emailed to you ahead of the event.
You can use these details to access the online Open Day.
You will be able to find most answers on our Open Day page.
If you are unable to find what you are looking for please email us at opendays@beds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/prospectus:
University switchboard During office hours (Monday-Friday 08:30-17:00) +44 (0)1234 400 400
Outside office hours (Campus Watch) +44 (0)1582 74 39 89
Admissions admission@beds.ac.uk
International office international@beds.ac.uk
Student support SiD Online
Registration SiD Online
twitter - uniofbeds
twitter - uniofbedsnews
twitter - BedsSU

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/advice-for-teachers-and-advisors:
Advice for Teachers and Advisors
University is a truly transformational experience and means a lot more than just gaining a qualification.
We believe that one of the most valuable assets of becoming a graduate is social mobility.
Graduates tend to become more involved in communities and civil society, which broaden horizons and wellbeing.
That’s why, here at the University of Bedfordshire, we are proud of the communities our students represent and are keen to engage with them right the way through the educational journey.
At the University of Bedfordshire we put our students first and work tirelessly to create an excellent learning environment so that they can go forward and achieve their ambitions.
We've put this information together to highlight the vast range of support available from the University for schools and colleges to support their students’ progress to Higher Education.
We realise that supporting students to achieve their potential starts years before university and our Recruitment and Outreach teams are here to help teachers support their students to make the right higher education choice.
Our most popular activites for schools are listed from page 6 onwards.
Making a successful UCAS application Preparing for university life Student finance and money matters Information, advice and guidance on HE finance, options and UCAS Outreach Associate activities Student shadowing Targeted summer schools Subject activities Revision skills Interview skills

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/parents-hub:
Parents’ and carers’ guide to starting university
As a parent or carer, finding the right course and university for your child is as important to you as it is to them.
Our complete guide gives you all the key information you need to help them make one of the most transformational decisions of their life.
While you’re settling your child’s future, think about your own – it’s never too late to return to education and, at Beds, we believe there should be no barriers to learning.
We have students of all ages at Bedfordshire so we know that, as a mature student, you would bring valuable knowledge, skills and life experience to your higher education studies.
We try to make it as easy as possible for you to fit study into your life.
Many of our courses can be completed part-time; we also offer a range of short, professional courses You can get on with work whenever and wherever suits you with round-the-clock access to our online learning environment, 24-hour term-time access to our libraries and remote access to more than 80 information databases We make it as easy as possible for students to juggle work, family and study, with part-time students benefiting from the same experienced support teams as full-timers
Go to our Live Chat portal Register for updates to find out first about events like Open Days and campus tours while keeping up-to-date with all Beds news Download the University’s at-a-glance guide for an easily accessible summary of key information.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/news:
University of Bedfordshire News
Latest News
From mental health to career advice, get our daily student podcast
Listen here
Find an expert
Graduate case studies
The University of Bedfordshire is proud to announce that it has been awarded the University Mental Health Charter Award by Student Minds, the UK’s student mental health charity.
See All Events

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/welcome:
Welcome to your student journey
Inductions take place during Welcome Week unless otherwise specified.
Welcome Desk available throughout the week – Here to help you settle in!
Beds SU Welcome events
Trolleys, support, info & refreshments available from 10am until 4pm
Welcome to Campus Club Night Party 21:00
Quiet Hour 9:00 - 10:00
Welcome Desk 9:00 - 14:00
Discover Your Campus 10:00 - 14:00
International Orientation G101 at 14:00
Pool Tournament 13:00
International Student Welcome 16:00
Film Night: The New Avengers 17:00
Wellbeing Activities 10:00 - 14:00
Road to Resilience 11:00 - 12:00 Join session
Darts competition 13:00
Games Night & Toast Tuesday 16:00
Freshers' Fair Quiet Opening 10:00 - 10:30 Main Opening 10:30 - 15:00
Say Hi Social 16:00
Craft & Chat Evening 17:00
Careers Activities 11:00 - 14:00
Bhangra Afternoon 15:00
Budget Bliss Cocktail Night 19:00
Bus to Bedford Sports Fair Pickup from Luton 11:00 Return 16:00
Road to Resilience 15:00 - 16:00 Join session
Afro Beats with DJ Holy 23:00
Pint & Play Including Quiz 18:00
Big Wednesday Night Out 18:00
Wellbeing Activities 11:00 - 14:00
Singo Bingo & Karaoke 19:00
Sports Fair Teams Activities at the Sports Hall 12:00 - 16:00
Pickleball - 12:00 Wheelchair Basketball - 13:00 Dodgeball - 14:00 Badminton - 15:00
The room numbers at Luton and Bedford tell you exactly which building and which floor you need to go to:
So, for example, the Luton room number G001 tells you to go to the G block, ground floor, room 01.
Another example, the Bedford room number P2.17 tells you to go to the P block, second floor, room 17.
Download the Understanding Room Numbers guide [PDF]
Embark on your educational journey with confidence.
Our comprehensive student services ensure you have everything you need from day one.
From orientation programs to academic advising and enrolment support, we're here to help you lay a strong foundation for your success.
Begin Your Journey with us and set yourself up for a rewarding experience.
Experience a vibrant campus life that fosters growth and development.
Our extensive student support services, including tutoring, wellness programs, and extracurricular activities, are designed to help you thrive.
Engage with your peers, develop new skills, and find your passion in an environment that nurtures your potential.
Flourish academically and personally as you navigate your university years.
Achieve your goals and prepare for a successful future with our dedicated resources.
Career services, development opportunities, and alumni networks are here to guide you towards your aspirations.
With our support, you'll be equipped to excel in your chosen field and beyond.
Reach new heights and turn your dreams into reality as you conclude your student journey with us.
Download the MyBedsLife App to stay up to date from everywhere.
Other useful links:

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/accommodation:
6 great reasons to live in University-endorsed accommodation Instant opportunity to make new friends Safe and secure – trained security staff on site 24/7, CCTV and electronic fob entry systems Your rent covers all utility bills and contents insurance Stay connected – free Wi-Fi in all rooms, helping you easily connect with people from home as well as your new friends Our Village Life programme offers regular events such as BBQs, movie nights and day trips Our accommodation has been voted the most cost-effective in South East England, according to Student Crowd 2024.
Being a student isn’t just about studying.
It can also be about lifestyle so deciding where to live is important.
Enjoy a safe, secure and friendly home from home in our range of halls, with rooms to suit different budgets, and all close to our campuses.
Should you need any support regarding accommodation please contact SID desk located on the 2nd floor of Campus Centre building.
*We also offer flexible start dates throughout the year.*

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-governance/examinationboard:
This guide is designed to help you understand the processes we use to deliver and manage assessment-related processes, what support is available to you and how we agree and approve your results.
It also provides you with an explanation of the codes we use when we issue results and transcripts.
1.1 When we design and approve our curriculum, we agree what assessment method is best suited to measure the learning outcomes in each unit you study.
We also consider how the assessment type we use will help you to acquire skills, knowledge and experience that will help you gain graduate level employment when you complete your course.
1.2 We have three types of assessment at unit level:
Formative assessment: This is designed to help you monitor and assess your performance so that you can see what support you may need to improve it.
You will receive feedback on your performance but it will not contribute to your marks for the unit.
We advise every student to take the opportunity to complete any formative assessment as we know it will help you achieve better overall marks.
Diagnostic assessment: This is designed to help us see if you need any additional support and if necessary, refer you to one of our specialist support teams.
Any assessment undertaken will not contribute to a unit result.
Summative assessment: Designed to enable you to demonstrate you have met the learning outcome of the unit.
You will be given a mark for each assessment or in some cases, a pass/fail grade.
All the marks will contribute to your overall mark for the unit.
1.3 Each assessment element will have a weighting which tell you how much it will contribute to your overall unit level grade.
Some units will require you to pass every assessment in order to pass the unit overall whilst in others, you must achieve a pass grade on an aggregate of all the marks from the assessment you have taken.
1.4 We provide information about assessment on each unit’s unit information form (UIF).
You can find all the UIFs for the units you are registered on, via BREO, along with assessment briefs which provide with detailed information on each assessment you will take.
1.5 Your assessment brief will also tell you when your assessment deadline is and how to submit your work.
Please read the guidance on using assignment briefs [PDF] to help you.
2.1 We know that, from time to time, there may be issues such as illness that mean that you cannot submit your assessment by its due date.
Sometimes these will be serious issues and may impact beyond just submitting assessment.
We have processes in place to support you, should you find yourself in either of these situations.
We group these processes together to form our mitigating circumstances or additional considerations policy.
You can find the policy here The Student Engagement & Mitigation team processes a large volume of queries and applications, especially during examination board periods.
You should continue to work on your assessment whilst you wait for an outcome of any claim you make, and submit your work as soon as possible.
2.2 We have three principles that we take into account and they are that the circumstances are: • Unforeseen and outside of your control
• Supported by appropriate information and/ or evidence
• Have had an impact on the your ability to complete an assessment Extensions 2.3 We realise that it can be difficult to get medical appointments for short illnesses or minor ailments and if we ask for evidence, this may put undue pressure on health services.
Our Student Engagement and Mitigation (SEAM) team will allow short-term extensions on the basis of self-certification but within certain parameters and up to 7 calendar days.
2.4 There are other options that can be applied if you need more than a 7 calendar day and you should review the policy (see 2.1) for information on all the options available.
2.5 There are some assessment types for which you cannot claim mitigation for and again, you can find these are details in the mitigation policy.
2.6 You should let your unit co-ordinator know if you are applying for mitigation (including an extension) so you can find out how to submit your work if your application is approved.
2.7 We can’t give an extension for any resits you have.
However, if approved, we can offer you the opportunity of taking your resit(s) the next time they are scheduled.
The timing of any rescheduled resit(s) may affect when you can move to the next level in your studies or even when you graduate.
2.8 We can’t approve extensions for practical pieces of work such as presentations, placements, group assignments or exams.
We can only award a resit opportunity if your application is approved.
The impact may be the same as detailed in 2.7 above.
Evidence 2.9 We will ask you for evidence to support your mitigation claim and the table below are some of the examples of circumstances and the types of evidence we would normally accept.
This is not an exhaustive list and you can email mitigation@beds.ac.uk for further guidance on types of evidence you could provide to us
6.
Work Commitment Only students studying part-time can apply concerning work commitment issues.
7.
Representing County or Country at Sport
9.
Active Exercise of Citizenship e.g.
Reserve Forces
Official Police or other investigating authority letter confirming the reported crime and where
appropriate, a list of items stolen, such as a laptop or computer.
Medical certificate or GP note signed confirming the incident and impact on you.
Needs to bear Surgery Stamp
11.
Childbirth or complications during pregnancy
12.
Other
Other mitigating circumstances that do not fall under any of the criteria defined above
3.1 What is moderation?
Once your assessment has been marked, usually by the academic staff who taught you on your unit, we undertake a process called Moderation.
It is the process we use to ensure that academic standards and assessment criteria are consistently applied.
It makes sure that every piece of assessment submitted is marked to the same standard and marks are fair.
3.2 What types of marking are there?
We use two types of marking to ensure fairness and objectivity in the assessment process.
These are double marking and second marking.
· In ‘double marking’ a second marker reviews students’ scripts and is unaware of the mark awarded by the first marker.
· In ‘second marking’ a second marker reviews students’ scripts aware of the mark and comments made by the first marker.
3.3 How do you decide which type of marking to use?
The type of marking used depends on the level (4, 5, 6, 7 etc.) and weighting of the assessment.
For lower level and lower weighted assessments, we usually use second marking, and for higher level and higher weighted assessment, we generally use double marking.
Occasionally, how experienced the markers are has an impact too on which method we use.
For example, second marking might be used rather than double marking, if one of the markers is less familiar with the assessment or less experienced.
The table gives a fuller range of examples.
3.4 Which work is moderated?
We moderate all summative assessments (see 1.2).
In some cases a ‘sample’ is moderated, and in other cases, all work is moderated.
If we take a sample of assessed work to moderate, this sample will be randomly picked and the number of
3.5 What happens when the markers disagree?
Occasionally, markers will disagree about the marks given.
Using the moderation process, we ask first and second markers to reach a consensus about the mark to be awarded.
If consensus is not possible, but there is close agreement (typically within 9%), the script(s) will be reviewed and the marks awarded after moderation by another experienced member of staff.
In the event of a serious disagreement (typically more than a classification i.e.
10% difference), the entire set of scripts are double-marked by another internal marker.
These steps help prevent erroneous marks being awarded by a single academic.
In other cases, we compare the average mark and standard deviation of all markers in a unit/assessment to ensure that there is broad equivalence.
If the marking of any individual marker is inconsistent, we undertake further moderation of all of the assessments marked by that marker.
We give particular attention if:
3.6 External Examiners
We assign an External Examiner(s) to each course and unit.
External examiners are experienced subject-specialist academic staff from other universities.
They are appointed by the External Examiner Committee following a nomination process.
Their role is to take an independent view in assuring and maintaining academic standards and verify that academic standards are appropriate to national subject benchmark statements, the Framework for Higher Education Qualifications, University course information forms and other relevant information.
Their duties include:
External examiners can’t change marks for individual pieces of assessment.
However, they can ask that:
4.1 Once all the marking and moderation processes are complete, we hold Portfolio Examination Boards.
These Boards consider and formally approve your results.
Portfolio Examination Boards approve your results and whether you can progress to the next level of study.
The Portfolio Examination Board also confirms the final outcome on awards.
Each Board is chaired by a senior academic or member of University staff and they are attended by senior academic colleagues representing each of the courses of the University.
4.2 What does my Examination board outcome mean?
We will send you official confirmation of when your Examination Board has met and reviewed your academic profile.
Each Examination Board must follow our Academic Regulations in making decisions on results and academic profiles.
4.3 Your end of year results will be published on e:Vision, and we will send you an email to confirm that your Examination Board outcome is available to view.
4.4 Your results and latest Examination Board outcome will be displayed on e:Vision in ‘My Units and Assessments’ which you can find under ‘My Studies’.
4.5 Your award will be displayed under ‘Course & Award Details’.
4.6 We can’t give you details of your results by telephone for security and confidentiality reasons, so make sure you check your e:Vision account
4.7 You can update your contact details on e:Vision to make sure you receive all communications from us and not just about your results.
4.8 You must ensure that you act on any instructions we have included with your results.
If you don’t, there may be serious consequences for your continued studies with us.
4.9 If you have any queries about your results, you can contact the Student Information Desk .
They may be able to answer your question immediately but if not, they will contact your course team.
The tables below provide you with detailed explanation of the codes we use on your results transcript.
We have categorised them for you to help you understand the outcomes the Examination Board has made.
5.1 Codes for Unit level result
Code
Definition
AF
Academic Misconduct: Unit Failed, Retake Capped
AE
Academic Misconduct: Exit
AC
Academic Misconduct: Under investigation
AR
Academic Offence: Unit Failed, Retake uncapped
CR
Compulsory resit
FC
Resit: Failed compulsory element
H
Held unit
IN or WI
Student has not taken assessment due to an interruption
LP
Late Placement
MC
Grade Held: Mitigating Circumstances
NZ
Non-submission and exit
PZ
Compensated unit
Deferred
Unit result has calculated resits required
WD
Student has withdrawn
WT
Student has transferred
5.2 Examination Board Outcomes
Outcome
Explanation
Academic recovery required
Progression not permitted due to outstanding resit(s) and/or retake(s) of failed unit(s)
Pending Exam Board Outcome
Suspended
Exited due to academic failure
Exited due to academic misconduct
Registration terminated
Exited due to non-submission of assessments
Retake(s) required
Progression not permitted due to retake(s) of failed unit(s)
Resit(s) and retake(s) required
Continuation of studies with outstanding resit(s) and retake of failed unit(s).
Continuation of studies alongside retake of failed unit(s).
Continue studies
Continuation of studies despite failed unit(s).
Retake of the failed unit(s) may be required in future.
Resit(s) required
Continue with resit(s)
Continuation of studies alongside resit(s).
Continue with compensation and resit(s) required
Continuation of studies with compensation of failed unit(s).
Resit(s) are not permitted on compensated unit(s).
Resit(s) are required on non-compensated unit(s).
Continue with compensation
Progress with compensation
Progression of studies with compensation of failed unit(s).
Progress with unit(s) to retake
Progression of studies alongside retake of failed unit(s).
Progress with resit(s)
Progression of studies alongside resit(s).
Completed with compensation
Completed
Progress
Interruption in studies
Transfer agreed by Exam Board
Student Transferred to a Different Course
Withdrawn
6.1 After the Examination Board has approved your award, you will receive notification that you will be sent a transcript and an award letter.
These will be sent by post to your home address.
The transcript is your formal record of study with us.
Your transcript will include:
On the back page(s) of the transcript, there will be detailed explanation covering:
6.2 If you have any questions about your final transcript, contact either your course administrators or our Student Information Desk
If you are unhappy about your results or the outcome of your Examination Board, you have two options available to you.
You can make an academic appeal or make a complaint.
We have provided some details below so you can decide the most appropriate route, but you should check each webpage for full details before making either an appeal or a complaint.
The Students’ Union advice service can also offer support and guidance to you.
The Students’ Union can be contacted by emailing help@bedssu.co.uk
7.1 Academic Appeals web page
An academic appeal is a request for review of an Examination Board decision related to assessment results, academic progression and/or award.
Where a complaint is specified as having an impact on assessment results, academic progression and/or award, it must be treated as an academic appeal.
No mark or grade will be awarded without evidence that a student has met the associated learning outcomes.
Academic Appeals may not, therefore, result in changes of grade (other than as required to permit a further opportunity) or breaches of University academic regulations.
Academic Judgement cannot be challenged by a student.
This is defined by the Office of the Independent Adjudicator as ‘a judgment that is made about a matter where the opinion of an academic expert is essential.
So for example a judgment about marks awarded, degree classification, research methodology, whether feedback is correct or adequate, and the content or outcomes of a course will normally involve academic judgment’.
7.2 Student Complaints web page
A Complaint is defined as the expression of a specific concern about the provision of an academic or related service by the University.
Your complaint could be about your teaching and learning experience, for example about the quality of teaching or resources in the Library or about the provision of other services such as student support or course administration.
The webpage provides you more information and details about how to make your complaint.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/careers:
We are here to support you from the beginning of your studies.
Engaging with our service will maximise your opportunities to develop the skills that employers are looking for.
We recommend you take the following actions to get the most out of our service:
Our drop in service is open daily from 1-2, on the ground floor of H block in Luton for quick queries.
Longer one to one and virtual appointments are bookable via Handshake.
Please do not hesitate to get in touch if you have any questions!
Our early talent recruitment platform, the #1 way students and graduates get the career they want:
Students sign in here using your student ID number and usual student password
Graduates - find out how to access Handshake
Staff - access staff account instructions via in.beds
Our interactive virtual career development platform gives you access to all the tools you need to kickstart your career:
Staff and students access Beds Career Builder using their single sign on credentials.
Sign in and start building your career now!
Graduates - find out how to access Beds Career Builder
Support and information for home, undergraduate and postgraduate students
Support and information for International undergraduate and postgraduate students
Support for employees on an apprenticeship programme
Ongoing support after you graduate
Information on how we can work collaboratively
Information and resources for university staff (log-in required)
Help using Beds Career Builder and Handshake
Useful equality, diversity and inclusion resources
A curated selection of sector specific information on our Beds Career Builder platform - student sign in required.
Meet the team and find out how to get in touch
Find out more about our services, policies and terms & conditions.
The University of Bedfordshire Careers and Employability Service is not responsible for the content or information within any external web pages or links referred to in this website.
We do not endorse specific employers or organisations.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/community-and-faith:
Community and Faith
Learn more
We are the Chaplaincy at the University of Bedfordshire.
A place of welcome and hospitality for all of students and staff.
We have a designated team here to walk with you as you journey through your University experience.
We offer Pastoral support and can refer you on to colleagues in the Student Support Team and Student Experience Directorate.
Monday to Friday Luton: 10am-4pm Bedford: 10am-3pm Please note: Opening hours can vary at times
Luton: 10am-4pm
Bedford: 10am-3pm
Please note: Opening hours can vary at times
The Treehouse welcomes people of faith and no faith.
We promote an inclusive environment supporting our diverse community.
We also have strong contacts with our local faith communities.
On a weekly basis we offer regular faith activities.
Community and Faith Treehouse Chaplaincy form part of the Student Support Team.
Discover the diverse and inviting Treehouse Facilities across our Bedford and Luton campuses.
From our bustling Luton hub, equipped with a kitchen and prayer room, to the vibrant Bedford space, offering students a bright area for study and conversation, explore our facilities designed to enhance your university experience.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/exams:
Examinations
This section details the information on assessments at the University of Bedfordshire.
This section details the information on examinations at the University of Bedfordshire.
This section details on how to interact with the digital exams system, WISEflow.
To familiarise yourself with the digital exam system, ensure you complete the practice exams available in WISEflow.
If you need help:
When emailing the exams team, please include the following information to assist them fully (use your University of Bedfordshire email address):
Remember: It is important to monitor your emails for any correspondence from the exams team both during and after your exam to ensure you receive timely assistance and updates.
If your concern is regarding more general support in your studies, you can self-book an appointment with the StudyHub to discuss your academic work and exam revision.
Alternatively, you can explore their useful online guides .
At the University of Bedfordshire, all formal examinations are conducted through our Digital Examinations Environment, WISEflow
Why Practice Exams?
Practice exams are a fantastic way to familiarise yourself with the format and style of online exams you’ll encounter.
They help you build confidence and ensure you’re fully prepared for the real thing.
How to Access Practice Exams:
Stay Informed : Regularly check your university email for updates and practice exam notifications.
Good Luck!
We wish you the best of luck with your exams.
Remember, practice makes perfect.
We understand that sometimes things do not always go to plan, we appreciate all suggestions and feedback regarding exams both positive and negative.
If you wish to raise a concern relating to an exam you have taken or the exams process in general you have two options to do this:
Informal feedback/suggestion process:
In the first instance, students are invited to raise their concern with the exams team directly.
An email to exams@beds.ac.uk with the subject "feedback/complaint/suggestion" will allow the team to identify your concern quickly and allow you to receive the most prompt response possible.
This will then be passed to the Examinations Manager who will review your concerns and provide you with a response/ resolution directly.
In this response you will be given details of how you can raise your concerns formally if you are not satisfied with the response given.
Formal complaint process:
The University of Bedfordshire is committed to maintaining an effective procedure to allow all members of its community to make legitimate complaints.
Where informal pursuit of a complaint proves unsatisfactory and requires intervention of objective parties, the formal stages of the Student Complaints Procedure are available to students.
For details on how to raise a formal complaint please review our official complaints procedure
Alternatively, concerns, comments and suggestions may be raised via our Student Voice form
At the University of Bedfordshire, many of your formal examinations are delivered through WISEflow , our secure digital exam platform.
Depending on your course and location, your exam may be:
To ensure a smooth exam experience, it’s important to understand the format of your exam, know where and when it will take place, and be fully prepared with the right tools and access.
This guide outlines the key steps you should take before your exam day to help you feel confident and ready.
Online Remote Exams : These exams can be taken off-campus at a location of your choice.
Ensure you have a reliable internet connection and a PC or laptop available for the entire exam period.
Online On-Campus Exams : These exams are taken in a designated room on campus.
The room location will be listed on your exam timetable.
Make sure you know where to go and aim to arrive 30 minutes before the exam starts.
Doors will close 5 minutes before the scheduled start time of the exam.
Please review the rules for on-campus exams in the notice to candidates [PDF]
1.
Stay Informed Read all relevant exam webpages and guidance materials thoroughly.
2.
Check Your Login Credentials Ensure you can access your University of Bedfordshire email account (firstname.surname@study.beds.ac.uk)
3.
Monitor Your Email Regularly check your university email for updates from WISEflow and the Exams Team.
4.
Log into WISEflow Make sure you can access WISEflow before your exam day to avoid last-minute issues.
You'll need:
5.
Complete the Practice Exam You’ll receive a practice exam link approximately two weeks before the exam period.
Completing it will help you understand the platform and submission process.
Review Your Timetable Check your examination timetable for dates, times, and venues.
Revisit it regularly in case of updates.
Test Your Equipment Ensure your device is compatible with WISEflow.
Use the latest version of Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox.
8.
Learning Support If you require a Learning and Teaching Support Agreement , contact the Disability Team at least six weeks before your exam.
Update Your Email Address If your university email address has changed, notify the Exams Team immediately at exams@beds.ac.uk .
They will need to update your WISEflow account to ensure you receive all exam communications.
10.
Contact the Exams Team For any exam-related queries or technical issues during your exam, email exams@beds.ac.uk
For more tips, read the article Your guide to exam season
We are thrilled to congratulate you on finishing your exams.
Once you are certain you have no further exams to take, you are free to enjoy your time and take some well-earned rest.
Your exams will be marked by your tutors.
Detailed information about how and when you will receive your results, as well as how to access your feedback, can be found in your course handbook.
If you have any questions regarding the marking process, please contact your unit tutor directly.
We value your feedback and would love to hear about your experience with your most recent examinations.
Please feel free to email us at exams@beds.ac.uk with any feedback regarding the examination experiences.
If you have any questions or need assistance regarding your exams, we’re here to help!
Wishing you the best of luck with your exams!

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/graduation:
Graduations
Graduation dates and locations

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/timetabling:
Get answers to some frequently asked questions, including how to use MyBeds Timetabler.
Download guides that explain the main functionality of MyBeds Timetabler, including logging in and viewing your timetable.
You must be fully registered, enrolled on the correct units and allocated to your teaching activities for your individual student timetable to be automatically populated.
You can check your registration status and which units you are enrolled to take via UoB eVision
Please note that it can take up to 48 hours for your timetable to generate after you have completed your registration.
Please also ensure that you are viewing the correct time period in MyBeds Timetabler that is relevant to the teaching delivery.
There are some units where students are split into a number of different groups and you need to be allocated to a group before it shows on your personal timetable.
These units will not show on your timetable until this has happened.
To view more details for an event, hover over an event in the calendar until the image icon appears, clicking on this will reveal further information.
The information icon can also be clicked on the event in tools to see the expanded information.
Yes you can!
If you check out your profile page there will be a section for notifications where you can configure how you would like to be notified, either in-app, or email, as well as which notification types you wish to receive.
Your university Outlook calendar has been automatically synced, and all activities and events will now be linked directly to your calendar.
You can view other resources timetables via the home page, by using the directory to toggle which resources appear on the calendar.
The resource type can be changed by selecting the desired resource from the list located to the right of the Directory.
The resource grid view also makes it easier to see the events associated with a resource.
To change your password, please note that Timetabler uses Single Sign-On (SSO) for authentication, so passwords cannot be changed through Timetabler itself.
Instead, you should manage password changes through your Microsoft 365 account.
If you need to reset your password, use the University’s IDM-managed password site and log in with the IDM password, not the one set in Timetabler.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/student-experience:
Your experience matters

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/student-support:
Student Support

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/sportbeds:
University of Bedfordshire Sport

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/research:
Research
Drive your business
with our research
Learn More
Academic Support
Upcoming Research Events

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/research/institutes:
Back to Research

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/research/areas:
Enquire about research degrees
By telephone During office hours (Monday-Friday 08:30-17:00) +44 (0)1582 489056
By email research@beds.ac.uk
International applicants should be aware of our English language requirements
For all the information you need on how to apply for a research degree and to make sure you fulfil the entry requirements go to How to apply
You should have a good honours degree (2:1 or above) or masters degree or equivalent in the relevant subject area.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/research/news:
A PhD student whose research delves into a remotely delivered mind-body physical activity intervention for older people - part-funded by award-winning local charity The Sadie Centre - has graduated from the University of Bedfordshire during this summer’s ceremonies.
A new report, led by the University of Bedfordshire, in partnership with the London School of Economics and the South London Refugee Association, is calling for urgent reform of the UK asylum system to better protect unaccompanied children and young people seeking refuge.
The University of Bedfordshire has secured funding for a new initiative which aims to improve health, access, and connections to nature, with a particular focus on those identified as facing barriers to access, such as people with disabilities and minority ethnic communities.
An academic from the University of Bedfordshire is calling on local women to take part in an international research project exploring safety and harassment while running outdoors.
The University of Bedfordshire and Central Bedfordshire Council have announced the extension of their successful Business Growth and Innovation Programme, supported by the UK Shared Prosperity Fund (UKSPF), until March 2026.
The University of Bedfordshire is proud to announce new strategic partnerships with two innovation-driven companies – Coolr Ltd and ExComS Innovation Center Limited – that will not only support students but also drive regional economic growth, staff development, and industry collaboration.
The University of Bedfordshire has officially signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOUs) with three leading regional business organisations, marking the start of a strategic partnership aimed at supporting students, driving economic growth, and fostering meaningful industry collaboration.
A pioneering joint research initiative by the University of Bedfordshire and the Bedfordshire, Luton and Milton Keynes (BLMK) Integrated Care Board (ICB) has received international acclaim, winning the Patient and Caregivers Partners Award at the International Conference for Integrated Care (ICIC) 2025 in Lisbon.
Black and Mixed Heritage children in England face harsher penalties than their White peers even when they have committed the same offences, according to a new report co-authored by academics from the University of Bedfordshire.
The University of Bedfordshire has expanded its partnership with Keech Hospice, pledging to work together to support innovative projects that directly shape palliative and end-of-life care services.
Over the last 10 months, the University of Bedfordshire, in partnership with West Northamptonshire Council, has successfully supported 130 local businesses to enhance their work through the Growth & Innovation Programme, funded by the UK Shared Prosperity Fund (UKSPF).
A PhD graduate from the University of Bedfordshire has been named the recipient of the Jacqueline Ross TOEFL Dissertation Award, one of the most prestigious PhD accolades in the field of language testing.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/research/research-events:
The University of Bedfordshire regularly hosts research events and conferences.
For more information and to register for any upcoming events, please click on the relevant link, below.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/ris/academic-support:
We provide assistance to our researchers throughout all stages of the research life cycle, from development of ideas, through preparation of competitive applications to management and delivery of funded research projects.
We can also provide accurate costings based on the FEC model and pricing to ensure effective cost recovery, expert guidance on the rules and regulations of research funders, skills development for researchers and continuous support, and advice in the use of our Research Management Administration System (RMAS).
University academics will find a number of useful resources on this page.
Please note that some of these will take you to other sections of our external website, as well as the staff website which will require you to login.
Go to Research & Innovation Service

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/ris:
Business Support
(delivered by the Research & Innovation Service)
UKSPF: AI Business Transformation Programme
UKSPF business growth & innovation support in Central Beds and Bedford Borough areas
Training & Development
Research and Knowledge Exchange sits at the heart of the University of Bedfordshire’s commitment to making a significant social and economic contribution to the local and national economy ...

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/ris/working-with-us/how-can-we-help-you:
Wherever you are in your business the Research & Innovation Service are with you every step of the way.
Please fill in your details below and a member of the business partnership team will be in touch.
'Handshake' is an innovative platform that connects organisations, students, graduates and the University of Bedfordshire's Careers Service in one place.
It enables employers to hire the most qualified and diverse candidates from the University of Bedfordshire, as well as other universities across the country.
In addition, you can advertise your opportunities, sign up for our events, as well as promote your own.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/ris/working-with-us/starting-a-business:
(*still trading after 3 years - HESA report)
In 2024, the University of Bedfordshire was ranked 1st by HESA for graduate start-ups still trading after three years, up from 3rd place in the previous report.
This was welcome news, especially as we also retained our 1st place ranking for students creating successful social enterprises for the second consecutive year.
Read the full article on the study of the UK’s most entrepreneurial universities.
If you are looking to explore an innovative business idea or seeking support for your start-up, we can help you transform your vision into reality by utilising our experienced academics, and our vast network of key regional partners.
We offer a range of services to assist you, including workshops, one-to-one academic consultancy, and additional resources that support you on those important first steps of your business journey.
Our Culture and Community Engagement team run a range of place-based projects and shares resources that aim to support local cultural practitioners and entrepreneurs.
This includes development programmes for entrepreneurial, partnership, business and fundraising capabilities.
Our wide range of funded projects and strategic partnerships enable us to lead on responsive place-based models that meet the current demands and knowledge gaps within the creative and cultural sectors, through a diverse set of offers, led by the community.
These are just some of the organisations available to support your entrepreneurial journey:
Wenta (free training and advice)
Luton Council
Central Bedfordshire Council
Bedford Borough Council
SEMLEP Growth Hub
British Business Bank
Start-up Loans (government scheme – delivered by British Business Bank)
Money Helper (government self-employment initiative)
The Prince's Trust
Starting a business can seem daunting.
We have identified a short checklist to help you become self-employed:
There are many things to consider when starting a new business venture, such as business structure, location, budgeting and paying tax.
There are also different kinds of self-employed set ups, such as Sole Traders, Partnerships, Private Limited Companies, Limited Partnerships and Limited Liability partnerships (LLP).
Here are a few helpful tips to consider when starting out:

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/ris/working-with-us/grow-your-business:
Our understanding of the key challenges faced by businesses allows us to leverage our academic resources and expertise to help accelerate business growth.
We strive to translate our academic experience into impactful results.
With ten specialist Institutes at the University, our knowledge helps develop novel approaches that solve real-world problems.
We have a range of programmes that include bespoke workshops, academic consultancy, and contract research.
Identifying and solving challenges faced by your business is key to its growth - whether your goals involve venturing into new markets, embarking on new product development, cost reduction, skilled employee recruitment, or gaining insights into the impact of environmental issues.
This UK Shared Prosperity Fund (UKSPF) programme, delivered by the University of Bedfordshire in partnership with the Central Bedfordshire, Bedford Borough and Luton Councils , will enable you to strategically move your business forward while effectively managing the day-to-day issues.
Our Culture and Community Engagement team run a range of place-based projects and shares resources that aim to support local cultural practitioners and organisations.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/ris/working-with-us/solve-a-business-challenge:
(*according to REF2021)
Research and Knowledge Exchange sits at the heart of the University of Bedfordshire’s commitment to making a significant social and economic contribution to the local and national economy.
We understand the key challenges faced by businesses and entrepreneurs; and use our academic resources and expertise to help you thrive through a range of programmes that include professional consultancy, work placements and targeted training sessions.
We strive to translate our research into impactful results that help to solve both global and local challenges, and influence policy and strategy.
With ten specialist Research Institutes at the University, our knowledge helps develop novel approaches that solve real-world problems.
Innovation is the lifeblood of any business , but how do you access the kind of expertise to make it happen?
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) could be the answer - creating a dynamic three-way collaboration between:
Working together, this partnership powers strategic innovation projects, embeds expertise and drives commercial growth.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/culture-and-community-engagement:
Culture and Community Engagement
The University of Bedfordshire’s Culture and Community Engagement team (formerly Arts and Culture Projects) brings together university expertise with civic and sector partners, acting as a bridge nationally and locally between higher education, business and local people.
Harnessing institutional interdisciplinary research and leading on practical projects, the team focuses on issues and challenges that are locally relevant and nationally significant.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/ris/cpd:
Continuing Professional Development & Short Courses
By size of institution, the University of Bedfordshire is 10 th in the UK for delivering CPD into business that can really make a difference (PDF)
To help you invest in you or your team, we have created a suite of professional short courses and Continuing Professional Development (CPD) to help add value to your business.
We work with individuals, large and small businesses and organisations from the private and public sectors.
For more details about the courses on offer, please view our 'Developing Professionals' Brochure or select the relevant skill category, below.
Are you looking for a training option that is a tailored to the needs of your organisation?
Then please visit Bespoke for your Organisation for more details and to register your interest.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/venue:
VenueBedfordshire
Hire our facilities
We offer top-quality spaces with IT support and catering by experienced staff, and the option of accommodation at competitive rates to suit your event needs.
Our VenueBedfordshire team offers dedicated conferences, exhibitions, business meetings, training and social events services.
Our team led by an events manager with more than 10-years’ experience is here to meet your needs, whatever the requirements.
We offer supported modern facilities spaces with AV support and catering – anything from filming locations and conference facilities to event coordination and planning, our team will be able to help you every step of the way.
Back to Research & Innovation Service

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/departments/cats:
The Faculty is organised into four Schools.
Collectively, we are a vibrant Faculty who foster collaboration that is truly interdisciplinary and we support our students and local people to gain the knowledge and skills they need to succeed in today's modern workplace.
Our Mission: Nurturing a supportive and sustainable academic environment to produce sector leading graduates that make a valued contribution to the economy and wider society, equipping them with the skills and knowledge required to deliver to the needs of the global community.
Our Vision: To provide a supportive, inclusive learning community where creativity and innovation in science, technology, and creative industries allowing all to excel; inspiring pride in themselves and in the university.
CATS Faculty is home to 4 Research Institutes and a Research Centre, read more about them below:
Institute of Biomedical and Environmental Science and Technology (iBEST )
Institute for Research in Applicable Computing (IRAC)
Research Institute for Media, Arts and Performance (RIMAP)
Institute for Research in Engineering and Sustainable Environment (IRESE)
Research Centre for Applied Psychology
CATS Faculty prepares students for work at the cutting edge of the creative arts, science and computing industries.
Being EmployAble - there are a range of activities available across the University to help you develop skills, create contacts, give you ideas about what to do after graduating and make you stand out in a competitive jobs market.
Follow our socials

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/departments/ees:
The Faculty of Education, English & Sport is based at the Bedford campus.
We have academic roots that go back to 1882 in general education and to 1903 in physical education.
These traditions frame our current provision from which we deliver rich learning experiences, exceptional teaching, internationally recognised research, and a graduate employment rate of 95%.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/departments/healthsciences:
The Faculty of Health & Social Sciences offers a range of innovative courses attracting students from a wide variety of backgrounds.
The Faculty takes a flexible, often work-based, approach to teaching and learning which encourages reflective practice.
All teaching and learning is informed by research and grounded in a robust evidence-base.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/languagecentre:
We have students from all over the world, studying on various course types and lengths with us, for either pre-sessional courses, or in-sessional.
We ensure our students are at a right academic and linguistic level before progressing onto their main degrees, and we offer continuous support, during and after their studies with us.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/centre-for-academic-partnerships:
Centre for Academic Partnerships

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/academy-for-learning-teaching-excellence:
Welcome to the Academy for Learning and Teaching Excellence

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us:
We are a vibrant, ambitious academic community celebrating diversity and the transformative power of education.
We are the University of Bedfordshire.
Antisemitism Statement Gender Pay Gap Student Privacy Policy Community Partnership Agreement Academic Regulations

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/campuses:
Experience campus life from the comfort of your home with our immersive virtual-reality campus tours.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/alumni/our-alumni:
Following my graduation from the University of Bedfordshire in 2016, I was offered the position of Research Assistant with the NCCR on a two year project.
In this role, I worked alongside Police in a project looking at the management and risk assessment of cyberstalking and harassment.
The skills I learned through my time at the University were fundamental in obtaining this position.
An essential requirement for this role was a degree in Psychology or a closely related discipline.
For my dissertation topic, I chose to study the accuracy of facial composites and which facial aspects are most important for recognition.
This really developed my interest in forensic research projects and allowed me to develop my skills further in this particular area, which was another requirement for the Research Assistant role.
In the second year of my Psychology degree, I volunteered as part of the Student Research Assistant Scheme and had the opportunity to work with a member of the Psychology academic staff on a qualitative study focused on the Children and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS).
This helped to develop my qualitative research skills which would subsequently help in obtaining my position following graduation.
This was a very interesting role and such an incredible and rewarding experience which I am extremely grateful for.
Following the end of this project, I began a role with Bedfordshire Police where I continued to use and develop my research skills in their intelligence team.
Melvin graduated from the University in 2001 with a degree in Media Performance and Radio, burst onto TV screens just a year later as part of the Dick and Dom In Da Bungalow cast, before moving onto present TV and radio shows across Kiss, MTV, BBC, ITV and Channel 4.
The University has been delighted to welcome Melvin back to Bedfordshire on several occasions.
In a recent student panel led by the Vice Chancellor students got to ask him questions about his life and career, from winning the Strictly Come Dancing Christmas Special to presenting live from the BRIT Awards red carpet.
“I’m sure there are lots of students at the University who are interested in getting into media, TV and radio, just like I was, and I can’t wait to share my experiences with them – the great people I’ve met, shows I’ve worked on and places my job has taken me.
I hope this event will help to inform and inspire the future generation of Bedfordshire graduates.”
After graduating from the University in Sports Studies, Sam went on to work for Bedford Borough Council as a Sports Development Project Officer.
Since then Sam's career has focussed more on his passion - Cricket.
Staring at Herfordshire Cricket as Cricket Development Officer, to Cricket East as a Club and Community Manager.
He has now progressed to Head of Cricket Development at Cricket East.
When I was told that I got the internship I had no idea how to react – I mean, it's Disney after all!
I never expected when I first saw the advert that I would be the intern they chose!
The University of Bedfordshire definitely prepared me for not only acting in the role, but for securing the role as well."
I completed my master's degree in Electronic Engineering with Distinction and received the 'Best Overall Student of the Department' award in 2015.
It was a major milestone in my life and something that I am certainly very proud of.
I had the opportunity to work on some cutting edge projects with industry leaders and on very high-tech equipment that the University had provided.
I come from an Aerospace Engineering background and I really wanted to specialise in control systems and the automation side of things so pursuing Electronic Engineering at graduate level was the definite path for me.
Peter, who graduated from the University in 2015 with a BSc in Games Development , is realising an ambition he has held since childhood by self-publishing his own games, developing ideas for his employers Electric Gamebox and taking part in gamejams for his own enjoyment.
Under the pseudonym BigHandInSky, Peter released his first game for profit in late 2020 – titled A Forgetful Loop – which he subsequently submitted to the Palestinian Aid and Queer Games bundles earlier this year.
The puzzle game sees the player join a team of scientists and engineers in Hope Labs, working against the clock to fix a broken machine.
For Peter, releasing his own creation on gaming platforms itch.io and Steam is the beginning of an exciting long-term project.
He said:
“I’ve wanted to make games since I was a kid – I think I got one of my brother’s consoles, then the idea resonated ever since.
Making A Forgetful Loop felt like a real catharsis for that young kid’s dreams.
“It’s the first game I’ve developed to sell for money, but through various other projects such as gamejams – fun challenges where you work to a theme to create a game in a set amount of time – I’ve probably made about a dozen now.
“Including the game in the Palestinian Aid and Queer Games bundles was also really pleasing.
The Palestinian Aid bundle did amazingly, comprising of over 1,200 games and making almost $900,000 for the UNRWA (United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees) – to be even a tiny drop in a group of developers that made that happen was a good feeling.
“For the Queer Games bundle, that’s more close to home.
I wanted to be a part of a community project that I hope to be more involved with in the future.
“My current plan is to keep working on a game each year to build up a library of cool stuff, working towards the end result of being fully independent.
However, that's a lot easier said than done, especially if I want to contract other folks to work on the games with me.”
Jodie graduated from the University and landed the role of Production Manager at Channel 4 for Made in Chelsea.
Jodies says: "The Television production course really prepared me to step out into the industry.
The skills I learned on the course where really valuable and taught me what to expect in a professional TV production environment.
The course covered all aspects of TV from directing to set design.
It helped me figure out what I wanted to pursue once leaving university.
As soon as I graduated I was offered a full time job in the industry.
Joining the university on the TV Production course was where it all began for me."
Since graduating in Interior Architecture Design Pyae Phyo has been working successfully as an Interior Designer.
“I loved doing my undergraduate course for Interior Architecture and managed to graduate first class with a vast amount of knowledge which has helped me down the line in my career.
I am currently working on freelance projects and hoping to start my own business in Interior Design/Architecture.
The help and support I received from the lecturers and the university were very useful to me and to date, I still apply the advice and feedback from the course to my practice.”
Dominika graudated in 2019 and landed a job as Course Advisor at Cambridge Education Group.
Since then she has been back in Practice as a Psychologist.
"Psychology knowledge is essential in every role out there and has helped me understand people's needs, motives and behaviours.
My psychology degree has opened my eyes, helped me at every stage in my life, personally, but also professionally.
My current role requires coaching and sales skills, a psychology background and communication skills.
All of them I had a chance to practice during my university time.
The entire university experience has been amazing.
I met many people from around the world, mastered the English language, gained incredible work experience within the field, and increased my confidence.
These 3 years definitely pushed me out of my comfort zone, but I loved every bit of it."
After graduating Shane was offered a role as Legal Analyst at Silver Circle Law Firm.
"This has been a good opportunity to improve my chances of gaining a reputable training contract.
A typical day at work involves working with senior solicitors and managers and attending meetings with senior professionals from other jurisdictions.
I also assist with billing matters to time-record individual tasks with different clients and project to charge per hour at the end of each day.
There are many tight deadlines to adhere to and this can be challenging but very rewarding."
Following her graduation Andreea secured a role as Psychology Wellbeing Practitioner at Milton Keynes Talking Therapies IAPT Service.
Andreea says: "During my undergraduate sandwich course I had a year placement where I worked as an Honorary Assistant Psychologist.
There I had the chance to apply the research and psychological theories learnt during my first two years at the University of Bedfordshire.
This experience built up on my practical skills that are required on a day to day job of working within the area of Psychology and boosted my confidence and desire to pursue a career in psychology.
Moreover, all the knowledge accumulated throughout my placement helped me a lot with the final year modules at university as I already had some knowledge of different mental health problems and it also enhanced my reflective skills used in the practical tasks required for the Coaching unit year which made a massive difference towards my first degree diploma."
I am a football analysist for FIFA.
My primary role is to collect and analyse data based on FIFA’s footballing language.
This language aligns technical expertise and the data itself to produce insights and to understand trends within football at all levels of the game.
We look at all age groups as well as men and women’s football.
The data is combined with observations from technical experts such as Steve McClaren and Arsene Wenger with the aim of understanding the game better, while hopefully improving fan experience and football as a whole at all levels of the game.
It’s amazing to watch football every day, it’s the dream.
I did a HND at Tresham College and a Sport and PE course.
This gave me a good grounding in sport and exercise science in general.
The units I studied there developed my understanding of the physiological side of sport and how sport science is used in different sports.
At that point of my journey, it really helped me focus on what I wanted to do next.
The two years doing my HND helped me brush up on my academic skills; get applied experience in a professional academy setting; and gave me a solid understanding of the elements of sport science.
I then completed my top-up degree in Applied Sport Science and Coaching at the University of Bedfordshire.
My dissertation during this year was linked with the college football academy as well and I helped collect GPS data.
My advice to future students is to not be afraid to ask questions!
Don’t assume the top-up is not for you.
It provides a good opportunity for exposure to a wide variety of units.
The tutors and staff will support you in a number of ways and it gives you an alternative route to achieving a Batchelor’s degree.
The course helps you to find your own path in the sporting industry as well and gives you the freedom in your dissertation to choose a topic that you are keen on.
You also get to work alongside people on other courses as well.
Finally, take all the opportunities you’re offered in the time you are at university.
Since graduating from the University of Bedfordshire I am now Head of Behaviour Change Unit at Hertfordshire County Council.
I couldn't have envisaged the path that my career would take when I started my BSc Health Psychology at the University of Bedfordshire and how important this broad understanding in psychology would be for my role in Public Health.
I loved my BSc so much that it inspired me to complete my MSc and ultimately my Doctorate in Health Psychology.
I apply my psychological knowledge every day to developing behaviour change programmes to improve outcomes for the population of Hertfordshire.
Understanding how people perceive the world and the broad influences on their behaviour including culture, education, family and friends has been crucial as they all impact on health outcomes.
My studies at University have been fundamental to my career development and have allowed me to work in an exciting and evolving discipline to embed behavioural science into public health practice.
I studied Adult Nursing at the University of Bedfordshire, I now work as a sister in the children's emergency department.
Studying this course it really helped in my nursing career.
I've got to get out on clinical placements and obviously learn the job.
We did a range of placements from hospital based, community based, which was really interesting.
So you get to really understand and learn what kind of things you want to do and where you want to work.
It was a great experience studying at the University of Bedfordshire; the teaching quality and the academics were extremely supportive.
The MSc from Bedfordshire actually transformed me professionally, especially my understanding of the financial side of the technology and the impact it has on businesses.
I have enjoyed all the roles I have undertaken since University, and I am excited to see what else lies ahead.
My experience was actually everything, but especially when we were staying late in the library and preparing for exams - we had lots of laughs.
Graduation was also a very special occasion, it was a nice sunny day and I enjoyed it a lot.
This Degree helped me to increase and gain my knowledge to manage my daily work and glad that currently I am holding one of the posts of the executive level.
The individual modules of the MBA course of University of Bedfordshire made me understand more about the sector and how to manage the situations easily at the current job.
I don't have one best memory it is a package of the best memories in University life.
But the moment, receiving the miraculous result of the final theses was just an unbelievable moment with a great memory.
Upon leaving university I developed my skill set significantly and I am in the final stages of qualifying as a solicitor.
I maintain contact with the university and have been recognised for running projects for young people in partnership with the university.
It developed my knowledge of certain areas of law and research skills.
The support was very helpful, lecturers were always on hand to guide and the facilities are excellent.
My first graduate role in design came to me 4 months after graduating, working as an in-house designer for a decorator’s merchant.
Since my first role, I have moved around quite a lot from in-house design positions to working for an agency and even dabbling in marketing and doing things such as event planning and blogging!
Working in design has opened up so many different opportunities for me and moving around means I am always learning something new.
For my particular course the group was small, it may have changed now but the support from my lecturers was always there.
If I had any questions or criticisms my lecturers and course leaders were always there to help and guide me in the right direction.My advice would be to make the most of it, as time will fly by and try to say yes to every opportunity you're given!
My journey with the University of Bedfordshire, through its academic partner Majan University College (MUC) in the Sultanate of Oman, has been a transformative experience that continues to shape my career.
Completing my MSc in Computer Science in 2017, while serving as Director of eLearning at MUC, gave me a unique blend of academic and professional insights.
The flexible yet rigorous curriculum allowed me to balance work and study, gaining both practical and strategic knowledge that has been invaluable in my role today as Assistant Director of Branding at Nitte University, one of India’s top 100 universities.
The coursework, guided by expert UK professors, instilled a forward-thinking approach that has helped me lead digital transformation in higher education and marketing.
Modules such as Data Governance and Project Management gave me the tools to manage large-scale branding initiatives effectively.
These skills have been essential in shaping strategic branding initiatives, ensuring a consistent and impactful presence for Nitte University across various digital platforms and communication channels.
For prospective students, my advice is to fully embrace the opportunities that the University of Bedfordshire offers, even if you are studying through a partner institution like I did.
The flexibility and global outlook of their programmes allow you to apply what you learn immediately to your career, no matter where you are.
The learning environment encourages innovation, and the skills you gain will set you apart in today’s fast-paced professional world.
My UK education has been the cornerstone of my career, empowering me to lead with confidence and purpose.
It’s a journey that doesn’t end with graduation - it continues to drive my professional growth, allowing me to contribute meaningfully to the institutions and communities I serve.
Roshan Kolar Ganeshan Asst.
Director (Branding), Nitte University, India Class of 2017, MSc in Computer Science, University of Bedfordshire, UK
University of Bedfordshire graduate and para-dressage international champion, Mari Durward-Akhurst, has been named as an Ambassador of the British Inspiration Trust (BRIT) and is supporting the annual BRIT Challenge this year.
The BRIT Challenge raises money to support and improve young adults’ mental health, fitness and wellbeing.
This year, participant teams will collectively aim to cover 2022 miles between now and University Mental Health Day on the 3 rd March, by wheelchair-pushing, walking, hand-cycling, running, rowing and by any other physical means.
Each year, the BRIT Challenge is supported by successful and high-profile Ambassadors.
Paralympian dressage rider Mari – a two-time international and five-time national champion who studied with the University’s School of Sports Science & Physical Activity (SSPA) – graduated from the University in 2015.
She is supporting and encouraging students and staff from the University of Bedfordshire, the Bedford College Group and Central Bedfordshire College to take on the challenge.
Mari – who has cerebral palsy, ataxia and dystonia – achieved a degree in Sports Therapy and had initially planned to set up her own business but instead became a full time athlete.
Mari says that horse riding has helped with her physical and mental health which have both been impacted by her condition.
She hopes her experience and success will help inspire others to take on the BRIT Challenge and raise money for an important cause.
In an interview on the BRIT Challenge website , Mari commented: “Having lived with a life changing condition, been bullied at school because of my disability, and as a former student, I know that many young adults suffer with mental health challenges.
I am thrilled to be joining the BRIT Ambassador family to support and improve young adult mental health throughout the UK.
“The Covid-19 pandemic has had an impact on the lives of many young people; especially those who are vulnerable, living with disabilities and who have limited mobility.
Mental health services are under increasing pressure and it’s vital that students receive support for their mental health and wellbeing now, so that they do not endure long-term mental health effects that will affect their health, studies and future employment.
“The British Inspiration Trust’s annual BRIT Challenge is an exciting UK-wide opportunity for students and young adults of all abilities to unite as university and college teams – at home or on campus – and take part in a feel-good February fundraiser.
I look forward to encouraging and supporting students and staff as they take on the BRIT Challenge.”
Emily Bolton, who graduated from Bedfordshire with a degree in Sport and Physical Education in 2020, was a late addition to Team England squad after being called-up due to a teammate’s injury.
The 2022 Games held in Birmingham saw Emily compete in the women's table tennis doubles and the women's table tennis team events.
Sadly her time on the table alongside Charlotte Bardsley in the women’s doubles ended with a defeat in the last 16.
Speaking about her experience competing at the Games, Emily said: “The Commonwealth Games has been an amazing experience – seeing all the athletes and experiencing the atmosphere is something I’ll remember forever, topped off with it being a home games which has been really special, meaning my family and friends were able to come and watch which they never really get the opportunity to do.”
Emily’s love of the sport started from a young age and when she moved away from home at 16 to pursue table tennis, her career started to take off.
Her time studying at the University of Bedfordshire meant juggling her time between the sport and her degree – but she was determined to achieve high standards in both.
In 2020 – the same year she graduated from the University – Emily claimed her first senior national title, taking women’s doubles Gold alongside Denise Payet at the Mark Bates Ltd National Championships.
Dr Martyn Morris , Head of the School of Sport Science and Physical Activity , commented on Emily’s success: “It is fantastic to see one of our sports alumni represent England at this year’s Commonwealth Games.
The teaching and facilities that we offer in the School of Sport Science and Physical Activity help to prepare students for beginning a career in sports after graduating.
“In 2019, Emily was one of the recipients of our Platinum Performance sports scholarship , which is designed to support students’ development in their chosen sport, and we’re all delighted to see Emily go on to achieve such success.”
Anisa Riaz Murshed, an Art and Design graduate who studied at the University’s Luton campus , has been selected for the first stage of the award and her work went on display in MK Gallery.
The Platform Graduate Award is supported by a number of partner arts organisations, including MK Gallery, who will each shortlist a finalist and one successful graduate will receive a £2000 bursary and 12 months of mentoring support.
Anisa graduated in 2022 and is going on to study for a postgraduate certificate in education (PGCE) with the University.
Speaking about what it would mean to her to win this award, Anisa said: “It is the greatest honour to be representing the University of Bedfordshire and having the opportunity to showcase my degree and the final piece of exhibition work.
I want to thank my wonderful parents, friends, my tutor, and everyone who has motivated me throughout this university journey.
“I have never had the confidence in myself as an artist, so for my university tutor Nigel Grimmer and Roisin Callaghan from the MK Gallery to see my potential means everything.
To win this award now would be just incredible.
If I were to win, I would continue to produce cultural and religious pieces that are close to my heart.”
Nigel Grimmer , Senior Lecturer in Visual Arts, also congratulated Anisa on her success: “It is a commendable achievement for Anisa to be representing the University of Bedfordshire at MK Gallery.
Anisa has worked consistently hard on her practice for three years.
“Our students are encouraged to explore their personal interests and history throughout the course.
Anisa's exhibition investigates her Bangladeshi heritage through an investigation of pattern and colour.”
Since leaving university I secured a job at a local satellite TV station (Loveworld UK).
I started in the design room working on all of their print media I then moved into motion graphics, progressed to editing, filming and then much later directing and producing my own TV shows.
I progressed quite quickly through the ranks and went on to become the stations youngest assistant general manager.
I accomplished this in the short space of three and a half years.
While at the station I caught the film bug and enrolled at Met Film school to gain a qualification as a film director.
I left Loveworld UK to pursue my career as a documentary film producer.
I produced my first feature length documentary in 2013 ‘247365 CHANGE’ a film that documents the lives of 6 ex-gang members of their journey to turn their lives around.
I gained national recognition for the impact of the film and the fact that it was independently funded; we raised just over 50k to produce the documentary.
Since then I have gone onto produce several documentary film projects The BBC's ‘County lines, Teenage Drug Runners’ & Channel 5 ‘Gangland Season 1 & 2 to name a few.
Based on my own personal live experience and the experiences of the young people that are involved in my film projects I set up a social enterprise ‘2020Change CIC’ www.2020change.org a youth empowerment renowned for helping young people realise their true potential and cultivate the right mind-set to engage with today’s changing society.
Our work is channelled through the strong belief that today’s streetwise youth have the potential to become tomorrow’s leading figures, all they need is a vehicle to show them how to use their past experiences as transferable skills that would accelerate them to thrive in today’s work place.
2020 Change’s multi-award winning flagship programme ‘I Am Change’ which runs in prisons, schools and local communities across London, uses alternative education in a unique way to engage young people in interactive workshops and seminars about discovering purpose, potential and most importantly their unique identity.
June: 2019: Converse International: Most impactful programme – Boston, Massachusetts.
October 2019: Converse Europe: Community Impact (Spark Progress) – Hilversum, Amsterdam
November 2019: Selected as a member of the EY Foundation Accelerator programme for social entrepreneurs.
I work as a DevOps Consultant for my own consultancy business, BenOps.
Previously I worked at the university straight after graduating.
I worked in the internal IT team for the university where I worked my way up from the Service Desk to become a Desktop & AV Engineer.
I then joined a FTSE100 company named Rexam and moved into DevOps a year after before starting my own DevOps consultancy.
I now contract for clients such as the Ministry of Justice.
My favourite memories of the University are actually as a staff member which included opening the new campus at Milton Keynes, opening the Postgraduate centre and also taking a leading role in Clearing all from an IT perspective.
I'd say to prospective students, make your chosen career your hobby - set up a home lab and test emerging technology in your own time to make you even more employable.
After I completed my Masters at Bedfordshire I went to London Metropolitan University to complete my PGCE in Secondary PE.
From there I went on to work at London Academy in Edgware for two years before I moved to the UAE.
I am currently completing my 4th year teaching Physical Education in an American school in Dubai.
I am High School Coordinator where I am responsible for Grades 9 through 12 pastorally.
I feel my Masters in particular significantly enhanced my tool kit and fully prepared me for my PGCE course.
I still look back over my Masters assignments to reconfirm material I have learnt.
My journey since leaving the University has been an incredible one.
Coming from Nigeria as international student I was determined to succeed against all odds.
I still remember some of my tutors who took interest in my personal development and mentored me during my university journey.
It paid off and today I have developed into a successful project and business manager consulting for major enterprises, and I am an ACCA chartered accountant amongst other professional credentials.
I'm currently working at BT as a Technology Project Manager.
At his core, Alex is a Creative, he has always loved the creative process, studying graphic design and art at college.
After picking up a camera in his late teens, he found a passion for creating moving image.
He gained experience in the industry with global media institutions such as the BBC and Channel 4 during his time studying at the University of Bedfordshire.
Alex left University and become one of the youngest TV Commercial directors at that time.
Working in TV and film Alex realised the traditional career ladder wasn’t the path that was right for him.
In response, Alex ventured to establish and build the independent content creation agency Clearhead, which formed in the spring of in 2007.
Clearhead has gone onto become a respected award winning content agency with international presence and reputation.
Retaining it’s roots in Luton and solidifying it’s studio in the heart of the Luton’s Hat District as pioneering tenants of Hat House.
Experience across multiple industries has generated a diverse brand roster such as: RAF, Houses of Parliament, Nuffield Health, Guinness, TUI, Cadbury, Sony, BBC, Saatchi & Saatchi.
Winning internationally recognised awards for his work as Director and cinematographer across a breadth of commercial and short films including the recent University of Bedfordshire case study film “Bethany’s Story”, Alex is passionate about creative direction and innovative storytelling keeping his pulse on current trends and technologies to ensure that he is offering innovative and current solutions to his clients needs.
Alex doesn't intend to talk the talk unless he can walk the walk.
Discovering his weaknesses and turning them into his strengths.
Alex works with major brands and clients to produce creative content that reaches their audiences but is also passionate about short form storytelling.
Having worked on and led creative of multiple features and short films both locally and internationally.
Many of which have gone on to achieve great global recognition.
The projects Alex selects generally follow an endeavour to promote the representation of minority groups and their challenges.
Projects such as the short film Chains for the NFL UK.
A grass roots story of a young man overcoming extreme adversity to achieve notoraity within sports coaching.
This film was picked up by the NFL and is used to promote grass roots sport and it’s benefits across the UK.
Alex is not just a creative and entrepreneur who focuses on the big idea, the aesthetics and the creative quality - Alex also strategises, creates and implements processes, manages teams and mentors.
Having built creative departments from scratch and grown them to develop and improve both the creative output and quality of what his teams create.
Employing, mentoring and training tens if not hundreds of University of Bedfordshire alumni over the last 13 years.
Encouraging, advising and supporting young creatives as they enter the TV and Film industry has been a core passion and service of Alex’s.
Building on this passion Alex became the first representative of the digital content world to be asked to join the panel of the established Royal Television Society committee.
Working with fellow industry representatives to organise and host national industry panel discussions, career fairs and in general advising, encouraging and supporting young people and graduates to take their firsts steps into the industry.
In the future Alex hopes to continue to grow, represent and promote creativity and the opportunities the creative industry can provide young people from all diversities.
Continuing to encourage, inspire and support those that need hope in order to reach their dreams.
Being a beacon of what can be achieved through humble actions and communicating the context of where it can all start.
Due to family commitments, I applied for universities which were within a reasonable commuting distance from my home.
I accepted an offer for Beds after attending an open day, the lecturers were approachable and passionate, and the size of classes would be small in comparison to others.
Additionally, beds allowed for students to gain an extra qualification -the Higher Diploma in Paralegal Practice if certain electives are chosen.
I was interested in this.
Following on from graduation, I enrolled on the LPC/LLM Course at De Montfort University as a full- time student.
However, due to Covid restrictions coming back into place and having young children, I transferred onto the part-time course.
I currently attend University in person for one weekend each month.
My advice to all prospective students is to attend and participate in the lectures and seminars.
There are certain areas of law that will be more interesting than others, but it is important to split your time evenly when planning for classes.
It is very easy for the workload to become too much if you are always on catch up.
Additionally, preparation allows you to interact with the lecturers who are always willing to provide ongoing support and ensure that you receive the most out of your time as a student.
Once you have settled into the course, try to get involved in at least one extra-curriculum activity.
This will develop your legal skills and allow you to gain practical experience.
Overall, do not put too much pressure on yourself!

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-honouries:
Each year the University confers honorary awards as a way of recognising outstanding contributions to a specific field or to society in general, especially to those who have a close connection to our region or the academic areas in which we work.
Our Honorary graduates are an integral part of our wider University community.
We are proud to be associated with them and truly value their input and ongoing relationship with our University.
Meet just a few of our distinguished honorary graduates here:
Dame Jocelyn is a world-renowned astrophysicist famous for her discovery of radio pulsars in 1967 whilst she was a postgraduate student at the University of Cambridge.
Receiving the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1974 her discovery is credited as one of the most significant scientific achievements of the 20th century.
She was the first female President of the Institute of Physics for the UK and Ireland, the first female President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh and part of a group of female scientists who set up the Athena SWAN scheme.
In 2018, she was awarded a £2.3m Special Breakthrough in Fundamental Physics prize for her discovery of pulsars – where she donated the entire amount to help female minority and refugee students seeking to become physics researchers.
Emily Bolton is the founder and legal director of APPEAL - the Centre for Criminal Appeals representing people to the Court of Appeal, the Criminal Cases Review Commission and in Judicial Review proceedings.
The Centre aims to change the UK legal system so fewer innocent people are wrongly convicted.
Emily's casework focuses on challenges to unsafe convictions and on achieving access to evidence.
Emily is a practicing solicitor and formerly an attorney-at-law in the State of Louisiana.
Tom Grennan is an acclaimed singer-songwriter from Bedford whose album, Lighting Matches was described by NME critic as making Bedford sound like Hollywood.
His second album Evening Road charted at number one and includes a string of top ten hits.
Tom has enjoyed success with platinum singles, has collaborated with many other popular artists and is now established as one of the biggest selling debut domestic artists in the UK with Brit Award nominations for British Song of the Year and Best Rock/Alternative Act.
“Look beyond your limitations and plan your story.
Learning is a communal experience – however clever we are as an individual, we are better as a group.
We are so much brighter together, so enjoy sharing your learning with your colleagues and friends, and celebrate what you have achieved today.” John Peters
Born and raised in Hitchin, James is a popular singer/songwriter who achieved platinum chart success with a number one album ‘Chaos and the Calm’ and a number two single Hold Back the River.
James has performed at the biggest festivals in the world from the Coachella Music Festival in the USA to the Pyramid stage at Glastonbury.
His double platinum debut album Chaos and The Calm entered the UK charts at No.1 and remained in the UK top 20 for 40 weeks.
The album was Spotify’s 2nd most streamed album of 2015.
James’ hard work and dedication to his craft has been recognised for industry awards such as BRIT Awards, Grammy nominations and an Ivor Novello award.
BAFTA award-winning broadcaster and vocal coach Carrie Grant celebrates an extensive career in television and the music industry.
She is best known as vocal coach and judge on TV talent shows, Pop Idol and Fame Academy.
Carrie sits on the largest Transforming Care Partnership Panel in the UK for Learning Disability and Autism, is an Ambassador for the National Autistic Society, has influenced government policy and supported the launch of the world’s first All Parliamentary Group for ADHD.
Luton born Andy Day is a BAFTA nominated children’s television presenter and performer with a career spanning 16 years on the children’s television channel Cbeebies.
Andy’s shows specialise in educating children on natural world and natural history.
Andy fronts his own band, Andy and the Odd Socks, who are patrons of the Anti-Bullying Alliance and have spearheaded National Anti- Bullying week through our primary schools.
They have created Odd Socks day, the official start of Anti-Bullying week seeing schools nationwide encouraging children into school in odd socks, making a real difference in how schools address this very important issue.
“I want to encourage you, in your struggles, every time you think you’re back down and can’t get out of it.
Maybe you won’t get out of it, but maybe you will be changed in it.
And in that place where you are changed, you can make a difference.” Carrie Grant
Lyse Douchet is best known as Chief International Correspondent at the BBC where she has worked for more than 30 years.
In 1994 she opened the BBC’s office in Amman, Jordan, and from 1995 was based in Jerusalem traveling across the Middle East.
Lyse has covered all major wars in the Middle East since the mid 1990’s including the devastating war in Syria, as well as focusing on the aftermath of major natural disasters including the Indian Ocean tsunami in 2004.
Bedfordshire alumni Rickie and Melvin were students graduating with degrees in Media.
Rickie and Melvin present the BBC Radio One’s Live Lounge slot and having previously presented other shows on Radio One and Kiss FM.
Their work for Kiss FM’s Breakfast Show earned them Silver and Gold in the Sony Radio Awards for Best Breakfast Show.
Together they have presented many notable TV shows such as the Big Brother spin off show Big Brother’s Big Mouth, BBC Threes Sweat the Small Stuff, coverage of the BRIT and BAFTA awards, whilst working for both MTV and ITV.
Rickie and Melvin are proud celebrity ambassadors for the Prince’s Trust charity.
In 1991 John became widely recognised internationally as the Prisoner of War shot down over Iraq on the first day of the Gulf War.
After seven weeks in captivity John returned to the RAF with an experience that transformed his life but also helped to transform many others since.
After leaving the RAF John completed his MBA and began a consultancy business, working with several management education-based organisations.
John created the Human Factors Cultural Change programme and was awarded a Flight International Aerospace Industry Award for Training and Safety.
John has co-written two best-selling books and has made BAFTA nominated documentary ‘Tornado Down’ which won Independent Documentary of the Year.
"Be hungry for it.
Don’t be afraid to try new things and make mistakes – be different and don’t be afraid to be you!” Faye Tozer
Milton Keynes based London 2012 Olympic gold medalist and long jump star, Greg Rutherford MBE, along with Jessica Ennis and Mo Farah were part of that 'Super Saturday' when Team GB romped home with three golds in 46 minutes.
Local actor Colin Salmon is best known for his roles in three James Bond films and TV shows like Doctor Who, as well as a stint on BBC's Strictly Come Dancing.
Colin moved to Luton as a baby and went to Ashcroft High School.
Faye grew up in Dunstable and is one fifth of the pop group Steps.
With the group Faye has enjoyed incredible success selling over 25 million records including 15 million albums, two UK Number one singles and 14 UK Top 10 hits.
Alongside her music Faye has appeared in numerous television programmes and theatre productions and was a finalist in the ballroom talent show Strictly Come Dancing.
Faye has been involved in a number of different charity ventures over the years for Red Sky Foundation, the Charlie and Carter Foundation and Future Dreams.
Jack Thorne is a successful British scriptwriter who began his writing career in Luton.
Jack made his theatre debut with play ‘You Cure Me’ at the Royal Court Theatre in London and has gone on to have works performed on Broadway.
For television, Jack is the writer behind the BBC adaptation of Pullman’s classic literacy trilogy ‘His Dark Materials’ and has penned other popular dramas such as; Kiri, The Virtues and The Accident.
His film credits include Wonder and The Aeronauts.
Jack’s work has been celebrated with a number of awards including; 5 BAFTAS, Olivier Awards and multiple Tony Award.
Richard is a committed environmentalist and Managing Director of Iceland Foods.
Richard has led the way on Iceland’s world-leading sustainability initiatives including; becoming the first major retailer globally to commit to eliminating plastic packaging from its own label range by the end of 2023; taking action against the continuing destruction of our rainforests as the first major UK supermarket to announce the removal of palm oil ingredients from its own label food, and the first UK retailer to adopt the Plastic Free Trust Mark by introducing the publication of the full plastic footprint of the business.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/bedfordshire:
Arts and Culture
Sport and leisure in Bedfordshire
A whole load of Entertainment
You get the best of all worlds with our campus locations in Luton, Bedford and Aylesbury.
Colourful, culturally diverse towns with a long history and strong sense of community, big enough to offer a tempting choice of shops, sports and entertainments.
Beautiful countryside, framed by the Chiltern Hills, is on your doorstep as well as villages perfect for a pub lunch.
Want a bit of the big-city buzz?
Well, London is just a short train journey from Luton and Bedford.
Our towns are rich in history, culture and diversity, with heritage buildings, gardens, museums, theatres and arts initiatives.
In Luton, the Hat Factory Arts Centre has live music, dance, theatre, poetry slams and art exhibitions.
The Bear Club gets you up close to live bands and stand-up comedy.
In Bedford, catch big-name concerts at Bedford Park or make the short trip to Stadium MK, in Milton Keynes.
All our campus towns have multiplex cinemas.
Explore arts and culture in Bedfordshire
Wardown House, Museum and Gallery is a Grade II listed building situated in the beautiful grounds of Wardown Park.
Formerly the home of the Scargill family, then a World War I military hospital, the house is now a museum.
But not just any museum, this house transports you back in time, to a Victorian family home.
Every room tells a story, with interactive displays, a treasure trove of local curiosities and the largest hat industry and headwear collection in the UK!
The site of St Mary’s has been the centre of worship for people in the area for over 1000 years, and a church was built in about 930AD by King Athelstan as an act of thanksgiving for victory over the Danes.
The land here was owned by the king in Saxon and early Norman times and the church was very richly endowed.
The current site of the church was built by Robert, 1st Earl of Gloucester in 1121 and consecrated in 1137.
The original structure of the church was a cruciform without aisles.
Due to increased population, the north and south aisles were added within 40 years of each other around the start of the 13th century.
The 14th century was a time of great extension to the church, with a tower being built, transepts being extended, with twin arches opening into the new chapels on their east side.
A vaulted sacristy with an upper room was built north of the chancel and a new font was given a unique canopy of richly carved stone in an octagonal shape.
Someries Castle adapts its name from William de Someries, whose manor resided on this site around the 13th Century.
The place was bought by Sir John Wenlock in 1430, after which the manor was rebuilt according to his preferences and turned into a mansion.
Sir John Wenlock was a speaker of the House of Commons and High Sheriff of Bedfordshire and Buckinghamshire.
The mansion was one of the earliest residential houses using bricks in England.
After the death of Sir John Wenlock, the estate was passed on to Thomas Rotherham, Bishop of Lincoln and later Archbishop of York.
King James I had also visited the castle in 1605 when the descendants of Thomas Rotherham occupied it.
However, the castle fell into despair and got destroyed due to centuries of neglect.
The locals of Bedfordshire have often claimed that the castle is haunted by the ghost of Sir John Wenlock, which according to historians, could be due to the fact that he was not able to complete the construction of the castle during his time.
Visitors have also heard strange noises from the chapel and the gatehouse alongside the castle.
Still, thousands of visitors yearly visit Someries Castle to sate their curiosity about the castle.
Stockwood Discovery Centre has beautiful gardens, interactive exhibitions and the largest carriage collection in Europe!
There’s so much to discover at Stockwood!
Boasting a thrilling programme of exhibitions, an award-winning carriage display, an outdoor children’s play area and breathtaking walled garden.
Luton Town Hall is a building at the junction between Manchester Street, Upper George Street and George Street, Luton, England; the current building was completed in 1936 on the site of the older Town Hall, which was burnt down 19 July 1919, following the Peace Day Riots.
The current hall, which is the headquarters of Luton Borough Council, is a Grade II listed building.
Woburn Abbey occupying the east of the village of Woburn, Bedfordshire, England, is a country house, the family seat of the Duke of Bedford.
Although it is still a family home to the current duke, it is open on specified days to visitors, along with the diverse estate surrounding it, including the historic landscape gardens and deer park (by Humphry Repton), as well as more recently added attractions including Woburn Safari Park, a miniature railway and a garden/visitor centre.
From dazzling parterres and fragrant borders, to sweeping countryside views and idyllic woodland walks, Wrest Park is a real treat for the senses.
With over 90 spacious acres to explore, enjoy a day out in the fresh air and discover the evolution of the English garden.
Stroll through three centuries of landscape design showcasing a range of styles including Dutch and Italian, wander along the show-stopping formal Long Water walk and spot beautiful classical statues as you explore the grounds.
There’s plenty of pubs and bars, many offering live music, cocktails, gin specialities and real ales.
In Luton, live music ranges from jazz and blues at the Bear Club to hard rock at The Castle.
Bedford also offers a lively mix of traditional town pubs, bars and nightclubs.
And Milton Keynes is on the doorstep, boasting one of the largest growing ‘after 6’ cultures outside London!
Something surprising You have to hunt down Luton’s Bear Club.
It’s hidden in the courtyard of a heritage hat factory.
Its tables are made from old sewing machines!
Explore the nightlife in Bedfordshire
Travel the world when it comes to restaurants, coffee shops and cafes - from Asia to America by way of Africa, Europe and the Caribbean – at prices that won’t break the bank.
There’s also a great choice of innovative vegetarian and vegan eateries.
If you want an elegant treat, why not book a traditional afternoon tea at Luton Hoo or Wardown House?
Explore the global cuisine in Bedfordshire
The big one is Luton’s colourful, diverse annual Carnival, the largest outside Notting Hill!
But there’s plenty more through the year including Bedford’s River Festival; Luton’s Mela; Luton Pride; Bute Street Festival for arts; Bedfringe for comedy; Bedford Fake Festival; and the Ampthill/AmpRocks Festival (between Bedford and Luton).
Explore the events and festivals in Bedfordshire
Be amazed by the animals at ZSL Whipsnade Zoo or Woburn Safari Park.
Wander around stately homes and heritage buildings such as Luton Hoo, Wrest Park, Hatfield House and St Albans Cathedral.
Explore nearby Hitchin, with its open-air market and Hitchin Lavender (summer only).
Try to find a way out of escape rooms – or truly get away from it all hiking in the beautiful Chiltern Hills.
Something surprising Shop till you drop at Centre:MK – it’s the 17th largest shopping centre in the UK.
Explore days out and activities in Bedfordshire
Our campus towns keep you active with gyms, swimming centres, trampolining, go-karting and public golf.
Watch live sport with local teams such as Luton Town FC (the Hatters), Bedford Blues RFC or MK Dons FC.
Or challenge yourself at Milton Keynes’ XScape with its indoor skydiving, climbing and 170m-long real-snow ski slope.
Something surprising Splash!
- the ITV celebrity diving series - was filmed at Luton’s Inspire Sports Village.
Explore sports and leisure in Bedfordshire

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/diversity-and-inclusion:
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Our University is proud of our super-diverse local and global community of students and staff.
All of us who work and learn within the University are committed to ensuring that all our work begins from the advancement of equity and a principle of inclusion where we respect the rights and dignity of all people whatever their background.
Diversity is one of our key strengths and fundamental to our success.
We value the diversity of all, and recognise peoples’ distinct, intersectional identities and their role in enhancing our University community.
We want to ensure that everyone thrives and are treated equally and with respect and are committed to eliminate practices that undermine or are harmful to anyone involved in the activities of our University.
We therefore have a zero tolerance of unlawful discrimination, intimidation or harassment of anyone connected with the University, specifically related to their race, religion or belief, age, gender reassignment, sex, sexual orientation, disability, marital or partnership status or maternity and pregnancy and are committed to take appropriate action to address it.
In addition we strive to advance equality of opportunity and foster good relations between all people at the University.
We are committed to a developing a culture of learning and will create an environment where people can address and debate differences and constantly reflect on practices to drive improvement.
We recognise that conversations and debate on areas of equality, diversity and inclusion are often challenging and that people will make mistakes.
We will openly acknowledge our mistakes and take accountability to improve practices and ensure mistakes are not repeated.
Through our policies, practices and behaviours we will build a culture of equality, openness, inclusion, fairness and transparency.
We will do this by avoiding assumptions and check in with peoples lived experience to ensure equity of opportunity.
EDI Policy Action Plan Final October 2022 [DOCX] EDI Strategic Action Plan Framework October 2022 [DOCX] Modern Slavery Act Antisemitism Statement Bullying and Harassment Policy [PDF] Gender Pay Gap Transgender Policy [PDF] Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Annual Report 2023-24
Protected Characteristics In line with the Equality Act 2010 including the provisions on public sector general and specific duties, the University continues to be committed towards working to eliminate discrimination, harassment, advancing equality and fostering good relations in respect of all protected characteristics which relate to its students, staff and general users of its variety of services, namely: Age Disability Gender Reassignment Marriage and Civil Partnership Pregnancy and Maternity Race Religion or Belief Sex Sexual Orientation
In line with the Equality Act 2010 including the provisions on public sector general and specific duties, the University continues to be committed towards working to eliminate discrimination, harassment, advancing equality and fostering good relations in respect of all protected characteristics which relate to its students, staff and general users of its variety of services, namely:
The Staff Equality Networks provide an opportunity for interested staff to participate in promoting progress and good practice in relation to equality, diversity and inclusion as well as opportunities for peer support and development.
There are currently four networks, inclusive and open to all staff, they are the Race Equality Network, LGBT+ Network, Disability Network and Women's Network.
For more information on events, email lgbtqalliance@beds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/sustainability:
1,172,599 Kilowatt Hours (July 2025) Renewable Energy Generation Totaliser Enough power for more than three 15 storey tower blocks for 12 Months
I consent to the University of Bedfordshire’s use of my personal data to fulfil its administrative functions and to provide me with relevant information.
The University will always treat personal data with care and will not pass or sell personal details on to other companies for their marketing purposes.
View our Privacy Policy
By submitting, you agree to these Terms and that you have read our Data Protection Policy

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/student-experience/academic-information/term-dates-and-core-teaching-calendar:
Key Dates
Event
21-25 September 2020
Induction week
28 September 2020 – 22 January 2021
Period one
28 September – 18 December 2020
Teaching Weeks 1-12
19-23 October 2020
Repeat assessment period
21 December 2020 – 1 January 2021
Christmas break
4 January – 8 January 2021
Faculty directed study
11 January – 15 January 2021
Assessment period
18 January – 22 January 2021
25 January – 4 June 2021
Period two
25 January – 26 March 2021
Teaching weeks 1-9
29 March – 9 April 2021
Easter break
12 April – 16 April 2021
19 April – 7 May 2021 (Monday 3 May - Bank holiday)
Teaching weeks 10-12
10 May – 21 May 2021
24 May – 4 June 2021 (Monday 25 May – Bank holiday)
21 June – 25 June 2021
28 June – 24 September 2021
Period three
28 June – 30 July 2021
Teaching weeks 1-5
2 August – 6 August 2021
Faculty directed study and repeat assessment period
9 August – 10 September 2021
Teaching weeks 6-10
13 September – 17 September 2021
20 September – 24 September 2021
21 September –  25 September 2020
Induction
28 September – 13 November 2020
Block 1 period
9 November – 13 November 2020
Assessment week
16 November – 20 November 2020
23 November 2020 – 15 January 2021
Block 2 period
Christmas Break
3 January 2021
Return to study
25 January – 29 January 2021
1 February – 12 March 2021
Block 3 period
15 March – 19 March 2021
22 March – 26 March 2021
Easter Break
12 April – 28 May 2021
Block 4 period
24 May – 28 May 2021
31 May – 4 June 2021
7 June – 23 July 2021
Block 5 period
19 July – 23 July 2021
26 July – 30 July 2021
3 August – 17 September 2021
Block 6 period
Please note: May Day Bank Holiday will take place on Friday 8 May 2020 as part of the VE day commemorations.
Thursday, 2 January 2020 - Friday 3 January 2020
(Monday, 30th December 2019 and Tuesday, 31st December 2019 - concessionary days and Wednesday, 1 January 2020 - Bank Holiday)
Semesterisation is a pattern of delivery where the academic year is split into three distinct 'semesters' which are 15 weeks in duration.
A course on the semester pattern of delivery would typically be taught over two semesters.
Block delivery allows for 6 entry points onto selected postgraduate courses each academic year.
A postgraduate course consists of 6 blocks; each block is 6 weeks in duration and equates to 30 M level credits.
Monday, 30 March 2020 – Friday, 22 May 2020
(includes Easter break and Friday, 8 May 2020 – Bank Holiday)
Tuesday, 26 May 2020 – Friday, 29 May 2020
(Monday, 25 May 2020 – Bank Holiday)
Tuesday, 27 April 2020 – Friday, 15 May 2020
(Friday, 8 May 2020 - Bank Holiday)
A course on the semester system would typically be delivered over two semesters.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/clearing:
Not only are we number one in the East of England for learning opportunities (NSS 2025), we also empower your career opportunites.
Our career-powered degrees are designed to give you the skills, confidence, and edge you need to stand out in today’s competitive world.
And with scholarships of up to £2,500 per year , we’re investing in your success from day one.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/money/scholarships-old:
* From specified qualifications  | Terms and Conditions
120 UCAS tariff points from any combination of qualifications within the UCAS tariff framework.
Terms and Conditions
We offer a variety of scholarships and fee discounts specifically for international students.
To find out more about available scholarships, fee structures, and funding options, please visit our dedicated International Scholarships and Fees page
The University’s Student Money Advice team offers practical support to students who get into financial difficulties.
If you would like to find out what help is available or have a specific enquiry for the Student Money Advice Team, please log it via beds.ac.uk/sid/contactus
The University of Bedfordshire is strongly committed to opening up higher education to all students who want to study for a degree, without worrying about finance and funding.
Our Care Experienced Bursary offers eligible students, under the age of 25, £5,700 over three years and £7,600 for a four-year course (including with a Foundation Year).
The University of Bedfordshire is strongly committed to opening up the opportunity to study for a degree to all students, without worrying about finance and funding.
Our Independent From Family Bursary supports you if you are an ‘estranged’ student, studying without the financial or emotional support of your family.
It is worth £5,700 over three academic years or £7,600 over four academic years (including a Foundation Year).
Nursing and midwifery students are eligible for additional support of at least £5,000 per academic year to help with living costs through this funding from the NHS.
The funding is given to new and continuing degree-level students.
You will receive at least £5,000 a year, with further funding available for eligible students:
The funding does not have to be repaid by recipients.
Find out more about the NHS Learning Support Fund
You are also able to continue to access funding for tuition and maintenance loans from the Student Loans Company
Research Degrees (MRes, Phil and PhD)
We don’t want money worries to get in the way of your degree success or enjoyment of your time at the University.
So if you get into financial difficulties while studying, help is available through our financial hardship funding.
This funding provides extra money if you need financial support to pay your course costs or stay in higher education.
It can also provide help if you are on a low income or suffering financial hardship.
Find out more about our funding
Find out more about the funding
The Luton Sixth Form College Scholarship is offered to any student who transitions from Luton Sixth Form College to the University of Bedfordshire.
This Scholarship is available to those who achieve over 120 UCAS points and is valued at £2,000 over the duration of a three-year undergraduate course.
The award is distributed as follows: £1,000 in the first year, £500 in the second year, and £500 in the third year.
Students who meet the criteria for the High Achievers Scholarship will be awarded this Scholarship instead of the Luton Sixth Form College Scholarship.
Students do not need to apply for this Scholarship; it will be automatically awarded upon registration at the University.
Please note that the Terms and Conditions for the Excellence Scholarship apply.
Additionally, students must apply using the LSFC UCAS Buzzword to enable the University to verify their previous place of study.
Sport Scholarships are designed to develop and support talented students here at the University of Bedfordshire.
The Sport Scholarships on offer here provide financial and performance support services that utilise the University’s outstanding facilities.
To be eligible for a Sport Scholarship you must:
Sport Scholarships are open to home or international, undergraduate or postgraduate students.
Please note, meeting the Sport Scholarships' criteria does not guarantee being awarded a Scholarship.
Apply for a Sport Scholarship

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/sport-and-physical-education-ba:
Our sports science courses rank in the UK top 15 in their subject field (Daily Mail university rankings, 2024).
Our sport science courses rank in the UK top 15 in their subject field for graduate prospects in both the Complete University Guide and The Guardian GUG, 2025.
You can apply your knowledge and skills through placements with our official partners Luton Town FC and Bedford Blues RFC as well as other sporting organisations.
This wide-ranging course gives you the flexibility to choose a sociological or health pathway, allowing you to specialise in your final year of study.
Led by an academic team at the cutting edge of teaching and research in this field, your learning combines theory of teaching and lab work with practical activities including an exciting outdoor and adventure education experience.
You also experience working with and teaching children through on-campus visits from schools or community work.
Six CASES-accredited laboratories Strength and conditioning facility Free gym Sports arena Sport centre Multi-use games areas External sports pitches Human Performance Centre Up-to-the-minute sports analysis equipment – such as the Catapult GPS tracking and Nacsport camera system – allows you to measure and evaluate the performances of players and teams Realistic mock-classrooms for PE teaching practice including specialist technology allowing you to watch and self-assess your lesson A Forest School for training in outdoor learning and play.
We are official partners of Luton Town FC and Bedford Blues RFC as well as other sporting organisations in the region such as Bedford Tigers RLFC, MK Dons, Cricket East and Be Active, giving you opportunities to build your employability through work placements.
Students gain valuable work-based experiences within coaching, project management, and community sport through their involvement with the Bedford Blues Foundation.
Benefit from the support of your own personal academic tutor who will guide and support you throughout your student journey.
Collaborate with our partners to deliver school and community-based projects.
Your laboratory-based work develops your understanding of human performance as well as sport psychology and physical activity .
Enhance your learning and build your experience through field trips to destinations such as St George’s Park, Burton-upon-Trent, the home of England Football; Box End Water Park, Bedford; and an outdoor activities centre, to name a few.
Benefit from our industry links with the Blues Foundation; school partnerships across the region; Bedford International Athletics Stadium; Luton Town FC; the Football Association; Women’s Artistic Gymnastics Technical Committee at British Gymnastics; and Kempston Outdoor Centre.
Develop your professional network though our links with Sport England , governing bodies, active partnerships and industry experts.
Recent industry visitors include Nick Cox, Academic Manager at Manchester United, and Kevin Pickard, International Swimming Coach.
This course has the option to be taken over four years which includes a year placement in industry.
Undertaking a year in industry has many benefits.
You gain practical experience and build your CV, as well as being a great opportunity to sample a profession and network with potential future employers.
There is no tuition fee for the placement year enabling you to gain an extra year of experience for free.
*Only available to UK/EU students.
​
A Degree with a Foundation Year gives you guaranteed entry to an Undergraduate course.
Whether you’re returning to learning and require additional help and support to up-skill, or if you didn’t quite meet the grades to pursue an Undergraduate course, our Degrees with Foundation Year provide a fantastic entry route for you to work towards a degree level qualification.
With our guidance and support you’ll get up to speed within one year, and will be ready to seamlessly progress on to undergraduate study at Bedfordshire.
The Foundation Year provides an opportunity to build up your academic writing skills and numeracy, and will also cover a range of subject specific content to fully prepare you for entry to an Undergraduate degree.
This is an integrated four-year degree, with the foundation year as a key part of the course.
You will need to successfully complete the Foundation Year to progress on to the first year of your bachelor’s degree.
The degrees offering a Foundation Year provide excellent preparation for your future studies.
During your Foundation Year you will get the opportunity to talk to tutors about your degree study and future career aspirations, and receive guidance on the most appropriate Undergraduate course to help you achieve this; providing you meet the entry requirements and pass the Foundation Year.
Michelle has been involved with various collaborative projects including an international social justice in physical education teacher education, excellence in teaching and learning in Higher Education, cooperative learning through gymnastics-based activities and developing sustainable physical literacy-informed practitioners.
Michelle’s up-and-coming projects are focused upon trauma-informed teaching in physical education, and the development of coach education in gymnastics.
Studying our Sport and Physical Education BA (Hons) course aims to equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills around physical education, youth sport and health.
Physiology is a key area of study in physical education, and this is where our Foundations of Physiology and Health unit aims to introduce you to the fundamentals of exercise psychology.
You will examine scientific evidence related to young people, physical activity and health to identify exercise physiology concepts and principles in health recommendation policies.
This is examined further in our Anatomy and Biomechanics unit, where you will learn the principles of human movement, biomechanics and the role of anatomy in sport and exercise science.
This can then be related to our Critical Sport Pedagogy unit where you will identify social justice issues in physical education and youth sport.
In practice, you will be introduced to the Foundations in Physical Education and Sport Pedagogy to develop your knowledge of basic teaching skills and styles, and then apply this to your own sessions.
You will then develop these approaches through net and fielding games and subsequently plan, deliver and evaluate your own sessions in our Developing Physical Education and Sport Pedagogy unit.
As concerns around the physical inactivity and health of young people persist, our Pedagogies for Physical Literacy and Health unit will equip you with the skills to promote physical education and youth sport in a school setting.
You will then expand this approach to improve physical activity across the lifespan in our Physical Activity and Health Interventions unit.
Here, you will examine the benefits of physical activity on health and disease causation including coronary heart disease, type 2 diabetes, cancer and obesity.
More importantly, you will also have the option in your third year to continue this pathway of study and consider the role of Physical Activity, Sedentary Behaviour and Health in the prevention, management and treatment of disease.
From a cultural perspective, you will have the option to examine the anatomical, social and cultural construction of bodies in our Narratives of Bodies and Health unit.
At the same time, you will question the contemporary issues in sport and physical activity faced by people with disabilities in our Sport, Physical Activity and Disability unit.
Moreover, you will examine key theories and concepts in Sport, Physical Activity and Social Inclusion centred around gender, sexuality, race, ethnicity and disability.
Using social theories from feminist to post-culturalist, you will explore the meaning of physical activity, sport and exercise in people’s lives and how this links to culture, identity and participation.
With a critical approach, you will also explore Contemporary Issues and Social Practices in Sport and Physical Activity to understand the relationship between sports, coaching and development in a social context.
In areas of the mind, you will be given an Introduction to Sport and Exercise Psychology and how it contributes to performance enhancement and athlete wellbeing.
Through examining human behaviour, you will also look at the Social Psychology of Sport by analysing theories, principles and concepts to understand behaviour and its effects on performance and participation in sport and physical activity.
Furthermore, you will analyse the Psychology of Physical Activity, how it affects participation and psychological wellbeing.
Finally, you will have the opportunity to complete a Dissertation for Sport and Physical Activity where you will identify a key issue relevant to your study and examine it using the skills and knowledge gained from your academic study.
To help you with this, our units in Dissertation Preparation, Research Methods for Sport, Exercise and Physical Activity, and an Introduction to Research Methods will support you in reading and understanding research, and to complete a proposal with ethical documentation.
To prepare you for your career, our Working in Sport unit will introduce you to multiple career pathways available within the sport & physical activity industry.
Furthermore, you will be provided with skills for the job application and interview processes throughout the course.
Similarly, you will engage in project management to design a school or community-based intervention based on your knowledge of government policy, partnership and grant applications in our Professional Development (Sport Policy Enactment) unit.
The course includes a variety of assessments that enable you to develop a range of academic and professional skills.
You will undertake blog writing essays reports presentations and practical-based assignments and at Level 6 a research or documentary dissertation.
The assignments will build directly on the teaching sessions and you will be supported by lecturers to complete the assignments.
Throughout the three years of the course support is provided in the form of formative assessments.
In addition developmental assessment opportunities are offered in the form of peer assessment and individual/group tutorials.
Moreover substantial guidance is provided on how to complete the assignments on the Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) and in detailed assessment briefs.
Recent graduates have pursued careers in the education sector, teaching a range of subjects and key stages, including primary education, physical education, health and social care, and science.
Additionally, they have pursued leadership and management roles within schools, supporting the academic and pastoral success of their students.
Others have focused on community coaching roles or have established their own businesses to encourage physical activity and sport among all populations.
Some students have followed careers in the health and fitness sector; roles within the NHS; and graduate-level schemes such as the police degree-holder entry route.
While this degree is underpinned by cutting edge research within the field of education, sport and health, the approaches to learning are conducive to ensuring students are developed holistically to excel in the workplace beyond their studies.
The University of Bedfordshire's partners play a pivotal role in ensuring students gain hands-on experiences in a variety of contexts.
Students on this course have also gone on to study at postgraduate level with us.
We offer PGCE Secondary Physical Education or Primary Education as well as MSc Clinical Exercise Physiology; MSc Behaviour Change and Health, and our MBA in Sport Leadership and Management.
The full-time standard undergraduate tuition fee for the Academic Year 2025/26 is £9,535 per year.
You can apply for a loan from the Government to help pay for your tuition fees.
You can also apply for a maintenance loan from the Government to help cover your living costs.
See www.gov.uk/student-finance
Worth £2,500 per year of study over three years when you score a defined number of UCAS tariff points from specified qualifications*
» If you don’t qualify for an Excellence Scholarship but have 120 UCAS tariff points, you have enough points for one of our Achievement Scholarships offering £500 per year of study**
» Other scholarships, bursaries and financial support packages are available
* Points requirements vary depending on type of qualification.
** Threshold is 120 UCAS tariff points across all awarding bodies and qualifications.
The full-time standard undergraduate tuition fee for the academic year 2025/26 is £16,900 per year.
There are range of Scholarships available to help support you through your studies with us.
A full list of scholarships can be found here.
Alternatively if you have any questions around fees and funding, please email admission@beds.ac.uk
The Bedford Campus Library set over four storeys offers students access to our extensive range of physical and digital resources with 300,000+ books & 80,000+ ebooks.
PCs are provided on each level for students to use offering access to a wide range of applications as well as access to group-work areas and presentation-practice rooms and a dedicated silent study floor.
The Hub is home to BedsSU providing a great space for socialising with friends, catching up on some coursework or taking a well-deserved break.
The Hub is the place to go to take a break from your studies, play table tennis, socialise and watch live sport on the big screen.By night the venue becomes the place to be, with a variety of student events such as pub quizzes, live music and various themed club nights.
Evening food includes delicious freshly made pizzas as well as a range of other beverages and snacks.
The Aspire Gyms offer a range of affordable membership options giving students exclusive use of a convenient campus-based fitness facility.
The Bedford gym facilitates state of the art cardiovascular equipment with smartphone compatibility as well as an extensive range of fixed resistance machines and a small free weights area.
Changing rooms with showers and lockers are available for members to use.
At the centre of our campus is four fully sprung dance studios equipped with ballet barres, mirrored walls, audio playback and projection for our dance and performing arts students.
Our two campus theatres also provide the ideal performance space for students with regular events held that are open audiences of students, staff and the wider community.
Set within the Campus Centre is a 260 seat professional theatre on the ground floor with industry-standard lighting, media desk, roll-down screen, full backstage comms system and large dressing rooms with en suite showers.
On the first floor there's also a well-equipped 80 seat studio theatre.
Our theatres welcome new and existing audiences to see a range of student work including contemporary dance, theatre and performing arts; holding regular events that are open to students, staff and the wider community.
Our specialist sports science labs give students a fantastic environment to develop their research skills and expertise, where a student can explore the biology of an elite athlete who could be performing simultaneously within the sports hall.
The state-of-the-art laboratories are purpose built for research and teaching in the fields of exercise and nutrition science.
This includes specialised equipment and facilities for assessing human health risk and delivering exercise and diet interventions for health promotion.
The Campus Centre brings together all our student services under one roof including the Students’ Union and spaces to eat, drink, relax and learn.
There's a large central lecture theatre as well as a range of study rooms & breakout spaces on the upper floors.
The library is a modern 9-storey building dedicated to study and learning.
As well as traditional library provisions it offers individual and group study spaces, a cafeteria on the ground floor and a ‘Study Hub’ offering guidance and workshops on academic writing and research skills to ensure all Bedfordshire students get the help they need to succeed in their studies.
When you join the University of Bedfordshire, you don't just join the university - you also become a member of Bedfordshire Students' Union (Beds SU)!
Beds SU is led by four Student Officers - a President and three Vice Presidents - who are elected annually by University of Bedfordshire students to lead the Students' Union.
We campaign on issues that you care about, as well as provide lots of opportunities for you to meet new people, develop your skills, campaign for change and try something new.
The Aspire Gym has state of the art cardiovascular equipment with smart phone compatibility.
There is also an extensive range of fixed resistance machines and a small free weights area.
The University guarantees accommodation to all new students.
Fitzroy Court and Wenlock Court, the two main halls of residence, are located on campus so getting to lectures, shopping in town and participating in events and activities is easy.
The STEM building is home to courses in the subject areas of science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
Opened in Autumn 2019, its cutting edge facilities provides four computer laboratories; workshops for subjects such as automotive engineering, cyber-security and robotics, along with three large teaching labs, and four specialist containment labs.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/psychology:
This course is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS).
Elements of the course, including assessment, have been developed working with psychology-related professionals from organisations such as the NHS; disaster recovery services; and digital application development.
91% of our psychology students were satisfied with the academic support they received and how well the course developed knowledge and skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
This course provides you with the experience, knowledge and skills to follow a wide range of careers where you can make a real difference to people’s lives.
You explore the core areas of psychology, learning how it applies to everyday life, then choose from optional units in areas such as atypical child development; health psychology; counselling; criminal behaviour; and mental health.
You also have the opportunity to gain workplace experience or to take a placement year.
G raduating from a BPS-accredited degree with a 2 nd -class Honours or above makes you eligible for Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) of the Society.
You have access to specialist, industry-standard psychology laboratories and computing environments including: Cognitive neuropsychology lab Biological and cognitive psychology lab Virtual reality lab Research cubicles containing up-to-the-minute equipment and technology such as: Driving simulator Eye-tracking software Physiological data-acquisition system EEG recording equipment Podcasting equipment KAT Walk Mini 5 omnidirectional VR treadmills Data-analysis software Experiment and survey-building software
This ensures our teaching and your learning aligns with employer requirements.
Members of our academic team engage with local organisations such as Luton Borough Council, HM Probation Service and charities.
Benefit from friendly, approachable staff, small class sizes and easy access to academic support .
Get to know your peers and academics well by taking part in the School’s many social events, which run throughout the academic year.
Experience a wide variety of teaching methods including workshops; problem solving; virtual reality simulations; computer-based activities; and guided learning.
Complete assessments designed to be authentic, reflecting workplace practice ; you can choose how you present your work – for example, as a podcast, presentation or webpage.
Take up field-trip opportunities including visits to relevant charities working with head injuries, pregnancy loss, neurodiversity and gendered violence.
Benefit from membership of our Student Research Institute , providing opportunities to engage in research; work with staff as an assistant; and attend specialist research conferences Our research addresses real-life, day-to-day issues including reading development; cognitive function in long COVID; and prevention of gender-based violence.
Present your supervised research to your peers and psychology professionals as part of our annual Student Research Conference .
Hear from a variety of guest speakers who share their experience and expertise at special events and masterclasses run by the School of Psychology.
Take a look at our subject spotlight on Psychology!
Dr.
Joseph Adonu explores if love at first sight actually exists!
Watch all episodes to find out
I am interested in brain plasticity and its relation to language learning and development in typical and atypical populations.
My background in both psychology and psycholinguistics has sparked my research work in speech perception and auditory perceptual training using specialised computer software programmes and smartphone applications.
I use behavioural as well as electroencephalography (EEG) techniques to investigate online brain response to auditory and visual stimuli with experimental designs looking into native and non-native language speakers.
Studying our Psychology BSc course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise in cognitive, social, developmental, biological and individual difference psychology that you can use to make a real difference in people’s lives.
In core areas of study, you will build your understanding of the Foundations to Psychology that include the history and concepts surrounding cognitive and biological psychology.
As a fundamental element to the study of psychology, you will also be given an Introduction to Psychological Research Methods and Data Analysis that will equip you with the skills to design, conduct, analyse and write an ethically sound research project.
You will build on this further in our Methods of Research in Psychology unit that will expand on your knowledge of research methods to be able to assess personalities and develop methods of psychological assessment.
Moreover, you will develop your knowledge of contemporary topics and theory in psychology in the context of everyday behaviours in our Psychology in Everyday Life unit.
In areas of social psychology, you will explore key topics to understand how people change and develop biologically, cognitively and socially across their lifespan while considering cultural and social factors in our Social Processes and Lifespan Development unit.
To build on your foundations, you will explore the various applied areas of psychology including health, clinical, counselling, educational and forensic psychology in our Psychology in Context unit.
By combining areas of Biological and Cognitive Psychology, you will examine the human thought process, perception, language, memory and learning from both perspectives.
You will also be able to explore the cultural effects on human psychology in our Culture and Individual Differences unit to understand the contemporary applications of psychological diversity and the links between cultural norms and behaviour.
We also offer a range of optional units on this course.
With a particular focus on children and young people, you can study the causes and treatment associated with exceptional children in our Atypical Child and Adolescent Development: Theories and Applications unit.
Aside from this, you may also choose to explore the history of the science behind Cognitive Neuropsychology to understand memory and amnesia; or study concepts of Critical Social Psychology and consider how this can be applied to behaviours such as aggression and violence.
If you are interested in practicing counselling, you can explore the concepts of counselling, psychotherapy, coaching and psychological therapies in our Introduction to Counselling unit.
You may also learn to apply core coaching skills in psychology in our Coaching Psychology unit; or discover the applications of biological and social psychology in areas of health and disease in our Applied Health Psychology unit.
More interestingly, you may choose to deepen your understanding of criminal behaviour in our Psychology and Criminal Behaviour unit that covers a range of compelling issues, theories and research in criminal and forensic psychology.
If you are interested in areas of mental health, our Psychology of Mental Health unit will allow you to examine the clinical symptoms of the most common psychological disorders.
In more specific areas, you can develop an understanding of Problem Solving behaviours in humans.
You may also choose to explore how psychology contributes to the performance and wellbeing of organisations and employees in the workplace in our Occupational and Organisational Psychology unit.
Finally, you will complete a Psychology Research Project that will allow you to explore a particular topic of interest to you that is relevant to your field of study while also demonstrating the knowledge and skills you have acquired throughout the course.
To prepare you for your career, you will have the opportunity to undertake a Placement Year (Psychology) to develop your employability skills and gain relevant work experience.
Throughout your degree you will encounter a wide variety of types of assessment collectively designed to suit the variety of individual learning styles.
The assessments include formative and summative assessments to provide feedback to help with your own development and to inform your completion of future assessments.
This degree is accredited by the British Psychological Society allowing you to follow a broad range of professional career paths in areas including clinical; educational; forensic; occupational; health; business and HR; research; training; and teaching.
In addition, psychology graduates frequently go on to work in higher education as lecturers or to conduct research for a PhD.
Graduate Ellie-Jayne Myers says: "Following my graduation from the University of Bedfordshire, I was offered the position of Research Assistant with the NCCR on a two-year project.
In this role, I worked alongside police in a project looking at the management and risk assessment of cyberstalking and harassment.
The skills I learned through my time at the University were fundamental in obtaining this position."

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/adult-nursing-bsc:
Adult Nursing BSc (Hons)
50% of your learning time is spent in practice, giving you hands-on experience of providing care across a range of healthcare settings.
Our adult nursing courses rank in the UK top 10 in their subject field for assessment and feedback and in the top 15 for academic support and student voice (NSS, 2024).
Our adult nursing courses rank in the UK top 15 in their subject field for learning opportunities (NSS, 2024).
A nurse needs to be able to assess care needs then plan, implement and evaluate care for people with a wide range of illnesses.
This calls for excellent communication skills and compassion as well as specialist knowledge and nursing skills, all of which you acquire from this degree.
It is designed to give you high levels of hands-on experience in hospital and community settings, with 50% of your time spent in practice settings.
Find out if you are eligible for a £5,000 NHS training grant to help with living costs.
Access to the latest medical/health equipment and facilities at regional hospitals and community health settings during placements Fully immersive simulation suites at both our Luton and Bedford campuses, preparing students to respond to and manage clinical situations and scenarios Simulation wards with a range of medical-grade, high-fidelity training mannequins to tackle real-life scenarios in a safe and supported environment For students situated at Stoke Mandeville Hospital in Aylesbury, we have a three-storey building with simulation ward; classrooms; library; social learning spaces; and computer study facilities
To ensure your learning meets the benchmark set for care providers, our healthcare courses have been developed in collaboration with our regional healthcare providers and health authorities.
We deliver predominantly face-to-face teaching so your tutors are on site to support you while you get to meet and exchange ideas with other healthcare students.
Adult Nursing, Mental Health Nursing and Midwifery students gain a wider range of expertise through general units taught by tutors from all three courses.
Our lecturers are all experienced registered nurses and have published widely in their field.
Our strong links with regional healthcare providers mean you can secure a practice placement in Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, Hertfordshire, Milton Keynes and Oxfordshire .
Clinical specialists from our partnership trusts come to campus to support your learning so your studies are underpinned by the latest research and practice.
Our Aylesbury campus is situated at Stoke Mandeville Hospital so you can fully immerse yourself in the hospital environment.
On your placement, you undertake a mix of early, late and night shifts to ensure you experience typical shift patterns for a healthcare professional.
Studying our Adult Nursing BSc (Hons) course aims to provide you with specialist knowledge and skills in nursing and care.
In doing so, we offer some introductory units such as an Introduction to Public Health where you will learn about the fundamentals of health and public health promotion.
Based on published evidence and literature, you will explore current perspectives of health and the role of ethics in public health practice.
You will then link this theory to practice in our Introduction to Nursing Interventions unit, where you will learn to be confident in performing a range of basic nursing procedures and interventions.
This ties closely into our unit in Care Across the Lifespan in Adult Nursing, that aims to develop your awareness of adult nursing practice by providing direct holistic care to adults in practice learning environments.
In other areas of practice, you will be taught the skills and knowledge around patient needs and planning care in our Assessment and Interventions in Adult Nursing Practice unit.
Here, you will learn to assess adult patients while developing targeted plans for nursing interventions that will enable you to intervene appropriately and work collaboratively in clinical environments.
In pharmacological aspects of care, you will gain the knowledge and skills to safely administer medicines in our Law and Decision Making in Medicines Management unit.
Following professional standards and legislation, you will account for safeguarding, consent, pharmacology and medicines administration.
Combined with other components including life sciences, psychology and sociology present in our Understanding Health unit, you will examine the structure and functions of a healthy body and mind to better understand a range of people.
These theories will also be particularly useful in our Planning, Delivering and Coordinating Care for Adults unit where you will develop a deep understanding of a diverse range of patients' needs to be able to cater to them efficiently by working closely with other professionals to plan, deliver and coordinate care in a variety of clinical settings.
As a result, you will reflect and think critically about service delivery discussed in our Transforming Care unit while also proposing ideas for change.
In addition to administering care, our Supporting Learning unit will allow you to support people by teaching them the skills to self-manage their own condition just as registered nurses do.
At the same time, this will equip you with the teaching and supervision skills to support learning in clinical environments for patients, carers and even other students in preparation for your role as practice supervisor.
Another essential part of care is safety, and this is discussed in our Advocacy, Empowerment and Protection unit that will enhance your awareness of safeguarding as part of your responsibility as a nurse to protect people through advocacy, empowerment and care.
At a more advanced stage, you will learn about Leading Complex Care in Adult Nursing to equip you with the skills for risk management within an adult nursing setting.
This experience will give you the knowledge and skills for decision making, planning, intervention and evaluation of complex care needs.
Aside from this, you will discover the health needs of your local population in our Exploring Health and Primary Care Services in the Community unit that will support your learning in health service provision.
More importantly, this will enable you to pursue your own topic of interest relevant to your field of practice for your own project.
To aid with this, our unit in Exploring Evidence will provide you with the knowledge and skills to draw conclusions from healthcare research and use this evidence to inform the nursing practice and care you provide.
The assessment strategy for this course is closely aligned to the teaching and learning strategy which is designed to have: immediate professional relevance to ensure safe and effective practice; foster active learning be leaner-centred in approach and draw on expertise-by-experience.
The choice of assessments is determined by their fitness for purpose i.e.
to evidence achievement of unit learning outcomes at undergraduate level (Level 6).
You will be assessed across a range of practice settings and learning environments throughout the course.
To enhance your understanding and experiences of assessment practices you will encounter a wide range of formative and summative assessment methods including those that enable you to undertake practice-focussed tasks that have the potential to influence care delivery.
Many of the assessment tasks are designed so that you can tailor them to your professional interests experience and development needs.
They are also designed so that you can rehearse ways of thinking and acting that are professionally relevant.
Examples include: written assignments ranging from reflective pieces to case studies and academic essays as well as assessed practice within your placements.
Assessments are also designed to support you integrating learning in theory and practice and in demonstrating that integration.
You will be assessed in practice through the use of a Practice Assessment Document which outlines the skills and competencies required as a registered nurse.
These assessments are recorded and confirmed by a Practice Assessor alongside your own selfreflections on your progress.
Service users and carers also contribute to your assessments.
During each of your placement allocations you will have a nominated Practice Assessor in accordance with the NMC Part 2: Standards for student supervision and assessment (NMC 2018).
They conduct assessment to confirm that you have achieved the NMC proficiencies and course outcomes for practice learning.
You will also have a nominated Academic Assessor who is responsible for confirming your achievement of the NMC proficiencies and course outcomes in the academic environment for each part of the course.
Together the Practice Assessor and Academic Assessor evaluate and recommend a student for progression for each part (year) of the course in line with course standards and local and national policies.
The course is vocational, leading directly to registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council under the new Standards, which will allow you to start and quickly progress in your nursing career across a range of healthcare environments: community, hospital and residential.
It can also provide a route into specialised clinical practice management or education.
In adult nursing, we offer postgraduate study at Master's and Doctoral level.
Graduate Rachel Marlow says: "I studied Adult Nursing at the University of Bedfordshire and now work as a Sister in the children's emergency department.
Studying this course really helped in my nursing career.
"We did a range of placements both hospital based and community based, which was really interesting.
So you get to really understand and learn what kind of things you want to do and where you want to work.".
The University of Bedfordshire offers a number of scholarships and bursaries to help you finance your studies.
See www.beds.ac.uk/scholarships
You will be eligible for additional support of at least £5,000 to help with living costs with funding from the NHS.
The funding will be given to new and continuing degree-level students.
The funding comes as part of the government’s pledge to increase nurse numbers by 50,000 over the next five years.
The funding will not have to be repaid by recipients.
You will also be able to continue to access funding for tuition and maintenance loans from the Student Loans Company.
The full-time standard undergraduate tuition fee for the academic year 2025/26 is £16,800 per year.
Our new Aylesbury Campus opened in February 2020 in partnership with Buckinghamshire Healthcare NHS Trust (BHT) at Stoke Mandeville Hospital in Aylesbury, home to the world renowned National Spinal Injuries Centre.
Healthcare students are now able to undertake the classroom element of their course at Stoke Mandeville, while at the same time getting experience of life in an integrated Trust which provides a range of specialist, acute and community services.
Specialist skills Lab, set out as a hospital ward allowing for simulated scenarios having been designed to provide invaluable learning opportunities to observe, develop and test how healthcare professionals work together and interact with their environment and equipment.
The suite has state-of-the-art simulation mannequins, anatomical models, audio visual technology and a range of other equipment to support and enhance all aspects of clinical care and educational delivery.
On the ground floor the campus library hosts a range of academic and healthcare specific resources for students.
PCs are provided for students to use offering access to a wide range of applications and to 80,000+ ebooks available in addition to the physical resources.
Alongside the campus library the social learning space provides a great group-work and simulated scenario reflection area as well as a dedicated silent-study room with further computer facilities.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/sport-journalism:
Opportunities for practical professional live sports coverage (radio, TV, print and online) including through our Education Partnerships with Luton Town FC and Bedford Blues RFC.
Work experience opportunities with the BBC, Luton Town FC, MK Dons FC, Bedford Blues RFC, to name a few.
Strong track record of placing our graduates in the sports industry including roles with the Champions League, FA Cup, Premier League productions, WTA, Chelsea TV and Masters Golf.
Learn the core practical skills of journalism and how to apply them to a sports specialism using traditional research and writing approaches as well as new and developing media forms.
Sharpen these skills with an in-depth understanding of the wider political, social, historical and economic sporting environment - alongside the legal and ethical frameworks journalists work within - adding depth and authority to your reporting.
We are the official Education Partners of Luton Town FC and Bedford Blues RFC Foundation, giving you opportunities to put your journalism skills into practice covering live events.
Mac-equipped newsroom with radio news booth and transmission gallery High-spec multi-camera television studios Industry-standard radio facilities Award-winning, Ofcom-licensed radio station, Radio LaB Outside broadcast (OB) recording equipment Netflix-approved Sony FX6 cameras for broadcast-quality film and television content Sony FX3 Cinema Line camera with full-frame sensor and enhanced mobility for easy solo hand-held shooting Industry-standard sound and lighting equipment Digital video-editing suites with Adobe Creative Cloud software
Benefit from studying with a team of industry specialists in both sports reporting and general journalism, across a range of platforms.
Develop a portfolio of work and contacts, and hone your journalism skills through regular news days , developing your skills via real-life sports reporting assignments .
Develop live projects for industry organisations including Coolr social media agency, Pooja Studios, Luton Town FC’s Media and PR department, MK Dons FC and MKFM radio station.
Work for our in-house sports TV channel, Bulls TV , and provide sports coverage for our University’s Bedfordshire Bulls sports teams.
Hear from leading academics, sports participants and masterclass speakers from both the worlds of sport and media.
Past guest speakers include Keanu Rattray, Digital Content Manager at FIFA, and Mick Payne, Match of the Day producer.
Report from your first year for our news website and present your own show on Radio LaB, our University’s community radio station.
Take advantage of field trips to studios and course-related destinations including MKFM, Luton Town FC, MK Dons FC, BBC Broadcasting House, BT Sport, and Sky.
Jon is a creative, competent and enthusiastic sports journalism lecturer who joined the University of Bedfordshire in May 2014 after five years as course leader of foundation degree journalism at Milton Keynes College.
He started his journalism career as a news reporter for the Leighton Buzzard Observer – covering crime, council news, cinema, music, computer game reviews and features – before progressing to the role of senior reporter at its larger sister newspaper The Milton Keynes Citizen.
Studying our Sport Journalism BA (Hons) course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise in the specialist area of sports media, journalism and sports reporting.
In theory, you will critically examine the political, commercial and regulatory contexts as well as ethical and legal journalistic practice in our Inside the Journalism Industry unit.
With a focus on sport, our Sport in Society unit will introduce you to the origins, history and development of various sports and its relation to the media.
Similarly, you will examine the complex relationship between sport and media in our Sport, Media and Culture unit to understand the link between sport, sponsorship, advertisers and stakeholders as well as the ethical implications for this.
In areas of journalism, you will learn to identify newsworthy stories and subsequently write news stories and feature articles for a series of platforms in our Reporting and Writing unit while also considering elements of professionalism and ethics in your work.
To support you with this, our unit in The Art and Craft of Journalism will improve your awareness and critical appreciation of fine journalism and in doing so, improve your writing.
You will have the chance to participate in editing workshops and create long-form pieces of journalism so you can demonstrate and develop your writing skills.
Whether you are interested in print, digital, online or broadcast, this course aims to equip you with the various practical skills for the journalism industry.
You will develop the digital storytelling skills to record and edit audio and video in our Introduction to Digital Storytelling unit.
With a focus on sport, you will be able to practise a range of sports reporting, broadcasting, writing and editing skills in live situations in our Practical Sports Journalism unit.
Here, you will have the opportunity to explore various types of sports stories from match reports to investigative features.
If you are passionate about broadcast, our Digital Production Skills unit will build on your digital broadcast news skills for television, radio and online platforms while also refining your editorial and voice skills.
This will be particularly helpful for you during your Multimedia Newsdays where you will get the chance to put your broadcast and online skills along with your journalistic knowledge to actual practice.
In this unit, you will engage with real-life, on the grounds reporting where you will find your own news stories, engage with sources and produce your own news programmes and online news content.
Building on newsdays, you will also have the option to develop these skills further in our Advanced Multimedia for Journalism unit across 15 newsdays where you will work on more complex and longer form radio and television pieces.
Moreover, if you are passionate about radio, our Radio 24/7 for Journalists unit will equip you with the skills to produce a variety of radio programmes and audio content to an industry standard under professional work environments.
Similarly, if you have a particular interest in audio storytelling, then our Radio, Audio and Podcasting unit will enable you to develop your digital audio editing skills by producing various types of content using studio and location recording techniques.
This extends into areas of PR studies where you will learn to use public relations as a tool for reputation management and marketing communications in our Public Relations and Marketing unit.
You will integrate concepts from public relations, advertising and digital media to form effective marketing communication strategies.
To ensure that you are engaging with legally safe and compliant practice, our Law, Regulation & Public Administration unit will introduce you to legal, civic and regulatory knowledge.
More importantly, you will also have the opportunity in to showcase your knowledge, skills and ideas acquired from this course in our Practical Special Project – CnC unit.
Here, you will be able to conduct your project within an area of your interest that is also relevant to your studies, and this may involve exploring topics within radio and audio, media communications and journalism.
Alternatively, you can undertake a major research project into a topic of your interest that is strongly relevant to your field of study in our Dissertation Special Project – CnC unit.
Assessment methods vary across the course enabling students to develop strategies for a range of tasks methods of evaluation and presentation giving them valuable employability experience.
At all stages students receive formative feedback with every formative assignment and summative feedback is given within 20 working days of submission for level 4 and 5 and within 15 working days for level 6.
Individual tutors all offer the opportunity to discuss any feedback in more detail at each level of study.
As student skills and subject knowledge develop over the duration of their course it is expected that they will develop increasingly sophisticated responses to assessment and employ increasingly effective methods of peer and self-review.
Career opportunities for graduates of this course include sports journalism, publishing, copywriting, public relations, media research and digital media.
Course graduate Rosie Bonass went on to be Women's Football Social Lead at UEFA.
Rosie says, "I was given the opportunity to work at Luton Town FC as part of my course, which helped me land a job as Media Executive at Tottenham Hotspur FC and then my current role as Women's Football Social Lead at UEFA.
I can't thank the University of Bedfordshire enough."
In the film on the right, find out more about the exciting opportunities offered by our partnership with Luton Town Football Club.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/applied-professional-practice-in-contemporary-policing-and-criminal-investigations:
This one-year, blended-learning course fits around your other commitments, with a weekly online evening session and two in-person Saturday sessions per semester.
Open to professionals with a qualification such as the Professionalising Investigation Programme (PIP2) or equivalent; or recent experience in an investigative role (the last five years).
Your existing skills, experience and work-based learning is mapped against Policing QAA benchmarking statements.
This ground-breaking, one-year course is designed to support professionals already working in the field to progress in their career in policing and investigation; change career direction; or undertake further study after retirement.
It is delivered by a team of retired police officers who recognise your existing experience and understand the challenges you face.
Units are taught mainly online, with full-time or part-time options, helping you fit study around your life and work.
For further information, contact:
Keren Coton at keren.coton@beds.ac.uk
Russell Murden at russell.murden@beds.ac.uk
Mock-custody suite Police interview room Scene-of-crime ‘flat’ Simulation floor that takes you from a mock home to hospital, giving you hands-on experience of a range of scenarios
We have robust associations with criminal justice stakeholders, local councils, companies, and voluntary sector and practitioners, which open up opportunities for volunteering and work placements in the community or in practice.
We also have strong engagement with Bedfordshire and Thames Valley police forces as well as British Transport Police, offering opportunities for placements within their services.
Taught by experienced academics including retired police officers with expertise in policing across community, front line, major crime investigations, family liaison and safeguarding.
In addition to the weekly online session and on-campus Saturday sessions, you are given activities and materials to work through in your own time .
Assessments are varied and planned in advance to develop a wide range of skillsets and to promote wider learning.
Units have been designed to let you use and develop your own practice , an approach that allows you to reflect on your career and experiences.
The assessments are linked to specific learning outcomes that have been developed based on the students prior professional learning - students will have a variety of assessments, consisting of essays, reflective practice using journals, digital presentations such as powerpoints/podcasts, poster presentations and dissertations.
By having a variety of assignments, this allows them to achieve and develop their knowledge.
A range of appropriate formal and summative assessments will enable the students to grow and develop.
A key theme embedded throughout the units is reflective practice and understanding about leadership styles and management, to enhance their knowledge which is transferrable back in the workplace.
Examples of assessments being used on this course include:
This course has been designed for police officers and investigators with career development in mind whether that be internal promotion, specialisation or moving to another degree-level career.
We find recently retired officers want to study further to develop skills and knowledge obtained throughout their careers and gain a recognised qualification.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/human-resource-management-with-placement:
We are 1st in the UK for successful graduate social-enterprise start-ups still trading after three years; 2nd in the UK for all business start-ups (HESA, 2024).
This course offers a guaranteed 12-week placement, a dedicated, work-placement coordinator and on-going support
In 2023/24, our Business School students engaged with real-life businesses around 7,000 times, using their knowledge and skills to support live projects.
On this course, you explore key areas of human resource management (HRM) - such as talent management, leadership and motivation, data management and interpretation, and employee relations - while engaging with real-life HRM situations and problems.
You are also able to undertake a fully supported, 12-week placement within a real business where you can immerse yourself in the world of HR, building your knowledge and practical experience.
Many of our placement students have gone on to work in the same company upon graduation.
We are an accredited Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) centre.
This means all of our HRM courses are professional body accredited, giving you access to Level 5 accreditation and increasing your employability in the HRM profession, on successful graduation.
Our placement students work with established companies to support their HR function; they are all local to the University and have experience of working with our students.
Companies include Enterprise, Raja Packaging and Luton Borough Council, among many others.
Gain the knowledge, skills, behaviours and graduate competencies employers value and need in the HRM field, in line with the CIPD professional accreditation.
Learn from expert tutors active within the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), and in both consultancy and research.
Develop your understanding of how HRM works with other business disciplines , enabling you to fit into numerous organisation roles.
Apply what you have learnt to real-life situations experienced by companies and organisations globally .
Build the confidence and problem-solving skills needed to be an effective manager across a range of organisations and settings.
Benefit from HRM-focused employability events throughout the academic year, including careers fairs and immersive CV events.
Learn from employer site visits and visits to the University by employers and local HR managers , who to share their HRM stories - a great way to network and ask questions relating to HRM career development.
Gain from having regular engagement and support from CIPD members and branch officials , helping you make a smooth transition into the world of HRM employment.
Studying our Human Resources Management (with placement) BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the knowledge and skills in the combined areas of business and human resources management (HRM).
As a human resource (HR) professional, it is important that you actively understand organisational issues from staff to management.
This is where our Human Resource Management Foundations unit will develop your knowledge to demonstrate the skills and behaviours you need to meet professional standards in the industry.
In other core areas of study, you will explore key concepts, theories and practices of human resource management (HRM) such as recruitment and selection, training and development and employee relations in our HR and Work in Organisations unit.
Moreover, with technology becoming a prevalent tool in businesses, you will explore The Role of HR in The Digital Age and discover how human resource management has evolved and is developing with changes in technology.
As a fundamental skill, our unit in Applied Numeracy for Business will give you the confidence to develop the mathematical and numerical skills used for decision making and problem solving for businesses.
In your second year, you will also be introduced to The Strategic Context of HRM where you will unpack theory around strategic HRM approaches in different business contexts while learning to make informed judgements in Employment Relations as a crucial skill in the HRM sector.
One of the main components in this course is our Work Placement unit which is an excellent opportunity for you to gain practical experience by applying your knowledge and skills through working within the industry.
You will move on to address Contemporary Issues in The Workplace and how HR functions should respond to them while considering the implications for policy making and practice for people management.
As an essential skill, our Management and Leadership unit will also introduce you to theories and practice in this field alongside persuasive communication techniques so that you are equipped to solve problems and contemporary organisational issues.
HR Analytics and Data unit will expose you to the fundamentals of HR analytics, how data is used in the HR environment, and the ethical issues and limitations that arise from this.
With accreditation from the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), this course will also prepare you for an organisational role in the HR profession with our unit in Developing Professional HRM Practice.
This will develop your understanding of the skills required to work in the sector against the CIPD Profession Map and support you in creating your own personal development plan.
Finally, you will conduct a thorough piece of academic research and/or a practical project in our Business Project unit and to support you with this, our unit in Data and Research Methods for Business will provide you with the knowledge and skills to conduct research and analyse data in a business context.
To prepare you for your career, our unit in Beginning your Professional Business Journey will help to ease your transition into the workplace and provide an insight into professional business environments.
In line with the Business School's commitment to practice-based education and to a learning experience which is active reflective collaborative and creative a large part of the assessment will relate to the demonstration of your ability to do HRM in practice.
We will want to see that you understand the theory and have developed critical thinking skills which help you evaluate the relevance of what you have learned.
All of this comes together in being able to demonstrate rigorous Human Resource practice for an organisation.
Methods of assessment vary according to the learning outcomes of a particular unit and the stage of the study.
You will be assessed using a range of assessments during your studies.
This will include a mixture of closed book examinations courseworks reports tests posters group work and presentations and others will form assessments of their work.
To assess this range of integration of theory and skills into sound practice we use a range of methods encompassing summative and formative assessments.
You will encounter many different kinds including the ones listed below some of which are used in combination and for example a report might be required as an outcome of a time-limited assessment task.
Reports: you analyse a business problem and propose solutions.
Presentations: present proposals as if to your manager to the board of a company or to a client.
Time-limited tasks: on a set day you will be given a task which you will need to complete in a set time such as 48 hours or five days.
Academic writing: used to demonstrate clear critical thinking you might be asked to write an essay or a short summary of a theoretical debate.
Appraisals: just as in business you use appraisals to assess your own learning and to set your personal and academic development objectives.
Projects: these are assessed in a number of ways depending on the task defined by our business partner.
Typically you will need to prepare an analysis report or presentation which is suitable for the business partner and a longer piece of work which sets out the 'behind the scenes' work which underpinned the output for business.
It is in the longer work that we expect to see explicitly your application of theory and critical thinking which underpin good HRM practice.
You will usually also prepare a project review.
Project reviews: you analyse and evaluate the way you worked on a project and set out how you would work more effectively on a similar task in future.
Exams: as well as conventional exams using set questions and case studies exams can be the outcome of a group task.
You might work on a large task together and then sit an exam to show your individual learning from the task.
Portfolio: you will plan and record your CPD activities using the CIPDs HR Profession Map as a guide to the knowledge skills and behaviours you need to develop to be ready to work in HR.
For all assignments you will have an assignment brief which clearly sets out what is required and you will be given the criteria which your tutors will use to mark your work.
Throughout the course your learning will be supported using various methods of formative assessment and feedback which will take place both in-class and off-class activities.
Informal formative feedback will be an ongoing feature of the unit and will be provided through class discussion presentations etc.
You are encouraged to seek feedback and use it effectively.
On-line activities such as discussion boards videos podcasts etc.
will also provide opportunities to obtain feedback and enhance your learning experience.
This is to help students progress their studies and support their continuing development.
You will receive feedback on all your assessments.
Using this feedback is essential to improving your learning process and your grades on future assignments.
You will be equipped for starting a career as a HR professional with all the knowledge and experience to hit the ground running in a HR practitioner role within a variety of organisational contexts.
Equally your skills would enable you to excel in a range of more generalist people management roles.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/news/2025/august/university-of-bedfordshire-vice-chancellor-to-retire-in-december:
The University of Bedfordshire has announced that Vice Chancellor Professor Rebecca Bunting will retire in December after six years leading the University and 11 years serving as a Vice Chancellor.
Earlier this summer, Professor Bunting informed Simon Yun-Farmbrough, Chair of the Board of Governors , of her intention to step down at the end of the year.
Professor Bunting said: “After six years at the University of Bedfordshire, and 11 as a Vice Chancellor, it is the right time for me personally, and the right time for the University, as it embarks on developing a new strategy to take it through the next five years and beyond.
It has been a pleasure and a privilege to lead the University and to work with so many talented colleagues.”
The Board of Governors is in the process of appointing an executive search firm to lead the recruitment of the next Vice Chancellor.
Simon Yun-Farmbrough, Chair of the Board of Governors, said: “Professor Bunting has provided outstanding leadership during a period of significant change for the University.
We are grateful for her contribution, and we wish her every happiness in her retirement.”
The University will make further announcements about the appointment process for her successor in due course.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/news/2025/august/from-courtrooms-to-sim-spaces-experience-real-world-learning-at-bedfordshire-through-clearing:
With Clearing in full swing, the University of Bedfordshire is still open for prospective students to secure their place at a career-focused university equipped with modern facilities designed to prepare graduates for the world of work.
A number of courses remain open for applications, with opportunities throughout Nursing , Media , Sport , and Business .
For more information and to apply through Clearing , call the hotline on 0300 3300 073 or visit www.beds.ac.uk/clearing today.
As part of its commitment to Career-Powered Education, the University boasts several state-of-the-art and industry-standard facilities available to help students hone and practice their skills in a safe and supportive environment.
Students looking to study courses including Adult Nursing , Midwifery , and Social Work have access to the University’s ‘ SIM Street’ , a unique immersive training hub at the Luton campus .
The simulation spaces replicate real-world health and social care environments, with facilities including a hospital ward, operating theatre, nursing home bedroom, police custody suite, and fully furnished flats.
Beyond health and social sciences, Bedfordshire offers cutting-edge facilities across other courses.
Sport and Exercise Science students benefit from specialist labs, including a strength & conditioning suite and environmental chamber designed to test physical performance under different conditions; and students pursuing creative pathways such as Media Production can make use of the University’s industry-standard radio studios and a professional TV studio .
Meanwhile, aspiring lawyers can sharpen their skills in a modern Moot Court , which uses digital technology to replicate a real courtroom environment where students can practice proceedings.
Bedfordshire’s broad range of Business courses also come with strong links with industry and access to entrepreneurial support, giving graduates the confidence to succeed in today’s competitive job market.
In addition to expert support and flexible study options, the University of Bedfordshire also offers a number of scholarships worth up to £2,500 per year, designed to support students throughout their studies.
Click here for more information on available scholarships.
For more information about the Clearing process and to speak to the team, call the Clearing hotline on 0300 3300 073 or apply online today!

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/news/2025/august/clearing-2025-from-first-generation-student-to-a-first-class-degree:
A graduate from the University of Bedfordshire has spoken about how his time at university has set him up for a career in his dream industry.
Still weighing up your next steps?
Clearing could be your gateway to something life-changing.
The University of Bedfordshire is accepting applications until early October, and the team is on hand to support you through every stage.
Get in touch today on 0300 3300 073 or visit www.beds.ac.uk/clearing to find your course.
As the first in his family to attend university, Kyle Keene-Welch went on to graduate as the top undergraduate student in the Faculty of Creative Arts, Technologies & Science .
After earning a degree in Software Engineering , he’s now working in the industry.
I studied Software Engineering BSc (Hons) at the University of Bedfordshire.
I decided upon this degree as I had always known I wanted to go into a technical field and the degree offered many transferable skills compatible to a range of roles.
After successfully completing my Extended Diploma at Bedford College, I was exposed to various experiences and skills amongst many technical fields.
I was particularly fond of Web Development and working with software in general, so I knew a Software Engineering degree was the next step.
After finding out that my local University offered the facilities and opportunity to grow my skills in this area, I applied.
I graduated in 2024.
My favourite part of being a student at the University of Bedfordshire was the opportunities to grow both inside and outside the lectures, from the amazing support from staff to the facilities and services available.
The curriculum offered a broad perspective of software in the first year, an in-depth perspective in the second, then the chance to specialise in the third.
The continuous flow of new ideas across the years taught me to adapt in the ever-changing technological world and I am still learning new things today.
Living on campus enabled me to build independence and life skills.
It nurtured my ambition and fuelled my studies.
Developing a healthy lifestyle outside of my studies paved the way to success within my studies.
Understanding this early on meant I could excel personally and professionally.
I am currently a UX Engineer working at Feral Interactive and I work on designing the UX and implementing the UI for ports of popular video game franchises to mobile, tablet, and Nintendo Switch.
My degree included transferable hard skills such as design, programming, testing, and project management.
But it also helped provide soft skills such as time management, teamwork, and communication.
Having completed a Software Engineering degree, I am able to understand all areas that are involved in the process and, while I might not be working on a certain area of development, I am able to understand and effectively work well with others as my transferable skills put me in an advantageous position with my broad understanding.
I have been able to work on a range of projects so far, one which has been released for mobile and tablet during the duration of my time at Feral.
I would see what your interests are and your plans for the future.
Hard work always beats talent so choose something you genuinely enjoy, something that you can see yourself doing and if you work hard enough, you’ll always get there.
Break the large problem into smaller milestones and create some goals.
What do you need to do to get there and how do you plan to do it?
What degrees are available that help you reach those goals and what universities provide those degrees?
Weigh up factors such as your budget and distance and research thoroughly what each degree each university offers, and which stand out to you.
Once you have some goals and a plan to get there, get in contact and apply!
You’re young and going to make mistakes but learning from them is what matters.
So why not put yourself out there and try?
For more information about applying to the University of Bedfordshire via Clearing visit www.beds.ac.uk/clearing or call the Admissions team on 0300 3300 073 .

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/news/2025/august/clearing-2025-a-return-to-university-fuelled-my-media-dreams:
A student from the University of Bedfordshire has spoken about how returning to higher education after a break in her studies led her to finding the right path.
Clearing is your chance to take a new step toward your future – and at the University of Bedfordshire, it’s open until early October.
Whether you're returning to education or making a fresh start, the Admissions team is here to support you.
Call 0300 3300 073 or visit www.beds.ac.uk/clearing to discover your options.
Mandovi Jadoun has pursued a degree in Media, Marketing & PR and, despite facing personal health challenges, she’s shown strength and determination to pursue her ambitions.
I am studying Media, Marketing and PR .
I chose the course because I am a returning student who studied Journalism for a year and a half in 2017 until I paused my studies and started working full time in sales.
My knowledge in communication and experience in customer handling and upselling designer goods made Media, Marketing and PR the best fit for my career progression and I decided to return to university.
Having known the lecturers from 2017, it allowed me to return to University of Bedfordshire seamlessly.
My favourite part of being a student at the University of Bedfordshire is that I get to put my academic skills to practical use in my job roles such as Digital Student Ambassador and Student Visual Designer.
I also like the convenience that the University’s Luton campus provides through its central location and easy access to shopping, bus stands, and two train stations.
I have always been creatively inspired and wanted to make a profession in digital creativity.
However, before returning to university, I was stepping into many boats at one time with no proper results because I lacked direction.
Returning to university has helped me find that direction by giving me the opportunity to learn and giving me access to industry-standard resources like Adobe and Microsoft 365.
I am also able to apply my knowledge in my job roles, which are also within the University.
I wish to work in the advertisement industry as a designer once I have finished university.
I believe my experience in sales and analytical nature makes me a natural at marketing.
The additional design skills make the advertisement industry the best match for me.
I also wish to follow up with an MBA after a few years of experience in my first job outside of university as a graduate.
My experience at the University of Bedfordshire has put in touch with tutors and mentors who have appreciated my skillset and pointed me in the right direction to find the job that suits me.
My tutor, Jon Boyle , actively shares job opportunities with all the students in our WhatsApp group and refers us to his large network of business owners.
I have also had a chance to work with real life clients for one of my assignments.
My advice to students looking to start university this year is that university is the only place that will give you the opportunity to learn professionalism under guidance and without judgement.
It is also the place to network as you can make friends with people from different professions like nowhere else.
It lays a very strong foundation for you to excel in your profession as university makes you habitual of learning new things and helps you stay curious for life.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/news/2025/august/clearing-2025-it-gave-me-the-confidence-to-succeed-on-my-own-terms:
A mature student from the University of Bedfordshire has spoken about she used Clearing to start her journey – and hasn’t looked back.
There’s still plenty of time to join the University of Bedfordshire this year – Clearing is open until early October.
Whether you’ve faced challenges or are simply ready for something new, the supportive team is here to guide you through the process.
To explore your options, call 0300 3300 073 or visit www.beds.ac.uk/clearing .
Integrated Health and Social Care student, Donna Matthews, shares how her Clearing experience has helped her thrive…
I am studying Integrated Health and Social Care BSc .
I have worked in the industry most of working life, but due to chronic illness and disability I came to university to change my work role while still in the same field.
I am currently in my final year of study.
I had to leave work due to ill health and disability and was at a loss of what to do.
My daughter said ‘go to university and learn something new’.
I thought I was not educated enough, and with my autism and dyslexia it won’t work.
But it kept playing through my mind so I Googled how I would apply.
I got sent to UCAS and I saw an advert to apply to the University of Bedfordshire through Clearing .
So I took the step and applied.
Learning!
I know that sounds corny, but I was always told I was ‘stupid’ and unable to learn when I was at school due to my learning difficulties as I am autistic, dyslexic, have ADHD, and am physically disabled but I always want to learn.
I have become very confident, and I feel even at my age I have grown.
I really enjoy helping people and my peers and I enjoy how welcoming the campus is.
I came to learn different higher management roles, but I now feel I would prefer a support role to support students either at a campus or as a Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA) support worker.
The course is career focused.
We are given all the tools to learn and grow but really it has to start within yourself, you need to want to learn so you can use all the tools and information that will help you in the future.
The Careers & Employability team have been superb, they are constantly offering volunteering roles.
Look at all available courses, read up on them, look online, look on UCAS, the prospectus, and talk to staff and other students at Open Days , so you can find out as much information and can decide either what you thought you wanted isn’t the case, or it can really light a fire under you to do what you’re passionate about.
If you’re still unsure, starting with a Foundation year gives you the opportunity to see if it’s right for you.
And at the end of the day, it is you who is going to complete this course, so make sure you are picking it for the right reasons.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/events:
Beds SU also run lots of events, including training courses, society meetings, sports tournaments and karaoke!
Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates on upcoming events, workshops, and seminars.
Sign up now with your name and email address!

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/open-days/sign-up-11-october:
Get the chance to chat with academics about courses that excite you and see our industry-standard facilities up close!
This course is based at our Bedford campus, and your Open Day will be held there.
This course is based at our Luton campus, and your Open Day will be held there.
Submitting your form…

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-governance/academic-regulations:
The University did not operate the new degree algorithm as set out in the 2020-21 academic regulations , applying instead the algorithms as stated in the 2019-20 academic regulations for all students graduating in 2020-21.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/contactus/accessibility:
Access is one of the University of Bedfordshire’s core values and we strive to make our web-based information accessible to all.
This accessibility statement applies to www.beds.ac.uk lrweb.beds.ac.uk and www.putteridgebury.co.uk.
These websites are run by the University of Bedfordshire.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We also make every effort to keep the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print or easy read please email webteam@beds.ac.uk
We’ll consider your request and get back to you within seven working days.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact the Web Manager by emailing webteam@beds.ac.uk
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
If you are visiting the University and require any additional support for example a British Sign Language (BSL) interpreter, then please email study@beds.ac.uk so we can facilitate this before your visit.
The University of Bedfordshire is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
The University of Bedfordshire website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons:
Some images do not have a text alternative, so people using a screen reader cannot access the information.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.1.1 (non-text content).
We plan to add text alternatives for all images by December 2022.
When we publish new content we’ll ensure our use of images meets accessibility standards.
Some older PDF documents are not fully accessible to screen reader software.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 2.4.2 .
When we publish new content we’ll make sure our PDF documents meet accessibility standards.
Some of our online form contain date fields which currently have no alternative text.
We plan to complete this by to meet this standard by December 2022.
IDs used in ARIA labels must be unique.
This fails WCAG 4.1.1
Our page banners currently have no pause, stop, hide.
This fails WCAG 2.2.2 and means automatic carousel images cannot be paused, stopped or hidden.
Menus and accordions content is currently unable to be tabbed across using a keyboard.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
This statement was prepared on 28 November 2022.
This website was last tested on 27 November 2022 The test was carried out by The University of Bedfordshire.
We used this approach to deciding on a sample of pages to test: testing pages previously in scope of a Government Digital Service accessibility report (6 April 2022).

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-governance/our-websites/disclaimer:
The information about courses provided in this website is intended to give potential applicants an overview of the programmes that the University intends to make available in the next academic year.
Every effort is made to ensure that the information in the website is accurate.
However, it may become necessary for the University to make changes, for example to programme content, course delivery and fees, due to legitimate staffing, financial regulatory and academic reasons including (but not limited to) industrial action, lack of demand, departure of key personnel, change in government policy, withdrawal or reduction of funding, the requirements of the quality code of the Quality Assurance Agency or a change of law.
The University will endeavour at all times to keep such changes to a minimum and to keep students informed appropriately.
If a course is not provided in whole or in part, the University will take such steps as are available to it to minimise the effect of any alteration or withdrawal.
Such steps may include alterations to delivery of teaching or assessment, the offer of a place on an alternative course or the offer to transfer to another course at the University or elsewhere.
You will be entitled to decline to accept the changes to the programme and withdraw but not to receive a refund for those parts of the programme that you have completed whether or not you have passed any assessment.
If there are any physical restrictions as to access, then depending on a student’s disability, reasonable adjustments will be made.
The University website links to some third party information providers who are not affiliated with the University of Bedfordshire.
Regardless of whether a third party is affiliated, the University has not taken any steps to confirm the accuracy or reliability of any of the information contained in such third parties' websites, and does not make any representations or warranties as to the security of any information (including, without limitation, personal information) you might be requested to give any third party.
The University uses cookies to track usage on our websites and to provide the University  with statistics that show how many visitors we have had and the general trend of visitor activities.
None of the information can be traced to an individual person and the cookie only relates to activity on our websites.
The cookies do not collect additional information about you and do not in any way compromise the security of your computer.
Anonymous Cookie Data will kept by Google Analytics for 26 months.
Please visit www.allaboutcookies.org for information on how to disable and delete cookies from your computer.
Materials contained on this website are subject to copyright and other proprietary rights.
The University of Bedfordshire grants permission for the browsing of material it has published on its website pages.
It also grants permission to electronically copy and to print in hard copy portions one copy only of any page of this material for personal reference only.
Copyright in all material on this website (unless otherwise indicated) is held by the University of Bedfordshire.
The express permission of the Copyright holder must be obtained for any use of this material other than for purposes permitted by law.
The policy of the University is that the rights of staff, students and visitors to the University, or individuals and groups who are visited by the University’s representatives, should not be jeopardised by any University activity.
The University further recognises its responsibilities towards children and young people.
Images may be captured during events organised and hosted by the University using film photography, digital photography, video or other medium and may be used on the University websites, University prospectus or course brochures, other publicity material (such as internal and external newsletters), exhibition of student work or graduation ceremony brochure and may be provided to the media for publication in local or national newspapers or educational magazines.
The University acknowledges its responsibilities in capturing images by photography or other means under the provisions of the following legislation:
In this context the University informs all persons taking part in University activities that they may be photographed, filmed, videoed or otherwise captured in image form.
Where possible and practical to do so, the University seeks written consent to image capture.
Where this is not possible for practical reasons, unless express objections are received, individuals attending an event at the University are deemed to have given their consent by attending or remaining at the event.
Any queries or complaints should be raised with the event host in the first instance.
The University of Bedfordshire is a registered trademark along with its logos.
Other product and company names mentioned on this website may be the trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.
The University’s trademarks may only be used in applications approved by the University.
They may not be used in any other context without the express consent of the University.
Requests to use the University logo should be made to:
Andrea Madar Recruitment, Outreach, Admissions and Marketing (ROAM) University of Bedfordshire University Square Luton Bedfordshire LU1 3JU
E: andrea.madar@beds.ac.uk
Any personal information you provide will be held in accordance with the provisions of the Data Protection Act 2018 and used only for the reason specified at the point of collection.
Personal and contact information you submit on this website may be held in a database.
From time to time we may send you information about the University.
To improve the usability of our forms some may use third party suppliers.
We currently use Survey Gizmo , SurveyMonkey and Umbraco .
We will never sell license or trade your personal details to any third party.
Read our Privacy Statement here
The Contract is between you and the University.
No other person shall have any rights to enforce any of its terms whether under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 or otherwise.
These Terms are governed by English law.
The Courts of England and Wales will have non-exclusive jurisdiction.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/student-experience/harassment-and-sexual-misconduct:
The information on this page summarises the University's policies and procedures on student harassment and sexual misconduct, including intimate personal relationships between staff members and students.
Harassment and sexual misconduct are defined as:
'Harassment' is unwanted conduct related to a relevant protected characteristic which has the purpose or effect of violating an individual's dignity or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment as defined by the Equality Act 2010.
This includes harassment by association or perception.
'Sexual Misconduct' related to all unwanted conduct of a sexual nature.
This includes, but is not limited to:
See our Support and Report webpage for further information on Bullying and Harassment and Sexual Assault and Harassment
The University of Bedfordshire is a diverse, outward looking and inclusive place to study, live and work.
We actively promote respect, tolerance and inclusion as core values of our learning community.
Support and Report has been established to provide a centralised point of contact for all our students and staff to share their concerns about any offensive, threatening or anti-social behaviour, on or off campus.
This mechanism enables confidential and anonymous reporting of incidents to specific senior members of staff who will initiate referral to relevant teams and offer appropriate support, ensuring any follow-up is carried out as necessary.
If you have witnessed any incidents of bullying, harassment and assault or been a victim of them, then we are here to support you.
It is really important that you report any such incidents to us.
The University offers specialist support for you and for anyone you know who may have been affected.
As well as offering support, our advisors have been trained to offer support for victims with reporting an incident or crime to police and other relevant external agencies.
You can tell us what happened using the 'Report a concern' button above.
If you or someone you know has been victim – or has any concerns about sexual violence or sexual harassment – you can speak in confidence to a member of staff at the university who is specially trained as a SASH (Sexual Assault & Sexual Harassment) Responder.
The SASH Responder will not push for details, make assumptions or take any action without your consent – unless it is perceived that there is a significant risk to you or others.
Their role is to listen and provide practical advice and support about the options open to you, including how to make a formal complaint to the University and/or the police should you choose to do so.
If you would like to speak to a SASH Responder, you can contact the Student Information Desk, Reception or a member of security who will arrange this for you.
Staff can access support from their People and Culture Advisor who can discuss their options regarding escalating a complaint and accessing support.
The Sexual Violence and Harassment Protocol defines what harassment and sexual misconduct are and sets out the University’s approach to preventing and addressing harassment and sexual misconduct.
How we will ensure investigations and decisions are credible and fair
The University has a Student Code of Conduct [PDF] which states that alleged reports of misconduct should be addressed to the Adjudication Team in the first instance.
The University takes matters of harassment and sexual misconduct very seriously and will support them and any other members of the University community who have been affected.
The University will aim to investigate the claim fully.
On receipt of a report that is eligible for consideration under the Code of Conduct policy, the Adjudication Team will make an initial assessment of whether the report is a minor or serious misconduct.
Once the level of seriousness is determined, the person who is alleged to have committed the offence will be notified of the alleged misconduct report against them.
Repeated Minor or Serious levels of misconduct will be subject to Formal Investigation.
How we will ensure parties are informed of decisions and their rationale
The University will aim to complete all stages of an investigation and provide the student with the outcome as soon as possible and within three months of receiving the initial report of alleged misconduct.
The outcome of a Disciplinary Hearing will be communicated to the student by email within 10 working days.
Investigating processes for staff are outlined in the Dignity and Respect at Work Policy [PDF] and Grievance Policy and Procedure[PDF]
We are committed to ensuring that students understand what harassment and sexual misconduct is, how to report it, and what support is available to them.
All new students are enrolled in a mandatory micro-learning course that covers harassment & sexual misconduct and provides students with easy-to-remember advice and the relevant reporting processes at the University of Bedfordshire.
We are committed to ensuring a safe place for all to work.
We have updated our Dignity and Respect at Work Policy [PDF] to clarify that sexual harassment is totally unacceptable at the University of Bedfordshire.
The University of Bedfordshire recognises that good working relations are important to the creation of positive, engaging and inspiring work and study.
However, personal relationships between staff, and between staff and students, can sometimes lead to negative and/or unintended consequences, such as conflicts of interest, unfair/biased treatment, abuses of power, sexual misconduct, and detriment to wellbeing.
The University has developed a Personal Relationships Policy [PDF] to ensure all professional and personal relationships amongst and between staff and students are conducted in such a way as to safeguards against any negative or unintended consequences.
The policy clarifies expectations and obligations of staff and ensures processes are in place to safeguard against abuses of power and sexual misconduct.
Close personal or intimate relationships between staff and students are prohibited where a staff member has direct academic responsibilities or other direct professional responsibilities.
If any student has any concerns about their relationship with a staff member, regardless of whether that relationship is permitted under the policy, they are encouraged to report it and seek support.
Since September 2024, the Office for Students has prohibited universities from using NDAs in relation to student allegations of harassment and sexual misconduct.
In line with that, the University of Bedfordshire does not use Non-disclosure agreements.
Please find links below to some of the University’s policies and processes:

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/diversity-and-inclusion/modern-slavery-act:
Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of fundamental human rights.
It takes various forms, such as slavery, forced and compulsory labour and human trafficking – all of which have in common the deprivation of a person’s liberty by another in order to exploit them for personal or commercial gain.
The University of Bedfordshire does not engage with or condone the practices of human slavery, human trafficking or forced labour and is committed to improving its practices to combat slavery and human trafficking in its supply chains.
This Statement reflects the University’s commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in all our business relationships and to implement and enforce effective systems and controls to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place anywhere in our supply chains.
This statement is made pursuant to Section 54(1) of the Act and constitutes our Groups Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement for the Financial Year ending 31st July 2024.
We are a provider of educational learning and research in the higher education sector.
The University of Bedfordshire has, within its group structure, seven subsidiary companies, only one of which is active.
The University has 1188 employees and operates in a number of countries.
University procurement follows one of two pathways:
(1) collaborative procurement (through HE Purchasing Consortia); or (2) in-house tendering and contracting:
Due diligence in relation to modern slavery and human trafficking embraces a range of actions which the University undertakes to mitigate the risk of non-adherence to the Act:
We intend to provide further specialist training for our staff to ensure a high level of understanding of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking within our supply chains.
Other steps we intend to take:
This statement has been approved and published by the University’s Board of Governors and will be continued to be reviewed annually.
Chair of the Board of Governors of the University of Bedfordshire

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-governance:
Sarfraz Manzoor
Professor Rebecca Bunting

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/jobs:
Working at
Bedfordshire
We are committed to offering our students a transformational experience that will engage their minds, excite their imaginations and give them the confidence to fulfil their dreams.
In turn, we’re looking for committed and talented people who share our passion and enthusiasm for transforming lives.
If you would like to be part of a values-driven university with a high-performance culture, dedicated to providing an excellent student and staff experience in a vibrant and diverse academic community, then we’d like to hear from you.
The University offers a wide variety of career opportunities across a range of academic and support functions.
These pages not only provide details of our current vacancies, but also an insight into our working culture at Bedfordshire.
The University of Bedfordshire's mission is to create a vibrant multicultural learning community enabling people to transform their lives by participating in excellent, innovative education, scholarship and research.
We have the best of all worlds with our campus locations in Luton, Bedford, Milton Keynes and Aylesbury.
Beautiful countryside, framed by the Chiltern Hills, is on our doorstep as well as villages perfect for exploring and London is just a short train journey from Luton and Bedford.
The University has four academic faculties, each led by an Executive Dean, providing a wide range of academic teaching and research opportunities:
The University also has many professional services departments providing a wealth of career opportunities including:
The University of Bedfordshire is a modern, innovative university with a heritage of top quality education going back more than 100 years.
It gained university status in 1992 as the University of Luton before expanding to become the University of Bedfordshire in 2006, when it merged with the Bedford campus of De Montfort University.
Bedfordshire is renowned for its vibrant and cosmopolitan student population that includes more than 20,000 students from over 120 countries.
It is a modern university that offers a wide range of degree courses that are tailored to meet the needs of its students, providing them with transformational opportunities through access to an excellent educational experience.
In the REF 2021, the system used to assess the quality and impact of research conducted by UK universities, announced the results on Thursday 12 th May 2022 and the University has excelled in a number of areas, including research carried out by the Centre for Research in English Language Learning and Assessment (CRELLA) and work from the Institute of Applied Social Research .
The University also boasts a £3m Research Hub.
Overall, 60% of the University’s research and 50% of its impact was judged to be world leading or internationally excellent.
The senior leadership and management of the University centres around the Vice-Chancellor’s Executive Group, comprising of the University Secretary and Registrar, three Pro-Vice Chancellors, four Executive Deans and the Director of Human Resources.
Staff Benefits We want to make sure that our staff are recognised and rewarded for their hard work and commitment, therefore we offer some impressive benefits including: Generous pension Five additional concessionary paid leave days Hybrid and flexible working In house training and a number of health and well-being benefits
We want to make sure that our staff are recognised and rewarded for their hard work and commitment, therefore we offer some impressive benefits including:
The health and wellbeing of our staff is an important priority for the University and therefore, we also have a number of lifestyle benefits and support including:
You will need to create an online account to apply online.
This will allow you to save applications which are in progress and view submitted applications.
Once you are ready to make an application, please go to Current Vacancies
If you require this information in an alternative format please contact the Human Resources department via 01582 743390 or via email at uob.jobs@beds.ac.uk
If you are already registered as a user and have submitted at least one application via this site please use the ‘Existing user login’ option.
Your personal details, employment history and referee details will automatically feed through to any further applications you make.
Please check these details are still current.
To amend your applications, use the Edit option.
To add additional information, use the Add option.
If you are an existing member of staff please login to iTrent Self Service and click on the Web Recruitment link once you have been logged in you will be redirected back to the search page.
Staff on visiting contracts cannot use the Staff Login option and must instead apply as new applicants or previous applicants.
When you submit your application you will receive an automated acknowledgement.
Successful candidates selected for interview will be confirmed by email.
The selection panel will review all applications after the closing date.
Please allow up to four weeks from this date for further contact from the University, when we will let you know if you have been selected for interview or not.
Due to the very large number of applications that we receive we are unable to provide candidates with feedback from their application form if they have not been shortlisted.
The online application form will time-out if you do not save any data for a 60-minute period.
We strongly advise you to save your application regularly by clicking on the Save & Continue button.
You may prefer to type your supporting statement in another document first and then copy and paste the text into the relevant box.
Please be aware that you risk losing data if the form times-out and you have not saved your data regularly.
Some University of Bedfordshire posts require a Disclosure Barring Service (DBS) disclosure check and this is specified in the advert or job description.
Any subsequent job offer would be subject to a satisfactory check.
The University is committed to equity of opportunity and welcomes applications from all sections of the population and is proud to be a Disability Confident - Committed Employer.
As users of the Disability Confident symbol, we guarantee to interview all disabled applicants who meet the essential criteria for vacancies.
If you feel that you have a disability and wish to be considered under the scheme, please confirm by ticking the box.
Providing that you meet all the essential criteria for the job, you will then be invited for interview.
This information will only be shared with the Chair of the shortlisting panel and the Human Resources Team.
If you are invited to interview, please respond to the HR department so that any required adjustments at the interview stage can be put in place.
You must indicate if you have permission to live and work in the UK.
If you are selected for appointment you will be required to verify this by prior to the start of your employment producing appropriate documentary proof and copies of relevant identification will be retained as part of your pre-employment checks to comply with Home Office requirements.
Please include all forenames and your surname/family name.
If you are known by a different forename, please enter this as your preferred name.
If you provide more than one address, please use the tick-box on the online application to indicate which one is your mailing address.
In most cases correspondence will be sent by email so it is important that you also provide a valid email address.
Please list details of your current and previous employment accounting for any gaps in your employment history.
Please provide details of all your qualifications which you believe are relevant to this application, listing the highest qualification first.
Include the name of the place of learning, the qualification type/level (eg degree, NVQ2), the date the qualification was obtained or expected completion date and details of the subject(s) and grade(s).
Verification of qualifications will be required when commencing employment.
Please give details of any professional memberships and/or occupational training which are relevant to the post you are applying for.
Where appropriate state your level of membership, the date obtained and expiry or renewal date and your membership or registration number.
This section is for you to provide any additional information which you feel is relevant to your application.
Please read the job description and employee specification carefully before completing an application as the decision whether to shortlist you will be based on the information provided in your application.
Please provide information, examples and evidence to illustrate how you feel you meet the criteria for the job.
It will not be considered sufficient just to say you do.
When providing examples or evidence, you may also refer to any relevant experience acquired outside work such as community, voluntary or leisure interests.
A Curriculum Vitae (CV) alone are not accepted in place of an application but you may include one as additional supporting information.
The CV should relate to how you meet the criteria outlined in the employee specification.
A maximum of two attachments, with a maximum size of 2Mb, can be accepted.
If you do not demonstrate that you meet all of the essential criteria you will not be invited to interview.
Meeting all of the essential criteria, however, does not (with the exception of those applying under the Guaranteed Interview Scheme) mean you will be shortlisted for an interview.
In a strong group of applicants the desirable criteria may also be used.
All University appointment are subject to satisfactory references.
You must include on your application the name, address, email address and telephone number of two referees who will be able to comment on your suitability for the post.
One of these referees must be your present or your most recent employer.
Referees should not be a relative and ideally both of your referees should be able to comment on your suitability for the post for which you have applied.
Your referees will be contacted after you have been identified as the preferred candidate for the post.
To help us monitor the effectiveness of our recruitment process, please tell us how you found out about this opportunity.
You must complete this section on the form to confirm that the information you have provided is, to the best of your knowledge, true and complete and also so that we can process your application in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
In the event that your application is successful the information you provide will be used to establish your personnel record.
Otherwise your data is primarily held for internal monitoring and external benchmarking purposes and will not be kept longer than is required for these purposes.
The University has an Equality and Diversity Policy and Strategy that reflects the requirements of the Equality Act.
The University welcomes applications from all sections of the community.
We aim to ensure that everyone who works or applies to work for our University is treated fairly and is not subjected to unlawful discrimination on grounds of their sex, age, race, disability, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, gender reassignment, sexual orientation and religion or belief.
In order to monitor the effectiveness of our Equality and Diversity procedures, you are requested to complete this section of the form.
This section will be detached prior to your application form being forwarded to the selection panel.
If you are invited for interview, you will be asked to indicate whether any specific arrangements need to be made for you to attend.
Selection criteria for interviews are based on merit only and may include one or more of these interview selection processes:
If you are expected to undertake an exercise or presentation as part of the selection process you will be notified of this in your interview confirmation.
All the information obtained during the selection procedure will be assessed and used in the final decision-making process.
All offers of appointment to a position with the University are subject to satisfactory pre-employment health assessment through completion of a health questionnaire.
We will make every effort to modify the job and/or to make reasonable adjustments to enable a candidate with a disability to take up a post.
We are currently hard at work implementing our new People and Culture strategy to recruit, retain and develop a high quality workforce.
Launched in 2022, the strategy aims to foster a positive culture and an inclusive, diverse work environment that values the institution’s greatest asset – its people – and encourages the empowerment of staff.
We will seek to do this by providing services that promote a work environment characterised by the fair treatment of staff, open communications, personal accountability, trust and mutual respect.
Specifically, we want to:
Develop an ethos of teamwork and quality in our day-to-day operations.
Create an atmosphere that fosters challenges, fun, safety and positive wellbeing.
Seize opportunities to demonstrate excellence and best practice, adopting a caring attitude and a sense of urgency.
Reduce resource wastage and improve efficiency by vigorously pursuing continuous improvement activities.
Commit to acting openly, equitably and consistently in our pursuit of uncompromising quality.
Respect colleagues’ values that may be different from our own.
Accept responsibility for promoting ethical conduct in personal and business practices.
We recognise that a positively engaged workforce is the key to the success of our university and ultimately the future of our students.
We have a number of ways that we actively listen to and engage our staff so that we can work together to continually review and improve our work environment and processes, including:
Reward and recognition:
Long Service Awards are given to those colleagues in recognition of 10 and 25 years continuous service.
All eligible colleagues will receive a £100 cheque upon reaching their 10 year anniversary and a £300 cheque on their 25 year anniversary.
All staff receive a certificate which is presented at the staff summer party.
The University of Bedfordshire is committed to creating and sustaining a positive and supportive working environment for its staff and an excellent teaching and learning experience for its students, where staff are valued and respected, and students are encouraged to thrive academically.
As a provider of employment and education, the University values the diversity of its staff and students and is committed to providing a fair, equitable and mutually supportive learning and working environment for its students and staff.
The University is committed to and strives for equality of opportunity for all its students and staff (existing and prospective) and will recognise and celebrate their diversity.
As part of this commitment the University has signed up to the Governments Disability Confident
Scheme and has become a Disability Confident – Committed Employer.
As a Disability Confident - Committed Employer the University of Bedfordshire has made the following commitments:
See further information on the Disability Confident Scheme
The mental health and wellbeing of our staff is our priority and we want to ensure our people have access support they may need.
This is also in response to the Staff Culture survey and a part of our plans to continue to grow support mechanisms for our staff and improve staff experience.
Our team of MHFAiders are committed to taking an active approach to this role, through supporting positive wellbeing and tackling stigma.
The role of a MHFAider is to be a key point of contact for colleagues, who may be experiencing a mental health issue or emotional distress.
They can provide support and signposting to available resources, when necessary.
We have joined Stonewall’s Diversity Champions Programme in order to ensure we have the best resources and guidance to further progress our LGBT+ inclusion work.
As part of this programme we join more than 80 HE Institutions committed to progressing LGBT+ inclusion, through sharing ideas and best practice.
Advance HE Aurora is a bespoke programme led by an external team of leadership experts to explore four key areas associated with female leadership success:
The programme is an opportunity for women in Higher Education to come together to learn through mentoring, self-directed learning and various workshop events.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/news/contact-us:
The Press Office is the University of Bedfordshire's first point of contact for all PR, media and corporate communications enquiries about the University.
Ulrika Meegolla - Head of Corporate Communications E: ulrika.meegolla@beds.ac.uk M: 07734 981212
Katy Lelliott - Communications Assistant (Press & Events) E: katy.lelliott@beds.ac.uk M: 07540 127103
The Press Office is open 8:30-17:00 Monday to Thursday and 8:30-16:30 on Fridays.
E: press.office@beds.ac.uk
For urgent out of hours press queries, telephone/text: 07734 981212
For any advertising or marketing enquiries, please email: marketinginfo@beds.ac.uk
Jenny Terroni - Internal Communications Manager E: jenny.terroni@beds.ac.uk
Kyle Knappett - Communications Officer E: kyle.knappett@beds.ac.uk
The Events team leads on the organisation and delivery of a range of events across the University including public lectures, Royal visits, and Vice Chancellor-led events.
Sarah O’Halloran - External Relations Officer E: sarah.o'halloran@beds.ac.uk M: 07734 981800
E: events@beds.ac.uk
For any external space hire enquiries, please contact VenueBedfordshire@beds.ac.uk
Our External Relations Officer is the first point of contact for external, regional and national stakeholders on behalf of the Vice Chancellor’s Office.
press.office@beds.ac.uk
The Press Office is the first point of contact for all PR, media and corporate communications enquiries about the University.
The Press Office is open:
@uniofbedsnews

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/my-beds-life/student-app:
The best way to experience the new MyBedsLife application is on your mobile device.
You can download the app through your mobile device App Store.
The web-based version of the app is also available to access .
We’ve just launched a brand-new and improved version of MyBedsLife , designed with your feedback in mind !
Whether you’re on campus or on the move, the app is your one-stop hub for staying connected with university life.
With a sleeker design, smarter features, and a smoother experience , managing your studies has never been easier.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/final-year-support:
As a final year student at the University of Bedfordshire, you have a wealth of support at your fingertips.
Sometimes it’s hard to keep track of all the mechanisms to support you to succeed.
To help, we’ve pulled together the following information to direct you to exactly where you can access that support offer: for your academic study, your wellbeing and your future.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/sid:
Welcome to SiD

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/news/student-blog:
Student blog
See all events

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/careers/about/contact-us:
To contact the Careers and Employability Service:
Students with non-careers enquiries should contact the Student Information Desk or University Switchboard.
The Careers and Employability Service offers all graduates a lifetime service regardless of where you are in your career journey, whether it’s deciding what to do, planning your next steps or needing help with final preparations.
We aim to empower employers to make meaningful connections with the next generation of talent through innovative, impactful and effective initiatives.
We have a global community of students, graduates, academic and professional staff.
Recruiting from the University of Bedfordshire will allow you to engage with students and graduates from diverse backgrounds and a broad age demographic who can bring a richness of experience, perspective and outlook to your organisation.
There are many ways you can attract University of Bedfordshire talent, from on campus events and activities to authentic experiences built into the curriculum.
Find out more about engaging with and recruiting our talent
Alternatively contact the Careers and Employability Service via:
Our main campuses are located in Bedford and Luton, with additional campuses and study centres located at Putteridge Bury, Milton Keynes, Aylesbury, Birmingham and London Bridge.
Our Careers and Employability offices are located in Luton and Bedford:
Luton Campus
University of Bedfordshire Careers & Employability Service Campus Centre, Ground Floor University Square Luton Bedfordshire LU1 3JU
Bedford Campus
University of Bedfordshire Careers & Employability Service P Block Polhill Avenue Bedford Bedfordshire MK41 9EA
Careers & Employability Service University of Bedfordshire University Square Luton Bedfordshire LU1 3JU
linktr.ee/unibedscareers
Please note that the University of Bedfordshire Careers & Employability Service does not endorse specific employers or organisations linked to the website.
During office hours (Monday - Friday 10am - 4pm) +44 (0)1234 400 400
Outside office hours (Campus Watch) +44 (0)1582 743 989
General Careers Enquiries careers@beds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/alumni/join-us:
Please fill in your details below to join the Alumni network or to update us on any changes.
I confirm the data I have provided is current and accurate.
I consent to the data being used by the University of Bedfordshire in the provision of Graduate Support, graduate opportunities and the University’s statutory data submission obligations.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/careers/graduate:
The Careers and Employability Service offers all alumni a lifetime guarantee regardless of where you are in your career journey, whether it’s deciding what to do, planning your next steps or needing help with final preparations.
The Careers Team are here to support you to Succeed@Beds.
As a alumni, the University has provided a range of information, advice, guidance, and opportunities for you which is now available within our Alumni Careers Support Package.
Clicking on the following boxes will give you more information on the range of support and continued professional development available to you.
Please ensure you keep your contact details updated on e-Vision so that we can contact you with relevant information about events, professional development and opportunities.
View our Alumni Career Guide
Explore the Graduate Advancement Placement for recent graduates
Find out more about the Graduate Outcomes Survey
Book a 1:1 appointment with a Careers Consultant
Online and on campus events and workshops
Explore full and part time jobs, internships and volunteering roles
Explore information and resources to get started
Upload your CV and get instant feedback with clear action points
Practice online video questions and get instant feedback
Practice verbal, numerical and logical reasoning tests
Gain skills and experience sought by employer
Find out more about our alumni and join the Alumni Association.
How l long can I access support from the Careers Service after I graduate?
We offer lifetime support for all graduates that studied with us in the UK.
How do I access support?
You can book an appointment via our Handshake app.
Do you have an Alumni Association?
We love to stay in touch with our graduates, complete our online form to join the Alumni Association.
Find out how to access Handshake or Beds Career Builder as a Graduate

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/money/scholarships/alumni-scholarship-terms:
Research degrees (MRes, MPhil and PhD)
You may qualify for the alumni discount if:
The alumni scholarship is not available for the following courses:
These courses are excluded as they attract bursaries.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/careers/graduate/graduate-outcomes:
The Graduate Outcomes survey exists to improve the experience of future students, producing vital data to help students just like you to make important decisions about their education and future.
Graduates are asked about their perspectives and outcomes 15 months after completing their studies which enables the Higher Education Statistics Agency to build a national picture that UK universities and colleges use to innovate and improve their own services.
As a University of Bedfordshire graduate, your response to this survey is very important as it will:
Anyone who graduates after 1st August 2017 will be asked to complete the Graduate Outcomes survey.
For more information about the Graduate Outcomes survey go to: graduateoutcomes.ac.uk
Whilst you are a student and after you leave University ensure you keep your contact details up to date via e:Vision
To ensure you are invited to and can take part in the Graduate Outcomes Survey, it is important that the University has up to date contact information for you.
The Careers and Employability Service will also be in contact with you (via email and telephone) after you graduate to ensure we have the most up to date contact information for you.
You can find out more about the Graduate Outcomes Survey, how your data is used and more information on what to do if you don’t want to be surveyed at: Graduate Outcomes: Graduate Q&A
Further Graduate Outcomes privacy information is available to view at: Graduate Outcomes: Privacy information
The Graduate Outcomes survey is a statutory process for all higher education providers and is delivered by HESA (Higher Education Statistics Agency) on behalf of UK higher education funding and regulatory bodies working with universities/colleges.
The operations and data collection element of the Graduate Outcomes survey will be undertaken by a third-party survey contractor who will work in collaboration with HESA, funding bodies and UK Higher Education providers.
In order that HESA is able to contact you to complete the survey, the University is required to securely pass on your contact details to HESA for the sole purpose of administering the Graduate Outcomes survey.
You will be contacted to complete the survey in one of the following ways:
When you are contacted to complete the survey will depend on when you completed your course.
You will be contacted to complete the Graduate Outcomes survey approximately 15 months after you complete your course (as shown in the table below).
End date of course
August - October
December
December – February
November - January
March
March – May
February - April
June
June – August
May - July
September
September – November
Below is an example data collection timeline based on those who completed their course in 2023/24
August 2023 - October 2023
November 2023 - January 2024
February 2024 - April 2024
May 2024 - July 2024
If you have any questions about the Graduate Outcomes Survey you can contact the University of Bedfordshire’s Graduate Outcomes Manager by emailing go@beds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/graduation/transcript:
Your first, original transcript is sent separately by our academic services team.
It will be sent to your registered home address.
Interim unit results can be downloaded from Evision If you have not received your transcript within six months of completing at the University please put in an enquiry to the Student Information Desk (SiD) at sid.beds.ac.uk
The University of Bedfordshire has moved to issuing certificates after a student receives confirmation of their award at our Examination (Scheme) Board.
This process is outlined in our certificate issuance process
If you are a University of Bedfordshire graduate from 2006 onwards, you can purchase copies of degree certificates and official transcripts from the Graduation team.
These can be purchased via our online store
Duplicate certificate or transcripts products are available on the online store.
We will confirm to you by email when we have completed your order request.
If you are a University of Luton graduate awarded prior to 2006, we may be able to produce a verification certificate for you.
However, please check the University records in the first instance.
To process a WES application, you will need to do two things.
WES will only accept applications if they are sent directly from the University.
Documents will be sent to WES in a sealed and stamped envelope.
WES accepts photocopies of certificates but require original copies of transcripts.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-faqs:
Explore our range of Alumni frequently asked questions below.
Got a question that is not included?
Email alumni@beds.ac.uk and a member of the team will be happy to support you.
Student email accounts are typically deactivated around 3 months after graduation.
This helps us manage data security, privacy, and system access.
We do not currently provide alumni ID cards.
Should you wish to access one of our campuses you will need to sign in with reception.
Moving forward, we’ll contact you using the personal email address you’ve provided.
If you still have access to your student email account then you can update your record to include your personal email address via e:Vision
Employers can use hedd.ac.uk to verify a current or past student's place of study, the award and grade received and dates of attendance.
Yes, visit the Certificates & Transcripts section of our web site for more information.
Yes, visit our Research & Innovation Service pages for more information.
Absolutely!
There are many ways that you could support current students including:
Contact alumni@beds.ac.uk to start the conversation.
Visit our systems pages for further information.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-people/vc-office/our-office/rebecca-bunting:
Professor Rebecca Bunting took office as Vice Chancellor at the University of Bedfordshire in October 2020, following her position as Interim Vice Chancellor since January 2020.
Prior to that she was formerly the Vice Chancellor at Bucks New University.
Professor Bunting is a founding director of the Higher Education Academy and of its successor organisation, Advance HE.
She is also the Chair of a number of national HE committees for learning and teaching, and widening participation.
She has conducted research and published in the field of children’s language and literacy development, educational linguistics and pedagogy.
She graduated from Girton College, University of Cambridge with a degree in English Literature and took postgraduate qualifications at London University.
She began her career teaching in London comprehensive schools, moving into higher education as a Senior Lecturer at the University of Roehampton.
She later became Dean of Education at Anglia Ruskin University and Pro-Rector at the University of Northampton.
From there she moved to the University of Portsmouth in 2004 as Pro Vice Chancellor and from 2007 as Deputy Vice Chancellor.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/accounting:
The course receives maximum exemption (nine papers) from the Association for Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and Association of Accounting Technicians (AAT).
The course is also accredited by Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and The Association of International Accountants (AIA).
We have links with leading accounting companies as well as professional bodies such as the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
This accredited course provides a direct route to a professional qualification in accounting, opening the way to a range of rewarding careers.
It offers a comprehensive knowledge of the main ideas and principles of accounting and finance as well as the skills to apply your knowledge.
Using the latest technology, you study business practice and the business environment in which accountants operate before proceeding to corporate law; data analysis; and the advanced study of management accounting, taxation and auditing.
This course is accredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA); Association of Accounting Technicians (AAT); The Association of International Accountants (AIA); and the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA).
Completing relevant accredited course units makes you eligible for exemptions in ACCA, AAT, AIA and CIMA examinations.
New business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, SEO and other management skills needed in today's workplace Access to industry-standard applications and platforms to aid practical learning including Sage, Refinitiv Workspace and econometrics software STATA Access to digital learning platforms and knowledge tools A well-equipped trading room to enhance your financial skills Gain competencies in key digital skills such as Excel through SIMnet, our Microsoft Office training platform
Our students benefit from our collaboration with the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW).
Completing relevant, accredited course units make you eligible for exemptions from: the first nine papers of the ACCA professional exams (the maximum ACCA exemptions available at undergraduate level) seven out of 15 of the CIMA exams AIA’s Professional level 1 paper full exemption from AAT L4 Benefit from our connections with top finance and accounting firms , including Ernst & Young (EY), KPMG, PwC, and Deloitte, along with professional bodies like the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) .
With our state-of-the-art trading room, experience what it’s like to be on the trading-room floor , reacting to live ‘stock-market’ data and building investment portfolios using data on listed companies from around the world.
Learn from masterclasses from industry experts and guest speakers, benefitting from their experience and keeping at the leading edge in the accounting and finance field.
Enhance your student experience with field trips to major financial institutions such as the Bank of England as well as industry networking events.
Acquire transferable, professional skills in communication, problem-solving, teamwork and leadership.
Working with the University’s Research and Innovation Service (RIS), get involved in solving real-life problems for businesses , from start-ups to established corporations, through our business development packages.
Companies that have benefited from our business development packages include Vauxhall; Drax Technology; the Royal Air Force; Luton and Bedford Borough Councils ; a range of small businesses and national charities.
Completing relevant, accredited course units make you eligible for exemptions from:
Benefit from our connections with top finance and accounting firms , including Ernst & Young (EY), KPMG, PwC, and Deloitte, along with professional bodies like the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) .
Studying on our Accounting BA course will provide you with the in-depth knowledge and skills you need around the fundamentals of accounting, economics and finance.
Beginning with an Introduction to Economics and Finance, you will digest basic economic theories and policies underpinned by finance concepts and techniques.
You will then get to apply this knowledge in our business-focused units, such as in an Introduction to Accounting and Business Technology using the latest technology alongside various analytical tools, you will engage in preparing, analysing and interpreting account statements within a business environment.
Our Applied Numeracy for Business unit will give you the confidence to develop the mathematical and numerical skills used for decision making and problem solving for businesses.
With our Data Analysis for Finance and Economics unit, you will also be guided to use statistical techniques and software to collect, summarise and analyse data that informs business processes and economic policy.
Similarly, you will also develop a thorough knowledge of national and international accounting standards and how they are applied to prepare financial statements in our Financial Reporting unit and understand how this process ties into existing laws.
Specifically, Corporate and Business Law, that will expose you to possible legal issues that affect businesses and how to respond to them in the real world.
In more advanced study, our Management Accounting unit will enable you to understand how accounting informs planning, decision making and performance control within an organisation.
You will then have the opportunity to engage in academic research and/or a practical accounting project with our Specialist Project in Accounting unit.
Our Financial Management equips you with the knowledge and skills required for financial and investment decision making based on long-term business objectives.
Additionally, you will also develop knowledge and skills in the audit process in our Audit and Assurance unit.
Here, you will learn to demonstrate evidence of compliance and maintain assurance of the integrity of financial processes.
Finally, our unit in Taxation (UK) aims to introduce you to the UK tax system while discussing its impact on planning and decision making for individuals and organisations.
These units combined will help you develop personal skills and attributes essential towards your responsibility as a finance and/or tax professional.
Additionally, the course also offers a Professional Practice Year where you will have the opportunity to undertake a career-related experience.
To prepare you for this, we have specialised units - Beginning your Professional Business Journey and Professional Development and Employability - that aim to ease your transition into the workplace and provide an insight into professional business environments.
Using real-life situations, you will work with faculty peers to practise a broad range of business skills such as communication, team collaboration and networking that will develop your professional practice.
The assessment strategy on this course is bounded to a large degree by PSRB requirements thus unseen tests and examinations dominate the types of assessment employed on the course.
However their format and type vary from online objective tests to written multi-task examinations.
Compulsory and objective questions will be used to encourage you to study across the breadth of the syllabus whereas the multi-task questions will assess your ability to simultaneously assimilate a wide range of information apply and justify your choice of several ideas and concepts to make informed decisions or recommendations.
Accounting is not only about numbers and the manipulation of numbers rather it is a systematic way of preparing reporting presenting and analysing financial data to inform business or investment decisions.
You will develop a number of transferable skills including the ability to present your findings both verbally and in writing in a professional clear and concise manner.
Written reports are designed in a way that promotes critical thinking as you move up the stages of the course; from knowledge comprehension and simple explanations in the early stages to application analysis appraisal and synthesis as you get closer to graduation.
In your final capstone (specialist project) unit you will be required to produce an individual and independent piece of work which will place demands on your academic judgement and integrity whilst being the most challenging but yet enjoyable and rewarding experience you will encounter.
You will be able to enjoy maximum exemptions from the ACCA leading to professional accountancy qualifications.
As graduates you will be able to join commerce industry and financial and banking institutions.You will also be able to purse postgraduate studies in Accounting and other related fields and this in turn will ultimately lead to senior financial positions in a variety of organisational settings.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/accounting-and-business-finance:
The Business School is one of only a few UK Schools holding the Small Business Charter accreditation, which recognises our work with small/medium enterprises.
Our business and management courses rank 4th overall in their subject field in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024, with top 3 rankings for teaching, engagement, learning community and course organisation.
Aligned with the Principles of Responsible Management Education’s (PRME) sustainable development goals (SDG)
This course blends accounting and business finance theory to solve operational problems faced by managers.
It provides you with a comprehensive knowledge of the key areas, preparing you for a career in management where an accounting and finance focus is required.
You benefit from invaluable opportunities for collaboration and growth with leading organisations in the field, and your studies bring theory and practice together, applying both to situations where vital financial decisions are made.
For further course information, contact Mohamed Saeudy at mohamed.saeudy@beds.ac.uk
Cutting-edge business suite with £300K of industry-standard technology, uniquely tailored to essential management, finance and data practices Up-to-date financial databases and statistical software such as FAME; Eikon; Stata; and SPSS Access to learning resources and immersive simulations from Harvard Business Publishing London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) trading room supplying worldwide ‘stock-market’ data for a realistic investment experience Business pods, boardroom areas and IT suites designed to simulate a professional office environment
Benefit from our links with accountancy’s ‘big four’: Ernst & Young; KPMG; PwC; and Deloitte as well as professional bodies such as the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, who invite students to their networking events and visit the University as conference speakers.
Learn from our highly qualified academics , whose active industry involvement directly shapes the course and ensures you stay on top of the latest developments in the field.
Our practice-led curriculum makes use of case studies, simulations and industry collaborations , preparing you for the world of work.
Learn to analyse and interpret complex data with hands-on tasks grounded in real-world statistics .
Get involved in real-life accounting and business problems with the University’s Research and Innovation Service (RIS), where you can assist businesses, from start-ups to established corporations, to up-skill and innovate .
Take the opportunity to undertake Sustainability Excellence Training (SET) with AI , to bridge the gap between AI and green employability skills.
Develop key vocational skills , from critical evaluation and advanced problem solving to independent learning and strategic leadership.
Enrich your student experience with industry masterclasses and our Global Guest Speaker series , featuring high-profile academics, industry experts and business leaders.
Take part in field trips to major financial locations including the Bank of England, London Stock Exchange and Lloyd's of London.
Our annual conference provides further avenues for work experience, contact building and specialist skill acquisition.
Shape the course to your interests and career ambitions with your choice of Master’s capstone dissertation; professional placement; internship; or live project .
I am the PG Portfolio Leader for Accounting, Finance, Economics and HRM,  Faculty PRME Lead, and Research Leader of the Centre for Contemporary Accounting, Finance and Economics Research (Res CAFE) at the University of Bedfordshire.
I am interested in contemporary research in Corporate Governance and Sustainability Accounting.
My research interest centres on how accounting practices may help business institutions to be more sustainable.
My work has focused on developing organisational lenses to understand accounting for sustainable development practices in different organisational settings e.g.
small and medium size businesses and higher education institutions.
Financial Reporting and Performance Management will provide you with the skills to read and interpret published financial statements where you will also engage in ‘Financial Information Analysis’.
Here, you will learn to identify and extract critical information within annual corporate reports while considering how it is impacted by regulations, concepts and standards, and how this affects its usefulness in decision-making.
You will explore this further in our Financial Markets and Investments unit, that will provide you with knowledge of global financial markets, the importance of liquidity, the distinction between exchange versus OTC markets, primary and secondary markets and the role of intermediaries in their various forms.
Advanced Management Accounting is where you will be equipped with the key tools and techniques used to make decisions, maximise revenue and minimise cost in management.
You will combine management accounting and financial planning to make effective management decisions and drive successful businesses.
In our Strategy unit you will develop a critical and informed understanding of business environments and the business opportunities.
Here, you will be introduced to a range of tools and concepts for strategic analysis and business modelling that will allow you to assess the strategic position of business organisations, formulate strategies, evaluate options and implement strategic decisions.
Finally, you will complete our Capstone unit that will allow you to bring theory and practice together and research a topic of your interest that is relevant to your field of study.
To help you with this, you will be introduced to the processes and techniques of research methods while working with a research supervisor to develop your ideas.
The assessment strategy for this course is designed in a way that will contribute to student development and will help them achieve their goals and enhance their employability.
An essential element of this process is that feedback will be provided in due time so it is integrated in the learning process.
When group work is required the marks given will be individual following the University of Bedfordshire's regulatory scheme.
The different kinds of assessment are listed below and in some cases they will be used in combination making sure however that there are no hidden tasks.
In addition to the assessment strategies followed in each Unit student knowledge and skills will be also formatively assessed through problem solving sessions or case study discussions in order to ensure that development of their comprehension of the underlying concepts is appropriate to the level of studies and continuously supports the overall student achievement.
A full list of how each Unit will be assessed is presented in the previous section.
Please refer to the relevant section of this form regarding Academic Integrity.
The intensive character of this Course's delivery as it is outlined in its Teaching and Learning philosophy is consistent with the needs of today's world for graduates who accumulate knowledge fast and are able to express the outcome of this process in a way that is meaningful and comprehensive.
After induction a week of intensive direct contact time followed by students own contribution through individual learning will take them to the first assessment point.
The process will repeat and at the end of the six-week block the final assessment will be due.
This will be a demanding but very rewarding experience.
As mentioned above the MSc Accounting and Business Finance is designed to develop a number of transferable skills which along with the knowledge and understanding of the relevant theories and concepts will provide our graduates with all those abilities required for a successful career.
The different methods used to assess student performance are designed to evaluate the following: Research and literature review skills data handling application numeracy computer literacy ability to contextualize and evaluate presentation skills and professionalism and collaboration.
The Course's Assessment Strategy includes: Written Examination or Class Test: Questions in these exams always promote critical thinking and help gradually develop student ability to apply analyse synthesize and evaluate.
Individual Written Report or Essays: The ability to perform literature informed research to review and evaluate the relevant sources and to use an appropriate methodology in order to analyze and evaluate the relevant concepts is being assessed.
At the same time student academic integrity is developed.
Case Study Examination: Students will apply their knowledge in the context of specific cases.
Oral Presentation: A number of transferable skills will be developed Reflective Report: Own work and that of peers will be evaluated Dissertation / Professional Placement / Internship / Live Project: Regardless of which masters capstone experience students opt for they will have to produce an individual independent piece of work.
They will be asked to identify the research question or problem under investigation review the relevant literature develop a sound methodology in order to explore the problem proceed with the analysis discuss their findings and make recommendations.
It is the capstone of this course and builds on the knowledge and skills acquired in all Units.
It will be one of the most challenging but yet enjoyable and rewarding experiences they will encounter.
As a graduate of this course, you will have the skills to find career opportunities across a variety of business areas including assurance and audit; financial accounting; taxation; corporate finance; corporate insolvency and recovery.
You will be able to work as a financial analyst; finance manager; corporate treasurer; and credit controller, to mention just a few of the potential roles.
The course is also an appropriate foundation for further academic study at either MPhil or PhD level.
The full-time standard fee for a taught Master's degree for the Academic Year 2025/26 is £10,000 per year.
You can apply for a loan from the Government to help pay for your tuition fees and living costs.
Visit www.gov.uk/postgraduate-loan
The full-time standard fee for a taught Master's degree for the Academic Year 2025/26 is £16,900
If you have any questions around fees and funding, please email international@beds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/accounting-and-business-finance-with-data-analytics:
Real-world challenges through authentic assessments, industry collaboration and your choice of Master’s final dissertation.
The course includes core data analytics units designed to help you upskill within your current role or change career direction.
The MSc in Accounting and Business Finance with data analytics provides a comprehensive understanding of contemporary accounting and business finance, positioning students for key roles in financial management and strategic decision-making.
The key career area it leads to is diverse, encompassing roles such as financial analysts, accountants, and financial managers, making it a valuable investment for professional growth and success.
The integration of data analytics units like data modelling and computer networks and security into this MSc course enriches the curriculum by preparing students for the evolving landscape of financial data management.
This multidimensional approach equips graduates with the technical skills and strategic mindset necessary to navigate the intersection of finance and technology, making them well-rounded and adaptive professionals in the field.
Cutting-edge business suite with £300K of industry-standard technology, tailored to crucial finance and data practices such as analytics, big data and data mining Up-to-date financial databases and statistical software including FAME; Eikon; Stata; and SPSS Access to learning resources and immersive simulations from Harvard Business Publishing London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) trading room providing worldwide ‘stock-market’ data for a realistic investment experience Business pods, boardroom areas and IT suites designed to mirror a professional office environment
Peer-informed academic learning model with an emphasis on active collaboration and employability tailored for the modern workplace : develop critical thinking, analytical research, leadership and self-management skills through structured peer discourse and academic guidance, all while gaining specialised knowledge.
Delivered in six-week blocks with 24/7 access to learning resources and opportunities.
Live projects are integrated into the curriculum.
Our strong industry links and collaborations offer students real-world experience.
Engage with real firms in your classroom, solve real issues, build your competencies, confidence and networks.
Ranked 3rd overall in the HEA Postgraduate Student Experience Survey (PTES 2024) , the University of Bedfordshire ensures an exceptional experience for postgraduate students.
Out of 107 UK universities, we rank 1st in Engagement; 1st in Community; 2nd in Teaching and Learning; 2nd in Organisation and Management; and 3rd in Assessment and Feedback.
Take advantage of industry speakers, industry events and career-development opportunities studying close to London.
Choose to specialise further by undertaking your dissertation in an area that sparks your interest , applying your learning to solve complex problems.
Learn from academic experts with strong industry experience and links .
Benefit from high levels of study support from careers, study skills and student support experts.
Aligned with the Principles of Responsible Management Education’s (PRME) sustainable development goals (SDG).
Studying our Accounting and Business Finance with Data Analytics MSc course will equip you with the comprehensive knowledge and skills you need around key areas of accounting, business finance and management.
Our unit in Financial Reporting and Performance Management will provide you with the skills to read and interpret published financial statements where you will also engage in ‘Financial Information Analysis’.
This relates to our unit in Advanced Management Accounting, where you will be equipped with the key tools and techniques used to make decisions, maximise revenue and minimise cost in management.
In the data analytics portion of this course, you will be introduced to the principles of data mining in the context of business and management in our Applied Data Analytics unit.
You will explore common text mining, data mining and data analytics methods and learn to apply this to real-world datasets to solve business problems.
Within this unit, you will be equipped with the industry skills to use SAS Viya – a cloud-enabled analytics engine that supports coding, visual interfaces, advanced analytics, machine learning and artificial intelligence.
Aside from this, you will explore the principles of Knowledge and Information Management for effective management in a variety of business settings.
This unit will discuss the role of data, knowledge and information in strategy, data analytics and organisation decision making.
Similarly, you will be introduced to the tools and techniques within Business Intelligence and Data Utilisation to design, plan, implement and manage strategic decision making to maximise a company’s success.
Furthermore, you will develop a critical and informed understanding of business environments and the business opportunities within them in our Strategy unit.
Your assessments prepare you for career tasks and activities, developing your employability skills and industry-specific knowledge.
Your assessments build your competencies and confidence with a strong emphasis on authentic assessment, including a mix-of:
There are no exams in this course.
The capstone of your course is a dissertation, developing an individual independent piece of work under supervision.
This challenging, enjoyable and rewarding experience enhance your conceptual and analytical skills, as well as research and data management expertise.
As a graduate of this course, you will have the skills to take up career opportunities across a variety of business areas including assurance and audit; financial accounting; taxation; corporate finance; corporate insolvency and recovery.
This course also provides an excellent pathway for further academic study at either MPhil and PhD level.
The total fee for a 2-year taught Master's degree for the Academic Year 2024/25 is £12,300.
The total international fee for a 2-year taught Master's degree for the Academic Year 2024/25 is £18,300.
Please note that this course is two years in duration.
International students enrolling on this programme will not be permitted to switch to a one-year programme once they have been issued with their Certificate of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) unless requested by the University to do so.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/accounting-and-finance:
Completing accredited course units makes you eligible for exemptions in ACCA, CIMA, AIA and AAT examinations.
The business world requires accounting and finance professionals capable of making informed, strategic choices that empower businesses in a competitive market.
This course equips you with the skills to make such decisions across a range of business environments.
You gain the understanding and skills to record, interpret and communicate financial information, applying the latest International Financial Reporting standards.
In a simulated business environment, you explore aspects of business practice, from regulatory and risk management to the operation and vulnerabilities of financial markets.
Completing relevant, accredited course make you eligible for exemptions from: the first nine papers of the ACCA professional exams (the maximum ACCA exemptions available at undergraduate level) seven out of 15 of the CIMA exams AIA’s Professional level 1 paper full exemption from AAT L4.
Learn from masterclasses from industry experts , benefitting from their experience and keeping at the leading edge in the accounting and finance field.
Enance your student experience with field trips to major financial institutions such as the Bank of England as well as industry networking events.
Companies that have benefited from our business development packages include Vauxhall; Drax Technology; the Royal Air Force; Luton and Bedford Borough Councils; and a range of national charities .
Completing relevant, accredited course make you eligible for exemptions from:
Studying our Accounting and Finance BSc (Hons) course will provide you with the in-depth knowledge and skills you need around the fundamentals of business, accounting, and finance.
In other areas of study, our Financial Theory and Practice unit will discuss core finance theories for you to understand how financial markets operate.
Another key area of reporting includes our Corporate Governance and Ethics unit that aims to understand corporate governance system and how it plays an important role in protecting the interests of the different stakeholders impacted by the activity of the business.
You will then engage in academic research and/or a practical accounting project with our Business Project unit.
Other units include Financial Management, where you will receive the knowledge and skills required for financial and investment decision making based on long-term business objectives.
Additionally, you will also be introduced to the audit process in our Audit and Assurance unit where you will learn to demonstrate evidence of compliance and maintain assurance of the integrity of financial processes.
Finally, our unit on Taxation (UK) aims to introduce you to the UK tax system while discussing its impact on planning and decision making for individuals and organisations.
Additionally, the course also offers a Professional Practice Year (Accounting, Finance and Economics) where you will have the opportunity to undertake a career-related experience.
Accounting and finance is not only about numbers and the manipulation of numbers rather it is a systematic way of preparing reporting presenting and analysing financial data to inform business or investment decisions.
As a graduate from Accounting and Finance courses you will be able to work with range of organisation ranging from accountancy banking financial management corporate governance and management consultancy.
This degree opens the doors to range of careers majority of them with excellent progression and competitive salaries such as junior Financial Analyst Trainee Accountant Audit Trainee Finance Assistant Credit Controller and Pay-roll Assistant.
The course is aligned with ACCA and attracts maximum exemption from the ACCA which is a leading professional accountancy qualification.
Throughout the course we have regular visit from ACCA where they discuss skills that organisation and other bodies are looking in graduates.
We also organise sessions from other top accounting firms for enhancing student employability skills.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/adult-nursing-masters:
50% of your course time is spent in practice with our healthcare partners, building your skills and experience.
Local practice placements with healthcare providers in Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, Hertfordshire, Milton Keynes or Oxfordshire.
Our healthcare courses (‘Allied to Medicine’) rank 11th overall in their subject field in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024; they rank 2nd for engagement, with top 10 rankings for learning community, assessment and organisation.
Find out more about the NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF)
Access to the professional medical/health facilities and equipment at placement hospitals and community health settings New, fully immersive simulation floor in our modern STEM building, which takes you from mock home and hospital, allowing hands-on experience of a range of scenarios Simulation wards with a range of medical-grade, high-fidelity training mannequins to tackle real-life scenarios in a safe and supported environment
To ensure your learning meets the benchmark set for this role, our courses have been developed in collaboration with local healthcare providers and health authorities.
We also have strong, collaborative links with healthcare providers across our region, giving you a wide choice of practice placement options.
Our Nursing and Midwifery academics keep up to date with current practice through regular link-lecturer visits to our clinical placement settings alongside close links with practice.
Our academic team are research active and have published widely in their fields , in journals including British Journal of Nursing and Nurse Education Today.
Staff have also contributed chapters to core text books.
The School works closely with the University’s Institute of Health Research (IHR) , which is renowned for the global impact of its research.
Studying our Adult Nursing MSc course aims to provide you with the core knowledge and skills on adult nursing practice and healthcare.
In doing so, we offer some introductory units such as the Essentials of Adult Nursing that will enable you to plan, deliver and evaluate targeted care based on the physical, social and psychological needs of people.
You will learn to be adaptable to changing health needs and optimise patient recovery or management through your delivery of care.
Using this knowledge, you will work in nursing teams under guided supervision to deliver care to adults with ill health in clinical environments in our Introduction to Adult Nursing Practice unit and our Developing Adult Nursing Practice unit.
Eventually, you will develop the confidence to be able to coordinate care for people under indirect supervision through our Preparation for Adult Nursing Registered Practice unit.
In other areas of study, you will be introduced to Health, Life and Social Sciences for Nursing to aid in your delivery of holistic care and to promote patient wellbeing.
Similarly, you will engage in the planning and collaboration of delivering specialised, safe and holistic care in our Assessment and Decision Making in Adult Nursing unit.
This process will enable you to make autonomous and informed judgements within clinical practice.
In pharmacological aspects of care, you will gain the knowledge and skills to safely administer medicines in our Medicines Management and Pharmacology in Adult Nursing unit.
Following professional standards and legislation, you will account for safeguarding, consent, pharmacology and medicines administration to ensure that you make appropriate decisions with medication.
Aside from this, you will also be able to develop key skills to lead, collaborate, supervise and manage colleagues to promote best practice in our Improving Care: Principles of Clinical Leadership unit.
To expose you to current healthcare environments, you will gain a critical awareness of the Professional Values and Governance in Nursing and Healthcare by examining the structure, function and governance of the NHS.
Moreover, our unit in Research Methodologies for Healthcare will equip you with the skills and knowledge around key research methods, ethical and regulatory considerations and how to implement a research project.
Furthermore, you will gain an awareness of how health and social care policy informs nursing practice.
Finally, you will complete a Nursing Dissertation where you will conduct research that is focused on healthcare to analyse how this shapes and informs contemporary nursing practice.
The assessment strategy for this course is closely aligned to the teaching and learning strategy which is designed to have: immediate professional relevance to ensure safe and effective practice; foster active learning be learner-centred in approach and draw on expertise-by-experience.
to evidence achievement of unit learning outcomes at Master's level (Level 7).
The assessments culminate in a choice of dissertation projects: a literature review a research proposal or a service development project.
These assessments are recorded and confirmed by a Practice Assessor alongside your own self-reflections on your progress.
As there is no break at the end of each Part in which to complete any assessment referrals in practice students on the course will be able to retake a referred practice assessment in the next placement.
This will be at the 6 week point and only for the learning outcomes/assessments outstanding.
On successful completion of the course, you will be eligible to apply for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a registered adult nurse, opening up career opportunities within the public, private and not-for-profit healthcare sectors.
Graduates are likely to go on to work in acute care; rehabilitation; community; specialist areas of practice; or residential care settings.
The fee for this MSc for the Academic Year 2025/26 is £18,500.
Scholarship Available
The University of Bedfordshire is proud of its alumni and is delighted to offer a tuition fee discount for those who choose to continue or return to the University for on campus Postgraduate level studies.
We offer a 20% discount on full and part-time Masters courses to those who were successful in completing an Honours Degree with the University of Bedfordshire, DMU’s Bedford campus or the University of Luton.
The international fee for this MSc for the Academic Year 2025/26 is £33,800
For more information, please see international fees , or contact internationalnursing@beds.ac.uk
Alternatively if you have any questions around fees and funding, please email international@beds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/advanced-clinical-practice:
A three-year, part-time course featuring a blend of taught sessions and online learning to fit better around your work and other commitments.
The course links with the four pillars of ACP and the HEE’s Multi-Professional Framework for England – research, education, leadership and clinical practice.
If you are applying for apprenticeship through your organisation, please go to the Advanced Clinical Practitioner apprenticeship and note that contracts need to be set up with your employer, which can take up to 3 months.
This course gives practising, registered healthcare professionals the skills to become an advanced practitioner who can lead, innovate and improve healthcare across a wide range of settings.
It covers all areas of your practice, and uses your current work and development needs to build on your existing skills and experience.
To be eligible for this course you must be registered with the NMC or HCPC and working as a healthcare professional in your chosen discipline (and remain so for the duration of the course).
If you have any questions please don’t hesitate to contact Debbie Buck on debbie.buck@beds.ac.uk
Full completion of this Master’s will lead to accreditation with Health Education England (HEE) as an advanced clinical practitioner (ACP).
This means, when you complete the course, you will be entered onto the NHSE database for clinicians who are accredited with the digital badge for ACP.
You will then be able to use this when applying for positions as an ACP.
The non-medical prescribing unit of this course is approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
New, fully immersive simulation floor in our modern STEM building takes you from mock home and hospital, allowing hands-on experience of a range of scenarios Simulation wards with a range of medical-grade training mannequins allow you to tackle real-life scenarios in a safe and supported environment Guided learning materials and e-learning resources on the University’s virtual learning platform
Our healthcare courses have been developed in collaboration with local healthcare providers and health authorities.
This course benchmarks against external, unit-relevant external bodies such as the Nursing and Midwifery Council; Health and Care Professions Council; Health Education England; and the Royal Pharmaceutical Society.
We work with employers to ensure they have an ACP role for you at the end of the course .
Develop the specialist skills and expertise to initiate developments at local and national level within healthcare settings, helping to improve outcomes for patients.
Explore mentorship, people management, patient safety and resilience as well as clinical and theoretical practice.
Hone your critical thinking skills through learning how to evaluate and present evidence from a range of sources within your area of practice.
Undertake a service-improvement project directly relevant to your interests or workplace.
Learn from visiting lecturers who are clinical specialists , providing you with the latest research and practice in their field, as well as our research-active academic team who have published widely in their fields.
Benefit from being at a University with a successful track record of supporting those returning to study after long periods in the workplace or after a career break.
I have worked In the Mental Health Care sector for 38 years and have developed my skills in a variety of roles and settings.
For the last four years I have been supporting the development of an Advanced Clinical Practitioner strategy and coordinating its roll out and delivery within a mental health trust.
Through this I developed a keen interest in the development of nursing skills for myself and others.
Leading by example, I qualified as a non-medical prescriber in Mental Health in 2004 and have worked as the Lead for Non-medical prescribing for several years.
Studying our Advanced Clinical Practice MSc course aims to provide you with the core knowledge and skills needed for advanced clinical practice and healthcare.
In practical areas of study, you will closely examine body systems in our Work-Based Learning (Assessment and History Taking) unit.
Through working under the supervision of a practice-based assessor, you will be taught to use a range of tools to assess a client’s physical, mental and social health status and use this to make referrals.
From collecting this data, you will then be taught to analyse this information in our Work-Based Learning 2 (Planning and Evaluation) unit.
You will work under a supervisor to practise your skills safety while identifying areas for development.
The aim of these units is to develop your skills as an autonomous practitioner and adopt a reflective approach to deliver safe and compassionate care.
Another key area of study in this course includes Non-Medical Prescribing, where you will develop the skills and knowledge for safe and effective prescribing practice while ensuring the protection of the public.
Following the completion of this unit, you can then apply to practise as an independent prescriber.
Additionally, you will play a vital role as a healthcare educator and develop the skills to deliver an innovative, informed and forward-thinking approach to learning, teaching and assessment in our Education in Healthcare unit.
As a healthcare professional, it is also important that you advance your knowledge and skills surrounding mental health.
This is because psychological conditions often coexist with physical illness and can also have a negative impact on health and wellbeing.
This is why our Mental Health Skills for Practitioners unit is present to equip you with core mental health skills to support patients, carers, colleagues, and even yourself.
To further diversify your skills in the workplace, our unit in Leadership and Supervision in Healthcare will allow you to be critical of your leadership and management skills, both within a healthcare team and across the wider health and social care sector.
This course also encourages you to engage in critical evaluation with our Research Methods in Healthcare unit.
By examining current studies and research processes, you will gain the knowledge and skills to conduct your own research in the field of health sciences.
As the healthcare field is constantly developing, you will also play a role in critically analysing issues and strategies to develop quality healthcare environments in our Service Improvement Project unit.
You will account for changes in the industry, such as budgetary requirements, while also suggesting opportunities for change in future practice to ensure better and safer healthcare.
Assessment is integral in all units to check that you have met the threshold standards expected of all graduates undertaking this level of study.
They are also linked to learning designed to promote the development of key subject specific and transferable skills for future employment.
The requirements of each assessment will be detailed in a formal assessment brief document and discussed in teaching sessions.
Each unit is designed to help you to develop your healthcare related skills in ways which are directly relevant to your interests or workplace.
The overarching course assessment strategy is designed to assist you in identifying reflecting on and meeting your own learning needs.
Furthermore where appropriate the unit assessments provide the flexibility for you to choose to investigate a contemporary issue.
The assessments will include a range of possible approaches: - Practice Assessment Document/ Portfolio of learning - Case studies - OSCE - Reflective accounts - Presentations - Essays - Journal and report writing - Clinical examinations Service Improvement project Each of these completed assessments will enable you to demonstrate the ability to critically understand and evaluate complex issues relevant to healthcare and communicate these effectively to a range of audiences.
This strategy informs the assessment methods for each individual unit within the course and is based on Masters level descriptors and course learning outcomes.
On completing this course, you should be equipped to initiate developments at both national and local level within healthcare settings and contribute specialist expertise in your area of practice to improve standards and outcomes in patient care.
We work with the employer to ensure there is an ACP role at the end of the course.
This Master’s can also lead to accreditation with Health Education England.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/advanced-social-work-practice:
This course is mapped against the Professional Capabilities Framework for social workers (BASW, 2018).
Designed for professional social workers, building on their existing knowledge and practice.
Our social sciences courses rank 7th overall in their subject field in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024; they rank in 1st place for assessment, with top 10 rankings for teaching, engagement and learning community.
This specialised MSc pathway caters to certified social workers, providing a flexible, streamlined path to enhancing your knowledge and practice.
It equips you to undertake supervisory and leadership roles, supporting team members to work on issues related to risk and safeguarding.
You enrol in individual units, progressing towards the full Master’s degree at your own pace.
The pathway units aim to build on your existing professional knowledge while covering practice education; leadership and management; and the development of specialisms.
Below is a guide to possible unit pathways, depending on your specialist interests or career direction.
Access to the Faculty’s range of fully immersive simulation units, moot court, and police custody suite and interview room, preparing you to respond to and manage a range of scenarios.
The course is benchmarked against QAA and BASW frameworks and standards .
The blended learning approach combines traditional face-to-face teaching methods with online learning resources to create a flexible and dynamic learning experience.
Build your skills in originality, leadership and self-reflection so you are confident applying new solutions to complex situations.
Deepen your understanding of legislation, policy, theoretical perspectives, concepts and interventions in social care and social work.
Develop your critical awareness of contemporary issues in social work practice.
Enhance your education methods by utilising research, theoretical frameworks, case studies and practical exercises from real-world examples.
Suggested for practice educator training*
Practice educator training: stage 1 30 credits
*You must meet the entry-level requirements set out in the PEPs 2022.
Suggested for post-ASYE to experienced social worker as well as those looking to develop specialisms outside of management pathways
Suggested for experienced social workers to strategic social worker level
Additional units needed for a Master’s in Advanced Social Work Practice
You need to achieve 180 credit points to gain a full Master’s degree.
Studying our Advanced Social Work Practice MA course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise in contemporary issues, strategies and professional skills in social work practice.
The flexible and adaptable nature of this course will allow you to undertake a combination of optional units to tailor your study into specialised areas of social work, and as a result, this will open doors to a range of career pathways.
The flexible structure of this course also aims to support students who may be working alongside their studies, which we know a majority of our students will be.
Our unit in Adult Exploitation and Safeguarding will allow you to address the serious issue of adult exploitation while exploring the implications for policy and practice in the UK.
You can develop your understanding of Sexual Abuse and Exploitation by examining how it occurs, the types of sexual harm and the impact it has on an individual.
In Safeguarding Young People: Contextual Safeguarding and Other Approaches to Extra-Familial Harm, you will examine new and emerging approaches to safeguarding alongside developing a critical understanding of debates in the field of child protection and adolescent development.
As a social worker, you may commonly come across individuals or families that have experienced some form of trauma in their lives.
This is where A Trauma Informed Approach to Relationship Based Social Work will enable you to support such individuals suffering from trauma with a relationship-based approach.
This means that you will learn to actively consider the repercussions of trauma experienced in childhood that may persist through to adolescence and adulthood.
Furthermore, our unit in Complex Assessments, Decision Making, Analysis and Risk will teach you to incorporate a diverse, reflective, ethical and unbiased approach to your practice by learning to effectively plan assessments, assess risk and make analytical decisions to ensure the best outcomes for service users.
In areas of strategic social work, Mentoring and Coaching in Social Work will introduce you to the concepts of coaching and mentoring while allowing you to experiment with coaching and mentoring models in an organisational context.
This will develop your communication, enquiry and reflective skills for your professional practice and to better support service users.
Similarly, Leading and Managing in Social Work will provide you with an understanding of effective leadership and management in social work services while prompting you to critically reflect on your own possession of these qualities.
You will also consider the importance of Reflective Supervision for Health and Social Care Professionals, and this unit will enable you to promote a positive culture of supervision that will shape practice and provide the best possible support to service users.
As a result, you will reflect on your role as a supervisor by considering your ethics, values and decision-making skills.
You may also choose to undertake our Practice Educator Training units that will equip you with the knowledge and skills to design practice learning curriculum by integrating theories of adult learning and subsequently learning to apply this to practice.
In the second part of this unit, you will learn to deliver excellent practice education in collaboration with a community of practice, which upon completion, will mean that you meet the Practice Educator Professional Standards (PEPS).
Finally, once you have attained 90 credits, you can complete Applied Research Skills in Social Work which will prepare you to conduct your own research in your area of interest by allowing you to engage with current research and methodology to form an evidence-based approach to your work.
This will prepare you for the final aspect of the Master’s.
The Dissertation for Social Workers will allow you to conduct in-depth, practice-based research by developing critical responses to your findings and examining ways to improve practice.
Each unit is designed to help you to develop your social work related skills in ways which are directly relevant to your interests or workplace.
The overarching course assessment strategy is designed to assist you in identifying reflecting on and meeting your own learning needs.
Furthermore where appropriate the unit assessments provide the flexibility for you to choose to investigate a contemporary issue.
Through the use of a variety of assessment methods students will be able to showcase their knowledge and skills in different ways catering to individual learning styles and promoting autonomous learning.
A range of assessment methods will be used throughout the course including e-portfolios observations reflective assessments case studies presentations vivas and poster presentations.
This variety ensures that students are tested in all the areas necessary for competent practice as an experienced social work practitioner as well as in the academic disciplines underpinning this practice.
Each of these assessments will enable you to demonstrate the ability to critically understand and evaluate complex issues relevant to the social work profession and communicate these effectively to a range of audiences.
This strategy informs the assessment methods for each individual unit within the course and is based on Masters level descriptors and course learning outcomes.
By using different assessment methods students will be able to develop a wide range of key skills including critical thinking analysis and evaluation.
This will be helpful preparation for the research and dissertation units as well as building towards the final stage of study which encourages more self-directed study and autonomous learning.
The initial formative assessment early in the course delivery will provide students with constructive and developmental feedback on their academic skills.
Reflection on evidence drawn from practice in the workplace underpins many of the assessment activities providing students with a clear understanding of their areas for development.
Portfolios and presentation skills will also be developed and encouraged along with wide reading across all the units to develop skills in analysing and evaluating data from relevant studies.
For those students studying Practice Education Training their practice competence will also be assessed by a professionally qualified and experienced Stage 2 Practice Educator mentor who has been approved by the University for this purpose.
Overall assessment plays a crucial role in promoting autonomous learning and developing the key skills necessary for competent practice as an experienced social work practitioner.
The use of a variety of assessment methods ensures that students can showcase their understanding and skills in different ways catering to individual learning styles and promoting academic and practice competence.
The units on this course are designed to help you develop your career or change direction within social work.
You can use the specialist expertise you gain to take on a leading role in practice development within your workplace.
You can also seek leadership or management opportunities in social work or social care as the course proceeds or upon graduation.
You may also like to continue your development by progressing to a Professional Doctorate programme.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/ai-in-marketing:
Our postgraduate taught business and management courses rank 4th overall in their subject field in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024, with top 3 rankings for teaching, engagement, learning community and course organisation.
This one-year Master’s equips students with advanced AI and marketing skills, providing a profound understanding of artificial intelligence technologies and their applications in marketing.
It focuses on enhancing your’ ability to utilise AI for data-driven decision-making; improving customer engagement; and optimising marketing strategies.
It fully prepares you for high-demand roles within the sector, encouraging creativity and innovation while promoting ethical practice in areas such as data privacy, fairness and sustainability.
For further information, contact Dr Codrin Chiru at codrin.chiru@beds.ac.uk
Business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills needed in today's workplace Access to Semrush, the leading online marketing tool for tracking and analysis
91% of our marketing students were satisfied with the academic support they received while studying with us (NSS, 2024).
With our practice-led approach, you learn using AI tools to optimise campaigns, enhance personalisation and make data-driven decisions.
Explore key areas of AI use in marketing such as use of algorithms; the role of AI in data-driven decision making; automated journey mapping; advanced content personalisation; and proactive customer support tools such as chatbots.
Our industry links and collaborations offer students real-world experience and integrated live projects , where you engage with real firms, solve real issues, and build your competencies, confidence and networks.
Our flexible courses are delivered in six-week blocks with six entry points every year so you can start your course at a time that best suits you ; you also have 24/7 access to learning resources .
Develop crucial leadership and communication skills , enabling you to lead projects and teams effectively while communicating complex AI strategies in a way that is accessible to non-specialists.
It’s estimated that 77% of businesses are either using AI or planning to adopt it within the next two years so there is a growing need for professionals skilled in using AI to produce cost-effective marketing solutions.
This course equips you with expertise in AI-driven marketing, automation and data analytics, preparing you for careers such as AI marketing strategist, marketing automation specialist and predictive analytics expert.
Graduates can also pursue roles in SEO automation, conversational AI and digital transformation consulting.
With AI reshaping the marketing landscape, you’ll also be well positioned to take on roles involving innovation in e-commerce, digital advertising and customer experience management.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/ai-in-marketing-blended-learning:
This blended-learning pathway features a mix of on-campus and online learning that offers flexibility for those who wish to combine study with work; would find full-time on campus difficult; or prefer to study at their own pace.
This one-year, blended learning Master’s equips students with advanced AI and marketing skills, providing a profound understanding of artificial intelligence technologies and their applications in marketing.
Business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills needed in today's workplace Access to Semrush, the leading online marketing tool for tracking and analysis A wide range of online resources with enhanced depth, accessible 24/7; you also benefit from enhanced online supervision and interaction
If you are in employment as you study, you can integrate your work experience into your learning and assessments as well as putting new skills into practice in the workplace.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/animation:
Our animation courses are part of a subject cluster that ranks in the UK top five for satisfaction with teaching (Guardian, 2025)..
Artist, designer and course leader Noel Douglas has 30 years' experience running a design studio.
His work has been exhibited in The Design Museum and the V&A Museum, and is in the collections of the V&A, Museum of London, and British Museum.
Our animation and computer games courses rank joint 1st for academic support; they are in the UK top 10 for learning resources, organisation and satisfaction with assessment (NSS, 2024).
This mixed-media course is designed to give new and emerging animators a competitive edge when entering the world of work.
Course highlights include character design and model making as well as motion graphics, augmented reality and special effects.
Hone your craft with a combination of one-to-one tutorials, seminars, demonstrations and independent research.
With insights into a range of animation techniques and new technologies, you’ll be well equipped for a future career in the creative industries.
Spacious studios and facilities in Alexon House, the previous home of the Alexon and Eastex fashion company Industry-replicating stop-motion suite with three-point lighting Set-design studio Mac computers with access to Creative Cloud, Dragonframe and TB Paint software Creative Cloud for personal use Equipment including drawing tablets; cameras; C-stands; and coloured gels 360° green-screen room with motion-capture suit
The course partners with a graphics arts course at MSA University in Cairo, Egypt, for international student collaboration.
Project collaborations include with our official education partner Luton Town Football Club; the NHS; and Luton Council.
Work the way you would in the creative industry, collaborating in teams across disciplines, in a studio environment.
Engage with a wide range of graphic and animation work, from street art to visual identities, character design to motion graphics , and beyond.
Take the opportunity to work on live projects through entering national competitions and awards such as D&AD, RSA Student Awards and Penguin Design Award, alongside local collaborations and University-wide initiatives.
We offer a volunteer programme that gives our students the opportunity to gain experience in their field while studying .
Benefit from regular visits to galleries, studios and exhibitions.
Attend talks from designers and animators from across the world, broadening your understanding of what is possible in the creative industries.
Our Animation and Graphic Design students team up with alumni music artists to create vibrant pop videos.
Check out one such collaboration with Fready's "Soft Life" here .
Hope Visuals by El Cappacccio, Tsvetalina Kabadzhova, Karin Keratova workshop led by: Animaiton tutor Ewa Smyk and Illustrator Tutor Christiane Matz
I’m an internationally recognised Artist and Designer with over 30 years experience teaching and running my own studio.
I have worked for a large range of commercial clients and creating my own art work for exhibition.
I work across a range of media and spaces from Street Art, Posters and Graphic Identities to Videos, Augmented Reality and Web based work, both for my own Art and with groups who need my Design skills, most I recently I have worked with the group Grenfell Next of Kin - a group of the bereaved survivors of the Grenfell Tower Fire - to develop large scale publicity campaigns for them.
Studying our Animation BA (Hons) course aims to provide you with the core knowledge and skills in animation, graphic design and illustration on exciting taught and self-driven projects in a beautiful old factory building in Luton’s Hat District located in the Creative Quarter, that is 20 minutes from Central London.
Beginning with our Context and Ideas unit, you will be introduced to key theories on animation and art and design in general as well as its effect on culture and society.
In more practical areas of art and design, our unit in Thinking Through Making will encourage you to take creative risks and develop an aesthetic sense through using various technologies, software, print, RISO, web, AR and different work processes and ideas.
You will have the freedom to discover your own creative processes through experimentation and, as a result, use a range of media to communicate your ideas.
To diversify your skill set, our Introducing Studio Practice unit will allow you to develop discipline-specific skills and experience such as independent learning, self-confidence, collaborative working and reflection, and apply them in other areas of study.
Similarly, you will learn to manage these creative risks in our Animation and Illustration: Developing Materials and Methods unit.
Here, you will develop the technical skills for image making and storytelling using animation and illustration digital and analogue 2D and 3D processes.
These skills will help you significantly in our Communication Design: Exploring Materials and Methods unit, where you will look at new ways of experimenting with creative production methods to develop your studio practice.
To further deepen your insight on contemporary art and design practices, our unit in Critical and Creative Contexts will allow you to explore issues and critical debates around art and design that you will use to inform your Final Major Project in Animation.
This research-based project will allow you to pursue your creative interests as you demonstrate your skills and abilities through production.
Another area of project work involves our Collaborative Enterprise unit, where you will collaborate in group settings to apply your knowledge and expertise in a wider professional community.
To help you with the research and analytical skills needed for project work, our unit in Context and Meaning will allow you to critically examine a range of texts on art, design and visual culture while placing this theory and practice into global contexts.
This will also be helpful in critically evaluating your own creative work.
To prepare you for your career in animation, our unit in Creative Futures will provide you with the skills and knowledge you need for a professional creative role.
Whether you aspire to become a freelance artist, designer, teacher or pursue further study, this unit will support you in developing a career that suits your ambitions and interests.
Furthermore, this unit will encourage you to participate in live projects, competition briefs and other group work while developing your creative persona online, in exhibition and elsewhere.
You will be taught how to market and self-promote your work using online media tools.
To add to this, our unit in Developing Professional Practice will teach you to incorporate independence and professionalism in the presentation of your work while also developing your confidence to take creative risks through live projects solving real world needs, from local community engagement to global problems such as the climate emergency.
Finally, you will also have the opportunity to undertake a Professional Practice Year (Art and Design) that will give you the career-related experience you need to make informed decisions about your chosen field.
A range of appropriate assessments will enable you to grow in confidence and demonstrate your acquisition of knowledge and skills.
The formative and summative assessment methods used across the course include: In the first year the focus is to develop creative thinking skills to allow you to engage with study skills in general preparing you for assessments in units.
Research is introduced as an important element in studio practice.
This relationship between research and practice allows you to develop critical thinking reflection and higher education learning practice including referencing note taking essay and report writing - including virtual learning environments.
Assessments based on individual and group presentations.
Portfolio reviews are a key means of assessing but they are also important for collating work for a professional portfolio.
This instills in students the right attitudes towards professional work whereby you can use your portfolio to promote yourself in professional contexts.
Essays and reports feature in developing your writing skills helping you to express ideas in a variety of ways and styles and to develop academic writing skills that are of particular benefit in producing the final year contextual rationale for your major project.
An online blog/personal website A midpoint Formal Formative Assessment to review all work in progress.
Key making skills relevant to communication design and creative enterprise are embedded in the teaching and learning of the course and will be taken into account in all assessments.
The assessments will develop incrementally across the course and allow you to gain skills confidence and knowledge receive feedback and develop as a practitioner thus allowing you to implement this knowledge and feedback into subsequent assessments.
At the end of the course completion of the assessments will demonstrate your ability to analyse current animation practice - and communicate this in both visual and written formats as well as demonstrate a range of transferable skills relevant to your professional employability
Employability skills and professional practice are integrated into the course and provide you with an awareness of the real-world context of the creative industries in general and animation in particular.
You will be helped to develop a strategy for obtaining appropriate employment at the end of your course and there is a work-related learning unit that will especially help you to become more focused on managing your career.
You will be helped with the preparation of a professional portfolio including a CV and learn the social-media skills needed to promote yourself in a social-mediated art and design world.
Typical graduate destinations for Animation students include various roles within design and creative industries: animation; film and television; advertising; music videos; interactive digital design; and games design.
You can also progress to further study at Master's level (Level 7) in areas such as animation illustration visual communication and motion graphics.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/applied-computing-and-information-technology:
Our computing courses rank 4th overall in their subject field in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024, with top 3 rankings across five survey areas (teaching, engagement, learning community, assessment and organisation).
Our block delivery course structure gives you year-round entry points and intermediate qualifications so you can tailor your learning to fit around your life.
Course focus is on employability-based development through industry-informed teaching.
Specifically designed for non-computing graduates wanting to upskill or change career trajectory, this 12-month course equips you with the critical knowledge, technical ability and practical skills needed to apply IT expertly to your work.
Our Master’s builds on everyday experiences with technology to help you understand, evaluate and assess the core theories and emerging developments underpinning the field, then apply your learning to real-world problems.
Contemporary STEM building with purpose-built facilities, including high-tech computer networking suites and dedicated IT labs Industry-standard software to emulate the professional workplace Bespoke lecture theatres, presentation rooms and group study spaces
Our academic team are actively involved in the field’s most progressive research and consultancy , using their knowledge to update their teaching and keep you at the leading edge of the latest developments in computing.
Take part in possible field trips to see your subject in action.
With our focus on industry-informed teaching and employability-based development , you graduate with the competencies needed to succeed, both within IT and beyond.
Learn from prominent experts and build invaluable industry connections through our guest teaching classes.
Get involved in our annual STEM Careers Expo , bringing together employers and students through presentations, workshops and networking sessions.
Our employability focus gives you highly desirable transferable skills such as self-evaluation; effective communication; analysis and evaluation; and innovative problem-solving.
Tackle a real-life challenge in the sector with your choice of MSc project.
Benefit from your own personal academic tutor as well as the University’s comprehensive range of student support services.
Dr Wei Huang joined the University of Bedfordshire in November 2004 as a Lecturer (permanent position) and then became a Senior Lecturer in January 2007 and a Principal Lecturer in August 2012.
He is an academic member of the Institute of Research for Applicable Computing (IRAC) in the School of Computer Science and Technology.
Studying our Applied Computing and Information Technology MSc course will equip you with the core knowledge and skills around programming, computer science and information technology.
You will learn about one of the most essential skills required by a computing student and that is programming.
In our Programming for Applications unit, you will analyse problems and develop programs to solve these problems using case studies on real-world applications.
In other areas of study, you will be introduced to Data Modelling, Management and Governance methods and techniques alongside database theory.
This unit will equip you with the knowledge to use the appropriate tools to build database systems using industry standard software and apply these systems to your chosen field of interest.
To diversify your skills further, our unit in Computer Networks and Security is relevant to a wide range of career pathways including software development, business and risk management and cyber or data security.
This unit will introduce you to core principles of cybersecurity while providing you with the fundamentals on how computer networks operate.
Finally, you will complete a Master’s Project in Applied Computing and Information Technology where you will work on a topic of your choice that is relevant to your course and develop this idea using the skills you have learned across various units under the guidance of a staff member.
To aid with this, our unit in Research Methodologies and Project Management will equip you with key skills for problem solving, project management, critical analysis and time management that will support you in research.
Furthermore, you will be given a variety of tools and techniques to prepare you for the dissertation stage.
Your assessment will be varied and wide-ranging including worksheets practical problem solving tasks case studies presentations written reports and viva-voce (voice) examinations.
The exact assessment undertaken varies with details available in the unit information forms.
You may also undertake formative (non-credit bearing) assessments prior to the final assessments.
This is designed to allow you to develop your skills and to take account of the feedback provided and will help you to better understand the material delivered during the course.
To aid curriculum and assessment design the University uses the FHEQ credit level descriptors as points of reference for determining progression in terms of level of demand and complexity and the degree of learner autonomy involved in specific learning opportunities (Quality Handbook Chapter 1 section 1.3.3).
As a graduate of this course, you could progress on to a career as an IT consultant; manager; systems developer; and/or programming supervisor within industries which make substantial use of computer and information technology.
Other careers include IT managers or practitioners within commerce, database and IT developers or system designers/analysts.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/applied-computing-and-information-technology-with-project-management:
Specifically designed for non-computing graduates wanting to upskill or change career trajectory, this two-year Master’s course equips you with the critical knowledge, technical ability and project management skills needed to expertly apply IT to your work.
Studying our Applied Computing and Information Technology with Project Management MSc course will equip you with the core knowledge and skills around programming, computer science and information technology.
As the course has a particular focus on Project Management, this unit will develop your understanding of this practice in various business contexts based on research and application.
Through learning about Waterfall and Agile methodology, these project management tools will help you develop key employability skills that you can take into your career.
To add to this, you will learn to effectively manage organisational resources and to acquire inspirational leadership in our Leading and Managing Organisational Resources unit.
You will critically assess the relationship between leadership, operations management, finance and information systems as well as understand how business operations impact company performance.
Most importantly, you will complete a Master’s Project in Applied Computing and Information Technology where you will work on a topic of your choice that is relevant to your course and develop this idea using the skills you have learned across various units under the guidance of a staff member.
To aid with this, our unit in Research Methodologies and Project Management as well as our Developing Independent Research unit will equip you with key skills for problem solving, project management, critical analysis and time management that will support you in research.
Furthermore, you will be able to critically evaluate research data and learn to develop research proposals and design.
Finally, to equip you for the workplace, our unit in Personal Professional Development will support your career progression by enhancing your employability and communication skills.
You will shape your own professional development journey and goals with help from our scheduled coaching.
You are assessed in a variety of ways.
The majority of units are assessed through coursework group and individual projects portfolios essays presentations or exams.
Presentations are usually given and assessed in the context of a group seminar.
You will also produce artefacts in the area of your specialism.
Constant feedback and advice from a supervisory or unit team will be provided to support you in your work.
You will progress from well-defined briefs to more open-ended and challenging assessments which culminate in your major project - the MSc Project where you will be given freedom to choose your area of work.
The feedback on your submitted assessments will be provided within 15 working days.
The lecturers are expected to take every effort to provide you the feedback as early as possible before the next assessment if any.
If you fail an assessment and need to retake or resit the assessment you can do so in the next available opportunity which is normally in the assessment week of the next block.
If you fail a unit and need to retake this unit you can do so when the unit is run again.
The critical theoretical, analytical and practical skills of this degree will prepare you for a range of careers within industries that make substantial use of computers and IT as well as professional roles in companies where computers and IT take on a more support function.
You could progress to a career in management supervision, database/IT development or system design/analysis.
Specific roles might be IT consultant; IT manager; systems developer; and programming supervisor.
Other careers include IT managers or practitioners within commerce; database and IT developers; or system designers/analysts.
As a graduate of this course, you will also have the opportunity for further study at MPhil or PhD level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/applied-early-years-studies:
Our education courses rank in the UK top 15 in their subject field for career prospects (Guardian, 2025).
Our education students gave positive responses over 90% for our teaching; learning opportunities; assessment and feedback; academic support; organisation; and learning resources (NSS, 2024).
Our education courses rank in the UK top 20 in their subject field for student satisfaction (CUG, 2026).
If you currently work in the early-years sector and have a relevant Foundation degree or equivalent in this field, this top-up course will bring you up to a full Honours degree in just one year.
It also allows you to put your learning into practice immediately, in your workplace.
The course builds on the knowledge and skills you have already have while developing your understanding of child development and early-years education from a variety of professional perspectives.
This course can be studied from our Bedford campus or via a blended learning route.
The blended-learning groups have their own student society and come together during planned Saturday study days across the academic year.
Mock classrooms with specialist assessment technology including a resourced early-years classroom leading to our Forest School and garden space Forest School where you can deepen your understanding of the long-term educational benefits of outdoor learning Specialist sensory centre for teaching SEND and early years courses Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting Access to a four-storey library, open outside of taught sessions Wide range of sports facilities including playing fields, multi-use games areas and a sports arena
As one of the largest providers of teacher education in the eastern region, we have well-established partnerships with more than 500 schools and other associated organisations, a network that puts us at the forefront of educational developments.
Our Bedford campus is a small, thriving academic community where academic staff get to know you well and you benefit from personalised highly student-centred learning .
You benefit from the support of your own personal tutor , a subject and/or placement mentor, a unit and course coordinator, and the additional support of our experienced library staff, all of whom will help you throughout your student journey and with balancing study with work and personal commitments.
You have the opportunity to go on relevant field trips and attend relevant educational conferences.
We have regular visits by professionals from schools and academy chains; SEN schools; local education authorities; and other agencies involved in broadening students understanding such as the NHS (neurodiversity), museums, local faith leaders and sports representatives.
For those taking the blended-learning route, Saturday study days offer a vibrant opportunity to extend your thinking and learning through a range of teaching sessions and seminars.
I started my career working as a primary school teacher and gained experience across all year groups.
Whilst working in the primary sector, I managed and led many areas of learning in the curriculum including ICT, History, Geography, RE and Early Years.
Additionally, I was part of the Senior Leadership Team alongside responsibility for Key Stage 2.
Studying our Applied Early Years Studies (Top up) BA (Hons) course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge around early-years education and child development.
The course aims to provide you with in-depth knowledge around learning and development, such as in our Early Learning from Birth to Five unit.
Here, you will explore early-years educational theory and practice.
You will consider the needs of younger children, particularly under three, as well as the role adults play in supporting the learning development of children under the age of five.
As an early-years educator, it is also important that you show good leadership and management skills.
This is where our Leading Practice in the Early Years unit comes in to introduce you to various aspects of team leadership including the challenges of working with diverse groups of people.
Finally, you will have the opportunity to conduct a Research Project in Applied Early Years Studies where you can pursue an area of interest relevant to your field in more depth.
By integrating theory and practice, you will work under a supervisor to conduct specialised research into your chosen field that will build on your understanding of an area of practice that may be relevant to your future career.
To help you prepare for your research project, our Research Methods in Applied Education unit will introduce you to key aspects of the research process.
These include research methods, data collection tools, ethical research, and how to analyse both quantitative and qualitative data so that you will be confident in carrying out your own extended research.
At Level 6 the assessment strategy for the course is less formative in nature and more summative.
The first Research Methods unit that you take will introduce them to assessment at Level 6 and will act as preparation for the major piece of work that they undertake in the research project.
All assessments are applied to your work or volunteer experience.
The assessments will include formal essays poster and PowerPoint presentations research proposal ethic approval documentation and a dissertation report.
The research based dissertation will enable students to carry out their own research project guided throughout by a supervisor and will be the culmination of your work on the degree through the academic year.
Throughout the course extensive use will be made of the University VLE (BREO) to provide information and further materials for study and facilitate interaction and discussion between students and between staff and students.
The early-years’ sector is growing with increased state support for childcare.
This will provide opportunities for graduates able to contribute towards the provision of high-quality education and care for young children.
The degree will allow you to progress within your own early-years’ setting as a practitioner leader.
Alternatively, you may like to go on to primary or early-years teacher training (PGCE), early-years initial teacher training (EYITT) or other areas working with children from birth to age seven.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/applied-education-practice:
Our education courses rank in the UK top three in their subject field for teaching quality and in the top 10 for student experience (Times, 2025).
95% of our education students were satisfied with the learning opportunities their course offered and how well it developed knowledge and skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
This blended-learning top-up course is ideally suited to those who already have a Foundation degree in education, early years, SEND or any other related field, and are working or volunteering in an early-years, primary- or middle-school setting.
It will bring you up to a full Honours degree in just one year, opening up exciting career-development opportunities.
The course builds on the knowledge and skills you have gained in your specialist field and explores a range of topics related to education, including educational theory and professional practice.
Designated online classroom and learning space Forest School where you can deepen your understanding of the long-term educational benefits of outdoor learning opportunities Specialist Early Years and Sensory Centre to support your understanding of how teachers teach and children learn, within early years and SEND contexts Multi-media space for webinars and podcasting Designated study space and activity agenda for all Saturday study days
Work-based learners have a unique opportunity to be a purposeful and active part of the Students’ Union-affiliated Work-based Learning Student Society.
Our Bedford campus is a small, thriving academic community where academic staff get to know you well.
You benefit from the support of your own personal tutor , a unit and course coordinator, and the additional support of our experienced library staff, all of whom will help you throughout your student journey and with balancing study with work and personal commitments.
You attend weekly sessions online that are enhanced and supported by the independent tasks your unit tutors allocate to you.
The weekly sessions are extended during your Saturday study days , of which there are six across the academic year; these offer a unique mix of group work, tutor-led sessions and cross-course collaboration.
You benefit from a strong focus on employability, developing your skills in education theory and curriculum content while putting them into practice in your workplace.
You will build skills to help you communicate effectively with learners, parents/carers, colleagues and other professionals.
After graduation, you can progress within your own education setting or apply for an Initial Teacher Training course.
I joined the University of Bedfordshire following 20 years working within the Early Years and Education sector.
I started my career working in a residential school for children with profound and multiple educational and health care needs.
My experience within Early Years and education spans a wide range of provision to include Nursery manager, Child minder, classroom assistant and lecturer.
I have extensive experience within the classroom and have worked in both HE and FE, delivering Early Years study programmes.
Studying our Applied Education Practice (Top-up) BA (Hons) course will equip you with the skills, theory and knowledge around primary education, curriculum and professional practice.
You will learn the principles of curriculum design in our Exploring the Curriculum unit while also questioning its aims, effectiveness and structure as part of the National Curriculum in England.
To prepare you for your work in education, Developing Professional Practice will explore aspects of professionalism in educational contexts.
Here, you will have significant opportunities to develop your academic skills alongside your professional interests for the benefit of your own career.
Finally, you will complete a Research Project in Applied Education Practice where you will carry out a significant research project under the guidance of a supervisor to showcase your skills and knowledge gained throughout the academic year, while our Research Methods unit will prepare you with the skills for this.
These include research methods, data collection tools, ethical research and how to analyse both quantitative and qualitative data so that you will be confident in carrying out your own extended research.
In addition it aims to enable you to demonstrate that you have fulfilled the objectives of each unit as well as those needed for working within education as a profession.
The assessment strategies are designed to give you the opportunity to demonstrate the range of knowledge understanding and skills required by intending teachers and those who wish to work within education.
The first unit studied focuses on Research Methods and will be an introduction to assessment at Level 6 and will act as preparation for the major piece of work that they undertake in the research project.
A range of approaches to assessments are utilised throughout the course to include reflective writing case study poster presentations literature reviews and a final independent research project.
These tools have been chosen to ensure there is a balance of assessment.
All assessments are applied to your work or volunteer experience with the intention of impacting on both your academic and professional development.
You are required to demonstrate that the work you submit for assessment is your own and you will be supported in this process by using a range of tools to include: - Detailed assignment briefs and marking grids.
- Engaging teaching sessions to included activities and discussions to support you in understanding assessment requirements.
- Guidance in referencing and citing work correctly using the University Referencing Guidelines.
- The University Virtual Learning Environment BREO which includes access to a range of teaching and learning materials and interactive discussion boards where you can post questions and gain feedback on ideas related to your specific assignment.
During independent study the support of a research project supervisor to guide you in the research process and provide formative feedback on draft work.
Many students who successfully complete this degree course go on to further their career within the education sector including embarking on initial teacher training courses within the primary or early-years sectors.
Graduates also go on to have careers within both public and private sectors in a range of fields such as HR; market and policy research; retail management; publishing; educational psychology; and careers guidance.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/applied-education-studies:
They rank in the UK top 20 in their subject field for student satisfaction (CUG, 2026).
They are in the UK top three in their subject field for teaching quality and in the top 10 for student experience (Times, 2025).
This degree has been designed specifically for teaching assistants and those undertaking a support role within educational settings, and has a strong emphasis on employability, allowing you to put your learning into practice.
It builds on your existing professional skills and competencies, giving you an in-depth understanding of educational provision for children aged 3-11 years within primary settings as well as children with special educational needs.
After graduating, you may choose to apply for an Initial Teacher Training course or move into another career working with young people.
This work-based course offers opportunities to study through blended learning in which 60% is online and 40% on campus, attending Saturday study days (6 per academic year).
Designated online classroom and learning spaces Forest School where you can deepen your understanding of the long-term educational benefits of outdoor learning opportunities Specialist sensory centre to support your understanding of how teachers teach and children learn, within early years and SEND contexts Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting For those studying through blended learning, designated study space and activity agenda for Saturday study days
Work-based learners have a unique opportunity to join our purposeful and active Work-based Learning Student Society , run through the Students’ Union.
For those choosing the blended-learning option, you attend weekly sessions online that are enhanced and supported by the independent tasks unit tutors allocate to you.
There are six Saturday study days across the academic year offering a unique mix of group work, tutor-led sessions and cross-course collaboration.
I began my teaching career in 1989 as a class teacher and have taught in both inner city and rural primary schools as a senior leader and as a Headteacher.
I have also worked as an associate for Human Scale Education, visiting schools around the country to support them in developing their school environments.
Studying our Applied Education Studies BA (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth knowledge around educational provision, child development and professional practice.
As an educator, curriculum is at the heart of teaching and learning.
Our two units, English: Knowledge and Understanding and English: Theory and Practice will introduce you to areas critical to teaching English.
You will explore language teaching theories and investigate current practice in settings, with an additional refresher on key grammatical, punctuation and spelling conventions of English.
Furthermore, you will learn approaches to identifying children’s needs in reading, spoken language and writing and consider suitable interventions to support a child’s learning.
In other areas of curriculum, you will also be equipped with the concepts and skills to teach mathematics in our Mathematics Education unit.
Here, you will develop your understanding of the subject with various topics including algebra and data handling.
You will investigate a range of approaches to mathematical thinking and problem solving and, by reviewing theory and research, you will consider effective ways to structure content that will support pupils in developing reasoning skills to solve mathematical problems.
On a broader scale, you will also be Exploring the Curriculum to learn the principles of curriculum design while questioning the aims, effectiveness and structure of the school curriculum and how it aligns with the National Curriculum for England.
More importantly, you will actively consider equality, diversity and inclusion within curriculum design.
Another important role as an educator is to facilitate positive learning environments for children.
This is why our Learning Environment unit aims to develop your knowledge and skills to create safe and stimulating environments rooted in mutual respect to maximise opportunities for students.
In addition, you will look more closely at individual pupils in our Personalised Learning unit to assess specific needs and use this to inform the inclusion and support of all children in an educational setting.
Furthermore, through examining research, theory and pedagogy, our Developing Learning unit will also provide you with the knowledge and skills to support the development of babies, children and young people.
To assist you with your learning, your first unit in Skills for Education Studies will develop your key academic skills to source and use literature effectively to link theory and practice.
As you progress through the course, you will also engage with our Reflecting on Practice unit where you will be supported in identifying your strengths and areas for improvement in your academic and professional work at the midway point in your studies.
In the later stages of your studies, our unit in Professional Practice will encourage you to consider ethics and policy within wider educational settings, including how professional and legal frameworks operate within settings and how roles and responsibilities are carried out by the education workforce.
Following this, you will write a reflective journal and create an academic poster using your critical analysis of a given topic.
In your final year, you will complete a Research Project in Applied Education Studies where you will carry out an in-depth study into an area of interest relevant to your study and professional interest.
Under the guidance of a supervisor, you will discuss and refine your research while developing key academic and investigative skills within an area of practice that is relevant to your future career.
To prepare you for your research project, our unit in Research Methods will guide you in choosing your area of interest and the fundamentals of research including research approaches, methods, data collection tools, ethics and data analysis
The purpose of assessment is to provide formative feedback to you, to monitor your performance and to measure your attainment.
In addition, it aims to enable you to demonstrate that you have fulfilled the objectives of each unit as well as those needed for working within education as a profession.
The assessment strategies are designed to give you the opportunity to demonstrate the range of knowledge, understanding and skills required by intending teachers and those who wish to work within education.
Your learning will be assessed throughout the course in both a formative and summative way.
A range of approaches to assessments are utilised throughout the course, to include written reports and essays, presentations, in class tests, preparation of lesson sequences and teaching materials, literature reviews and a final independent research project.
These tools have been chosen to ensure there is a balance of assessment and are re-visited throughout the course to ensure that you have the opportunity to build and develop the attributes that are assessed in a systematic way.
The aim is that by the end of the final year you are empowered to demonstrate the qualities that define a Level 6 qualification.
Oral presentations are included as a key element of your assessment and development, and a number of units include the formal assessment of these.
The key importance of the development of oral presentational skills to intending teachers and those working within education is recognised by the course team and every opportunity is taken to encourage you to enhance your skills in this area.
The feedback given to you is intended to be formative in order to aid development.
In addition to this, many units involve small-scale group and individual presentation opportunities within teaching sessions to enable students to develop their skills further.
You are required to demonstrate that the work you submit for assessment is your own and you will be supported in this process by using a range of tools to include:
Gain from a course that provides a clear route into a professional graduate role, through early-years teacher status; primary initial teacher training; or leadership and management.
Many of our past students have gone on to have successful careers within education, working in a variety of roles including head teacher; SENCO; classroom teacher; and education welfare officer.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/applied-linguistics-tesol:
Practical classroom experience with observed and assessed teaching practice using up-to-the-minute simulation technology.
Opportunities to put your skills into action supporting refugees and asylum seekers with free English classes.
This Master’s is designed for both native speakers and non-native speakers with a high level of English.
You explore the relationship between linguistics and second-language learning; the methodology and techniques of language teaching; and current issues in English language teaching.
The course provides practical classroom experience with observed and assessed teaching practice.
On successful completion, you gain TEFL Q status, signifying you are fully qualified in British Council terms.
We have designed this course to follow British Council regulations, enabling you to gain a TEFL Q status when you graduate.
TEFL Q status indicates you are a fully qualified TESOL/TEFL teacher.
Teacher Education Centre with realistic mock classrooms supported by advanced ICT resources Up-to-the-minute simulation technology Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting
We work in partnership with local councils, schools and colleges to support refugees and asylum seekers with free English classes; our students also support parents of school children with free ESOL classes.
Study at our Bedford campus , a small, thriving academic community where academic staff get to know you well and provide individual academic support.
Learn from an academic team who are from the education sector , offering a wide range of professional expertise; all hold TEFL Q status .
Explore your research interests in applied linguistics and TESOL including second-language acquisition, materials development, and language assessment and testing.
Our Centre for English as a Foreign Language (CEFL) has been accredited by the British Council for their work in teaching English.
Benefit from the expertise of our Centre for Research in English Language Learning and Assessment (CRELLA) whose research is recognised as world leading by the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021.
I have been working at the University of Bedfordshire (formerly University of Luton) since 1994 teaching various modules such as Italian Language and Literature, Applied Linguistics and TEFL as well as Language Acquisition and Stylistics at undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
I have been involved in English Language Teacher Training and Applied Linguistics for more than 20 years and I am now also managing, and teaching the MA Applied Linguistics TESOL.
Studying our Applied Linguistics (TESOL) MA course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills around applied linguistics and teaching English to speakers of other languages.
Language is heavily dependent on context and situations, to deepen your understanding of this, our unit in The Language System and Language Teaching will allow you to examine key systems such as phonology, grammar and lexis and examine how they make context meaningful.
At the same time, you will learn to prepare lesson materials, teach and observe classes in our Teaching Practice unit, which provides an opportunity to gain teaching experience in the classroom and online, and will help you to develop your understanding of the language-teaching process and language-classroom practice.
To expand on your teaching approaches, our unit in The Methodology of Language Teaching will allow you to develop your critical understanding of language teaching methodologies through using your personal initiative to implement innovative ideas for language teaching and learning.
To support this, you will be exposed to a wide range of language-teaching methods, approaches and techniques and their possible applications in relation to Second Language Acquisition (SLA).
To prepare these teaching plans, our Materials Development for Language Teaching and Learning will cover content based on evaluating, adapting and creating learning materials for various purposes and various groups of learners.
Furthermore, you will also deepen your understanding of the link between theoretical Issues in Second Language Acquisition and English Language Teaching (TESOL) as preparation for your dissertation research.
To sum up your learning in this course, you will complete a Dissertation in Applied Linguistics and English Language Teaching where you will carry out a significant piece of research into an area of applied linguistics and TESOL relevant to your field of study.
Under the guidance of a supervisor, you will apply your knowledge and skills independently while developing key academic and investigative skills within an area of academic practice that is relevant to your future career.
To help you in conducting your research project effectively, our unit in Exploring Research: Concepts and Methods will introduce you to various research strategies and ethical considerations in social sciences research.
With all the above units focusing on SLA research and TESOL teaching experience, this course will enable you to gain a TEFL teacher status following the British Council regulations.
Depending on your TESOL qualifications or your teaching experience prior to this course, you will be enabled to gain either an initial TEFL teacher status (TEFLi) or a fully qualified TEFL teacher status (TEFLQ).
The purpose of assessment is to provide opportunities for students to demonstrate the extent of their knowledge and skills at a given point.
The outcomes are as important to the provider as it is to the student.
To provide accurate, global readings therefore, the course takes an incremental and varied approach to the assessment of the course content, culminating in the dissertation.
This is a substantial piece of original research on an aspect of Applied Linguistics TESOL, but whose precise focus is determined by each student, and according to their anticipated career plans.
Here, the ability to plan, execute and evaluate independent research is assessed and represents the apex of a student's postgraduate studies.
To complement and lead up to the dissertation, there are different types of assessment on the course, each designed to relate to the content and the cumulative body of knowledge upon which the research plans of the dissertation are based.
The types of assessment include: essays and reports, in-class tests conducted under examination conditions, practical tasks (eg questionnaire design, test item construction) case studies, assignments, and presentations.
The assessment methods have been selected to support the pedagogical development of research skills and subject knowledge, and to satisfy individual unit, and global course learning outcomes.
The details of each assignment task are provided in the unit handbooks and individual Unit Information Forms.
The overall assessment map is available in the course handbook.
Each point of assessment provides opportunities for valuable feedback from teachers but also from peers to enable students to review and improve their work.
On successful completion, you achieve Teaching English as a Foreign Language (TEFL) Q status, meeting British Council standards and meaning you are qualified to teach EFL in the UK and internationally.
The course could also be a route to progression for developers of educational materials; assessment and examination/test paper writers; and researchers in applied linguistics.
A considerable number of our graduates have gone on to follow a PhD project with our staff and with the Centre for Research in English Language Learning and Assessment (CRELLA), and some are currently employed by the University as visiting lecturers in EFL.
Graduates of this course have shown themselves to be highly competent and professional in whatever they have gone on to do.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/applied-psychology-conversion:
Our teaching and assessments are developed working with industry professionals and build skills in applying psychology to real-world issues.
Our MSc courses are accredited by the British Psychological Society, enabling you to enrol for Stage 1 postgraduate training.
Our courses are reviewed and developed in conjunction with a panel of industry professionals from the NHS, mental health support and commercial organisations to ensure they align with the needs of employers, opening a variety of career pathways.
For further course information, contact Dr Joseph Adonu
Access to specialist, industry-standard psychology laboratories and computing environments including: Cognitive neuropsychology lab Virtual-reality lab Research cubicles containing up-to-the-minute equipment and technology such as a driving simulator; eye-tracking software; a physiological data-acquisition system; EEG; podcasting equipment; and KAT Walk Mini 5 omnidirectional VR treadmills Data-analysis software Experiment and survey-building software
Access to specialist, industry-standard psychology laboratories and computing environments including:
Our staff’s research and practice expertise directly informs their teaching, creating a focus on the real-life application of psychology including reading development; cognitive function in long COVID; and prevention of gender-based violence.
Benefit from membership of our Student Research Institute , providing opportunities to engage in research; work with staff as an assistant; and attend specialist research conferences.
Experience a wide variety of teaching methods including blended digital and seminars; problem solving; virtual-reality simulations; computer-based activities; and guided learning.
Assessments are designed to be authentic, reflecting workplace practice .
Gain first-hand experience of psychology in action through course contributions from specialist speakers .
Benefit from field trips including visits to the charity Headway UK, who support those with head injuries, or observing real-life court cases from the public gallery at Luton Crown Court.
Take part in our final-week, in-house Escape Room , building on what you have learned about social aspects of leadership, groups and the cognitive aspects of problem solving.
Benefit from our friendly, approachable staff and easy access to academic support .
Once you complete the course, you can progress with us in health psychology, forensic psychology or research degrees .
You will have gained the skills and competencies needed for a variety of psychology routes and related careers.
I am a Chartered Psychologist (CPsychol) with the British Psychological Society and Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy of England and Wales (SFHEA).
I currently co-ordinate and teach on undergraduate and postgraduate psychology courses in addition to supervising research students.
My supervision covers areas of social psychology and culture, such as marital experience in cultural context, romantic love, personal relationships, psychology of achievement aspiration and personal development, etc.
Studying our Applied Psychology (Conversion) MSc course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills around conceptual and historical issues, individual differences, social, cognitive, developmental and biological psychology.
You will be introduced to the application of research methods in our Research Methods: Quantitative and Qualitative unit.
Here, you will advance your knowledge of empirical research within applied psychology, and this includes understanding qualitative and quantitative data collection methods through experiments, observations, questionnaires and focus groups.
You will explore the relationship between design and analysis in applied psychology research while considering possible ethical issues in the field.
Moving on to the study of mental processes, our unit in Cognition and Performance will allow you to examine the impact of cognitive systems on human behaviour, and these cognitive processes include human thinking, problem solving, perception, language, memory and learning.
In other areas of study, you will also learn of the theories around biological, cognitive and social development across the lifespan in our Developmental Psychology unit.
You will also discover the historical context of developmental psychology and compare this to contemporary theories and research while applying them to real-life situations.
Similarly, you will be introduced to such theories, concepts and research methods in our Social Psychology unit.
Here, you will learn to understand the thoughts, feelings and behaviours of people in a range of social settings.
This is key in helping you understand the complex social nature of human beings as you critically evaluate social psychological theories and current research findings.
You will also adopt a questioning approach in our Applied Psychology unit that will provide you with a critical understanding of how psychology can be applied to some of the key challenges facing society today.
As you advance, our unit in Biological and Neuropsychological Perspectives of Behaviour will provide you with an understanding of biopsychological and neuropsychological aspects of psychology and its impact on human behaviour.
Through examining recent case studies and common everyday examples, you will discuss neuroanatomy and the physiology of behaviour, including the impact of brain injury and disease on cognitive systems.
Furthermore, our unit in Personality, Intelligence and Assessments will allow you to understand what make people uniquely different by evaluating biological, cognitive and social elements.
This will allow you to better understand abnormalities in behaviour and aspects of human personality.
Building on our initial research methods unit, you will also further your study in Advanced Research Methods (Applied Psychology) that will equip you with advanced data analysis skills and research methods for more complex research designs.
Finally, you will complete an Applied Psychology Dissertation Project where you can enhance your knowledge on a specific topic of interest at a Master’s level.
You will carry out significant independent research, with either quantitative, qualitative or mixed methods approaches, while reflecting on the theories, concepts and principles that you have learned throughout the course.
The course uses a variety of teaching methods to provide a curriculum based on the competencies that are required for psychologists and on the research and expertise of the staff.
Methods include; simulations computer-based activities problem based learning case studies and the virtual learning environment (VLE) known as BREO.
The teaching activities are also dictated by the fact that this is a science-based course so students will have the opportunity to design and take part in research projects as part of both learning and assessment.
In preparation for the dissertation they will learn about a range of research methods and advanced statistical analyses so that they are well prepared for the research project in which they generate research aims or hypotheses conduct research analyse the results and report them in the context of theory and current knowledge.
The VLE provides a means of accessing sites elsewhere that illustrate various topics and that allow students to practice relevant skills.
As a Graduate Chartered Member of the BPS, you will be eligible to apply for specialist Master's and/or Doctoral degrees to become an occupational, forensic, health, educational, counselling, sport or clinical psychologist.
This will then enable you to work in services such as health education and the justice system as a chartered psychologist.
You will have acquired specific knowledge in research methods and other core areas in psychology (such as developmental psychology) to put you in a position to continue your studies within Psychology with a PhD.
Your Master’s qualification will also open up a range of graduate posts in other sectors where you can gain experience, increasing your chance of later going back to these specialist pathways in psychology.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/applied-sociology-and-criminology:
Our criminology courses rank 12th overall in the UK in their subject field (Times, 2025); they rank 3rd for teaching quality and 4th for student experience.
95% of our sociology students were satisfied with their course's learning opportunities and how well it developed knowledge and skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
Our sociology courses rank UK 2nd in their subject field for student satisfaction (Complete University Guide, 2026).
Embark on a journey to understand the world through the lenses of sociology and criminology while gaining the skills to make a meaningful impact on society.
With its strong focus on employability, this interdisciplinary course equips you with the analytical tools to critically assess the most pressing issues in society and develop practical solutions to real-world problems in areas such as crime and crime prevention; forensic mental health; social justice; cultural diversity and social inequalities.
In your second and third years, you can choose from a range of optional units, allowing you to specialise in specific areas of interest such as education, emerging digital technologies or crime and the media.
Four-storey library with an extensive range of physical and digital resources Specialist labs, lecture theatres and bespoke group study spaces
Develop a comprehensive understanding of sociology and criminology through exploring how societal structures and behaviours intersect with crime, justice and social inequalities.
Connect academic learning with practical application , tackling contemporary, real-world issues such as education inequality, digital transformation and systemic biases in institutions.
Put theory into practice with opportunities for work-related learning , voluntary work, hands-on simulations of crime scenarios , and a data analysis unit using tools like SPSS and Excel.
Learn from expert staff with diverse social science backgrounds , including forensic psychiatry, policing, offender management, social work, further education teaching and youth justice.
Benefit from staff actively involved in research across key areas such as human rights, safeguarding, social equity/justice, public policy, youth crime and violence, and offender management.
Personalise your degree by choosing from a range of optional units and tailor your final-year dissertation to focus on either research or a community-based project.
Become workplace ready by developing transferable skills in critical thinking; problem-solving; oral and written communication; IT literacy; and teamwork.
Enhance your learning through subject-relevant field trips to key institutions , including visits to The Old Bailey, Royal Courts of Justice and Luton Magistrates’ Court.
Engage with local charities, policymakers, and community leaders through the #SASS Change Maker initiative , which empowers you to address and raise awareness of critical societal challenges.
I have been teaching sociology, criminology, psychology and criminology and child and family studies in a number of educational settings since I qualified with a degree in Sociology and Criminology and a master’s degree in Criminology in 2015.
I developed a keen interest in many areas such as the family, mental wellbeing, crime issues and I have been involved in important research to human trafficking.
The BSc (Hons) Applied Sociology and Criminology course offers a rich, interdisciplinary foundation in sociology and criminology, blending theoretical knowledge with practical application to explore key societal issues and criminal justice challenges.
From a criminological perspective, you will begin your studies with core units such as Introduction to Crime, Society and Criminal Justice System, where you will examine theoretical approaches to crime, deviance and offending behaviour alongside the institutions that respond to them.
In Theorising Crime, Punishment, and Justice, you will analyse crime and explore diverse frameworks for understanding punishment and justice.
Urban Crime focuses on contemporary developments in cities across the globe and the criminal justice responses to urban challenges.
From a sociological perspective, Applied Sociology introduces you to sociological theories and their practical implications for understanding contemporary society, while Policy in Action enhances your understanding of political structures, governance and key societal issues.
In Sociology of Education, you will critically evaluate the role of education in shaping societal structures, addressing inequalities, and fostering social mobility.
In Real World Issues in Services and Institutions, you will examine systemic inequalities and institutional dynamics across sectors like healthcare, education and social services.
The course integrates optional units to allow specialisation.
For example, in Year 2, you will have the option of studying The Sociology of Education; Digital World, where you will explore the impact of digital technologies on society including online identities, misinformation, and the role of AI in shaping behaviours and structures; or Prosecution, Criminal Courts and Justice, a unit that provides an in-depth look at how criminal cases are processed through the legal system, exploring the balance between justice and fairness.
In Year 3, you will have the opportunity to engage with advanced optional units such as Real World Issues in Services and Institutions; Forensic Mental Health, where you will study the needs of mentally disordered offenders under mental health legislation; or Crime and the Media which examines the complex relationship between media, crime and culture through crime journalism, films and TV dramas.
Further to this, in the optional unit Unlocking Insights: The Power of Data, you will learn to analyse and interpret complex datasets using tools like Excel and SPSS, applying these skills to societal and criminological issues.
To develop your employability, research and professional skills, you will explore research methodologies throughout the course in Introduction to Research and Social Enquiry; Research Methods 1: Collecting Data; and Research Methods 2: Exploring Data.
Career Planning for Social Scientists will help you articulate your transferable skills and prepare for the workplace.
You will also gain hands-on experience in Work-Related Experience in Sociology and Criminology, where you will work with an organisation to apply your knowledge and develop practical insights.
At the culmination of your studies, you will undertake a SASS Change Maker Project Dissertation or a Research Dissertation.
The project-based dissertation involves collaborating with a community organisation to deliver a meaningful initiative, while the research dissertation allows you to conduct an in-depth study into an area of professional interest, exploring ethical implications and developing a robust research proposal.
The diversity of assignments will enable students to practice and demonstrate their knowledge, understanding, transferable skills and abilities.
Assessment methods are varied to suit different learning styles and include:
By combining core sociological and criminological knowledge with specialised optional units, practical work-based experience, transferable skills and research-focused learning, this course prepares you for a range of careers in criminal justice professions; community development and advocacy; public policy and administration; social research and analysis; education; and data analysis and evidence-based decision making.
Possible roles (some requiring further training or qualifications) include police officer; crime-scene investigator; prison or probation officer; professionals in community development, social work, youth work or family support; housing manager/officer; international aid or development worker; roles in the charity sector or civil service; teacher at secondary level or within further education; higher education lecturer; special educational needs coordinator (SENCO); social researcher and analyst; human resources professional; public relations officer; marketing executive; and life coach.
You can also progress within higher education, taking a Master’s or professional qualification in an area relevant to your degree or specialism.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/applied-special-educational-needs-and-disability:
This one-year course - specifically for those who have completed a relevant Foundation degree or higher education qualification - enables you to top up to a full degree and prepares you to develop your career within SEND settings.
Using your own experience of working with children, you develop your knowledge of contemporary theories, policy and practices in SEND from a variety of professional perspectives.
This is a work-based course in which all assignments are rooted within your workplace.
You need to work for a minimum of two days per week in an appropriate SEND setting or as a teaching assistant within a school.
Designated online classroom and learning space Forest School where you can deepen your understanding of the long-term educational benefits of outdoor learning opportunities Specialist Early Years and Sensory Centre to support your understanding of how teachers teach and children learn, within early years and SEND contexts Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting
Work-based learners also have a unique opportunity to be a purposeful and active part of the Students’ Union-affiliated Work-based Learning Student Society.
You can put your learning into practice in your workplace while developing your individual area of interest in SEND.
You learn skills that prepare you for working in multi-disciplinary education and care teams.
You build skills to help you communicate effectively with learners, parents/carers, colleagues and other professionals.
After graduating, you can explore the growing number of careers in SEND , become a SEND specialist or go on to further study to gain Qualified Teacher Status .
Studying our Applied Special Educational Needs and Disability BA (Hons) course will equip you with the specialist knowledge and skills in the combined fields of educational needs and disability studies.
Working in the special educational needs and disability (SEND) field will mean that you will have to be adaptable to supporting a diverse range of individuals, from a child or young person to a family or professional.
To prepare you for this, our unit in SEND: Policy and Practice will introduce you to broad theory, policy and practice to provide supportive development across the SEND spectrum.
You will consider the implications of SEND practice on the livelihoods and experiences of the people sensitive to these developments.
It is important that you apply this theory to the workplace, and this is where our Developing Professional Practice in SEND unit will allow you to consider the challenges of working in SEND provision, including the organisational, legal and interpersonal aspects of working with diverse groups of people and roles.
You will learn the importance of good leadership and management in a SEND setting, while also reflecting on your own professional practice.
More importantly, you will also complete a Research Project in Applied Special Educational Needs and Disability Studies that will give you the opportunity to carry out an in-depth study within your area of interest in the applied field of SEND.
By selecting a specific SEND issue, your research will allow you to pursue an area of specialism for your future career while also developing your investigative and research skills.
To prepare you for your research project, our Research Methods in Applied Education unit will guide you to choose an area of research relevant to your interests and current work.
You will learn key aspects of the research process, including data collection, ethical research methods and data analysis, that will allow you to confidently carry out research into your chosen topic.
This course offers a route into a growing number of careers where the needs of SEND have to be explored, understood and responded to, including education, local government, charities and commercial businesses; you can also go on to become qualified to provide therapeutic support to children, young people or adults with additional needs.
Alternatively, challenge yourself with further study to gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) or Early Years Teacher Status (EYTS), or progress to a Master’s-level course in a related area.
Please note that studying to gain QTS/EYTS requires GCSE grades A-C (8-4) in maths, English and science (or equivalent).

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/art-and-design:
Our Art and Design course tutors are practising artists, designers and photographers who exhibit their work internationally.
Staff use their industry links to develop live briefs, mirroring contemporary working environments.
Our recent graduates have worked with Adidas; Stormzy; Sam Fender; U DOX Creative agency; The Design Museum; MK Gallery; Concordia University, Montreal; Estonian Academy of Arts; The Culture Trust; Arts Council; and Whitstable Biennale.
This popular course gives you the knowledge and practical skills you need to become an art and design professional while studying in a supportive, collaborative studio environment.
Working with live briefs, public projects and industry partners, you learn to present work to professional standards, including project production, and develop the skills needed to network, exhibit and build relationships in the creative community.
Spacious studios and facilities in Alexon House, the previous home of the Alexon and Eastex fashion company 3D workshop complete with a laser cutter; vacuum former; and a variety of drills, saws and other tools Vinyl cutter Access to a 3D printer and CNC machine Print room with extensive screen-printing equipment, large-format fine art printing (up to A0); textile printing and risograph printing Industry-relevant software, including an Adobe package with Photoshop, InDesign and Illustrator, provided free of charge
Students work with our media, interiors, photography and graphics courses.
External collaborators include Luton Culture, Departure Lounge Gallery, The Hat Factory, Wardown House Museum, Stockwood Discovery Centre and MK Gallery.
Learn from a different industry professional every week in talks that map their journey from study to employment.
Work with live briefs, public projects and industry partners , including Luton Culture, Departure Lounge Gallery, The Hat Factory and MK Gallery.
· Get involved with our volunteer programme that gives you the opportunity to gain experience in your field while studying .
Explore visual, social, cultural, environmental and political perspectives , expressed through your art and design practice.
Gain insights into critical theory , the importance of context and contemporary professional practice .
Visit artist and design studios, galleries, museums and exhibitions throughout the UK.
Study trips have included Tate Modern, Tate Britain, the Royal Academy, Hayward Gallery, Barbican and Gagosian.
Take your studies global with our International Art School Trip ; past trips have gone to Berlin, Amsterdam and Paris.
I am a mixed media artist researching the language of the photographic portrait.
Historically my investigation focused on domestic photography, specifically the family album.
Recently I have begun to study the self-portraits produced for use within social media, particularly dating apps and Instagram stories.
Studying our Art and Design BA (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills in the world of art and design - ranging from traditional drawing and painting to a new era of digital art.
In your first year, you will partake in a digital photography and video unit called Making Images that will teach you to work with lens-based media while also developing good practices and skills in recording your work.
Context and Ideas will also introduce you to key theories on art and design as well as its effect on culture and society.
You will then apply this theory to practice in our Thinking Through Making unit that aims to encourage you to take creative risks and develop an aesthetic sense through using various technologies, processes and ideas.
You will have the freedom to discover your own creative processes through experimentation and as a result, use a range of media to communicate your ideas.
As a creative student, you will be exposed to a variety of art and design practices.
Within the unit, Art and Design: Exploring Materials and Methods, you will explore, test and experiment with a range of techniques used to produce art based on researching the works of key practitioners in the field.
Through working collaboratively in groups and on your own, you will embrace diversity and cultural difference within contemporary arts practice.
To build on this, the subsequent unit, Art and Design: Developing Materials and Methods, will give you the opportunity to cultivate creative risk by experimenting with creative production methods.
This process will help you establish and develop your own studio practice.
To add to this, our unit in Developing Professional Practice will teach you to incorporate independence and professionalism in the presentation of your creative portfolio or exhibitions.
In your final year, you will further deepen your insight on contemporary art and design practices, in our Critical and Creative Contexts unit that will allow you to explore issues and critical debates in the field.
This will be particularly useful for your Final Major Project in Art and Design.
This research-based project is a brilliant opportunity for you to showcase a body of work in line with your creative interests at public exhibitions.
Our career-focused units in Creative Futures will provide you with the relevant skills and knowledge for your career in a professional creative role.
Whether you aspire to become a freelance artist or designer, or to pursue further study, this unit will support you in developing a career that suits your ambitions and interests.
Furthermore, you will be encouraged to participate in live projects, competition briefs and other group work while developing your ability to professionally present and market yourself and your portfolio using online media tools.
The formative and summative assessment methods used across the course include:
A midpoint Formal Formative Assessment to review all work in progress Key skills are embedded in the teaching and learning of the course and will be taken into account in all assessments.
The assessments will develop incrementally across the course and allow you to gain skills confidence and knowledge receive feedback and develop thus allowing you to implement this knowledge and feedback into subsequent assessments.
At the end of the course completion of the assessments will demonstrate your ability to analyse current art and design practice and communicate this in both written and visual formats as well as demonstrate a range of transferable skills relevant to your professional employability.
Employability skills are integrated into the course and provide you with an awareness of the real-world context of the creative industries in general.
You will be helped to develop a strategy for obtaining appropriate employment at the end of your course.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/art-and-design-masters:
Learn from specialist tutors able to take your existing skills to the next level within advertising design; animation; graphic design; fashion; illustration; interior design or architecture; photography; motion graphics; and more.
Work in a vibrant, creative studio space with industry-standard facilities, equipment and software.
The course prepares you to exhibit or realise your work in professional environments such as galleries, museums and public, community or commercial settings.
Spanning a range of art and design disciplines, this Master’s is taught by specialist tutors able to develop your practice and take your existing skills to the next level within the areas of advertising design; animation; graphic design; fashion; fine art; illustration; interior design or interior architecture; photography; motion graphics; and interactive design.
It prepares you to exhibit or realise your work in a number of professional environments including galleries, museums and public, community, commercial or industry settings.
For further course information, contact Rebecca Meanley at rebecca.meanley@beds.ac.uk
Our Alexon building offers a lively studio space with: image-processing software moving image software high-definition photographic equipment and dark room 3D workshop with a laser cutter; vacuum former; and a variety of drills, saws and other tools print room offering a range of printing options including large-format fine art printing (up to A0); textile printing; risograph printing; and extensive screen-printing equipment high-quality photo screen-printing vinyl cutter Access to a 3D printer and CNC machine
Our Alexon building offers a lively studio space with:
You may work on live briefs for companies such as Bedford Creative Arts, London Luton Airport, Luton Town FC, Luton Culture Trust, Departure Lounge Gallery, MK Gallery, Kirk and Kirk Eyewear, and Penguin Books as well as taking part in collaborative projects with leading art and design practitioners.
Work the way you would in the creative industry , collaborating in teams across disciplines in a studio environment in a way that develops wider creative thinking.
Gain experience by working on live briefs ; submit for national competitions and deliver cross-discipline projects while building a research and practice portfolio .
Take part in course visits to artist studios, external lectures and exhibitions, either locally or farther afield, and expand your professional knowledge and skills at talks and workshops with visiting speakers .
Attend our weekly ‘World of Work’ guest talks from a wide range of creative-industry professionals, who share their insight into paths to employment and establishing yourself as an independent creative.
Take on freelance commissions with the support and advice of the University’s Careers and Employability Service.
Given our proximity to London, benefit from frequent, industry-relevant field trips to the capital (Tate Modern, the Royal Academy and Gagosian) as well as local arts and culture venues such as The Culture Trust, The Hat Factory, Wardown Park Museum and Stockwood Discovery Centre.
Support for postgraduates include one-on-one tutorials with your personal tutor as well as professional and academic support .
Rebecca Meanley received her Masters in Fine Art from Chelsea College of Art in 2003, having previously studied at Nottingham Trent University and Glasgow School of Art.
Rebecca is an artist living and working in London, exhibiting internationally.
She is Senior Lecturer in Visual Art Practice part-time in the School of Art and Design at the University of Bedfordshire.
Her primary practice is abstract painting; writing is a symbiotic practice and photography is used as a continual archival process in the studio.
A range of appropriate assessments will enable you to grow in confidence and demonstrate your acquisition.
You should provided you have engaged in the course be able to meet the demands of formal summative assessment in your stride.
The requirements for assessment range through the types listed below.
Since self-directed practical projects are at the heart of learning activities they will logically be the subject of assessment.
Formative and summative assessments of practical assignments are seen as an important method of ensuring your understanding developing relevant cognitive and practical skills and of ensuring personal creative development and progress.
Continuous appraisal by both peer review and your tutors is a feature of the course and although there are no end-point examinations summative assessment is carried out in relation the work that you produce as part of the course.
This will predominantly be based on an accumulation of the work that is done as a result of a research enquiry that is initiated and developed by you engaging in a range of activities as part of its production.
The following are examples of the various assessment methods used:
This course will equip you with the skills required to establish your creative practice at a professional level working as an independent artist or designer.
Enter into small and large art and design enterprises including museums; galleries; advertising agencies; design agencies; and other businesses and institutions with internal design departments.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/artificial-intelligence:
The MSc Artificial Intelligence (AI) course is shaped by cutting-edge research in AI, ensuring students are at the forefront of innovation.
By joining this course, you will explore cutting-edge topics such as machine/deep learning, natural language processing (NLP), computer vision, and generative AI.
Our faculty’s expertise has influenced real-world AI solutions across sectors like healthcare, robotics, finance, engineering, and creative technologies, preparing you to tackle the challenges of tomorrow with confidence.
This course is designed to bridge academic excellence with industry relevance, leveraging our strong partnerships with leading AI organisations and technology providers such as Google DeepMind, Cisco and Switchshop.
Through hands-on projects, you will work with real-world datasets and advanced tools, including frameworks like TensorFlow, PyTorch and OpenCV.
You will also benefit from guest lectures, workshops and industry-led assessments, ensuring your learning is deeply rooted in current and future industry demands.
This course has been developed in close collaboration with industry.
You also work on projects with industry collaborators such as Switchshop and L-Acoustics, providing first-hand experience of how the industry operates and allowing you to apply your skills in real-world contexts.
State-of-the-art computer labs in our modern, purpose-built STEM building High-performance computing resources (HPCs) AI research laboratory with specialist equipment and software, including a powerful AI computer AI innovation hub Cutting-edge robotics systems
Develop advanced analytical and technical skills in AI , including machine learning, neural networks and data analytics as well as project-management and problem-solving skills.
Apply your skills to solve today’s most pressing social issues in AI locally, nationally and internationally.
Gain a portfolio of live industry projects working with leading AI companies including our partners Switchshop.
Study in a School with a history of success in AI education and research , with faculty members whose work addresses some of today’s most challenging issues and AI researchers in the top 2% in their field in the world.
Benefit from guest lectures by professionals from leading AI companies, gaining valuable industry insights.
Dr Massoud Khodadadzadeh, a Lecturer in Computer Science at the University of Bedfordshire, holds a PhD in Computer Science from Ulster University.
His research journey includes impactful roles such as a Research Associate in Artificial Intelligence for Data Science at The Bath Institute for the Augmented Human, University of Bath, and previously at the Intelligent Systems Research Centre, Ulster University.
On this MSc Artificial Intelligence course, you will study a range of advanced topics that provide both theoretical foundations and practical applications of AI technologies.
The course is structured around five core units:
Natural Language Processing and Generative AI: Explore cutting-edge AI approaches to understanding and generating human language, including transformer models, large language models, and generative algorithms like GANs.
Application of Artificial Intelligence: Apply advanced AI methods to solve real-world problems across domains such as healthcare, finance, robotics, and intelligent automation.
Intelligent Systems and Data Mining: Learn how to design intelligent agents and systems that learn from data, with emphasis on techniques like classification, clustering, and evolutionary algorithms.
Research Methodologies and Project Management: Develop the research skills and project planning techniques required for successful AI system development and academic research, preparing you for your final project.
MSc Project – Artificial Intelligence: Undertake a substantial independent research or development project in an area of AI that interests you, showcasing your ability to design, implement, and evaluate a sophisticated AI system or study.
Assessment on the MSc Artificial Intelligence is designed to test both theoretical understanding and practical application.
A variety of assessment methods are used to reflect the nature of the work expected in the AI field:
The MSc Artificial Intelligence (AI) equips you with the advanced technical skills, critical thinking and ethical perspectives required to excel in the fast-evolving AI industry.
Designed for employability, the course integrates practical experience, career-powered education and pathways to roles in AI research, development and leadership.
With global demand for AI expertise surging, this course empowers you to secure a prominent place in the AI-driven future.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/artificial-intelligence-and-robotics:
Our cutting-edge, industry-standard facilities and equipment mean you can take an active role in all parts of robot creation, from design to assembly.
Join one of the few UK university courses that combines the study of both artificial intelligence and robotics into one fulfilling degree.
Gain practical experience with Luton AI, an organisation linked to the University that is driving innovation and creating high-skilled jobs in AI across many sectors.
The idea that we can combine robotic systems with artificial intelligence to produce a new generation of machinery is no longer the stuff of science fiction – it’s science reality.
This cutting-edge course puts you at the heart of one of today’s most innovative fields, with a focus on developing your hands-on skills right from the start.
Through understanding of theory, a practice-based approach and real-life work projects, you gain a solid conceptual grounding, to-the-minute specialist knowledge and advanced technical skills.
This course is fully accredited by the British Computer Society (BSC), the Chartered Institute for IT, meaning you qualify for chartered IT professional status once you graduate.
Dedicated computing labs and group study hubs in our modern, purpose-built STEM building Cloud robotics and connected AI research laboratory with specialist equipment, including an industry-standard robot arm and mobile robots, programmable drones, integrated oscilloscope, and powerful AI computer Cutting-edge technology such as Auto-CAD, MATLAB and ROS software, alongside a 3D printer and well-stocked hardware supply for robot construction Access to Multisim, LabView and VMware Workstation
Our unique blend of theoretical and hands-on work keeps you up to date with state-of-the-art technologies and prepares you for an exciting future.
Take on work-based projects in close collaboration with companies and organisations such as Luton AI, HAL Robotics and TWI.
With Luton AI, benefit from working with local businesses to help them integrate AI into their operations.
Showcase your work to invited industry professionals and get involved in up-to-the-minute research projects.
Learn from the expertise of our highly qualified academic team , many of whom are leading researchers and active consultants in areas such as enhanced robot technology and nanorobotics in cancer cell exploration.
Our academics organised the CROP workshop on the 2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) , one of the two top-tier conferences in robotics, keeping this course up to date with the latest advancements in the field.
Be guided by our dedicated academic success tutors , there to support you through your studies.
Professor Dayou Li is a professor of Robotics and the Director of the Institute for Research in Applicable Computing at the University of Bedfordshire.
He obtained a BEng and MSc from the Northern Jiaotong University (China) and received his PhD at Cardiff University.
Professor Li has wide research and development experience in robotic systems, AI and nanotechnology.
He has led and participated in a number of EU-funded research projects under FP7 and H2020.
Studying our Artificial Intelligence and Robotics BSc (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills in the combined areas of robotic systems and artificial intelligence (AI).
Beginning with a foundation in AI, our Concepts and Technologies of Artificial Intelligence will introduce you to theoretical AI concepts and how these technologies are used to solve real-world problems.
Among other core topics, our Engineering Mathematics unit will help you establish mathematical knowledge and concepts.
Using case studies, you will perform mathematical calculations to solve real-world problems within the field of engineering.
Similarly, you will be taught to combine this mathematical knowledge with computer science in our Mathematics and Concepts for Computational Thinking unit.
You will apply mathematics to practical skills such as algorithms and pattern recognition while also using it to develop software applications using high-level programming language such as Python.
As a student in the field of computer science, it is also essential that you are familiarised with programming and data handling.
This is where our Principles of Programming and Data Structures unit will develop your programming skills to explore the process of analysing, designing, testing and implementing computer systems and how to skilfully use this for software development.
To further advance your skills in programming and software development, our unit in Desktop Applications Development and Software Engineering will give you an understanding of the software development process from an engineering viewpoint and how to apply a wide range of concepts and techniques in the field.
Following this, another essential area of computer science involves Information Security, and this unit will provide you with the theory and practical skills around compliance, threat mitigation and cybersecurity operations.
You will also consider these elements from a business standpoint through risk identification or assessment.
In the field of robotics, you will learn about Robot Principles and Design to enable your understanding of how robots work as a mechanical device.
This includes a mini project where you will design and build mechanical structures for a robot using a 3D printer and CAD software.
To operate these robots, our Robot Intelligent Control unit will teach you to design and implement intelligent control for robot systems.
Here, you will build on the principles of robotics that will allow you to communicate at a technical and scientific level.
During workshops, you will evaluate system design, implement robotic systems, select components and predict robot performance while also evaluating programming and control systems for robot applications.
On a more advanced level, our Advanced Robotics unit will develop your knowledge on robotics technology combined with AI techniques while prompting an awareness of human safety in regard to robotics applications.
Finally, you will complete an Undergraduate Project in an area of interest that is relevant to your field of study.
You will decide on your proposal topic with your supervisor in our Research Methodologies and Emerging Technologies unit where you can choose from a range of ideas relevant to your career aspirations.
Some areas include Computer Science, Electronic Engineering and Computer Games Development.
Similarly, our Agile Project Management unit will equip you with the project management skills for such academic work and most importantly, your future employment.
This course emphasises the application of AI technologies and methodologies to modern robots that require a certain level of intelligence and the abilities to adapt themselves to environments.
It is designed to develop your academic and vocational skills to pursue academic and professional careers in industry and in academia.
Completing graduates are expected to be able to:
The journey of developing such abilities complies with a self-reflective professional development procedure starting from identifying career goal and the gap between the goal and the current levels of knowledge skills and capabilities for the students.
Course units are designed to gradually fill in the gap from fundamental computational concepts and skills in Year One specialist concepts technologies and methodologies in AI and robotics in Year Two to more independent and creative skills of analysis modelling and solution synthesis and evaluation in Year Three.
Career opportunities for graduates of this course exist in software and hardware industries research and development; industrial production; computing; electronics and academia.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/assistant-practitioner-health:
Our strong links within the sector offer plenty of opportunities for work placements.
Designed for healthcare workers currently working in an assistant capacity across a range of healthcare settings and looking to develop their role.
This work-based Foundation degree builds on your existing practice experience, setting you off on a journey of active independent learning with appropriate support from academic and clinical staff.
It develops your skills and equips you to become a reflective and compassionate healthcare practitioner, able to promote, provide and maintain safe, effective care within a multidisciplinary context and in multicultural settings.
This course is designed and delivered in partnership with local employers and service users.
Our established links within the health sector offer opportunities for real-life work placements.
Learn how to plan, implement and manage tasks under the supervision of a registered practitioner.
Experience practice-based learning with a skills focus in a friendly and supportive environment.
Enjoy our flexible, work-based approach to teaching and learning which encourages reflective practice and confident skills development.
Access state-of-the-art facilities to tackle real-life scenarios in a safe and supported setting.
Develop transferable skills in team-working, communication, critical thinking and analysis as well as learning to be responsible for your professional conduct.
On successful completion of the course, you can take a one-year top-up course to complete a full Honours degree , opening up wider career opportunities.
I started out as a registered (NMC) nurse specialising in Intensive Care and Cardiothoracics before moving into exercise physiology as an academic and practitioner.
I became an accredited Exercise Physiologist and Laboratory Director at the National Sports Medicine Institute (NSMI) of the UK (London) where I worked in both applied sports and clinical domains.
These roles involved me working with elite sports, Olympic athletes as well as on medical research projects (chronic fatigue, ankylosing spondylitis, etc).
I joined the University of Bedfordshire in 2005 to focus on education and research.
The course assessment strategy is closely aligned to the teaching and learning strategy which is designed to have: immediate relevance to practice; draw on expertise-by-experience; foster active learning and be leaner-centred in approach.
A distinct feature of the course is the range of assessment tasks, including those that allow you to undertake workplace relevant assessments that can have an immediate impact in practice.
Examples include: written assignments ranging from reflective pieces to academic essays, assessed practice within the student’s workplace; computer-based examinations and oral presentations.
Your use of professional and theoretical literature will increase in complexity, depth and breadth as you progress through the course.
In the first year, you will be expected to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the evidence-based literature and apply this to practice.
In contrast, the second year will demand deeper analysis and evaluation of the literature and its applications.
For example, you will develop your ability to study and practice more independently.
You will be expected to identify a subject that particularly interests you based upon the NHS values, and conduct an audit on your workplace that could potentially develop into a service improvement project.
Assessments of your clinical skills will begin with observation of the care you provide to patients/service users during work-based learning experiences.
Expectations of the levels of skill demonstrated by students will increase over time and by the final assessments you will be expected to manage more complex and challenging encounters in a non-judgemental, empathic manner in accordance with NHS values.
Formative assessment is used within units to enable you to gain feedback from your lecturer, and on occasion peers, to support and enhance your development and progress towards the summative assessments.
A variety of strategies at the formative stage will be employed, tailored to best suit the summative assessment.
An example of a formative assessment used within the course includes a discussion in class with peers and lecturer based on an anonymised case study which will be developed later within an essay for the summative assessment.
In another unit you will engage in a formative in-class reflection on the communication methods you have employed within your workplace.
The reflective model or framework used during this exercise is relevant to the summative assessment.
If you are undertaking this course you are already employed in a healthcare role so after completing it is most likely you will continue to work as an assistant practitioner within your place of current employment with enhanced opportunities for additional responsibilities and advancement.
Students may also wish to continue their academic studies and top up their Foundation degree to a full Honours degree.
For example, you can apply for direct entry to year two of a pre-registration Nursing course which leads to registration with the Nursing & Midwifery Council (NMC).
Other courses at the University of Bedfordshire that might interest you include:
The full-time standard fee for a Foundation Degree for the Academic Year 2024/25 is £9,250.
These are the full course fees covering each year of study.
International students cannot apply for Foundation Degrees.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/automotive-engineering:
This course is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET).
It is designed to meet the requirements of the Institution of Mechanical Engineering (IMechE), preparing you to work in the modern automotive engineering industry.
In 2025, our students are participating in the prestigious, IMechE-run Formula Student competition to design, build and compete in a Formula-style race car.
This degree offers the in-depth technical training and hands-on experience you need to build industry-ready skills and thrive in the fast-paced automotive industry.
You first gain a broad basis of knowledge before specialising in rapidly developing areas such as automotive systems and electric vehicles, all while benefiting from practical collaboration with industry leaders.
In addition, you develop the problem-solving and critical-thinking skills needed to succeed in this progressive field.
This course is accredited by The Institution of Engineering and Technology.
The university is currently seeking accreditation also from the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE), enabling you to apply your skills in the modern automotive engineering industry, especially in hybrid and electric vehicles.
Contemporary STEM building with high-tech general engineering and electronic engineering labs, providing you with a vibrant and supportive learning environment.
Industry-standard engineering software suites such as AutoCAD; Ansys; MATLAB; and COMSOL Multiphysics.
Specialist automotive engineering lab with state-of-the-art technology, including advanced automotive engine demonstrators, 3D printers, motorcycles, go-karts, welding bay, metal workshop and subsonic wind tunnel.
Take on real-world work projects in collaboration with industry partners such as The Welding Institute and Jaguar Land Rover.
Start by learning alongside our other engineering students, benefiting from the sharing of ideas and knowledge , then specialise in rapidly developing topics at the forefront of your field.
Study under the guidance of academic staff who have worked in the motorsport and automotive industries , and whose active roles in research and consultancy ensure the course is always up-to-date with the latest developments in industry.
Collaborate with local companies either on campus or in nearby company workshops.
Learn from sector-leading enterprises such as Jaguar Land Rover and TWI through industry visits and interactive demonstrations.
Enter competitions and get involved in opportunities such as the prestigious Formula Student Racing Car project , designed to enhance your analytical, creative thinking and project management skills.
Benefit from the support of our dedicated academic success tutors .
Explores the innovations of Automotive Engineering with Rex Keen.
Watch all episodes
Studying our Automotive Engineering BEng (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills in the combined areas of engineering design, vehicle development and new technologies.
Upon starting the course, you will discover the Fundamentals of Engineering where you will develop an understanding of scientific principles in maths, physics and chemistry in relation to engineering while also being introduced to an engineering lab environment.
Moreover, you will examine materials and their properties in our Engineering Structure, Materials and Analysis unit.
This will enable you to select the right materials for a particular design that meets engineering requirements.
Using your knowledge from this unit, you will relate it to our unit in Engineering Design and Manufacture where you will develop the skills to use relevant software for engineering design.
Another relevant area of study involves the function of vehicles within engineering.
This is where our unit in Vehicle Dynamics and Chassis Technology will introduce you to the components of an automobile, as well as its advantages and disadvantages.
Similarly, you will explore the role of vehicle communications and how those systems work in our Vehicle Electronics and Control unit.
You will also get the opportunity to produce preliminary designs for an entire power system or subsystem in our Vehicle Powertrain Technology unit that examines various vehicle powertrain technology such as the electric powertrain.
In other areas of study, you will be provided with in-depth theory on the principles, design and performance for automotive systems such as those used in racing cars or electric vehicles in our Automotive Systems and Design unit.
This theory is closely linked to our Fluid Dynamics, Thermofluids and Modelling unit where you will grasp an understanding of thermodynamic processes, thermofluid systems and the principles of fluid and flows.
This can also be applied to our Mechanics and Heat Transfer unit where you will develop skills for the design and application of heat transfer systems.
Additionally, as a student in the field of computer science you will also be given an Introduction to Software Development where you will learn the fundamentals on how to develop software using teamwork, identify, analyse and model problems, test programs and distinguish between forms of programming and modelling.
You will decide on your proposal topic based on current or emerging technologies with help from our Research Methodologies and Project Management unit.
By conducting market research and analysing academic publications, you will be able to choose from a range of ideas relevant to your career aspirations.
Some possible areas for research include Computer Science, Electronic Engineering and Computer Games Development.
A wide variety of teaching styles will be used throughout this course.
The most important aspect will be that of a student-centred approach and the University will encourage students through relevant guidance to become an independent thinker who can take responsibility for their own learning and adapt to a wide variety of different situations within the context of Automotive Engineering.
The Automotive Engineering Lab suite includes a range of experimental facilities such as an engine test bed with full instrumentation two advanced automotive engine demonstrators various test rigs for vehicle aerodynamics materials and engineering structure machining workshop etc.
3D printers and a CAE lab.
These form an important part of thecourse allowing the exploration of many practical aspects of automotive engineering and to further developing hands-on skills.
The course will make use of traditional lectures and practical sessions as well as encouraging students to engage in various scenarios such as managing students own projects and achieving professional output through teamwork.
Unit content such as lecture slides or practical sheets are made available electronically through the University’s virtual learning environment.
Career opportunities for graduates of this course can include automotive industry for development and manufacture of automotive components, systems and whole vehicles; motor-sport sector; engineering consultant companies for vehicle testing and relevant technology development.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/automotive-engineering-for-electric-vehicles:
Solve real-world research and development problems in collaboration with local industry leaders.
Enhance your understanding of racing cars by joining the Formula Student team and participating in a national competition organised by IMechE at Silverstone every year.
If you’re a senior vehicle developer passionate about researching and testing the next generation of low- and non-carbon vehicles, then this forward-thinking qualification equips you with the technical knowledge and in-depth training you need.
You get to grips with progressive technologies; hone your skills using our state-of-the-art design and simulation tools; and tackle real-world challenges alongside industry partners, graduating with the knowledge and skills to thrive within the fast-paced field of automotive sustainability.
Formal accreditation for this programme will be awarded after a successful accreditation visit and subsequent approval from the IET’s Academic Accreditation Committee.
Purpose-built STEM building with high-tech facilities and bespoke study spaces Specialist automotive engineering lab with cutting-edge technology and simulation tools, from advanced automotive engine demonstrators and aerodynamic test rigs to 3D printers and an engine test bed Industry-standard engineering software suites such as AutoCAD; Ansys; MATLAB; ChassisSim; and COMSOL Multiphysics
You benefit from our on-going collaboration with the United Motorsport Academy (UMA) in India.
Study under a team of leading academics with specialist knowledge across various fields.
Our faculty’s active involvement in the sector’s most pivotal research and consultancy feeds directly into the course delivery, ensuring you stay on top of the latest industry breakthroughs.
We prepare you for the workplace, through hands-on projects and open discussion as well as traditional lectures and team-based tasks .
Learn from industry field trips - including the BMW group, Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) and an electric vehicle workshop in London – where you have opportunities to work on real-life projects such as the rehabilitation of the Sinclair Alien C5.
Explore your interests in more detail with an MSc project of your choice .
Gain key employability-based skills from critical evaluation and effective communication to advanced problem solving and ethical understanding.
Get the most out of your academic experience with guidance from your own personal academic tutor .
Studying our Automotive Engineering for Electric Vehicles MSc course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills in the combined areas of automotive engineering, vehicle development and sustainable automotive technologies.
This course introduces several advanced areas of study, including Applied Heat Transfer, Thermofluids and Computational Fluid Dynamics.
Here, you will acquire extensive knowledge, understanding and skills around heat transfer, the principles of thermodynamics, fluid dynamics and thermofluids, all of which have applications in computational fluid dynamics.
With a special focus on electric vehicles, our unit in Advanced Vehicle Electronics and Autonomous Driving Technology will equip you with the knowledge around control systems and artificial intelligence used for autonomous driving technology, as well as how these systems work within the role of advanced vehicle electronics.
Similarly, you will further your knowledge of electric powertrain technology and vehicle dynamics in our Advanced Vehicle Dynamics and Sustainable Vehicle Powertrain unit, while also producing preliminary designs for these systems.
Finally, you will complete a Master’s Project in Automotive Engineering for Electric Vehicles that will allow you to bring your acquired skills and knowledge together in practice.
You can take this opportunity to work on a topic of interest that is relevant to your field of study.
To help you with this, our unit in Research Methodologies and Project Management aims to expose you to a wide range of tools and techniques for areas of research and data analysis.
The course makes use of traditional lectures and practical sessions as well as encouraging students to engage in various scenarios such as managing students own projects and achieving professional output through teamwork.
Course unit content such as lecture slides or practical sheets are made available electronically through the University’s virtual learning environment.
To aid curriculum and assessment design the University uses the FHEQ credit level descriptors as points of reference for determining progression in terms of level of demand and complexity and the degree of learner autonomy involved in specific learning opportunities.
On completing the course you should have a theoretical and practical understanding of how new and emerging technologies will be used in the automotive industry with a specific focus on electric vehicles.
It gives you the specific knowledge and skills to progress in design production and research and development as well as the attributes for life-long learning – so important in this fast-evolving field.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/aviation-and-airport-management:
Our tourism, transport and travel courses tied UK 7th in their subject field for graduate prospects; they are in the UK top 20 for student satisfaction (CUG, 2025).
Access to an online premium aviation knowledge database as well as strategic airline management simulation software.
Opportunities for hands-on industry experience with multiple industry stakeholders such as London Luton Airport (the UK's fastest-growing major airport), EasyJet and TUI Travel close to the university.
This course covers a range of business leadership and specialist areas, including aviation law; business planning and entrepreneurship; crisis management and communication; and aviation safety and security.
Using the latest technologies, you build your knowledge and experience so you graduate ready to take off in an exciting career in this field.
With our campus close to London Luton Airport, you’re also well positioned to enhance your studies and pursue work placements with airlines and related organisations.
Up-to-the-minute interactive technologies including simulation software Simulate that allows you to take control of your own airline and gain key insights into airline management, while competing with course peers Use of real-world tabletop airport emergency exercise simulations Access to premium aviation data and analytics to enhance your critical analysis capabilities (a key competency sought by employers)
Industry-relevant employment opportunities with London Luton Airport, TUI, EasyJet and other aviation-related companies.
Visits and masterclasses from industry specialists and professionals include airline pilots, airport managers and aviation safety experts.
Interactive teaching which addresses current and contemporary industry affairs.
Benefit from our Aviation Job Fair , attended by airlines and airports, providing opportunities to explore further employment or internships.
Enrich your experience via student societies; placements and internships; and field trips to companies such as Airbus, Birmingham Airport and Emirates Airline.
Studying our Aviation and Airport Management BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the required skills and competencies for a career in the aviation industry.
In core areas of study, our unit in Structure and Development of the Air Transport Industry will discuss the historical development of the industry, how it is structured, who the key stakeholders are and how it operates in business contexts, as well as introduce you to aircraft manufacturers.
In practical areas of study, you will discover the relationships between airports and airlines in our Strategic Airport Planning and Development unit, while being exposed to topics from airport marketing and finance to the environmental, economic and social impacts of airports.
Building on the economic and finance principles of this unit, you will examine airline performance and pricing in our Airline Revenue Management unit and identify how to maximise commercial airline revenue.
These units will support you in your study of Global Airline, Airport and Cargo Operations Management where you will explore commercial, legal and operational areas of the airline, airport and air cargo industry.
Similarly, you will examine aspects of criminal law in aviation in our Aviation Law unit, including looking at carrier liability, passenger rights and air transport agreements.
To help with this, our unit in Applied Numeracy for Business will give you the confidence to develop the mathematical and numerical skills used for decision making and problem solving for businesses.
Furthermore, you will learn of key marketing principles to help you design and implement marketing plans in our Marketing and Digital Transformation in Travel and Tourism unit.
Another crucial aspect of aviation and airport management is safety, and this is where our Managing Safety and Security for Air Transport unit will introduce you to regulations and systems to increase safety and security while also investigating aircraft accidents and incidents.
If you possess an interest toward environmental sustainability, our Critical Issues for Airlines and Airports unit will allow you to critically examine the impact of aviation on the environment and how the industry’s environmental responsibilities can be better managed.
Moreover, people-skills are just as important to have in the airline industry, and this is where our Managing People in Tourism and Aviation unit will develop your leadership, management, teamwork and people-management skills.
Aside from this, our range of optional units include introducing you to the principles and norms of Employment Law; developing your awareness around Contingency Planning and Crisis Management; equipping you with the skills for Strategic Business Planning; and learning to enhance and create experiences in our Managing the Experience Economy unit.
Additionally, you can gain a critical perspective of Management and Leadership theories; consider the negative implications on unethical practices in business in our Business Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility unit; or explore key concepts in entrepreneurship in our Entrepreneurship and Business Excellence unit.
Finally, you will conduct a thorough piece of academic research and/or a practical project using a range of tools and approaches in our Business Project unit.
To support you with this, our unit in Data and Research Methods for Business will provide you with the knowledge and skills to conduct research and analyse data in a business context.
Furthermore, you will also have the opportunity to undertake a Professional Practice Year (Tourism and Aviation) for you to gain career-related experience.
To prepare you for this, our unit in Beginning your Professional Business Journey will help to ease your transition into the workplace and provide an insight into professional business environments.
Assessment incorporates the testing of presentation skills and communication analysis and problem solving effectively managing different viewpoints in addition to subject knowledge breadth and depth.
Assessment types include: presentations report writing exams portfolios and research projects.
These skills aforementioned are embedded in all their assessments to allow students to develop their employability skills from Level 4 to Level 6.
This course will prepare you for a range of career opportunities in the aviation and airport industries.
You might consider a graduate position with a major airport or one of the airport concessions or work within a junior management capacity.
Equally the degree opens up the possibility of careers in major local and national/international airports airlines or ground service companies.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/bedfordshire-international-foundation-year-arts:
The Bedfordshire Foundation Year is designed to help you improve your English language level and increase your subject knowledge.
The course combines English language, study skills for university, and IT skills, which will help you progress on to your main degree programme.
The course aims to take students up to IELTS 6.0 overall, or above, which is the minimum requirement for undergraduate courses at the University of Bedfordshire.
CEFL has a proven track record of International Foundation Course delivery since 1980, with consistently high student satisfaction results.
Our teaching staff has a varied and wide experience of teaching in the U.K and overseas, and we understand our international students and how you feel.
You are starting on a new educational adventure, far from home.
We use the foundation year as a year-long induction programme, and we keep revisiting key themes during the year, for example effective use of our online learning platform, accessing the library resources, as well as developing important study skills in the U.K.
We also understand the many differences in studying at a British Higher Education Institution, and guide you through our regulations, which may be very different to your home countries.
Our course enables foundation learners to progress to an undergraduate degree, fully prepared and confident to face the challenges of a level 4 programme of study.
You will master a range of key academic and language skills during a fun and engaging programme.
Subject units in your second semester, offer you a programme specific to your subject area, as well as meeting your linguistic needs.
This will help you choose the most relevant degree as you start your undergraduate studies.
Learn more about the International Foundation Year (all pathways)
Completing this pathway allows you to progress to one of the following courses:
the aim of this unit is to develop a knowledge and understanding of the methods, techniques and skills used in the creative industries and creative academic education.
You will develop an awareness and understanding of the range and nature of creative arts, and the fundamental skills which underpin study in a creative subject.
You will engage with practical skills across the creative disciplines, utilising a range of facilities, and resources to allow you to experience and explore different working practises in the field.
This unit will help you learn to develop ideas and outcomes, and in doing so you will build a portfolio of creative work.
You will continue to develop and apply your academic study skills, building on your learning in semester 1, to help you communicate and reflect on your creative practice, and future area of study.
This unit focuses on your ability to understand and use the English language accurately when you read, speak, listen and write.
We will concentrate on the English you need for undergraduate level study in your chosen subject area, covering grammar, subject area vocabulary and the four language skills of reading, writing, listening and speaking.
A key element of the unit is the grammar of the language, and particularly the verb tense system in English, because your ability to use the verb tense system accurately will be extremely important when you come to write essays and reports.
This unit will focus in particular on the grammar of the language.
We will also focus on reading, listening and speaking skills in the context of your chosen subject area.
Beginning with short texts, we will practise each skill and practise it again, so that gradually you will see, hear and feel that your command of the language is improving.
A recurring focus of the unit will be your acquisition of 'learner autonomy'.
This means your ability to acquire the language yourself, without needing a teacher's help.
This is important because from next year you will not have an English teacher to help you.
So we will consider and practise strategies to help you gain confidence in your own ability to increase your knowledge of and ability to use the language, including for instance guessing meaning of difficult words, deciding which words are important in a text, recognising differences between formal and informal language, and other strategies, so that as the first semester continues, you begin to feel more confident in your use and experience with the English Language.
When you begin your undergraduate level studies, you will be expected to have knowledge of and ability to use a large range of 'study skills'.
You will also be expected to have some knowledge of the subject area you will  be studying.
This unit deals with both of these aspects of your preparation for undergraduate level study.
All of the academic skills are practised in English, so you will use your developing acquisition of the language from the partner unit 'English Language Foundation' to practise and gain mastery of these skills.
You will also use your language and study skills as you learn the foundation of your subject area, putting the skills into practice as you learn.
This unit builds on the progress you made during its partner semester 1 unit 'English Language Foundation' and increasing your level from that which you had achieved by the end of semester 1.
We will recycle the tense system in English and other elements of the grammar system, but you will  now learn how to use other aspects of the grammar, including the passive voice, as well as linking words and phrases and devices which enable you to write longer sentences but retain grammatical accuracy.
You will notice that we gradually introduce more specialist language that you need in preparation for your degree and we will expect you to use and develop the skills that you gained in the previous units so that you are able to work more independently.
During the two semesters of the foundation year, you will have been introduced to all of the language, academic skills and subject area skills you will need in order to operate successfully as a student embarking on an undergraduate degree programme.
This unit has two key purposes:
Firstly, you will now move on to use the skills you have acquired at the various stages of the academic process, by attending lectures and seminars and using the information and idea you have gained from them to write essays, reports and prepare and delivery persuasive presentations in English.
For the first time, you will operate independently as a student who is undertaking level 4 study.
Secondly, by attending and participating in transition sessions with the teachers and tutors you will be studying with next year, you will become familiar with the approaches to teaching and learning and the expectations that your level 4 teachers will have when you begin your level 4 study.
Through a series of plenary lectures, seminars and essay and report writing workshops, as well as transition events held by your level 4 academic department, you will be able to demonstrate that you are ready to accept the challenges of level 4 study and feel confident that you will prosper on your chosen course of UG level study
Having undertaken a year of foundation level study, your English Language and academic skills will enable you to begin degree level study at the University of Bedfordshire feeling confident and eager for the challenges you will face.
You will also feel 'at home' within the culture of higher education in the UK.
IELTS at a minimum 4.5 in all skills.
This must be evidenced by an UKVI-approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) such as IELTS.
Check the Foundation entry requirements for your country

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/bedfordshire-international-foundation-year-business:
In this second semester of study students will be feeling more confident in the university environment and will have the core study skills in place so that they are in a position to stretch and challenge themselves.
This unit will aim for students to be able to explore how to continue to challenge themselves through self discovery and experimentation.
Students will be able to expand their horizons and be encouraged to look to the wider world so that they can begin to develop a business radar.
A core aspiration of the unit is for students to investigate how the business world is ever changing and how organisations have to be agile in order to survive and thrive.
Students will demonstrate a curiosity of business contexts and be encouraged to draw inspiration from the business world and to investigate how to fulfil their aspirational goals within this world.
This second part of this unit will aim for students to develop what it means to be a credible Business student and how students can learn how to be trusted to participate in a variety of learning communities and to adhere to professional codes of conduct.
Students will take control of what professionalism means to their chosen career within the Business world and start to develop a curious mind set on what it means to study and work within a professional community.
Part of the approach of this unit is to ensure students gain the knowledge and skills to maintain their academic integrity and successfully navigate the professional world of business.
Throughout this unit students will build their own academic glossary to take with them on their learning journey.
Students will move onto higher levels of education fully understanding ethical integrity and the rigours of fulfilling academic codes of practice.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/bedfordshire-international-foundation-year-computing:
The aim of this unit is to enable students to develop an understanding of the theory, practices and underlying technologies associated with the working principles, design and performance analysis of various technologies, in particular those relating to ICT systems.
This is part of of a two-part unit, and it will focus on computational problem solving, networking principles data-driven systems, artificial intelligence, machine learning and web-driven development.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/bedfordshire-international-foundation-year-edu:
This is the second subject studies unit that builds on the knowledge and understanding that you gained in semester one in relation to sociology and social structures and broadens the perspective to the subjects of diversity, inequality, health and well-being.
As with your semester 1 unit, you will gain knowledge and understanding of the core subject and related theory and then apply that to a range of topics, issues and examples from your chosen subject area.
In semester 1 the focus was mainly on local and national contexts, this unit broadens the perspective to look at the broader, global context.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/bedfordshire-international-foundation-year-engine:
The aim of this unit is to enable students to develop an understanding of the theory and practices associated with the scientific principles of mathematics, physics and chemistry underpinning the study of engineering.
In this unit you will cover the fundamental principles of engineering design and the underpinning mathematics of engineering.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/bedfordshire-international-foundation-year-health:
This unit aims to highlight contemporary social issues which impact communities and the wider society.
A contemporary issue refers to an issue that is currently affecting people or places and that is unresolved.
The unit builds on the sociological theories learnt in semester one unit Individuals and Society.
You will be studying topics that are current and topical and will gain a good grounding in identifying and understanding those issues that those in society.
These issues will reflect both national and international social issues.
This unit will provide a foundation of knowledge for those students doing social studies degrees at level 4.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/bedfordshire-international-foundation-year-life-s:
This unit applies subject knowledge and critical thinking that you have developed during the course and gives you the experience opportunity to think about what research is and how different people in your subject area go about the research process.
You will examine some research that has been done in relation to a subject that you will be studying on your degree.
This is your chance to unpick what the researchers have done and assess its strengths and weaknesses You will learn about the process of developing a small-scale research project from the point of view of students and staff who have experience of doing it and you will get the opportunity to think about the advantages and disadvantages of some of the most commonly used research tools by looking at how others have used them.
As this is an introduction before you get the opportunity to study research design and methods in more depth, the aim is to give you the opportunity to look at a variety of examples and to develop an informed understanding of different approaches to research.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/bedfordshire-international-foundation-year-sport:
This is a subject specific unit that builds on the knowledge and understanding that students gained in semester one of their foundation year.
The unit is focused on developing students’ skills and applied knowledge relevant to their future degree study of sport.
During this unit students will gain knowledge and understanding of sport in a higher education environment through exploring a range of topics and activities reflecting the variety of sport degrees within the University.
The students will produce assessment work that demonstrates the development of sport specific knowledge and academic skills that are applicable in a higher education environment.
This unit aims to extend students’ confidence to explore new research topics and themes relating to studying sport in higher education.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/behaviour-change-and-health-pgcert:
Work experience opportunities in our on-campus community exercise clinic with groups that include those with stroke rehabilitation; cancer palliative care; obesity; diabetes; cardiovascular disease; and older age
External placement opportunities at community exercise programmes and services; local authorities and public health departments; related charities; schools and sports teams
The University of Bedfordshire ranks 3rd in the UK for overall taught-postgraduate student satisfaction; 1st for student engagement and learning community (PTES, 2024)
We provide the support, subject knowledge and skills to achieve a postgraduate qualification designed to boost your career prospects.
Attend timetabled sessions of one four-hour block per week, for 22 weeks, studying the key competencies in your field of study.
This innovative course brings together the fields of behaviour change and health, opening a host of career options where you can apply your expertise to promote health, modify behaviour and engender real change.
Aligned with current public health policy, the course equips you to apply behavioural, social and sport sciences systematically to design, implement and evaluate impactful health interventions.
Laboratories accredited by the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES) including molecular and cellular labs and a biomechanics lab with 3D camera system Community exercise clinic Human Performance Centre with environmental heat chamber Sports therapy and rehabilitation centre Virtual-reality resource centre Strength and conditioning suite Nutrition research kitchen Equipment includes industry-leading equipment such as Woodway and h/p/cosmos® treadmills; hydrostatic weighing tank; echocardiogram machines; breath-by-breath gas analysers; blood analysers; 3D high-speed motion-capture camera system; and a range of force plates
In addition, there are opportunities to develop personal and professional networks through our links with Sport England, governing bodies, active partnerships and health-industry experts.
We also host a hub of the Policy Research Unit in Behavioural and Social Sciences
Our postgraduate taught sport science courses rank 6th in their subject field for learning community in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024.
Learn from a highly experienced academic team of behavioural scientists, exercise practitioners, nutritionists, physiologists, health psychologists and more , including internationally recognised behaviour change expert, Professor Angel Chater.
At our on-campus community exercise clinic , work with people experiencing conditions that impact their quality of life including cancer palliative care, stroke rehabilitation, obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, mental health concerns and older age.
Access our Human Performance Centre , which helps train professional athletes and sports people including Team GB and junior Formula 1 racing driver, Frederik Vesti; the heat chamber is regularly used to acclimatise athletes taking on competitions and marathons in places with high temperatures.
Take up external placements at a range of relevant organisations within sport and health, including local and national cardiac rehab services; community cardiac groups; community exercise programmes; county council and public health departments; related charities; and sports teams.
Develop personal and professional networks through our links with Sport England, governing bodies, policy partners, relevant associations, active partnerships and health-industry experts.
Our academics offer supervision in a range of topics for your final major research project , which includes working in real-world environments such as with Premiere League football clubs; the Football Association (FA); rugby clubs; elite athletes; integrated care services; occupational health; the police and fire services; the NHS; public health; cardiac rehabilitation; and government bodies.
In the unit Exercise Prescription , you will explore how exercise programmes and nutritional interventions can treat and manage a range of long-term health conditions.
From this, you will formulate recommendations for exercise and nutritional advice.
The Behavioural Science and Public Health unit will educate you in the use of cutting-edge behaviour-change intervention methodologies and tools to optimise health and wellbeing outcomes, promoting health and preventing disease and illness.
Learn to apply your knowledge of behavioural science, health psychology and behaviour change to research and practice in our Professional Skills for Healthcare Providers unit, focusing specifically on communication skills such as motivational interviewing.
This PgCert opens the way to completing our full MSc Behaviour Change and Health, which is affiliated to the Research Centre for Health, Wellbeing and Behaviour Change within the Institute for Sport and Physical Activity Research (ISPAR) , and the Bedfordshire hub of the Policy Research Unit (PRU) in Behavioural and Social Science , both led by Professor Angel Chater.
Students will be supported to secure placement and research opportunities in areas that match their career aspirations.
Graduates will be equipped to work in a variety of settings with career prospects in public health; the NHS; governmental departments; the charity sector; sport, physical activity, fitness and health industries; education; and academic research.
After completing the full MSc, you may also choose to continue to further research-based study with an MSc by research or MPhil/PhD.
The standard fee for a Postgraduate Certificate for the Academic Year 2021/22 is £2,750.
Alternatively if you have any questions around fees and funding, please email admission@beds.ac.uk Scholarship Available

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/biological-science:
Our biological sciences courses tied UK 4th in their subject field for graduate prospects - on track (CUG, 2025).
Our biological sciences courses rank in the UK top three in their subject field for student experience; they rank in the UK top 10 for teaching quality (Times, 2025).
Our biology courses rank in the UK top three in their subject field for satisfaction with teaching (Guardian GUG, 2025).
This course offers you a wide understanding of life, ranging from single-celled organisms to more complex systems found in plants, animals and humans.
You explore their structure at molecular, cellular and organismal level.
You gain advanced knowledge in the fields of microbiology; physiology; biochemistry; ecology; evolution; molecular and cellular biology; mechanisms of health and disease; and the application of biology in industry.
The course also helps you evaluate and confidently discuss the ethical issues around biological developments such as cloning.
Contemporary STEM building with high-tech labs and bespoke study spaces, providing you with a vibrant and supportive learning environment Cell culture lab Specialised analytical science suite HPLC, FTIR and GC-MS machines alongside facilities for qPCR and protein purification, allowing you to carry out high-end biotech experiments
Our Life Sciences Liaison Board works with industry professionals across the pharma-biotech, health and food sectors, including Glaxo Smith Kline, Pharmaron, the NHS, Life Science Group and GrowPura.
Our collaboration within the sector help you establish links and gain valuable work experience.
Enjoy practical-oriented, real-world learning that prepares you for employment in your specialist field.
Get involved in field trips to industry leaders like Biogen, MSD Merck and the Centre for Alternative Technologies.
Benefit from i ndustry masterclasses and visits from a range of experts including Rothamsted Research; Glaxo Smith Kline; MSD Merck; Medicines & Healthcare products Regulatory Agency; and UK Health Security Agency.
Make the most of our annual STEM Careers Expo , bringing together employers and students through presentations, workshops and networking sessions.
Take part in our Student Skills Lab scheme , where you’ll learn and test out cutting-edge practical techniques with the support of recent graduates.
Learn from an a cademic team with active industry involvement and research expertise in progressive areas such as drug development, food security and cancer pathways.
In your final year, undertake your own research project under the guidance of the Biological Science team, all of whom are actively involved in research themselves.
Studying our Biological Science BSc (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills in biology, biochemistry and living organisms.
In areas of theory, you will be given a broad understanding of Human Anatomy and Physiology to analyse the relationship between body parts and their functions.
On a deeper level, you will be introduced to the study of microorganisms in our Microbiology and Biochemistry unit that familiarise you with biochemical principles using practical techniques such as light microscopes while establishing good laboratory practice.
This closely links to our Cell Biology unit where you will discover various cell structures and types and relate this to how it is fundamental to human life.
You will also develop your knowledge of basic concepts in Chemistry and explore the basics of Molecular Genetics unit with topics including chromosome function, genetic inheritance and cell division.
To equip you with the research and practical skills for this course, our Skills in Biological Science unit will teach you to record, analyse and report data from experiments.
At the same time, you will gain an understanding of the biochemical and cellular basis of metabolic Biochemistry to understand metabolic processes in an organism.
This ties in closely with our Biotechnology unit where you will discover genetic processes such as the genetic manipulation of cells and tissues for research purposes.
In the area of medicine, you will develop your understanding of how the human body functions in our Medical Physiology unit that will provide you with in-depth knowledge of human physiology and how it is affected by disease.
Biological science impacts various areas of our lives, one of them being food.
This is where our Food Microbiology unit will introduce you to the importance of microbiology in the food and nutrition industry as well as the techniques used in the industry such as the role of microbes, its benefits in food production but also its hazards through spoilage or expiry.
You will also take a closer look at living organisms in our Ecology and Evolution unit to identify how they interact, influence and adapt to the environment while engaging with ecological research.
In relation to the forensic sciences, our Animals and Plants in Crime unit will teach you to examine and analyse a range of biological evidence using animals and plants to aid forensic investigations.
Furthermore, our Environmental Change unit where you will develop your knowledge of the Earth’s ecosystems, topics on climate change, pollution and deforestation, and the impact of this on people.
In your final year, you will discover key innovations that have influenced the production of biological data and how this can be used in the clinical treatment of human diseases and biotechnology in our Innovations in Biotechnology unit.
Furthermore, you will learn about the applications of Molecular Biology techniques used to analyse DNA, RNA and protein.
Similarly, you will examine the diversity and significance of microbes in global ecosystems in our Environmental Microbiology unit to understand the industrial applications and societal benefits of microbes.
With plants in particular, you will gain an understanding of the importance of Applied Plant Science and the interaction between plants and people in the forms of medicine, food and even structural materials.
You will also take an in-depth approach to pathology in our Biology of Disease unit where you will learn the principles of investigating patient samples such as blood or urine to help identify, diagnose and treat diseases.
This links to our Cellular Biology unit, that will allow you to examine cellular processes and use molecular biology to diagnose and treat human genetic disorders.
Finally, you will undertake a Biological Science Research Project in your final year that will give you the opportunity to plan, design and execute a piece of research into a topic of your interest that is relevant to your field of study.
You will work to answer a research question based on research and laboratory work using the skills you gained throughout the course.
To prepare you for your career, you will also have the opportunity to undertake a Professional Practice Year (Life Sciences) where you can gain career-related experience while building on your professional skills.
The assessment philosophy of the Biological Science Award conforms to the recommendations of the QAA Benchmarking statement for Biosciences.
It includes a range of assessment methods such as:
The Fields commitment to practical skills and the ability to communicate and interpret data through scientific report writing is emphasised at all levels of the Programme.
As such practical (laboratory) reports form a significant proportion of your assessment.
Assessment throughout the later units most notably in the Level 6 research project will call upon you to develop abstract writing and journal review skills to promote critical thinking and integration of knowledge across the course units.
The importance of oral communication skills is also acknowledged as some units in Level 5 of the award require all students to undertake oral presentations as a part of the unit assessments.
This is then continued in Level 6 units.
Once you have graduated, you will be have the opportunity to develop a career in research and development in both government or non-governmental laboratories.
You'll have the skills to enter roles requiring scientific writing, publishing or biological or medical sales.
The skills you develop in information sourcing, data analysis and presentation also allow you to seek employment within a broad range of non-scientific careers from financial and managerial posts to politics.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/biomedical-science:
91% of our biomedical sciences students were satisfied with the learning opportunities their course offered; 92% were satisfied with how well it developed knowledge and skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
Our biomedical sciences courses rank UK joint 1st in their subject field for academic support (NSS, 2024).
Accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science, opening the way to registration as a biomedical scientist.
Biomedical scientists play a crucial role in advancing our knowledge when it comes to diagnosing, preventing, and curing disease.
This degree sets you up to make a significant contribution to scientific progression in the field through applied learning, practical experience and employment-focused skill development.
You start with the foundation sciences that underpin much of modern medicine before exploring rapidly advancing areas such as biotechnology and vaccine development.
This course is accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Sciences (IBMS).
On graduation, you can apply for NHS trainee biomedical scientist positions where you will develop your skills further to obtain the Health and Care Professions Council’s (HCPC) portfolio accreditation to register as a biomedical scientist who meets the industry’s strict requirements.
Recently built STEM building with specialist labs, bespoke teaching spaces and group study hubs High-spec cell culture lab and analytical science suite HPLC, FTIR and GC-MS machines alongside facilities for qPCR and protein purification, for cutting-edge biotech experiments
Our Life Sciences Liaison Board works with industry professionals across the pharma-biotech, health and food sectors, including Glaxo Smith Kline, Pharmaron, NHS, Life Science Group, Medicines & Healthcare products Regulatory Agency and GrowPura.
Our focus on real-world applications and practical-based learning prepares you for fulfilling employment in this specialist field.
Learn from our research-active academics , highly qualified individuals contributing to progress in sectors such as cancer pathways and medicine development.
Expand your career prospects by developing widely transferable workplace skills , from statistical techniques and scientific communication to independent research and critical thinking.
Get involved in talks, interactive masterclasses and workshops from leading experts including Rothamsted Research; Glaxo Smith Kline; MSD Merck; and the UK Health Security Agency.
Recent guest speakers include Professor Lord Robert Winston and Professor Baroness Susan Greenfield.
Gain additional lab-work experience via the Student Skills Lab scheme where you can try out techniques for real-world applications, under the guidance of recent graduates.
Take part in field trips to prominent industry and R&D settings.
Build your network of professional contacts at our annual STEM Careers Expo.
Keep up to date with the latest developments in the field thanks to our strong links to industry partner s.
My research interests in molecular ecology are focused on understanding the functional and environmental adaptation in fungi that play key roles in managed and natural ecosystems.
Studying our Biomedical Science BSc (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth knowledge, technical and transferable skills related to modern medicine.
In your first year, you will explore the basic biochemical principles and be introduced to the study of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells in Microbiology and Biochemistry and Cell Biology.
You will participate in laboratory work using light microscopes to discover cell structures and understand how this is fundamental to human life.
To equip you with the research and practical skills for these units, Skills in Biomedical Science will teach you to how to record, analyse and report experimental data.
Furthermore, you will explore the basic concepts of Chemistry that provides the fundamental basis for all biosciences.
In addition, you will investigate the structure and function of the human body in Human Anatomy and Physiology, and separately gain an insight into the basics of genetics, from chromosome function to genetic inheritance, in Molecular Genetics.
In your second year of study, you will develop a further understanding of the core concepts learnt in your first year.
In both Genetics and Human Metabolism, you will learn to identify the biochemical and cellular basis of processes that support human life, while also examining functioning of the human body in health and during disease in the Medical Physiology.
This relates to Immunology, where you will study the fundamentals of the immune system and its importance in human health and disease, while linking this with Medical Microbiology to investigate the role of microorganisms in human infectious diseases.
On a cellular level, you will learn to identify indicators of disease through analysing cells and tissues in Cellular Pathology and Haematology & Transfusion Science, focusing on diagnosis and treatment of blood diseases.
In your final year, a more integrated approach to subjects is applied that is fundamental to both medicine and biosciences.
In Biology of Disease, you will investigate the pathophysiological processes that underlie specific diseases recognising clinical signs and symptoms, while also examining the function and dysfunction of body systems in Clinical Biochemistry.
Linking back to previous years, you will take a practice-based approach to understand the applications of molecular techniques for genetic testing in Human Genetics and Molecular Biology.
With the same approach, Applications of Microbiology and Applications of Immunology will allow you to integrate your knowledge gained from previous units to consider surveillance, control and prevention of human diseases.
You will also undertake a Biomedical Science Research Project that will give you the opportunity to plan, design and execute a piece of research into a topic of your interest that is relevant to your field of study.
To help you with this, the Skills in Science unit will equip you with the research and professional skills for a career in science.
The assessment strategies of this course conform to those of the Benchmarking statement for Biomedical Science.
The course includes formative and summative assessment to determine achievement of learning outcomes.
Assessments cover key Biomedical Science content and permit the development of a range of subject-specific and transferrable skills.
Our assessment strategy is progressive building students' ability to handle complex tasks through a variety of means.
The Biomedical Science Award supports the fields philosophy of key skill development and assessment.
Skills based units are included at all levels of the award.
Assessment is designed so students will progressively obtain important academic communication skills starting with diagnostic testing a formative writing exercise and short lab/data reports and an essay at Level 4 to longer lab reports or portfolios of clinical reports and case studies at Level 5.
These different activities will introduce and develop the writing referencing and planning/construction skills needed to complete Level 6 assessments.
Oral communication skills are developed from Level 5 through Level 6 in talks and poster presentations.
There will be formative opportunities for all assessments with 100% weighting to support students in acquiring the necessary skills to complete the summative assessments The assessment strategy also reflects the skill development shown in the level descriptors of the QAA Framework for Higher Education Qualifications (FHEQ).
Thus at level 4 in the Biomedical Science course emphasis is placed upon knowledge of underlying concepts and principles; ability to interpret these within a specific context; and ability to present and interpret qualitative and quantitative data.
To support this level 4 assessment is predominantly based around short tasks which develop ability to present and analyse data from various sources to explain basic underlying principles in writing and finally around short answer and/or multiple choice question exams which test knowledge of underlying principles and their application within a specific context.
Our Biomedical Science BSc (Hons) provides an excellent base to pursue a career in hospital laboratories, pharmaceutical companies and/or postgraduate entry into higher biomedical, biological science or graduate-entry medicine/dentistry.
You will develop knowledge of, and technical research and analytical skills in, biomedical disciplines including genetics, microbiology, immunology and biochemistry.
This will open up career opportunities in pharmaceutical companies, laboratories, teaching, scientific publishing, public health, quality assurance, the food and drink industry, and scientific sales/marketing.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/biotechnology:
Our students have won awards from both the Institute of Biomedical Science and the Biochemical Society.
In their subject cluster, our postgraduate taught biosciences courses rank 6th for learning community in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024.
Our Life Sciences Liaison Board features representatives from organisations such as Glaxo Smith Kline, the NHS and the Medicines & Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.
In this Biotechnology MSc, you explore the latest technologies at the forefront of molecular, microbial and computational biology, gaining insight into their current commercial and scientific use while discovering how they can be applied on a global scale.
With employment-focused skill development, hands-on laboratory experience and opportunities for real-world research, you graduate ready to thrive across a range of roles within this rapidly progressing field.
Modern STEM building with purpose-built facilities and bespoke study spaces State-of-the-art cell culture lab and analytical science suite Industry-standard equipment, including high-tech HPLC, FTIR and GC-MS machines and specialised facilities for qPCR and protein analysis
Our Life Sciences Liaison Board works in close collaboration with industry-wide professionals such as Glaxo Smith Kline, Life Science Group, the NHS and GrowPura, providing you with invaluable opportunities for work experience and networking.
Our faculty’s strong links to industry partners and active involvement in cutting-edge research and consultancy feeds directly into course delivery, ensuring you’re up-to-date with the latest advances in the field.
Benefit from practical laboratory sessions and research-based projects , equipping you with both technical knowledge and hands-on experience.
Get involved in subject-relevant field trips to sites including Biogen, MSD-Merck, and Rothamstead Research.
Immerse yourself in interactive seminars and masterclasses from guests such as the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA), Pharmaron and GSK.
Take part in our annual STEM Careers Expo , which brings together employers and students through presentations, workshops and networking sessions Develop your transferable skills , including sought-after competencies such as scientific communication, statistical analysis, problem solving, and effective leadership.
Fulfil your potential with guidance from your own personal academic tutor .
Take part in our annual STEM Careers Expo , which brings together employers and students through presentations, workshops and networking sessions
Develop your transferable skills , including sought-after competencies such as scientific communication, statistical analysis, problem solving, and effective leadership.
I joined the School of Life Sciences in October 2017.
I obtained my PhD from Erasmus University Medical Centre from the lab of Professor Dies Meijer in Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
My PhD research was focussed on deciphering the role of various transcription factors in Peripheral Nerve Myelination.
Studying our Biotechnology MSc course will equip you with the knowledge and skills around molecular and microbiological techniques, as well as computational biology.
In core areas of study, you will learn about the applications of Molecular Biology techniques used to analyse and manipulate DNA, RNA and protein, and gain extensive knowledge in the field of Applied Microbiology that will equip you with the skills to modify microorganisms to meet industrial and pharmaceutical needs.
As an essential skill in biotechnology, you will be equipped with the knowledge and techniques to incorporate Analytical Methods in your practice.
This will allow you to learn strategies for the separation, detection and measurement of components in complex mixtures.
Furthermore, you will be introduced to the concepts and principles in the development and clinical application of Biomaterials used to treat human disease and injury.
This unit will expose you to the health issues associated with the development of artificial organs, plastic surgery, implants and bone reconstructions.
More importantly, you will examine the biological mechanisms and clinical problems involved in these processes with a focus on immunological rejection.
To give you an insight into how biology and technology come together in practice, our unit in Computational and Systems Biology will provide you with the knowledge and techniques to incorporate computational biology practise into your research.
Here, you will work with biological data using computer software packages made for bioinformatics and systems biology and learn to interpret and present this information in the form of a hypothesis backed by research evidence.
Finally, you will complete a Biotechnology Research Project that will give you the opportunity to undertake a significant piece of personal research which you will then present professionally.
Throughout course delivery workshops and tutorials are used to support the development of academic skills alongside the learning and the assessment process.
All in-course assessments are supported by timetabled interactive tutorial sessions with formative assessment tasks as appropriate.
In addition assessments that are based around practical work will involve a briefing before and a session after the laboratory work to explain further the expectations of the assessment and support specific tasks such as data analysis.
Examinations are supported by timetabled revision sessions and by workshop sessions covering examples of past examinations and the expectations of examination questions at each level.
To assist our learners assignment briefs a uniform set of information and a consistent set of assessment criteria across the course.
At the start of each level students are given introductory session(s) that set out the expectations for each year.
For entry points several sessions are used to provide guidance and support to students joining the University.
These provide details of support for the development of academic skills and learning from the School the Study Hub and initiatives such as peer-assisted learning (PASS scheme).
For students progressing between levels introductory sessions are also provided to ensure the students are aware of the change in expectations of learning and assessment.
This will flag areas such as expectations for increased selfdirected learning critical thinking and analysis that are expected as students go through the learning process.
A key aim for the school is the integration of transferable skills within learning and assessment to enhance employability.
Our courses build awareness of business applications of knowledge with assessments that develop practical ideas and employability.
This is supported by the University's Careers and Employability service throughout the course.
Students who commit academic offences due to a lack of clear understanding of academic integrity are further supported by being invited to attend academic practice guidance (APG) meetings with course staff to discuss the issues and to refer them to the university academic integrity resource (AIR) to encourage them to develop good academic skills.
This course will support you to seek a career in the biotechnology industries; pharmaceutical and food companies; academic institutions; health-related industries including the NHS; and other public-sector organisations.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/biotechnology-with-data-analytics:
The course includes data analytics units designed to help non-computing graduates apply IT to their current role or change career direction.
Specifically designed for graduates without a background in computing, this two-year MSc prepares you to combine ground-breaking biological discoveries with data and IT skills to tackle some of our planet’s most urgent challenges.
You study the technologies at the forefront of molecular, microbial and computational biology while gaining a solid foundation in data analytics.
With employment-focused skill development, hands-on laboratory experience and opportunities for real-world research, you graduate ready to succeed in a range of roles within this rapidly progressing field.
Our Life Sciences Liaison Board works in close collaboration with industry-wide professionals such as Glaxo Smith Kline, Life Science Group, the NHS and GrowPura, providing you with invaluable opportunities for work experience and building contacts.
Gain a thorough understanding of the IT-based tools and techniques needed to solve complex problems through integrated data analytics units.
Get involved in subject-relevant field trips to sites including Biogen, Rothamsted Research, and MSD-Merck.
Immerse yourself in interactive seminars and masterclasses from guests such as the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA), Ministry of Defence and GSK.
Studying our Biotechnology with Data Analytics MSc course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise in the combined areas of molecular biology, microbiology, computational biology and information technology.
In areas of data analytics, you will be introduced to Data Modelling, Management and Governance methods and techniques alongside database theory.
To add to this, our unit in Developing Independent Research will support you in producing a good research proposal where you will learn to present your critical evaluations conclusions to a professional standard.
In addition, to prepare you for your career, our Personal Professional Development unit will support your career progression by enhancing your employability skills as you shape your own professional development journey and goals with help from our scheduled coaching.
Assessment is undertaken in all units of the course to check that you have met the threshold standards expected of all students.
Most units have two summative assessment points and you will be provided with feedback that is designed to show you where you are meeting/exceeding the standards and where/how you can/should make further improvement.The final assessment in most of the taught units is a formal written examination.
Elsewhere a range of assessment methods are used.
These include not only scientific laboratory reports but others that develop a range of transferable skills including research proposals and poster/oral presentations.
These are is designed to build upon and extend what is expected of students with an undergraduate degree.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/biotechnology-with-project-management:
Prepare for employment with integrated project management units and a scientific research project of your choice.
Learn to integrate cutting-edge biological technologies with essential project management skills on a two-year course that operates at the forefront of molecular, microbial and computational biology while equipping you with the knowledge and tools to effectively lead on projects in the sector.
With a focus on real-world experience, hands-on laboratory work and industry collaboration, you graduate ready to excel in a range of roles within this rapidly evolving field.
Our integrated project management units and focus on professional development help advance your career prospects, fostering key transferable skills such as social and ethical consideration; critical analysis; scientific communication; and effective leadership.
Studying our Biotechnology with Project Management MSc course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise in the combined areas of molecular biology, microbiology, computational biology and information technology.
Through an integrated approach, you will also discover how leadership and operations management work closely together in contemporary organisations in our Leading and Managing Organisational Resources unit while analysing how this impacts financial performance.
Based on contemporary research, you will also evaluate the role of Project Management in a business setting as well as analyse key project management approaches and methodologies that will enable you to approach new projects and successfully complete them.
Most units have two summative assessment points and you will be provided with feedback that is designed to show you where you are meeting/exceeding the standards and where/how you can/should make further improvement.
The final assessment in most of the taught units is a formal written examination.
It opens the door to progressing into research and development in industry, academia or government laboratories.
You will also have the opportunity for further study at Doctoral level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-administration-entrepreneurship:
Our business and management courses rank 4th overall in their subject field in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024, with top 3 rankings for teaching, student engagement, sense of community and organisation.
A flexible course designed to accommodate your work and life commitments with block delivery and different entry points through the year.
This MBA pathway is designed for those looking to run their own start-up or take up an innovation and growth role within a corporate organisation.
Our MBA courses are designed to provide students with in-depth knowledge and advanced skills in finance, preparing them for leadership roles across a range of industries.
Key focus areas include responsible leadership, contemporary economic challenges, and a strong emphasis on equality, diversity, and inclusivity (EDI).
Through a blend of theory and hands-on experience, this course offers valuable insights into stock markets, banking systems and the influence of financial regulations as well as offering a specialism in entrepreneurship.
Classroom learning is complemented by real-world projects, guided by our expert faculty, allowing students to apply concepts directly to practical scenarios.
You will build essential skills in teamwork, negotiation, leadership and complex problem-solving, all of which enhance your professional potential.
Upon graduating, you’ll be equipped to drive meaningful impact in any organisation.
Access our state-of-the-art data lab, equipped with top-tier business analytics software and platforms, including Vensim simulation software, allowing hands-on learning and exploration Benefit from a range of learning resources, such as the Harvard Business Review and Oracle OPERA, to support you on your learning journey
Delivery in six-week blocks with 24/7 access to learning resources and opportunities.
Engage with real firms in your classroom, solve real issues, and build your competencies, confidence and networks.
The University of Bedfordshire ranks 3rd overall in the HEA Postgraduate Student Experience Survey (PTES 2024), showing we can ensure an exceptional experience for postgraduate students.
Easy access to industry speakers, industry events and career-development opportunities studying close to London.
Learn from academic experts with strong industry experience and links.
All MBA Assessments are grounded in real-world dynamic global context scenarios that support the fusion of theory and practice in authentic work contexts.
All assessments are designed to support key takeaways for your employability.
To cater to diverse learning styles, the course employs a variety of group and individual assessment methods, including:
In addition to our rigorous academic curriculum, our course offers diverse extra-curricular activities such as guest speaker sessions, entrepreneurship events, exhibition visits, conferences and participation in the business school's Business Showcase event.
These activities provide students with invaluable industry insights, opportunities for innovation, exposure to trends, and a platform to showcase their work.
Together they enrich student's learning experiences and prepare them for success in the business world.
The course provides a unique opportunity to develop a good understanding of the UK industry and both social and for-profit enterprise creation, opening up a range of career opportunities.
Completing an MBA in Entrepreneurship offers opportunities in:
Your entrepreneurial specialism also gives you the skills you need to start up and run your own business.
"The placement provides real-world experience and networking, boosting employability.
You have the opportunity to provide real, actionable input to businesses such as The Bradford Coffee Roasting Company, which resulted in additional involvement with the company as it implemented these ideas."
The standard fee for the MBA for students starting in the academic year 2025/26 is £15,400.
This is the cost of the whole course.
The 2025/26 academic year standard international fee for an MBA course up to 15 months is £18,000.
For more information on our MBA fees, please see international fees
If you have any questions around international fees and funding, please email international@beds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-administration-finance:
Flexible courses designed to accommodate your work and life commitments with block delivery and different entry points through the year.
Assessments linked to live projects where you engage with industry professionals and find real business solutions; also opens up opportunities for networking and work placements.
This full-time MBA, specialising in finance, accelerates career growth by refining leadership and strategic management skills.
Tailored for finance enthusiasts, it equips you to navigate organisational change in a global context.
Core units cover professional practice, resource management, and strategy, while finance modules delve into business economics and strategic finance.
The course runs over three semesters with six entry points throughout the year.
The point at which you join the course determines the order of the units you study.
For further course information, contact Bulent Anil at bulent.anil@beds.ac.uk
Learn from our highly experienced academic team of industry experts engaged in consultancy, business involvement and social impact.
Learning supported by extensive Harvard Business Publication resources and simulations .
Acquire essential professional skills aligned with bodies like the Chartered Management Institute.
Join our Global Guest Speaker series , featuring academics, industry leaders, and professionals from organisations like Luton Borough Council, the European Commission, and bodies such as the Association of Project Management (APM).
Participate in field trips to exhibitions and industry visits where you can gain first-hand industry insights.
Solve real-life problems working with the University’s Research and Innovation Service (RIS) where you can assist local businesses and SMEs to up-skill and innovate .
Studying our MBA (Finance) course will equip you with the knowledge and skills in the integrated fields of strategic management, leadership and finance.
Our specialist unit, Economics in Action: From Market Foundations to Global Challenges, aims to introduce you to global market structures.
You will learn to assess the influence of economic policies, combine MBA principles with cutting-edge economics and international political economy research, that will allow you to solve current global challenges creatively.
To add to this, Corporate Financial Strategy will introduce you to basic ideas and concepts in corporate finance including corporate financing strategies and its ethical implications, financial governance and risk management.
At the same time, you will learn to communicate your ideas more confidently and effectively at an executive level.
Through incorporating insights from business ethics, sustainability studies and organisational behaviour, you will develop a holistic view of Responsible Leadership and Sustainable Management.
In this unit, you will explore contemporary global leadership challenges based on real-world case studies while applying the principles of ethical decision-making and effective stakeholder engagement.
This relates to our unit in Strategy: Analysis and Practice where you will be equipped with the practical knowledge of strategic management which you can use to execute effective strategies against business challenges.
Working with real-world scenarios created using strategic simulations, you will learn to critically evaluate data sources and industry information to practice making informed strategic decisions in a controlled environment.
Finally, you will complete an MBA Applied Project that will allow you to integrate your knowledge and understanding of business and management with an opportunity to work on a live consultancy project relevant to your specialism in finance.
You will work with an academic lead to apply your research and enhance management and business practice through independent, work-based consultancy.
The underpinning philosophy of all assessments is to develop both your knowledge and skills to enter employment as a confident manager with a strong base from which to meet your own aspirations.
This requires consideration of your own personal capabilities as well as looking outward at the business world.
The aim is for you to become an independent and self-directed lifelong learner.
Apart from the formal assessments there will be an emphasis on self peer and group assessment.
Tutors will provide feedback on formative assessments to support your development of good academic practice.
All assessments are rooted in authentic and practical workplace scenarios to enable the integration of theory and practice in dynamic `real world work contexts.
Exams are kept to a minimum.
To facilitate learning for all students a range of assessment methods are used throughout the course including: - Business Reports to demonstrate contextual insight and professional practice; - Project Plans to demonstrate project planning skills; - Seminar Papers to develop critical analysis skills; - In-class tests of your knowledge of core concepts in context; - Project Report integrates learning throughout the course independently applied in practice; Business simulation where you demonstrate the impact of your strategic decision making.
The focus is on the impact of management education to management practice and later assessments require greater complexity and integration through independent study to support your successful transition into work.
This is exemplified by two units at the dissertation stage: Management Practice and the Theory into Practice Project.
These help you to consider your personal and professional development and the complexity of applying management education in practice once in employment.
On completing your MBA, you will be well placed to fill a wide range of positions.
Your team-working skills, analytical abilities and understanding of management will be attractive to employers.
You would be expected to enter into mid-level management careers in SMEs and larger organisations or start your own business.
If you wish at a later point in your career, you may pursue a doctorate of Business Administration (DBA).

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-administration-logistics-and-supply-chain:
The full-time MBA, specialising in logistics and supply chain management, accelerates career growth by refining leadership and strategic management skills.
Tailored for logistics enthusiasts, it prepares you for management roles, fostering global competitiveness.
Core units cover professional practice, resource management, and strategy, while specialised units delve into logistics and supply chain management.
The course runs over three semesters with six entry points through the year.
For further course information, contact Light Zaglago at light.zaglago@beds.ac.uk
The University of Bedfordshire ranks 3rd overall in the Postgraduate Student Experience Survey (PTES 2024), showing we can ensure an exceptional experience for postgraduate students.
Studying our Business Administration (Logistics and Supply Chain Management) MBA will equip you with the specialist knowledge and skills for strategic supply chain management, responsible leadership and a digital business acumen.
You will have the opportunity to engage in live supply chain projects with leading employers from diverse sectors and as a result, build on your personal and professional growth.
Our unit in Logistics and Supply Chain Management will allow you to apply creative problem-solving skills and to critically analyse real-world supply chain issues and challenges, contemporary developments, strategies and best practices in supply chain management and logistics.
This will allow you to develop a strong understanding of integrated supply chain and logistics management, how it is used to achieve competitive differentiation and advantage, and how enterprises coordinate the procurement, manufacturing, distribution and transportation to run a successful business.
You will also look at this on a global scale in our Global Supply Chain Management unit.
Here, you will build an understanding of the characteristics and challenges of global supply chains alongside its strategies and operations.
This includes looking at key components of global supply chain management, from sourcing, logistics and distribution to risk mitigation and uncertainties in global supply chains.
Completing this unit will mean that you have gained the integrated management skills to build resilient, customer-focused supply chains in complex and global business environments.
In this unit, you will explore contemporary global challenges based on real-world case studies while applying the principles of ethical decision-making and effective stakeholder engagement.
Finally, you will complete an MBA Applied Project that will allow you to integrate your knowledge and understanding of business and management with an opportunity to work on a live consultancy project relevant to your specialism in logistics and supply chain management.
Throughout the course, you will be able to combine your learning with our diverse extra-curricular activities from guest speaker sessions, exhibition visits and entrepreneurship events.
Apart from the formal assessments there will be an emphasis on self, peer and group assessment.
All assessments are rooted in authentic and practical workplace scenarios to enable the integration of theory and practice in dynamic ‘real world’ work contexts.
To facilitate learning for all students a range of assessment methods are used throughout the course, including:
In addition to our rigorous academic curriculum, our course offers diverse extra-curricular activities such as guest speaker sessions, entrepreneurship events, exhibition visits, conferences, and participation in the Business School's Business Showcase event.
Together, they enrich students' learning experiences and prepare them for success in the business world.
On completing your MBA, you will be well placed to fill a wide range of positions particularly within the logistics and supply chain sector.
If you wish, at a later point in your career, you may pursue a Doctorate of Business Administration (DBA).

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-administration-marketing-masters:
Our MBA with Marketing is tailored for early-career professionals who aspire to lead in the fast-paced, digitally driven marketing world.
This course focuses on strategic marketing management, digital analytics and contemporary marketing practices that emphasise customer engagement and brand development.
Key areas include responsible leadership, digital business acumen, and equality, diversity, and inclusivity (EDI), ensuring graduates are prepared to lead in diverse and ethical business environments.
Combining cutting-edge theory with practical application, the programme offers insights into effective marketing strategy, consumer behaviour, and ethical decision-making.
Classroom learning is integrated with real-world application through live projects and consultancy opportunities with leading organisations, guided by our experienced faculty.
You will develop key skills in teamwork, negotiation, leadership and complex problem-solving.
These are enhanced through real-world marketing scenarios, preparing you for dynamic roles across industries.
Upon completion, you will be ready to make a significant impact as a marketing leader.
For further course information, contact Osman Khan at osman.khan@beds.ac.uk
Peer-informed academic learning model with an emphasis on active collaboration and employability tailored for the modern workplac e: develop critical thinking, analytical research, leadership and self-management skills through structured peer discourse and academic guidance, all while gaining specialised knowledge.
Responsible Leadership & Sustainable Management This unit focuses on leadership that is ethical, sustainable, and responsible, essential in today’s rapidly changing global business environment.
You will explore principles of effective leadership in managing organisational resources and driving change, with a strong emphasis on high-performance work systems and the global management of innovation.
This unit equips you with a toolkit for inspirational leadership and sustainable management practices.
Strategic Analysis and Practice In this unit, you’ll develop the ability to think strategically and to analyse the global competitive environment in which organisations operate.
You’ll study the challenges of guiding organisations’ long-term development in a complex and volatile market, examining the impacts of political, economic, social, and technological trends.
This unit will refine your ability to formulate and implement strategies that align organisational resources and capabilities with external opportunities and risks.
Applied Project The Applied Project is a capstone experience that allows you to integrate knowledge and skills gained throughout the MBA programme.
You will undertake a comprehensive project that reflects real-world business situations, enabling you to apply theory in practice.
This unit is an excellent opportunity to demonstrate your strategic thinking, analytical abilities, and project management skills, preparing you for the transition into your post-MBA career.
Digital Analytics and Online Customer Experience This unit provides an in-depth understanding of digital marketing, analytics, and customer experience management in the digital age.
You’ll explore digital consumer behaviour, big data, and AI-driven marketing tools, learning how to craft targeted marketing strategies and measure campaign effectiveness.
This unit equips you with essential skills to manage online customer experiences and optimise digital marketing efforts in real-time.
Strategic Marketing Management Focusing on strategic marketing, this unit will help you understand how to create and implement marketing plans that align with organisational goals.
You will examine core marketing principles such as market research, segmentation, targeting, and positioning.
By the end of this unit, you’ll be able to apply strategic marketing techniques to support an organisation’s growth and competitive advantage.
Management Practice Designed to support your transition into the professional work environment, this unit combines theoretical insights with practical skills.
Through experiential learning and hands-on activities, you’ll develop personal, interpersonal, and professional skills essential for effective management.
The unit aims to produce confident, practice-oriented managers who are ready to bring about positive change and adapt quickly to new work environments.
To facilitate learning for all students a range of assessment methods are used throughout the course including:
If you wish at a later point in your career, you may pursue a Doctorate of Business Administration (DBA).

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-administration-masters:
Build core leadership and management skills as well as specialising in a field of interest with our wide choice of pathways.
The MBA is a flagship course designed to facilitate career advancement, particularly for early-career professionals, through support in the development of essential leadership and strategic management skills.
There us an emphasis on responsible leadership, ethical decision making, digital business acumen, and a commitment to equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI).
The MBA blends theory and practical experience to offer insights into effective organisational management in the competitive global context through innovative subject areas supported by the latest research to cultivate your ability to approach complex issues creatively and systematically.
The course adopts a practice-led curriculum and you will engage in live projects with leading employers from diverse sectors to support a critical appreciation of how to apply your knowledge and understanding to complex challenges, leading to innovative opportunities to enhance strategic business and management practice through data-driven decision-making.
This experience fosters personal and professional growth, nurturing creative and innovative leadership qualities.
You will develop the attributes and skills expected of postgraduates, as recognised by professional and industry bodies such as the Chartered Management Institute and including personal effectiveness; building relationships and networks; developing people and capabilities; leading change and innovation; managing risk; and being an ethical and inclusive leader.
You may choose to specialise with the following pathway options:
State-of-the-art business suite tailored to crucial management and data practices Industry-standard hardware and software to prepare you for the modern workplace Business pods, boardroom areas and IT suites designed to simulate a professional office environment
Professor Yi Wang is a professor of Business and Management.
Studying our Master of Business Administration (MBA) course will equip you with the theoretical and practical understanding of contemporary business alongside the skills for leadership and strategic management to address complex challenges confidently in a highly competitive global arena.
As a key part of your practice, you will develop the skills for data-driven decision making through working with a diverse range of data sources to inform well-balanced management decisions in our Management Decision Making unit.
You will gain the skills to collect, analyse and comprehend organisational, quantitative and qualitative data for the decision-making process.
Furthermore, you will learn to understand decision processes used in human resources, financial and sustainable workplace environments to name a few.
To carry with you throughout your practice, our unit in Innovation and Entrepreneurship will allow you to develop the creative thinking skills to perform as a creative leader.
You will incorporate elements of change, innovation and entrepreneurship into your performance while considering how this can also be promoted across organisations to build a supportive culture.
At the same time, you will examine the organisational barriers to innovation and entrepreneurship informed by participative approaches you can use to facilitate change and therefore continuous innovation as a key to organisational success.
Finally, you will complete an MBA Applied Project that will allow you to integrate your knowledge and understanding of business and management with an opportunity to work on a live consultancy project.
Throughout the course, you will also have the opportunity to work on business, project and consultancy reports to demonstrate your critical thinking abilities, as well as an e-portfolio where you can showcase your progress and skills such as through business simulations.
In addition, you will be able to combine your learning with our diverse extra-curricular activities from guest speaker sessions, exhibition visits and entrepreneurship events.
This MBA aims to enhance your professional prospects by developing your capability to apply the latest thinking relating to organisational development and change in the competitive global context.
Successful completion of the MBA will provide the potential for career opportunities globally where there is evidence of a shortage of talented individuals possessing an in-depth knowledge and understanding of business management at this level.
It provides you with the skills and business acumen to have a real impact on the transformation of any organisation you join.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/mba-sport-leadership-and-management:
Merging the expertise of our Sport Science and Business schools, this MBA is one of the first of its kind in the UK.
Our Sports teaching staff are industry experienced, with many actively involved in sports teams; our Business academic team are industry experts engaged in consultancy, business involvement and social impact.
Intermediate qualifications available:
Postgraduate certificate – 60 credits at Master's level Postgraduate diploma – 120 credits at Master's level
Situated at our friendly, collegiate Bedford campus with its excellent sport science facilities including sports laboratories accredited by the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES), and a national-standard sports arena Access to our state-of-the-art data lab, equipped with top-tier business analytics software and platforms, including Vensim simulation software, allowing hands-on learning and exploration Benefit from a range of learning resources, such as Oracle OPERA, to support you on your learning journey
Acquire essential professional skills aligned with bodies like the Chartered Management Institute and the Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity.
Benefit from opportunities for placements with our official partners Luton Town FC and Bedford Blues RFC and Foundation as well as other sporting organisations such as Bedford Tigers RLFC, MK Dons, Cricket East and Be Active.
In Business, join our Global Guest Speaker series , featuring academics, industry leaders, and professionals from organisations like Luton Borough Council, the European Commission and bodies such as the Association of Project Management (APM).
In Sports, access regular industry speakers through our research institute’s seminar series; recent speakers are professionals from MK Dons, PGA, Northampton Saints and our education partners, Luton Town FC and Bedford Blues RFC.
Participate in field trips to exhibitions like the Great Business Exhibition and Tech Show London, as well as visits to sports-related sites such as St George’s Park, the home of England Football, Luton Town FC and Bedford Blues RFC.
I have been employed in the sport and physical activity industry since 1999, predominately in a Sports Development role.
Most recently, I was a Relationship Manager within SkillsActive,  a national partners of Sport England, and worked with organisations such as National Governing Bodies of Sport, County Sports Partnerships and Leisure Operators to create programmes that supported their workforce and business development.
Studying our Sport Leadership & Management MBA course will equip you with the knowledge and skills in the combined areas of strategic leadership, sports and physical activity.
Building on the foundations of your study, you will discover how sport is developed and delivered across the globe in our Sport in The Global Context unit.
Through analysing the political, social and economic factors that impact this sector, you will understand how sport can be used as a tool for social good and global development.
You will then explore the role of strategic leadership and management in sport in our Strategy Analysis in The Global Environment.
Here, you will unpack strategic management principles by critically analysing data sources and industry information to create and implement effective strategies to address challenges within sports leadership and management.
To add to this, you will explore research and practice around leadership and management in the context of sport in our Leading and Managing Sustainable Organisations unit.
Furthermore, you will consider the principles of responsible leadership, ethical decision making, and effective stakeholder engagement while also analysing management processes in other fields of work such as human resources and finance.
In practical areas of work, you will have the opportunity to work with a sports organisation in our Applied Innovation and Entrepreneurship in Sport unit.
With a critical approach, you will identify an area of the business where you could implement change or innovation and subsequently produce a research proposal with suggestions for development.
To support you with this, this unit will allow you to explore how to promote innovation and entrepreneurship across various organisations in the sporting sector.
Finally, you will complete an MBA Applied Project where you will be able to apply your leadership and management knowledge to a sporting management environment.
Here, you will work with a sporting organisation to solve complex problems while taking into consideration organisational values and stakeholder concerns.
Apart from the formal assessments there will be an emphasis on self, peer, and group assessment.
This is exemplified by two units; Applied Innovation and Entrepreneurship in Sport and the MBA Applied Project.
The skills, knowledge, theoretical concepts and practical experience you gain from this MBA will support you in progressing within the sport and physical activity sector, offering career opportunities at a local, national and global level.
Roles include working for a governing body, professional club or sports-related charitable organisation.
The leadership and managerial focus of the course also provides numerous transferable skills relevant to a variety of service industries.
Upon graduation, you could also continue your studies at PhD level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-administration-with-placement:
This MBA pathway includes an academically supervised placement, allowing you to gain experience using your learnt skills to solve real business problems.
This 22-month MBA course with a placement opportunity is tailored for early-career professionals, focusing on leadership, strategic management and contemporary business insights.
Key areas include responsible leadership, digital business acumen and equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI).
Combining theory and practical experience, the course offers insights into effective organisational management and ethical decision-making.
Classroom learning is integrated with real-world application through projects with leading employers, guided by our experienced faculty.
You will develop skills in teamwork, negotiation, leadership and complex problem-solving, enhancing your professional prospects.
Upon completion, you will be ready to make a significant impact in any organisation.
Peer-informed academic learning model with an emphasis on active collaboration and employability tailored for the modern workplace: develop critical thinking, analytical research, leadership and self- management skills through structured peer discourse and academic guidance, all while gaining specialised knowledge.
Responsible Leadership and Sustainable Management
Management Decision Making
Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Strategy: Analysis and Practice
Applied Placement Project
Managing creativity, innovation, entrepreneurship and change are essential to successful performance in the context of increasing demands and fierce competition faced by organisations in the twenty-first century.
This unit provides an opportunity for you to explore how these processes might effectively be promoted across organisations regardless of size and sector from initial business start-up through to large multinational corporations.
The unit adopts a critical approach encouraging consideration of alternative philosophical perspectives supported by influential theoretical contributors.
This unit explores strategy and the implications for marketing.
You will consider the broad external environment, current issues and challenges facing directors, senior managers and entrepreneurs in guiding the long-term development of organisations.
The objectives of organisations and the means of achieving these objectives through the mobilisation and deployment of assets and resources and the integration of the various functions of the organisation will be the focus of the unit.
You will most specifically:
The unit takes an integrated approach to critically assess the relationship between leadership, operations management, finance and information systems which is essential for adding value and achieving competitive advantage in contemporary organisations.
The theme is ‘leadership’ with an emphasis on high performance work systems and the international management of innovation and change.
Successful completion of the unit will give you a comprehensive and detailed overview of contemporary practice informed by quality scientific research evidence.
You will acquire a ‘toolkit’ that provides the potential for inspirational leadership and the effective management of organisational resources.
Operations Management addresses issues such as quality, location process layout, capacity management, and scheduling and inventory management.
Global sourcing and relocation are now commonplace, and the competitive environment demands new ways of thinking about how to manage operations in a global context.
Business and information systems facilitate decision-making and effective management across all functions.
You will develop an understanding of how changes in the business strategy, the business operations and the funding of these operations can impact on the reported financial statements, their cash flows and thus impact on both share price and the reported results of a company.
This is a short professional and academic development course that is designed to support all MBA students in the University of Bedfordshire Business School to develop a professional profile through their journey in the Masters.
The specific aims are to:
Enhance students’ professional, personal development and communication skills.
To support students to evidence how their experience at master’s level has contributed to the development of their professional profile as required after graduation.
To support students to develop the necessary academic skill required for successful completion of postgraduate research.
Practice events are integral to the University of Bedfordshire Business School’s vision to take business education, research and practice in exciting new directions.
Central to this vision is the aspiration to give you the skills and knowledge to find the career and future success you want.
We aim to develop intelligent practitioners who imaginatively integrate theory and practice.
You will need to select and apply knowledge and principles you have learnt through the taught MBA units, experiential learning activities and challenges to develop an understanding of current realities in work organisations and be better placed as a future manager.
This unit is specifically designed to help your transition into the professional work environment through combining academic rigour with practice skills: the behaviours, attributes and intent which give you immediate impact in the organisations you join.
This produces individuals with the confidence and know-how to fit in and be effective from day one: managers who understand business context, and have the creativity, drive and focus to bring about change.
The aim of this unit is to:
Aims:
To bring theory and practice together to formulate a research question and conduct a major piece of research on a topic of your choice relevant to your field of study
To stimulate you to reflect on issues critically and to identify aspects that need further research
To provide you with the opportunity to explore a topic in considerable depth, including carrying out a major literature review
To train you to critically evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of other people’s research to formulate your own study
To enhance skills in time-management, research management, project organisation and decision-making
Relevance
An important aim of a Master’s degree is to train you to use your knowledge and skills independently so that you can successfully carry out a major piece of research.
This dissertation provides you with the opportunity for sustained independent study that builds on your research proposal and represents the culmination of your Master’s level studies.
The assessment strategy for this course is designed in a way that will contribute to student development and will help you achieve your goals and enhance your employability.
When group work is required, the marks given will be individual following the University of Bedfordshire's regulatory scheme.
The different kinds of assessment are listed below, and in some cases they will be used in combination making sure, however, that there are no hidden tasks.
In addition to the assessment strategies followed in each unit, your knowledge and skills will be also formatively assessed through problem solving sessions or case study discussions in order to ensure that development of your comprehension of the underlying concepts is appropriate to the level of studies and continuously supports your overall achievement.
A full list of how each unit will be assessed is presented in the Course Specifications.
Please refer to the relevant section of this form regarding academic integrity.
Apart from the formal assessments, there will be an emphasis on self peer and group assessment.
All assessments are rooted in authentic and practical workplace scenarios to enable the integration of theory and practice in dynamic real-world work contexts.
To facilitate learning for all students, a range of assessment methods are used throughout the course including:
Each block of study has 2 assessment points; the first assessment submission deadline is in week 3 of the block and the second in week 6.
Assessments focus primarily on critical discussion of theory and its application in current practice and are designed to provide reassurance of guaranteed student authorship and a true measure of your ability and understanding.
The PPP unit requires reflection on performance to date with a focus on action planning for enhanced performance in both forthcoming assessments and personal development.
The Business Placement Dissertation Unit is completed once the academic taught studies have been successfully submitted assessed and moderated in accordance with the University Regulations.
Placement Experience: To qualify for the award designation 'with Placement' your Course Co-ordinator will be required to verify that the activities, hours and learning requirements as specified by the Business Placement Dissertation unit have been fully completed.
This is exemplified by two units at the dissertation stage: Management Practice (for Placement) and the MBA Business Dissertation on placement.
Completing an MBA with a placement offers opportunities in management consulting (companies such as McKinsey and Deloitte recruit MBA graduates); finance roles in investment banking, corporate finance and private equity; marketing in areas such as brand management, digital marketing or product strategy; in the operations field in supply chain management or process improvement roles; technology management roles at tech companies or start-ups; and entrepreneurship, using your leadership and management skills to start your own business.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-administration-hospital-and-health-services:
Our business and management courses rank 4th overall in the UK in their subject field, with top 3 rankings for teaching, student engagement, sense of community and organisation (PTES, 2024).
Assessments linked to live projects where you engage with industry professionals and find real business solutions.
This full-time, 12-month MBA with a specialism in hospital and health services management accelerates your career growth by developing your leadership and strategic management skills.
It provides you with an up-to-the-minute understanding of this fast-evolving modern business environment.
Core units cover professional practice, resource management and strategy while specialised units explore contemporary healthcare management and managerial perspectives in health informatics.
With six entry points through the year, the point at which you join the course determines the order of the units you study.
For further course information, contact Emma Buick at emma.buick@beds.ac.uk
Access our state-of-the-art data lab, equipped with top-tier business analytics software and platforms, including Vensim simulation software, allowing hands-on learning and exploration Benefit from a range of learning resources, such as Harvard Business simulations to support you on your learning journey
The course is tailored for students with a passion for healthcare management, equipping you to navigate organisational change in a global context .
Learning supported by extensive Harvard Business Publication simulations .
Gain first-hand industry insights in field trips to exhibitions like the Great Business Exhibition and Tech Show London as well as industry visits to companies like TUI.
Contemporary healthcare management
A comprehensive overview of the field, ensuring you are equipped to navigate and lead in an evolving healthcare landscape.
You develop your broader understanding of the context in which healthcare services operate while exploring in the latest research in the field of healthcare management.
Managerial perspectives in health informatics
An in-depth exploration of how informatics may be used in contemporary healthcare.
You gain the knowledge and understanding to navigate the intersections between technology, data and healthcare, for effective management and delivery of healthcare services.
Responsible leadership and sustainable management
Develop a skillset that merges theoretical knowledge and practical application, positioning you as a valuable asset in any professional setting.
This unit will empower you to effectively address the diverse demands of today's business environment.
Strategy analysis and practice
Build skills that are highly valued by modern organisations including critical thinking, effective communication, adaptability and ethical decision-making.
MBA applied project
All students on taught MBAs participate in the applied project as the culmination of your course.
It is designed to support your employability and transition into the professional work environment through the application of management education to management practice, integrating the best available scientific, organisational and experiential evidence.
On completing your MBA, you will be well placed to fill a wide range of positions particularly within the health sector.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-administration-hospital-and-health-services-with-data-analytics:
This full-time, 22-month MBA with data analytics and a specialism in hospital and health services management accelerates career growth by refining leadership and strategic management skills.
Tailored for students with a passion for healthcare management, it equips you to navigate organisational change in a global context, applying data analysis to real-world projects.
For further course information, contact Dr Emma Buick at emma.buick@beds.ac.uk
Access our state-of-the-art data lab, equipped with top-tier business analytics software and platforms, including Vensim simulation software, allowing hands-on learning and exploration Benefit from a range of learning resources, such as Harvard Business simulations and Oracle OPERA, to support you on your learning journey
The course is tailored for students with a passion for healthcare management combined with data analytics, equipping you to navigate organisational change in a global context .
Digital business analytics
Developing key employability skills, you evaluate and apply commonly used digital business analytics tools and techniques and digital analytical methodologies, including AI and machine learning.
Applied data analytics
This unit takes a practical approach to learning data-mining techniques, emphasising their importance in constructing effective solutions for business problems.
It underscores the significance of data-driven decision-making in the modern world.
The curriculum covers various techniques and tools for collecting, visualising, pre-processing and analysing data while applying data-mining models in real-world scenarios.
You learn SAS Viya, a cloud-enabled analytics engine that provides a modern platform for advanced analytics, machine learning and artificial intelligence.
Knowledge discovery and management
A comprehensive exploration of how knowledge discovery and management may be utilised in contemporary business.
You gain the knowledge and understanding you need to navigate the intersections between technology, data and informatics for effective organisational management.
The MBA (Hospital and Health Services Management) with Data Analytics adopts a block teaching and guided learning approach using latest approaches including flipped classroom to support the practice-led curriculum for early career leaders and managers aspiring to develop as global citizens and with an emphasis on internationalisation and employability.
Units are delivered in 6-week blocks with a focus on the impact of management education on your career through the application of research to management practice.
This energetic and active approach to learning will enhance your confidence and self-esteem and support your development as an autonomous learner and innovative business practitioner.
Your data analytics skills open the way to roles as an expert data analyst in the wider healthcare industry – such as insurance companies or medical organisations - or joining a data company with a healthcare portfolio.
If you wish at a later point in your career you may like to pursue a Doctorate of Business Administration (DBA).

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-administration-international-banking-and-finance:
Over 95% of full-time UK business and management graduates are in employment or further study, 15 months after graduating (source: HESA Graduate Outcomes for 2020/21, pub 2023).
Over 1,000 Business School students worked on live knowledge-exchange projects 2022/23 (KEF, 2023).
We are 1st in the UK for successful graduate social-enterprise start-ups still trading after three years; 3rd in the UK for all business start-ups (HESA, 2023).
This one-year course is for those with existing qualifications (Level 4 and 5 or 240 credits) or experience in the field of international banking and finance.
It provides you with comprehensive understanding of the main accounting and finance principles for individuals, businesses, institutions, and governments.
Blending theory and practice, you address current global issues while building your financial, analytical, communication, and IT skills.
Your final project has an international focus, preparing you for the global marketplace.
New business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills needed in today's workplace Access to Sage, Refinitiv Workspace, the econometrics software STATA and Vensim simulation software for analysing complex and messy business problems Harvard Business Publishing - international learning resources providing advanced business simulations \ Reuters trading room give you the chance to react to live ‘stock-market’ data and building investment portfolios using data on listed international companies Gain competencies in key digital skills such as Excel through SIMnet, our Microsoft Office training platform
Develop a strong foundation in business management, accounting and business modelling.
Your specialty studies in international banking and finance prepare you to respond proactively and creatively to contemporary issues in an increasingly global marketplace.
Benefit from regular engagement with industry and authentic assessment opportunities, dealing with real-world problems and issues.
Learn from academic teams who are either industry experienced or still working in their field; involved in consultancy on real-world projects; active in research; and keep at the leading edge through regular CPD, conferences and industry events.
Attend masterclasses from industry experts so learn from their experience and keep at the leading edge in your field of business.
Take the opportunity offered by our annual conference to learn from professionals and explore the latest thinking in the sector.
Benefit from field trips to see finance and business in action at companies and organisations such as the Bank of England, John Lewis, Volvo, PW Gates Logistics, Luton Recycling and RAJA Packaging.
This course has covered several key areas of business, finance, and strategy.
The Banking and Financial Intermediation unit focused on understanding the critical role of banks and financial intermediaries in economic growth and resource allocation.
It examined the relationship between international financial systems and economic performance, emphasizing how these institutions support efficient resource allocation, foster economic growth, and contribute to financial stability.
It also explored modern financial structures, financial crises, and risk management strategies, with a focus on the influence of these elements on financial regulation and monetary policies.
In the Business Finance unit, the course developed an understanding of how financial resources are managed to meet corporate objectives.
Key topics included the efficient allocation of resources, the importance of matching investors’ needs with those seeking funds, and the role of corporate finance in sustaining business operations.
It also provided insights into how financial management impacts corporate and individual wealth generation, with an emphasis on both long-term and short-term decision-making in a corporate context.
This unit highlighted the strategic role of finance in business sustainability and growth.
The Strategic Management for Business unit emphasised the significance of strategy in achieving organisational success.
It provided the tools and frameworks to analyse complex business issues, identify trends, and evaluate their potential impact on business and industry.
You will develop the skills to design and implement effective strategies that create unique value propositions and avoid direct competition.
This unit is also focused on building employability skills, preparing you for the workplace by developing the competencies necessary for success in strategic decision-making.Finally, you will be equipped with the skills required to produce an excellent dissertation in our New Advancements in Business unit.
Here, you will be taught to apply various research techniques and to source and reference information correctly based on a topic of your interest.
The underpinning philosophy of all assessments is to develop both your knowledge and skills to enter employment as a confidently with a strong base from which to meet your own aspirations.
Tutors will provide feedback on formative assessments to support your development of good academic practice.All assessments are rooted in authentic and practical scenarios are designed to ensure that no credit can be awarded for work that cannot be confirmed to be that of the student submitting.
To facilitate learning for all students a range of assessment methods are used throughout the course including:Business Reports to demonstrate contextual insight and professional practice;Individual written reports based on gathering and analysing information using a subject specific methodology are used to assess case studies or group work.
Formative group presentationAt level 6 you are treated as an independent learner and both the dissertation unit (New Advances in Business) and the Strategic Management unit provide opportunities for you to draw together your business knowledge in an individual and more independent manner.
In all units you will find assessment support in terms of careful briefing and the completion of formative stages with detailed feedback designed not only to benchmark your performance but also to give you insights into how you can improve your work.
You will focus on employability throughout your studies starting with working on real life case studies in your first few weeks.
The practice-based part of the curriculum continues throughout your studies with guest lecturers optional weekly discussion groups and case studies in seminars to help you develop your knowledge and understanding of a wide range of industry sectors.
The approach adopted in this course helps you to develop and enhance your transferable skills as well as interpersonal skills and in turn enhance your employability.
This means that whilst you are gaining academic knowledge in addition you are also developing practise expertise.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-administration-with-data-analytics:
An innovative 22-month degree combining the full MBA leadership and management programme with advanced data analytics skills.
Data analytics units are designed for non-computing graduates, enabling them to use data to offer insight and inform decision making.
Designed to accommodate your work and life commitments with block delivery and different entry points through the year.
You gain a contemporary understanding of business with an emphasis on responsible leadership, ethical decision making, digital business acumen, and a commitment to equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI).
Blending theory and practical experience, the course allows you to engage in live projects with leading employers from diverse sectors, applying your knowledge to complex challenges and developing innovative, strategic business and management solutions.
The data analytics units are designed for non-computing graduates who aspire to a management career focused on the application of data.
Supported by our state-of-the-art data laboratory, you gain an in-depth understanding of the tools, techniques and software that transform data into business intelligence.
You develop the advanced knowledge and skills you need to design and implement data mining and analytics algorithms using appropriate tools and languages while exploring dimensional data-modelling principles, data transformation methods, operational research and business simulation.
The course gives you the attributes and skills expected of postgraduates, as recognised by professional and industry bodies such as the Chartered Management Institute, including personal effectiveness; relationship and network building; developing people and capabilities; leading change and innovation; managing risk; and being an ethical and inclusive leader.
For further course information, contact Dr Pauline Loewenberger at pauline.loewenberger@beds.ac.uk
Data laboratory equipped with business analytics software and platforms, including Vensim simulation software SAS Viya to develop essential knowledge and skills, leading to the SAS certification exam to further enhance your job prospects A range of learning resources, such as the Harvard Business Review and Oracle OPERA, to support you on your learning journey
Easy access to industry speakers, industry events and career-development opportunitie s studying close to London.
I have been lecturing in higher education since 2002 and am an experienced Senior Lecturer and a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
As my second career my expertise builds on in excess of 20 years' experience in the commercial sector with companies including Barclays Bank, Halifax Building Society, TSB, Hambro Countrywide, Hill House Hammond and Honeywell Bull.
Innovation and Entrepreneurship Develop your skills in Creative Leadership to support continuous innovation and entrepreneurship in the dynamic global context.
Management Decision Making Develop skills in data-driven decision making to enhance your professional success.
Responsible leadership and sustainable management Develop a skillset that merges theoretical knowledge and practical application, positioning you as a valuable asset in any professional setting.
Strategy analysis and practice Build skills that are highly valued by modern organisations including critical thinking, effective communication, adaptability and ethical decision-making.
Digital business analytics Developing key employability skills, you evaluate and apply commonly used digital business analytics tools and techniques and digital analytical methodologies, including AI and machine learning.
Applied data analytics This unit takes a practical approach to learning data-mining techniques, emphasising their importance in constructing effective solutions for business problems.
Knowledge discovery and management A comprehensive exploration of how knowledge discovery and management may be utilised in contemporary business.
MBA applied project All students on taught MBAs participate in the applied project as the culmination of your course.
It is designed to support your employability and transition into the professional work environment through the application of management education to management practice, integrating the best available scientific, organisational and experiential evidence.This provides the opportunity to integrate your management and data analytics knowledge and skills.
On completing your MBA, you will be well placed to fill a wide range of positions including roles in the digital and data analysis sector.
You would be expected to enter into mid-level management careers in small/medium enterprises and larger organisations or start your own business.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-management:
Seven pathway options, allowing you to develop a specialism in business analytics, digital marketing, finance, HRM, international business, law or with a placement..
In 2023/24, our Business School students engaged with more than 25 real-life businesses, using their knowledge and skills to support live projects.
This course gives you the wide understanding and practical skills required to be a successful manager.
It covers all the essential aspects of business management from accounting and marketing to strategy and change so you graduate ready to hit the ground running in any organisation – even a business you’ve started yourself.
The course is part of a wider portfolio of Business Management degrees, all of which have been designed with flexibility in mind.
You start by building a solid foundation in the core principles of business and management.
Then, at the end of your first year, you can develop a specialism by switching to any of our Business Management pathways (with the exception of Business Management with Law).
New, state-of-the-art business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills Our London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) trading room, where you can react to live ‘stock-market’ data Software includes Microsoft Power BI and Vensim simulation, for analysing complex and messy business problems, plus VR immersive skills practice Access to Sage, Refinitiv Workspace and the econometrics software STATA
Learn in small classes through lectures, seminars and workshops, cementing your learning via group projects, research exercises, presentations and case-study analysis.
Apply theory to diverse real-life situations including managing organisations undergoing dramatic change.
Study with experienced experts in their fields who provide challenging learning opportunities in a professional environment replicating industry practices.
Develop sought-after transferable skills in areas such as problem solving, research and communication.
Gain from the opportunity to work independently on a final-year project in an area of interest.
Take up opportunities for consultancy experience during the second year of the degree, assisting businesses – from start-ups to established corporations - to solve problems, up-skill and innovate.
Learn from masterclasses from industry experts so you benefit from their experience and keep at the leading edge in your field.
Benefit from field trips to see business management in action at companies such as John Lewis, Volvo, PW Gates Logistics, Luton Recycling and RAJA Packaging.
Studying our Business Management (with Placement) BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills in accounting, marketing and strategy alongside a 12-week industry work placement.
In introductory areas of study, our Evolution and Revolution of Business unit will allow you to explore how businesses operate, develop, progress and impact society.
Another crucial skill in the business world is risk management – and this is where our Risk and Responsibility unit will develop your understanding of business challenges, responsible management and business ethics in a global context.
Here, you will learn to apply risk management frameworks and risk mitigation strategies across systemic, financial, operational and strategic risks.
However, you will still be encouraged to take risks in our Innovation and Entrepreneurship unit.
Here, you will learn to design innovative business models, discover how to start a new business and build your understanding on concepts of entrepreneurship.
Similarly, our Strategic Leadership unit will enable you to design realistic and practical strategies for businesses and identify trends while developing your employability skills.
In areas of law study.
To diversify your learning, you will also be provided with a range of skills for leadership, entrepreneurship, marketing, management analysis, strategy setting and finance in our Management in Practice unit.
More importantly, you will be equipped with data manipulation techniques in our Data Driven Business unit while exploring trends and ethical concerns around data collection, use and analysis.
In other areas of study, you will tackle environmental issues in our Business Continuity and the Planet unit that will allow you to investigate the strategic risks and challenges posed towards business operations including climate change, cybersecurity and supply chain risks.
To prepare you for your career, our Employability and the Future Workplace unit will support you in developing the skills needed to prepare for interviews, psychometric tests and assessment centres.
You will receive similar support in our Beginning your Professional Business Journey unit that will help to ease your transition into the workplace and provide an insight into professional business environments.
Assessment takes a variety of forms including essays and reports portfolios individual and group presentations (individually assessed) research proposals and exams.
Many of the assessments are based on real case studies project work and other employability focused activities.
Most units include elements of individual and group work to reflect the type of work undertaken in business and management.
Assessment focuses on tasks that develop vocational skills underpinned by subject knowledge requiring higher levels of cognition in the later years of the course.
On completing this course you are well placed to develop a career in human resources; e-business; operations/project management; and general management.
You also have the entrepreneurial knowledge and skills you need to start your own business.
You may like to progress to further study at postgraduate level.
The University of Bedfordshire Business School offers a range of related taught Master’s courses in Business Administration (MBA) Project Management and Sustainable Management.
We also offer a range of professional development courses and research degree opportunities.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-management-top-up:
A one-year BSc (Hons) Business Management Top-up designed for those with relevant qualifications who are looking for an accelerated route to a degree.
Five pathway options allow you to develop a new or existing subject area specialism.
Regular engagement with industry and authentic assessment opportunities, dealing with real-world problems and issues.
This one-year top-up course is for those who already have qualifications (Level 4 and 5 or 240 credits) or experience in a relevant field and wish to gain a degree in business management, with the option to follow a pathway with a specific focus.
The course delivers an industry-relevant degree that provides a broad understanding of core business management across a variety of organisations, situations and operating conditions.
Pathway options include:
New, state-of-the-art business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills Our London Stock Exchange Group trading room, reacting to live ‘stock-market’ data Software includes Microsoft Power BI and Vensim simulation, for analysing complex and messy business problems, plus VR immersive skills practice Access to Sage, Eikon and the econometrics software STATA
Benefit from regular engagement with industry and authentic assessment opportunities , dealing with real-world problems and issues.
Access virtual simulation games that allow you to participate in running a business and experience collaborative working.
Learn from research-driven academics actively involved in consultancy work including with the University’s Innovations Bridges project supporting local SMEs.
Attend regular masterclasses from industry experts, learning from their experience and keeping at the leading edge of your field.
Benefit from field trips to see business management and analytics in action at companies such as John Lewis, Volvo, PW Gates Logistics and Luton Recycling.
Assessment takes a variety of forms, including reports, portfolios, individual and collaborative tasks (individually assessed), research proposals, poster presentations, and exams.
Many of the assessments tend to be focused on employability and thus tend to be based on live businesses, studies, project work, and other employability-focused activities.
Assessment focuses on tasks that develop vocational skills, underpinned by subject knowledge, requiring higher levels of cognition in the later years of the course.
Assessment becomes more nuanced and more demanding in Level 6 with the expectation that students will be increasingly able to create their own subject-specific knowledge.
You can find employment in all areas of business including finance, operations or project management, supply chain management, marketing and human resource management (HRM).
The course equips you to work for large multinational organisations and for smaller organisations where there are opportunities to work across a number of roles.
The course also provides you with the entrepreneurial knowledge and skills you need to start your own business.
You may also like to progress to further study at postgraduate level.
The University of Bedfordshire Business School offers a range of related taught Master’s courses including our suite of MBAs and specialist areas of business management such as project management, HRM and sustainable management.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-management-with-placement:
We are 1st in the UK for successful graduate social-enterprise start-ups still trading after three years; 2nd for all business start-ups (HESA, 2024).
This course offers a guaranteed 12-week placement, a dedicated, work-placement coordinator and on-going support.
On this course, you study all the essential aspects of business management such as accounting, marketing and strategy, with the opportunity to put your learning into practice through a 12-week work placement.
This strong practical focus means you graduate with the skills to successfully manage a wide variety of organisations or set up your own business.
The course also prepares you for today’s global business environment with units in intercultural management; sustainable practices; and digital business.
Our other Business Management pathway options are:
Business Analytics Digital Marketing Finance Human Resource International Business Law
New, state-of-the-art business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills Our London Stock Exchange Group trading room, reacting to live ‘stock-market’ data Software includes Microsoft Power BI and Vensim simulation, for analysing complex and messy business problems, plus VR immersive skills practice; access to Sage, Eikon and the econometrics software STATA
Gain hands-on work experience a 12-week practice placement introducing you to the challenges and excitement of a career in management.
Learn from research-driven academics actively involved in consultancy work.
Take up opportunities for consultancy experience during the second year of the degree, assisting businesses – from start-ups to established corporations - to solve problems, up-skill and innovate .
Benefit from masterclasses from industry experts so you benefit from their experience and keep at the leading edge in your field.
Access virtual business-management simulation software that allows you to participate in running a business and experience collaborative working.
Extend your experience via field trips to see business management in action at companies such as John Lewis, Volvo, PW Gates Logistics and Luton Recycling.
Many of the assessments tend to be focused on employability thus tend to be based on real case studies project work and other employability focused activities.
Assessment becomes more nuanced and more demanding in Levels 5 & 6 with the expectation that students will be increasingly able to create their own subject specific knowledge.
The enterprise Unit is assessed via portfolio and reflection thus allowing for experiential learning.
The strong focus of this degree on employability skills and the wide range of business areas covered open up many opportunities and possibilities for future employment.
On completing the course you are well placed to take up a mid-level management position in accounting; marketing; human resources; e-business; operations/project management; and general management.
The University of Bedfordshire Business School offers related taught Master’s courses in Business Administration (MBA) Project Management and Sustainable Management.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-management-with-business-analytics:
This course is in the process of receiving accreditation by the British Computer Society (BCS), which will give you Chartered IT Professional certification
One of seven Business Management pathway options, this course merges business management with digital expertise, preparing graduates for data-driven careers.
You gain a thorough training in data analysis, decision-making and real-world application from day one, exploring business management areas such as marketing and management as well as programming for data analysis; soft system analysis; and data modelling.
Our other BSc Business Management pathway options are: Digital Marketing Finance Human Resource International Business Law Placement
This course is in the process of receiving accreditation by the British Computer Society (BCS).
On successfully completing the course, you receive its credential for Chartered IT Professional.
The BSC is recognised as a professional statutory and regulatory body for the accreditation of technology degrees in the UK.
New, state-of-the-art business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills Our London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) trading room, with live ‘stock-market’ data Software includes Microsoft Power BI and Vensim simulation for analysing complex and messy business problems Access to Sage, Refinitiv Workspace and the econometrics software STATA
Become adept at facilitating data-driven solutions for today's market , developing skills that give you the edge in the fast-paced digital transformation of business.
Benefit from a course that gives you the flexibility to change pathway option at the end of your first year.
Widen your experience with field trips to see business management and analytics in action at companies such as John Lewis, Volvo, PW Gates Logistics and Luton Recycling.
Studying our Business Management with Business Analytics BSc (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth skills and knowledge in the combined areas of business management and digital and data analysis.
Building on your analytical skills, our Business Analytics unit will equip you with advanced data analytical strategies used to solve business tasks.
Among other key business elements, you will explore trends and challenges in technology in our Smart Business unit while considering how this can be applied to varying areas of business.
When working in business, it is also important that you build on your employability skills and is where our Managing Business Complexity unit will support your development in areas of teamwork, communication and time management while exposing you to real-life, complex business issues and how to create viable solutions for clients based on this.
It is also important that you are adaptable to change in business environments, and this is where our Strategic Business Planning unit will allow you to understand how business growth and productivity is affected by change as well as how strategic planning can be used to maximise company growth.
In more technical areas, you will also work with statistical data in our Data Analysis for Finance and Economics unit where you will learn to interpret and apply various statistical techniques and use software to collect, summarise and process data.
To add to this, you will explore a range of visualisation methods and concepts in our Data Visualisation unit while examining Data Optimisation techniques in the context of business decision making.
Finally, you will conduct a thorough piece of academic research and/or a practical project in our Business Project unit that will allow you to gain a deeper understanding of the practical use of data in business and how this shapes critical business decisions.
Additionally, our unit in Beginning your Professional Business Journey will help to ease your transition into the workplace and provide an insight into professional business environments.
Assessment information for this course will be made available soon.
Please check back for updates.
On this course, you develop specific skills and knowledge in the area of data analytics and business management that allow you, upon graduation, to follow a career as a data consultant able to offer business solutions using data-driven, evidence-based analysis.
The course will help you prepare for opportunities to become data analysis specialist in the area of marketing, finance and operations across a wider range of service sectors.
You also develop the skills required for lifelong learning, meaning you are well prepared to keep up with the ever-evolving field of business data analysis and ensure your future employability.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-management-with-business-analytics-top-up:
Extend your knowledge and skills through a specialism in business analytics for better career opportunities.
This one-year top-up course is for those who already have qualifications (Level 4 and 5 or 240 credits) or experience in a relevant field and wish to gain a full degree in business management with a specialism in business analytics.
You explore leadership, planning, policy making and how responsible innovation underpins modern business management, with a focus on using data analysis to isolate problems, apply problem-solving techniques and propose effective solutions.
The course brings together the core concepts and tools of business intelligence and artificial intelligence.
Other pathway options include:
This course is practice focused and industry relevant across a variety of organisational, cultural and social settings.
Actively engage in working with your peers and tutor in a face-to-face environment on real-life projects, case studies, and simulations .
In your Business Analysis units, investigate how modern management practices have become technology dependent and data driven .
Develop your skills in research, analysis and problem solving as well as in sourcing, analysing, evaluating and applying information to a range of complex situations.
Benefit from field trips to see business management and analytics in action.
Many of the assessments tend to be focused on employability thus tend to be based on live businesses, studies, project work, and other employability focused activities.
In our increasingly data-driven modern business environment, you can find employment in all areas of business including finance, marketing and human resource management (HRM).
The course equips you to work for large multinational organisations and smaller organisations where there are opportunities to work across a number of roles including those specifically focused on business analytics and data technology.
The University of Bedfordshire Business School offers a range of related taught Master’s courses including our suite of MBAs and specialist areas such as project management, IT management and sustainable management.
Evidence of completion of 30 credits in the subject area of the pathway title

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-management-with-digital-marketing:
Our student-led Marketing Club is run in association with the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM).
This course equips you with the knowledge skills and professional competency to work confidently as a manager in a digitally dependent business environment while also offering you the opportunity to develop a specialism in digital marketing.
The course builds your knowledge and practical skills in general business management subjects such as strategy, policy, design, innovation and entrepreneurship.
You explore how business has evolved in recent years as well as studying the transformational practices that are reshaping current business models, particularly sustainable business practices.
Business Analytics Finance Human Resource International Business Law Placement
New, state-of-the-art business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills Our London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) trading room, where you can react to live ‘stock-market’ data Semrush software so you can practise your digital marketing skills for campaign management Other software includes Microsoft Power BI and Vensim simulation, for analysing complex and messy business problems, plus VR immersive skills practice Use databases such as the Institute of Data and Marketing (IDM) Access to Sage, Refinitiv Workspace (Eikon) and the econometrics software STATA Gain competencies in key digital skills such as Excel through SIMnet, our Microsoft Office training platform
Gain a sought-after specialism on a course that gives you the flexibility to change pathway option at the end of your first year.
Learn from research-driven academics actively involved in consultancy work .
Benefit from marketing visits from industry experts .
Recent marketing visitors include senior staff from Bute Street Festival; IBM Global Markets; Luton Town Football Club; Andrews UK; RetroGames; West Wing Studios; and Wonderbly.
Our student-led, CIM-affiliated Marketing Club organises field trips, events and workshops across a wide range of marketing areas; recent workshops include Neuromarketing; AI in Marketing; and Influencer Marketing.
Gain professional insights with field trips to see business management and marketing in action at a broad range of companies including digital marketing agencies and museums such as the Museum of Brands.
Studying our Business Management with Digital Marketing BSc (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth skills and knowledge in the combined areas of business management and digital marketing.
Embedded within the course design is an opportunity for you to develop research skills, employability skills, analytical and problem-solving skills, professional and responsible behaviours, and be transformed into knowledgeable and effective managers in any working environment.
This course will enable you to keep up with the changing trends and technologies influencing marketing.
In your first year, you will receive support in Beginning your Professional Business Journey that will help to ease your transition into university and provide an insight into professional business environments.
In Evolution and Revolution of Business, you will explore how businesses operate, develop, progress and impact society while examining how certain business trends have evolved over time.
At the same time, Applied Numeracy for Business will give you the confidence to develop the mathematical and numerical skills used for decision making and problem solving for businesses.
In your second year, Data and Research Methods for Business will provide you with the knowledge and skills to conduct research and analyse data in a business context.
You will then explore marketing concepts in more depth in Marketing Communications in the Digital Age, that will introduce you to theories of communication, advertising and public relations.
You will study how brands use marketing communications to reach their target audiences, including using newer forms of promotion such as viral marketing, social media and AI.
In terms of career development, our Employability and the Future Workplace unit will support you in developing the skills needed to prepare for interviews, psychometric tests and assessment centres.
In addition, when working in business, it is also important that you build on your employability skills such as teamwork, time management, presentation and communication.
This is where our Managing Business Complexity unit will support your development of these skills while exposing you to real-life, complex business issues and how to create viable solutions for clients based on this.
Moreover, if you have an interest in working in Small to Medium Enterprises (SME’s), our Marketing for SMEs unit will allow you to develop the creativity, customer relationship and content creation skills targeted towards the development of SMEs.
Another crucial skill in the business world is risk management, and this is where our Risk and Responsibility unit will develop your understanding of business challenges, responsible management and business ethics in a global context.
Finally at Level 6, from an international perspective, our Marketing in a Global Context unit will also enable you to analyse, create and implement global marketing strategies to improve company performance and competitiveness.
Among other key business elements, you will explore the role of technology in areas of digital business including business models, internet marketing, customer relationship management, web analytics and cybersecurity in our Digital Business unit.
The course opens opportunities for you to become a general business manager or operations/project manager.
You can also develop your career in your specialist area moving into human resources; digital and e-business; financial analysis; international operations; and business analytics.
You may like to progress to a related taught Master’s courses such as our Business Administration (MBA) MSc Project Management and MSc Sustainable Management.
We also offer research degree opportunities.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-management-with-digital-marketing-top-up:
Extend your management skills and career choices through a specialism in digital marketing.
This one-year top-up course is for those who already have qualifications (Level 4 and 5 or 240 credits) or experience in a relevant field and wish to gain a full degree in business management with a specialism in digital marketing.
You explore leadership, planning, policy making and how responsible innovation underpins modern business management alongside gaining an in-depth knowledge of digital technologies, global marketing, and the impact of marketing communications on a given industry or product.
New, state-of-the-art business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills Our London Stock Exchange Group trading room, reacting to live ‘stock-market’ data Software includes Microsoft Power BI and Vensim simulation, for analysing complex and messy business problems, plus VR immersive skills practice Access to Sage, Eikon and the econometrics software STATA as well as Semrush digital marketing software
Benefit from field trips to see business management and marketing in action.
Assessment becomes more nuanced and more demanding in Levels 6 with the expectation that students will be increasingly able to create their own subject specific knowledge.
In our increasingly data-driven modern business environment, you can find employment in all areas of business, particularly marketing.
The course equips you to work for both large multinational organisations and smaller organisations where there are opportunities to work across a number of roles, including those specifically focused on digital marketing.
The University of Bedfordshire Business School offers a range of related taught Master’s courses including MSc Digital Marketing; our suite of MBAs; and specialist areas such as project management, IT management and sustainable management.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-management-with-finance:
We are 1st in the UK for successful graduate social-enterprise start-ups still trading after three years; 3rd in the UK for all business start-ups still trading after three years (HESA, 2023)
100% of our graduates in Economics are in highly skilled employment or graduate study, 15 months after graduating (HESA Graduate Outcomes, 2023)
Over 95% of our business and management graduates are in employment or involved in further study, 15 months after graduating (HESA Graduate Outcomes, 2023)
This course prepares you for managerial roles across a range of business environments while offering specialisation in finance.
You study the core areas of business management including strategy; leadership; innovation; responsible management; sustainable practices; and entrepreneurship.
You also develop your understanding of key financial theories and practice, equipping you with the skills to understand the impact of financial and investment decisions on businesses.
Our other BSc Business Management pathway options are: Business Analytics Digital Marketing Human Resource International Business Law Placement
New, state-of-the-art business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills Our Reuters trading room, reacting to live ‘stock-market’ data Semrush software so you can practise your digital marketing skills for campaign management Other software includes Microsoft Power BI and Vensim simulation, for analysing complex and messy business problems, plus VR immersive skills practice Access databases such as Harvard Business Publishing and the Institute of Data and Marketing (IDM) Access to Sage, Refinitiv Workspace and the econometrics software STATA Gain competencies in key digital skills such as Excel through SIMnet, our Microsoft Office training platform
Benefit from marketing visits from industry experts.
Studying our Business Management with Finance BSc (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth skills and knowledge in the combined areas of business, finance and accounting.
This course will enable you to keep up with the changing trends in financial ecology exploring latest financial technologies.
In other areas of study, our Financial Theory and Practice unit will discuss core finance theories for you to analyse financial statements and identify revenues and costs for management solutions and decision making.
When working in business, it is also important that you build on your employability skills such as teamwork, time management, presentation and communication.
In your final year, in our Business Finance unit you will develop your knowledge and analytical skills on the efficient and effective management of the scarce financial resources within the business context in order to achieve set corporate objectives.
Moreover, you will be equipped with data manipulation techniques in our Data Driven Business unit while exploring trends and ethical concerns around data collection, use and analysis.
Building on this, you will gain thorough knowledge around accounting theory and practice in our Financial Reporting unit that will enable you to exhibit financial reporting responsibility.
You will be encouraged to take risks in our Innovation and Entrepreneurship unit while learning to design innovative business models, discover how to start a new business and build your understanding on concepts of entrepreneurship.
Finally, you will conduct a thorough piece of academic research exploring evidence-based solutions for business problems in our Business Project unit that will allow you to gain a deeper understanding of the academic research paradigms.
This course also aims to offer a range of employability and career opportunities through practice-based pedagogies utilising business cases, simulations and live projects - preparing you for the future workplace.
At the same time, you will learn from our staff that have significant years of experience in the industry and have actively engaged in supporting SMEs through our Research and Innovation Services.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-management-with-finance-with-top-up:
Extend your management skills and career choices through a specialism in finance.
This one-year top-up course is for those who already have qualifications (Level 4 and 5 or 240 credits) or experience in a relevant field and wish to gain a full degree in business management with a specialism in finance.
You explore leadership, planning, policy making and how responsible innovation underpins modern business management alongside gaining an in-depth knowledge of the theories and frameworks of finance, and how accounting and other information systems are used to plan, control, make decisions and manage risk.
New, state-of-the-art business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills Our London Stock Exchange Group trading room, reacting to live ‘stock-market’ data Software includes Microsoft Power BI and Vensim simulation, for analysing complex and messy business problems, plus VR immersive skills practice Access to Sage, Eikon and the econometrics software STATA.
In our increasingly data-driven modern business environment, this course opens up employment in all areas of business, particularly within finance and accounting.
The course equips you to work for both large multinational organisations and smaller organisations where there are opportunities to work across a number of roles, including those specifically focused on finance and accounting leadership and management.
The University of Bedfordshire Business School offers a range of related taught Master’s courses including MSc Accounting and Business Finance; our suite of MBAs; and specialist areas such as project management, IT management and sustainable management.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-management-with-human-resource:
We are a Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) accredited centre.
In 2023/24, our Business School students engaged with real-life businesses around 7,000 times, using their knowledge and skills to support live projects
This course builds your understanding and practical skills in general business management subjects such as strategy, policy design, innovation and entrepreneurship while exploring the business practices reshaping current business models.
You explore key areas of human resource management (HRM) such as employee relations, leadership and motivation, and recruitment, developing your understanding of how HRM works with other business disciplines.
Business Analytics Digital Marketing Finance International Business Law Placement
New, state-of-the-art business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills Our London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) trading room, allowing you to react to live ‘stock-market’ data Software includes Microsoft Power BI and Vensim simulation, for analysing complex and messy business problems Access to Sage, Refinitiv Workspace and the econometrics software STATA Access virtual business-management simulation software that allows you to participate in running a business and experience collaborative working
Learn from research-driven academics actively involved in consultancy work, including HRM tutors active within the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD).
Benefit from field trips to see business management and HRM in action at companies such as John Lewis, Volvo, PW Gates Logistics and Luton Recycling.
Widen your understanding with masterclasses from industry experts so you learn from their experience and keep at the leading edge in your field.
Studying our Business Management with HRM BSc (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth skills and knowledge in the combined areas of business management and human resource management.
Embedded within the course design is an opportunity for you to develop research skills, employability skills, analytical and problem-solving skills, professional and responsible behaviours, and be transformed into knowledgeable and effective managers in any working environment within a human resource (HR) context.
You will engage with practice-based pedagogies utilising business cases, simulations, and live projects that will prepare you for the future workplace.
In your first year, you will receive support in Beginning your Professional Business Journey.
that will help to ease your transition into university and provide an insight into professional business environments.
Evolution and Revolution of Business will allow you to explore how businesses operate, develop, progress and impact society.
Furthermore, this unit examines how certain business trends have evolved over time.
Our unit in Applied Numeracy for Business will give you the confidence to develop the mathematical and numerical skills used for decision making and problem solving for businesses.
In Year 2, in our unit Data and Research Methods for Business this will provide you with the knowledge and skills to conduct research and analyse data in a business context.
Strategic Context of HRM and People Resourcing and Development units explore the role HR function plays in an organisation and the framework for managing people that contribute to better organisational culture and performance.
In your final year, our Innovation and Entrepreneurship unit will teach you to design innovative business models, discover how to start a new business and build your understanding on concepts of entrepreneurship.
Contemporary Issues in the Workplace and Developing Professional Human Resource Management Practice provides a practice-based approach to develop knowledge and understanding in HR practices and policies.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-management-with-human-resource-management-top-up:
Extend your management skills and career choices through a specialism in human resource management (HRM).
This one-year top-up course is for those who already have qualifications (Level 4 and 5 or 240 credits) or experience in a relevant field and wish to gain a full degree in business management with a specialism in human resource management (HRM).
It is designed to equip you with the knowledge, skills and professional competency to work in a modern business environment while building your understanding of HR theory; the strategic role of HR; people development; contemporary HR practices; and effective HR solutions for a range of contexts.
Benefit from regular engagement with industry and authentic assessment opportunities , dealing with real-world HR problems and issues.
The course includes a consultancy unit where you have the opportunity to work with a business using systems-thinking tools.
In our increasingly data-driven modern business environment, this course opens up employment in all areas of business, particularly within HRM.
The course equips you to work for both large multinational organisations and smaller organisations.
The University of Bedfordshire Business School offers a range of related taught Master’s courses including our suite of MBAs (that offers a HRM pathway); and specialist areas such as project management, IT management and sustainable management.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-management-with-international-business:
The course offers the flexibility to change pathway option at the end of your first year, allowing movement between pathways.
This course prepares you for managerial roles across a range of business environments while offering specialisation in international business.
Your specialism studies give you a thorough grounding in responsible and effective global business management including international economics, marketing and intercultural awareness.
Business Analytics Digital Marketing Finance Human Resource Law Placement
New business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills needed in today's workplace £300K of industry-standard hardware and software, including Sage, Refinitiv Workspace, STATA, and Vensim simulation software for analysing complex and messy business problems London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) trading room gives you the chance to react to live ‘stock-market’ data and build investment portfolios using data on listed international companies Gain competencies in key digital skills such as Excel through SIMnet, our Microsoft Office training platform
Gain the essential knowledge and skills you need to navigate the global business landscape , developing the global mindset crucial for success in today's interconnected business environment.
Attend talks from business professionals from across the world , broadening your understanding of what is possible in the field.
Recent speakers have had influential positions at Enterprise Rent-a-car, Wizz Air, IBM Global Markets, and Luton Town Football Club.
Studying our Business Management with International Business BSc (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth skills and knowledge in the combined areas of business management and digital marketing.
In your first year, you will receive support in our Beginning Your Professional Business Journey unit, which will help ease your transition into university and provide insight into professional business environments.
Intercultural Management in Business will then allow you to explore the application of intercultural communication theories in an international business environment.
Emphasis is placed on developing intercultural interactive competence and introducing key aspects of managing behaviour and expectations across cultures.
In your final year, Innovation and Entrepreneurship will teach you to design innovative business models, discover how to start a new business and build your understanding on concepts of entrepreneurship.
Whereas in Business Continuity and the Planet, you will tackle environmental issues that will allow you to investigate the strategic risks and challenges posed towards business operations including climate change, cybersecurity and supply chain risks.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-management-with-international-business-top-up:
Extend your management skills and career choices through a specialism in international business.
This one-year top-up course is for those who already have qualifications (Level 4 and 5 or 240 credits) or experience in a relevant field and wish to gain a full degree in business management with a specialism in international business.
It explores how multinational businesses operate and plan strategic expansions into new markets, giving you understanding of key international corporate and economic issues as well as the skills and commercial insight to be an outstanding manager anywhere in the world.
Build the digital and analytical skills you need to make informed decisions within an international business context.
Benefit from regular engagement with industry and authentic assessment opportunities , dealing with real-world global business problems and issues.
Select, propose and implement a research project exploring a problem within the context of international business.
In our increasingly data-driven modern business environment, this course opens up employment opportunities internationally across a range of businesses, both in large multinational organisations and smaller organisations where you could take on a variety of management roles.
The University of Bedfordshire Business School offers a range of related taught Master’s courses including our MSc International Business; our suite of MBAs; and specialist areas such as project management, IT management and sustainable management.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/business-management-with-law:
You have the opportunity for consultancy experience during the second year of the degree.
In today's regulatory landscape, corporations require managers versed in business law.
This course equips you with both the managerial skills and legal knowledge you need for organisational success.
You explore key management areas like marketing, accounting and human resources alongside business law fundamentals, such as contract and intellectual property law.
You learn to apply theory to real-world scenarios, becoming an adept manager able to thrive in a broad range of organisational settings.
New, state-of-the-art business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills Our London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) trading room, where you can react to live ‘stock-market’ data Semrush software so you can practise your digital marketing skills for campaign management Other software includes Microsoft Power BI and Vensim simulation, for analysing complex and messy business problems, plus VR immersive skills practice Access to Sage, Refinitiv Workspace (Eikon) and the econometrics software STATA Gain competencies in key digital skills such as Excel through SIMnet, our Microsoft Office training platform
Gain a sought-after specialism in law alongside a wide range of management and leadership skills.
Learn from research-driven a cademics actively involved in consultancy work .
· Attend regular masterclasses from industry experts .
Studying our Business Management with Law BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the knowledge and skills in the combined areas of business and its legal frameworks.
This course will enable you to explore legal contexts in depth.
In Evolution and Revolution of Business , you will explore how businesses operate, develop, progress and impact society while examining how certain business trends have evolved over time.
It is also important that you understand how contracts are formed and regulated, as well as the legal issues that arise when contractual relationships break down.
This is where our unit in Contract Law will allow you to explore principles of contract law and how it protects both businesses and consumers.
In your second year, our Law of Tort unit will allow you to explore the role of Tort in a societal context through engaging with common law principles while also critically analysing and evaluating case law.
To prepare you for your career, Employability and the Future Workplace will support you in developing the skills needed to prepare for interviews, psychometric tests and assessment centres.
Data and Research Methods for Business will provide you with the knowledge and skills to conduct research and analyse data in a business context.
In your final year, our Strategic Leadership unit will enable you to design realistic and practical strategies for businesses and identify trends while developing your employability skills.
With significant relevance to business, you will be able to build on your knowledge on the nature of companies and business functions in Company Law in the context of the legal framework in which they are regulated.
In other areas of study, you will tackle environmental issues in Business Continuity and the Planet that will allow you to investigate the strategic risks and challenges posed towards business operations including climate change, cybersecurity and supply chain risks.
Furthermore, you will also be given an overview of Intellectual Property Law and the concept of intangible property before considering contemporary legal issues around intellectual property rights.
Y1: Foundations of Business Communication Y2: Sustainable Business Management Y3: Specialist Project
You will have the skills for a career in business management in positions with a heightened understanding of the legal frameworks that affect business affairs.
You have the option of specialising in all aspects of business management including business law if you decide to pursue postgraduate studies.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/child-and-family-studies:
In the National Student Survey (NSS) 2024, our social sciences courses rank in the top 5 in their subject field for teaching; academic support; assessment and feedback; and student voice.
Continue to work or volunteer in the child and family services sector as you study so you can put theory into practice in your workplace.
Completing this two-year Foundation degree opens the way to achieving a full Honours degree, entering in the final year of a related course such as our Childhood and Youth Studies BA (Hons).
This Foundation degree enhances your skill set and improves your employment prospects while you continue to work or volunteer in the child and family services sector*.
The course offers up-to-date teaching in areas such as policy and practice, and expands your understanding of child development and welfare.
Its strong vocational element means real-life practice informs the curriculum and your work.
*To take this course, you must be employed or volunteering with children or young people for at least 14 hours a week; you will also need a work-based mentor to support you with your studies.
For further information, visit the Bedford College Group
This course is offered in partnership with the Bedford College Group
Study a course with the underpinning belief that children, young people and families should have equal access to services and opportunities, regardless of social difference.
Benefit from academic support and a workplace mentor system that help you get the most out of your studies and workplace development.
Develop highly desired skills such as critical thinking, effective communication and collaborative working that enhance your future employability.
Complete a final-year, work-based project with the support of your academic team.
Access to the University of Bedfordshire’s Luton and Bedford campuses for library resources, study visits, and to take part in our Study Hub workshops and drop-ins.
Get involved in our exciting #SASS Change Maker initiative , which works with local charities, policymakers and community influences to raise awareness of topical issues in society.
I have been teaching in higher education in the social sciences for many years including several years as an Associate Lecturer within Applied Social Studies at the University of Bedfordshire.
I joined the department on a permanent basis in July 2017.
My doctoral research, undertaken at the Open University, was a feminist informed narrative-discursive exploration of step-mothering and identity.
Studying our Child and Family Studies Foundation Degree will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills around child development and welfare that will allow you to provide high-quality services to children, young people and families.
As an important foundation to your study, you will be given an Introduction to Working with Children, Young People and Families in Practice.
This unit will equip you with the concepts, theories and skills needed to work with children, young people and families within the framework of human services and government policy.
Building on this you will develop your understanding of theories of childhood, youth and education in our Narratives of Childhood and Youth unit while also looking at theory around children and young people’s development with a focus on identity formation and perception in our Perceptions and Discourses of Childhood unit.
Our Law, Society and Controversy unit will introduce you to foundational knowledge of the legal system, its institutions and practices in the UK and internationally.
You will consider the relevance of law and how it impacts society and orders social life by examining key issues and debates at the centre of law and society.
You will draw from this legislation in our Working Together: Inter-Agency Approaches to Child Welfare Assessment and Intervention unit to consider the historical and current approaches to child welfare and multi-agency working.
This will be particularly useful in allowing you to advocate and challenge decisions to support the needs of children and young people.
You will also be given an opportunity to enhance your overall skill and understanding of working with users of education, health and social care in our Management and Applied Experience within a Work-Based Learning Environment unit.
Moreover, you will be able to enhance your insight into the field of health and social care provision for children and adults, policies and procedures and how this impacts service delivery.
Finally, you will have the opportunity to complete an independent, situation-specific project in our Researching Children and Family Practice (Work Based Project) unit where you will be supported by a supervisor across one-to-one tutorials.
The overall strategy of the Foundation degree seeks to reflect the breadth of study possible, as well as ensuring that you have the opportunity to build on areas of particular interest or relevance to themselves.
A range of appropriate and effective assessments will enable you to demonstrate your acquisition of knowledge and skills.
The assessment methods used across the course include:
Written assignments – these will vary in style and will include essays, reports, reflective accounts as well as other written tasks that we will prepare you for.
Examinations: These will be a range of multiple choice computer examinations.
Throughout your two years (three years if you decide to take the ‘top up option’ at level 6) there will also be several in-class tests allowing you to apply and use the theory and knowledge that you have gained through your studies.
Oral and Poster presentations that demonstrate verbal and presentation skills through sharing information and knowledge with others in innovative ways.
Group work will allow you to demonstrate your skills of research in a group; it will develop your skills in collaborative and multiagency working and group management.
Even though you will be working in a group you will be assessed on an individual basis and will receive an individual grade based on your input and performance.
The assessments will develop across the course and will allow you to gain skills and acquire knowledge, receive feedback on your progress that will allow you to implement knowledge and feedback into further assessments.
For example, at level four the learning of the skill of report/essay writing will take place before you write your first essay or report.
At level five assessments will allow you to demonstrate your understanding and the application of relevant and up to date knowledge to the field of children, young people and family services.
Working in groups is an important attribute that underpins the ethos of multi agency and multi disciplinary working and collaborative practice and as part of the assessment process you will work in groups with peers and colleagues.
However, your contribution will be individually graded and you will receive a grade based on your contribution to the assessed group work.
Assessment will be a part of the learning process to develop your knowledge and skills in order to become a highly effective practitioner by the end of your studies.
On completion of this course, you will have developed the skills and knowledge required to support your career prospects within the sector.
You are likely to progress into the following areas:
If you would like to continue with your studies, completing this Foundation degree allows you to enter the final year of the University of Bedfordshire’s BA (Hons) Childhood and Youth Studies.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/childhood-and-youth-studies:
In the National Student Survey 2024, over 95% of our childhood and youth studies students were satisfied with their teaching and learning opportunities, putting these courses in the UK top 10 in their subject field in these areas.
100% of our childhood and youth studies students were satisfied with how well their course developed knowledge and skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
In the Complete University Guide (CUG) 2026, our childhood and youth studies courses ranked 2nd in their subject field for student satisfaction.
Make a real difference to the lives of children and their families on a degree course that combines up-to-the-minute theory with practical experience, providing you with a thorough understanding of the needs of children and young people in a digital age.
Start by exploring child development and child welfare as well as the social policies and legislation surrounding it before choosing from specialist options, such as mental health, disability, SEND and youth violence, in your second and third years.
Seven-storey library with an extensive range of physical and digital resources Bespoke lecture theatres, presentation rooms and group study spaces Interactive learning opportunities with the use of case studies and our new, state-of-the-art simulation suites offering a range of relevant practice scenarios
Our strong links with local organisations, charities and practitioners open up opportunities for voluntary and work placements in the community.
For example, our students have recently undertaken projects in local primary schools, family centres, youth centres and with the Youth Partnership Service.
Learn from a staff team from a variety of professional and practice backgrounds including alternative educational provision; counselling and drugs support; youth work; community work; mentoring and coaching; safeguarding; early years; looked-after children; and relationships and sex education.
Study alongside academics with on-going research expertise in areas including school exclusion and alternative provision; fatherhood and masculinity; and interventions to tackle harmful sexualised behaviours in schools.
Make the most of opportunities to learn alongside students from similar subjects in some of your units, benefitting from the diversity of perspectives.
As you progress in your studies, you explore more specialist topics in your second and third years.
Take on accredited training leading to a Certificate in Safeguarding in your final year.
Immerse yourself in our #SASS Change Maker initiative , which works with local charities, policymakers and influencers to raise awareness of topical issues in society .
Be able to recognise and challenge discrimination, oppression and inequality across a range of services.
Benefit from our ‘Youth work community of practice’ hosted by academic team member (and MA course lead) Dr Tina Salter, where students and regional youth workers or service providers can explore issues around practice.
Hear from leading guest speakers in our regular workshops and seminars.
Take part in subject-relevant field trips to sites such as the Museum of Childhood.
In your final year, choose from completing a research dissertation or a 100-hour placement project of your choice.
Last summer the staff team had a day out at the Young V&A museum who host an exhibit dedicated to childhood.
This was more than a simple social visit - it was a reconnaissance exercise.
So impressed were we with the exhibits, that we organised a visit for our students in January 2024 as there were so many fantastic displays related specifically to our unit contents, especially Narratives of Childhood, where we explore toys and games from childhood.
We would strongly recommend all our students to take the time to explore the museum, in particular our final years students who may be looking for ideas for their dissertations.
I have been teaching youth and community work in a number of educational settings since 2004.
I qualified as a youth and community worker in 1994 and have gone on to be awarded a Masters and Professional Doctorate in Coaching and Mentoring from Oxford Brookes University.
I developed a keen interest in mentoring and coaching as this was an area I specialised when working as a youth work and manager in the area of youth inclusion.
Part of my doctoral research looked at comparing different mentoring and coaching disciplines and more recent research suggest that greater opportunities to coach young people using strengths-based approaches might be more effective than depending on older, deficit mentoring models.
Studying our Childhood and Youth Studies BA (Hons) course will equip you with the in-depth skills and expertise for a rewarding career working with children, young people, families and communities.
If you are stepping up to Higher Education with a Foundation year you will study a range of contemporary social issues and learn to examine these through a sociological lens.
You will also be supported to develop skills that will underpin your studies and your work and personal development.
In year one, you will build a solid understanding of human development and how this can be used for assessment, planning and intervention with children, young people and their families in our Development in Childhood and Youth unit.
If you are passionate about working with children, young people and families, our Narratives of Childhood and Youth unit draws on different theoretical perspectives to explore the ways in which children and young people’s social and learning worlds are experienced by them and constructed, surveyed and regulated by adults.
In addition, our unit in Relationship Based Practice will introduce crucial skills for professional practice that will enable you to predict, explain and assess situations, behaviour and human needs providing a rationale for intervention.
In your second year, our Perceptions and Discourses of Childhood will develop some of the issues introduced in Narratives of Childhood in your first year and looks at some of the risks and opportunities presented by today’s on and offline worlds.
You will also have the opportunity to undertake a range of optional units in your second and third years.
In year two, with an intersectional approach, you may also explore how these aspects of identity are interconnected with the issues faced by disabled children, young people and adults in our Disability in Society unit.
You may also choose to examine the sociological and psychiatric perspectives on mental health and illness in our Mental Health and Society unit; or you may want to undertake the Digital Childhoods unit and explore the impact of social media and online interventions.
Alternatively, you can develop a theoretical understanding of addictive behaviours in our Addictions and Society unit such as gambling, gaming, substance misuse, pornography, food and more.
If you have a particular interest in working in Early Years, there is the option to study the Leadership and Management in Early Years unit.
Another important area of your study involves planning your career pathway and the Work Related Learning in Childhood and Youth will enable you to explore your options.
In Year 3 the core unit called Child Protection and Safeguarding: The Contexts of Vulnerability will enable you to enhance your knowledge and skills for the complex field of child abuse and neglect by critically analysing child protection policy, practice and initiatives.
In your final year, you will also be able to choose from units such as Childhoods in a Global Context where you will critically reflect on the study of childhoods in the UK and internationally to identify how to improve services for vulnerable children, young people and families.
You could also explore The Lived Experiences of Children and Young People in Diverse Family and Social Circumstances to empathise and support marginalised children and young people; or seek to compare and examine policies and approaches to meet the needs of young people in our Youth Justice, Gangs and Serious Violence.
You can also critically examine theories of violence and types of violent crime to understand the context of Violence in Modern Society.
You could also opt for the Issues of Childhood and Social Justice unit where you will consider broader societal challenges and how these affect children and young people.
Finally, you will have the choice of completing a SASS Change Maker Project Dissertation or Research Dissertation where you will develop and demonstrate academic and professional skills.
In the project-based dissertation, you will have the opportunity to work with a community-based organisation to deliver a project while building on skills that will support your personal development towards your desired graduate career.
If you choose to undertake a research dissertation, this gives you an opportunity to develop a research proposal, consider the ethical implications of your work and conduct an in-depth, focused research enquiry around an area of professional interest.
To help you with this, you will study units across the three years of this degree that will build your understanding and skills in research in the field of social sciences.
This starts in Year 1 with an Introduction to Research and Social Enquiry and is continued through to Year 2 with our units in Research 1: Collecting Data and Research 2: Exploring Data.
Outside of theory and practice, this course also offers a number of units that will support your employability in the field of social sciences.
Our unit in Career Planning for Social Scientists will facilitate your career development journey by allowing you to identify your transferrable skills and articulate them in a confident, meaningful and positive manner.
Assessment is designed to support students learning journeys so that assessments promote reflection and sharing of knowledge and are therefore assessments for learning as well as assessments of learning.
The final year Dissertation provides two pathways; you will undertake either a project or a research dissertation This allows you to undertake project in a community-based organisation or undertake research (primary or secondary).
Both options will require you to demonstrate your ability to develop and deliver a self -directed complex and solution focused task drawing on the skills and knowledge gained in your Degree course.
The assessments will develop across the course and will allow you to gain skills and acquire knowledge receive feedback on your progress that will allow you to implement knowledge and feedback into further assessments.
For example at level four the learning of the skill of report/essay writing will take place before you write your first essay or report.
At level five and six assessment will allow you to demonstrate your understanding and the application of relevant and up to date knowledge to the field of children and young people's services.
Our focus on employability throughout the degree course means that we support you in developing a portfolio of practical skills that will enhance your career prospects.
Our graduates are equipped to understand and apply their knowledge of key theories, debates and the latest research to inform practice.
The course equips you for roles and career progression in education; social work and social welfare; family and youth services; and community work.
Graduates from this course can move on to professional accreditation courses to become a teacher, social worker or a JNC-accredited youth worker.
You may also like to undertake further academic study at Master’s level with related degrees such as our MA Childhood, Youth and Family Studies

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/childhood-youth-and-family-studies:
Links to children/young people’s services extend across Bedfordshire into north London, helping our students make connections.
We support our students to gain voluntary experience, if they would like it.
This course is aimed at those interested in working with children and families, equipping you with the skills and knowledge to pursue or develop your career across a range of work settings.
It runs alongside our MA Childhood Youth and Family Studies: Youth Work Pathway
You explore the theory, practice, research and policy that underpins children’s, youth and family services while developing your understanding of children’s rights; welfare responsibilities; and how they are applied.
Access to our simulation suites including our brand-new simulation floor that takes you from mock home to hospital, giving you hands-on experience of a range of scenarios you’ll encounter in the real world Resources from the National Youth Agency
As part of this course, you access the Youth Work Community of Practice network, hosted by the University of Bedfordshire, which brings together youth workers from across Bedfordshire.
Learn from an expert teaching team with a range of professional experience working with children, young people and families.
Follow your interests with a choice of optional units including young people, group offending and violent crime; safeguarding; coaching and mentoring; and social enterprise.
Explore practice-based issues by joining the University’s Youth Work Community of Practice , open to all students and practitioners in the region.
Attend regular visits and talks by local practitioners involved in working with children and young people including local government, charities and other youth service providers.
Challenge yourself by undertaking an independent research project in a subject area of interest.
Studying our Childhood, Youth and Family Studies MA course will provide you with the knowledge and skills to pursue a career working with children, young people and families.
As an important part of your work, our unit in Effective and Ethical Practice when Working with Children, Young People and Families, you will learn to build relationships and engage with children, young people and their families within social care, youth work, health, criminal justice and educational settings.
Furthermore, you will be introduced to theories of working with people, methods of intervention and practical communication which you will also place in the context of tensions and challenges when it comes to working with those who do not welcome the intervention of professionals.
You will also learn of techniques to handle conflict, ambivalence and reluctance while adopting an anti-oppressive and ethical practice when engaging with children, young people and their families.
To develop your practice, you will be exposed to contemporary theories around childhood, youth and families while also learning to apply them to relevant scenarios in our Dimensions of Childhood, Youth and Families unit.
More importantly, you will be equipped with the tools to safeguard children and young people, manage risk, and develop as a dynamic professional to work towards the best interests of children, young people and families.
In addition, this course allows you to partake in a range of optional units that will give you the opportunity to specialise in your relevant areas of interest.
Our unit in Young People, Group Offending and Violent Crime will allow you to analyse research from European and North American settings alongside sociological and criminological theory to explore the nature, extent and impact of violent group offending by young people and how to respond or intervene effectively based on current policy and practice.
In doing so, you will also consider the social, economic, political and cultural factors that shape violent group offending.
You can also develop key skills in Coaching and Mentoring Practice and understand how this can be applied to a range of professional and private settings.
Furthermore, you may also analyse the nature and contextual dynamics of abuse in adolescence in our Contextual Safeguarding: Theoretical Foundations and Practical Implications unit.
Here, you will explore contemporary research to develop your understanding of contextual safeguarding frameworks and its applications in response to extra-familial harm.
Similarly, our unit called The Conceptual Framework: Theories Shaping Public Policy for Children and Young People’s Services, will allow you to critically analyse theories and ideas that inform public policy relating to children, young people, their families and communities while also considering structural inequality and disadvantage.
Aside from this, you may choose to explore Critical Considerations for Relationship and Sex Education as a means to deliver non-judgemental information around sex and relationships to young people that is increasingly needed for the benefit of young people.
This unit will introduce you to key concepts around policy and practice to deliver inclusive and rights-based relationship education to children and young people.
Alternatively, you can also explore the theories and concepts of social entrepreneurship as well as how to design and implement a social enterprise project or venture in our Social Enterprise unit.
Finally, you will complete a Dissertation in Childhood, Youth and Family Studies by forming and engaging with a research question formed around your own area of interest relevant to the field.
By collaborating with a supervisor, you will conduct original research with help from our units in Research Methods 1: Setting Deep Foundations and Research Methods 2: Design, Data Collection and Ethics.
Here, you will be taught to combine policy and data with research evidence to critically analyse a topic of your interest and subsequently propose a research idea that is robustly designed, makes use of data collection methods and is ethically sound.
Assessment aims to enhance the learning experience rather than simply provide academic hurdles to be surmounted.
Nonetheless it must offer a reliable test of the student's level of academic attainment.
To achieve this the assessment methods used must relate closely to the intended unit learning outcomes as evidenced in the UIFs whilst allowing the student maximum scope for creativity in fulfilling them.
The assessment strategy is intended to enable students to:
The range of assessment methods to be used will provide students with the opportunity to demonstrate their competence in a variety of ways reflective of different learning styles and will ensure the focus upon a critical awareness of the literature and the application of knowledge into practice with regard to the current social and political frameworks.
Formative assessment is integrated at the start to allow for a level of reflection.
A focus upon the application of theory to policy and practice would be expected within such an award and students will be expected as part of the assessment process to consider the impact of such knowledge on both policy and practice especially via the critical appraisal of case studies and the identification of best practice.
Focus is placed on professional skills and assessing students ability to apply learning to practice.
Feedback on assessments and the reflections gained through the portfolio will enable students to critically assess their learning and develop where necessary.
A range of appropriate and effective assessments will enable students to demonstrate their acquisition of knowledge and skills.
The assessment methods used across the course include: -
The assessments will develop incrementally across the course and allow students to gain skills and acquire knowledge receive feedback on their performance thus allowing students to implement knowledge and feedback into subsequent assessments.
There is a progression point with an exam board to confirm students can progress from PG Dip to dissertation stage.
At the end of the course the assessments will demonstrate students ability to analyse evaluate and syntheses current knowledge and communicate this knowledge in both written and presentational formats and to demonstrate a range of high level transferable skills attractive to prospective employers and as evidenced in the course learning outcomes.
This course enables you to enhance your career prospects across professional boundaries by broadening and deepening your knowledge and understanding of the lives of children and young people and the services available to them.
Students often go on to work in areas such as youth work; social welfare; and education, specialising either in children, young people or family work.
This course also helps you to progress into more senior positions, further develop your practice or go on to become policy-makers.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/childhood-youth-and-family-studies-youth-work:
The Youth Work pathway is validated by the National Youth Agency, providing you with a professional qualification in youth work.
Our links to children/young people’s services extend across Bedfordshire into north London, helping you make connections and find placements.
This 15-month course is specifically for those wanting to work with young people in a variety of settings, giving you the skills and knowledge to pursue or develop your career in youth work.
It runs alongside our MA Childhood Youth and Family Studies
You explore the theory, practice, research and policy that underpins children’s, youth and family services while developing your understanding of children’s rights; the ideologies and responsibilities of welfare; and how they are applied.
This course with Youth Work pathway is validated by the National Youth Agency, giving you a Joint Negotiating Committee (JNC) professional qualification in youth work.
Gain hands-on experience on placement , supporting young people in a range of settings and learning the different ways in which youth work is delivered.
Attend regular talks by local practitioners and managers involved in working with children and young people.
Complete 400 practice hours on placement (paid or voluntary) across nine months (full time) or two years (part time); if you are not currently in practice, we can support you to find a placement.
Studying our Childhood, Youth and Family Studies: Youth Work Pathway MA course will provide you with in-depth skills and knowledge around youth work, studies and services with the opportunity to gain industry experience working in the field.
Finally, you will have the opportunity to undertake a youth work placement within a relevant organisation where you will complete 400 hours of practice and develop a portfolio of work alongside this in our Professional Practice Portfolio unit.
This experience will allow you to develop in a professional role, foster inclusive practice and build your network and contacts.
In areas of research, you will also complete a Dissertation in Childhood, Youth and Family Studies by forming and engaging with a research question formed around your own area of interest relevant to the field.
This course enables you to enhance your career prospects across professional boundaries by broadening and deepening your knowledge and understanding of the lives of young people and the services available to them.
Students often go on to work in areas such as youth work, community development or educational settings, with a specialism that focuses on young people.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/children-and-young-peoples-nursing:
Our strong links with healthcare providers mean you can secure a local practice placement in Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, Hertfordshire, Milton Keynes or Oxfordshire.
92% of our health studies students were satisfied with how well the course developed knowledge and skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
A nurse needs to be able to assess care needs then plan, implement and evaluate care for children and young people with a wide range of illnesses and conditions.
You could be eligible for a £5,000 NHS training grant to help with living costs.
On successful completion of your course, you can register with the NMC as a children and young people's nurse.
Access to the latest equipment and facilities at district general hospitals and community health settings during placements On campus, a fully immersive simulation suite, preparing students to respond to and manage clinical situations and scenarios including: a five-bedded simulation ward with a range of medical-grade training mannequins, including an infant mannequin, to tackle real-life scenarios in a safe and supported environment a skills room to practise clinical skills such as basic life support; venepuncture and cannulation; and catheterisation an immersive room where we can project a background, such as a tube station, to practise simulation in different environments safely a social living space for practise in nursing children and young people within the community.
This living space consists of a children’s bedroom with a bunk bed; bathroom; baby’s room; parents’ room; and a kitchen/diner/sitting room a debriefing room
To ensure your learning meets the benchmark set for care providers, our healthcare courses have been developed in collaboration with regional healthcare providers and health authorities.
Work in partnership with a multi-professional team to deliver nursing care to children , young people and their families, learning how to prioritise the wellbeing and safety of children.
Our strong links with regional healthcare providers mean you can secure a local practice placement in Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, Hertfordshire, Milton Keynes or Oxfordshire .
On placement, you undertake a mix of early, late and night shifts to ensure you experience typical shift patterns for a healthcare professional.
Hear from Sandra Wielesik, Children and Young People's Nursing student
Hear from Aideen Corrigan, first year Children and Young People's Nursing student
I am a Paediatric Advanced Nurse Practitioner with experience in caring for children with a wide variety of conditions.
I have worked in general paediatric care since I qualified in 1995 – I have worked at Stoke Mandeville Hospital, Northampton General and Bedford Hospital.
Studying our Children and Young People’s Nursing BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the specialist knowledge and skills to plan, implement and evaluate care for children and young people with a range of illnesses and conditions.
In core areas of study, you will develop a foundational understanding of the role of a children’s nurse in caring for children, young people and their families in our Growth, Development and Rights-Based Practice in Children and Young People’s Nursing unit.
Here, you will examine child growth and development while also appreciating children and young people’s rights.
In addition, you will have the opportunity to engage in children and young people’s nursing across a range of services.
To add to this, you will study areas of life sciences, psychology and sociology in our Understanding Health unit to develop your knowledge of the structure and function of a healthy body and mind.
This knowledge will be relevant to our Introduction to Public Health unit where you will explore how health is viewed, its concepts and ethical practice in public health.
To support you in practice, you will be given an Introduction to Nursing Interventions that will equip you with the basic nursing skills and interventions as well as develop your confidence to perform them using evidence-based and best practice approaches.
You will develop these skills further in our Assessment and Interventions in Children and Young People’s Nursing unit where you will learn to assess children and young people to develop tailored plans using a range nursing interventions to support them and their families.
This ties in closely with our Partnership Working in Children and Young People’s Nursing unit that will develop your nursing skills to care for ill children and young people in hospital, community and voluntary healthcare settings.
In addition, you will learn to safely administer medicines according to professional standards and legislation while also considering safeguarding, consent and the law which is discussed in our Law & Decision Making in Medicines Management unit.
In more advanced areas, you will be equipped with the knowledge and skills to make informed judgements in complex situations to manage complex care for children and young people in our unit called Leading and Managing Complex Care in Children and Young People’s Nursing.
Your work as a nurse is also increasingly informed by evidence, and this is where our unit in Exploring Evidence will equip you with the knowledge and skills to understand the importance of evidence-based nursing practice.
You will also learn to support people to become active participants in their own care by providing them with the skills to self-manage their condition in our Supporting Learning unit.
This will equip you with the teaching and supervising skills to support learning in clinical environments while preparing for your role as a practice supervisor.
Another crucial aspect of your work is safeguarding, and this is where our unit in Advocacy, Empowerment and Protection will enhance your awareness of the role of a nurse in safeguarding people through advocacy, empowerment and care.
With a critical approach, you will analyse service delivery and propose ideas for change in our Transforming Care unit.
You will also develop your understanding of the health service provision in your locality and discover how this is shaped by policy and health needs of the local population in our Exploring Health and Primary Care Services in the Community unit.
This will also enable you to pursue a topic of your interest that is relevant to your field of practice while also supporting you to plan, carry out and report your own project.
The course is vocational leading directly to registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council under the new Standards which will allow you to start and quickly progress in your nursing career across a range of healthcare environments where children and young people require health care.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/clinical-exercise-physiology:
Work experience in our on-campus community exercise clinic where clients include those with hypertension, neurological conditions, diabetes and stroke.
Complete 250 hours of work experience, with local placements including The MS Centre, Bedford; NHS Bedford Hospital; Milton Keynes Cardiopulmonary Community Group; and Bedford Council.
The University of Bedfordshire ranks 3rd in the UK for overall taught-postgraduate student satisfaction; 1st for student engagement and learning community (PTES, 2024).
This unique Master’s course allows you to build on your sport and exercise background so you can transition into clinical settings specialising in exercise physiology.
It gives you the opportunity to investigate the physiological consequences of chronic, debilitating diseases and the role of exercise testing in detecting the changes these diseases cause.
You put learning into practice via real-life opportunities at our on-site Community Exercise Clinic , working with a range of clinical populations including neurological, cardiac, dementia and hypotensive, with further work-based placement opportunities with industry experts.
We are working towards accreditation by the Academy for Healthcare Science (AHCS).
Sports laboratories accredited by the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES) and including a biomechanics laboratory with 3D camera system Put learning into practice via real-life opportunities in our Community Exercise Clinic Human Performance Centre with an environmental heat chamber where professional athletes and sports people come to train Nutrition research kitchen Sports injury and rehabilitation centre Additional equipment includes a Woodway treadmill; metabolic cart with integrated 12-lead ECG and RMR hood; hydrostatic weighing tank; and echocardiogram machine
We further increase your employability by being a Higher Education Partner of the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA).
Additionally, our links to both local and national organisations, from the Premier League to grassroots sport, provide opportunities for industry-related work.
In the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024, our sport sciences and biosciences courses rank 6 th in their subject field for sense of community.
Learn from an industry-experienced teaching team , actively involved in research in their field.
Benefit from on-campus opportunities to extend your knowledge and put your learnt skills into practice through our Community Exercise Clinic ; Human Performance Centre , and Sports Injury Clinic Our Human Performance Centre helps train professional athletes and sports people including triathlete Lucy Charles Barclay, Team GB and junior Formula 1 racing driver Frederik Vesti; the heat chamber is regularly used to acclimatise athletes taking on competitions and marathons in places with high temperatures.
Attend masterclass lectures from industry practitioners including Dr Cheryl Barford (exercise prescription for clinical populations); Tarryn Mutch (clinical exercise therapy); and Abbie Bell, Senior Clinical Exercise Physiologist at Bedford Hospital’s Cardiac Rehabilitation Department.
Graduate with a degree that gives you employability.
Our graduates have pursued careers as student cardiologists, exercise physiologists, paediatric respiratory physiologists, therapy assistants and health advisers at Bedford Hospital, Luton and Dunstable Hospital, Southampton Children’s Hospital, Milton Keynes University Hospital, and BUPA.
Benefit from on-campus opportunities to extend your knowledge and put your learnt skills into practice through our Community Exercise Clinic ; Human Performance Centre , and Sports Injury Clinic
Our Human Performance Centre helps train professional athletes and sports people including triathlete Lucy Charles Barclay, Team GB and junior Formula 1 racing driver Frederik Vesti; the heat chamber is regularly used to acclimatise athletes taking on competitions and marathons in places with high temperatures.
I have been teaching in the area of exercise physiology, research methods, physical activity, disability and health since I completed my PhD investigating energy expenditure in wheelchair athletes at Loughborough University in 2012.
I enjoy teaching all aspects of physiology from the epidemiology of physical activity and health at a population level to the nutritional and training aspects of elite performance.
Studying our Clinical Exercise Physiology MSc course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills around physiology, exercise and sport.
In clinical areas of study, our Exercise and Nutrition Prescription unit will allow you to explore how exercise programmes and nutritional interventions can benefit the treatment of a variety of diseases.
Based on scientific research, you will develop an understanding of exercise testing and assessments used in clinical settings and how to interpret using its results in our Exercise Testing and Diagnosis unit.
This closely links to our unit in Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing and Interpretation where you will critically analyse the underlying mechanisms of a variety of diseases where exercise testing has proved to be useful.
In practice, our Laboratory Skills unit will teach you to use a variety of physiological assessment tools for athletes and patients while also enabling you to prepare, perform and interpret results of physiological tests.
Similarly, you will analyse how physical activity and nutrition contribute to adverse conditions such as obesity, type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease in our Metabolic Health unit.
From this, you will learn to formulate recommendations for exercise prescription and nutritional advice based on a diverse range of patient needs.
In other areas of study, you will also look at the role of Behavioural Science and Public Health in relation to the promotion of health and prevention of disease and illness.
A major component of this course includes our Placement (Long) unit where you will be able to develop your skills and knowledge in the application process and practice employability skills for a work-based environment.
Additionally, you will also be able to complete a Placement for Clinical Exercise Physiology that will expose you to professional standards of practice by clinical exercise physiologists while getting the chance to work with clinical patients.
Finally, you will complete a Sport and Physical Activity Master’s Dissertation where you will undertake a research project into a topic of interest relevant to your subject area.
To help you with this, our Research Methods unit will facilitate your ability to understand, evaluate and conduct research in sport and exercise science while also enabling you to collect and analyse data.
A variety of assessment formats will be used across the course, these assessments are designed to develop the transferable skills of the students, such as written and oral communication, the ability to follow logical instructions, problem solving and time management.
Further to this some assessments are designed to mimic the scenarios that students may find in the clinical environment, for example, practical exams assess client care, technical skills, analysis and interpretation of test results.
All of these assessments are considered to be the best method to assess the learning outcomes of the particular unit, as well as developing professional and transferrable skills.
On completion of this course, you will be able to build on your sport and exercise background, knowledge and skills to transition into clinical settings specialising in exercise physiology.
The course opens the way to a career in the NHS, local authorities, private healthcare, insurance or within the health and fitness industry in roles such as a health promotion specialist; clinical exercise physiologist; clinical technician; or researcher.
You can also continue to further research-based study on MSc by Research, MPhil or PhD programmes.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/clinical-exercise-therapy:
Our sport science courses rank in the UK top 15 in their subject field for graduate prospects (CUG and Guardian, 2025).
90% of our sport and exercise sciences students were satisfied with their assessment and feedback while studying with us (NSS 2024).
Apply your knowledge and skills through a minimum of 150 hours of work-based learning in a range of settings, including working with long-term clinical conditions.
This course gives you the skills and evidence-based knowledge you need to progress into a career as a graduate clinical exercise therapist (GCET).
Course units include physiology and anatomy; sports massage; manual therapies; sports injury management; and working with clinical populations including those living with long-term conditions.
Gain additional free qualifications through our partnership with the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA) including Gym Instruction, Group Exercise, Working with People with Long Term Conditions.
You also have the option to take a further subsidised Pre-Hospital Immediate Care in Sport (PHICIS) Level 2 qualification.
State-of-the-art sports therapy and rehabilitation centre with a sports injury clinic , open to staff, students and external athletes/clients Put learning into practice via real-life opportunities in our Community Exercise Clinic Sports massage rooms Purpose-built strength and conditioning facility Free gym and Olympic weight room Sports arena; Alexander Sport Centre; multi-use games areas and other external sports pitches.
You are taught by practising therapists, coaches and injury rehabilitation professionals as well as a highly experienced academic team.
Hear from visiting experts in the field of clinical exercise therapy and sport therapy.
Enhance your learning and build your experience through field trips to destinations such as Luton Town Football Club; Northampton Saints physio centre; and King’s College, London's anatomy rooms.
Benefit from NHS and social care placement opportunities working in a clinical setting with industry experts such as neurophysiotherapists and clinical exercise physiologists.
Put your skills into practice and broaden your employment opportunities via visits to local community projects; local health trusts; and venues offering exercise and rehabilitation sessions.
Our Bedford campus is a small, thriving academic community where academic staff get to know you well .
I have been a Biokineticist in South Africa for more than 10 years.
I completed my studies at the University of Johannesburg in 2009 with an undergraduate degree in Sport Psychology and an Honours degree in Biokinetics.
Studying our Clinical Exercise Therapy BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the specialised knowledge and skills in the combined areas of exercise, physical activity and therapeutic treatment.
Beginning with fundamental knowledge, our unit in Normal Anatomical Structure and Function will introduce you to human anatomy and kinesiology.
You will take an advanced approach to this in our Altered Anatomical Structure and Function unit where you will consider anatomical alterations caused by health and lifestyle factors.
This is then explored in the context of sport science in our Anatomy and Biomechanics unit, that aims to introduce you to the principles of human movement, biomechanics and the role of anatomy in sport and exercise science.
This will be useful in areas of Clinical Exercise Therapy that includes exercise prescription and coaching for non-clinical and clinical conditions, strength and conditioning and personal training.
In addition to anatomy, our Human Physiology unit will help you understand human physiological systems and how the human body adapts to exercise.
This knowledge is built on in Year 2, with the Physiology for Training unit where you will identify physiological factors that influence sport and exercise performance and how training methods can influence this.
In more practical areas of learning, the course begins in Year 1 with Gym Instruction, where you will learn the fundamentals of exercise prescription and coaching in a gym setting, with a range of applied exercises.
In subsequent years, Clinical Exercise will allow you to safely and effectively design exercise programs and skills for exercise correction and rehabilitation of recreational, sport and clinical populations.
Activity to Promote Health and Wellbeing builds on all these units and will require you to develop your own exercise programme project within the community.
Additionally, in Structural Assessment and Professional Practice, you will begin to assess human structure, posture and form and begin to apply your anatomy and biomechanics skills in evaluation of participants.
The development of your practical skills also takes place in a work-based environment with a reflective approach to practice that is developed in this unit.
You will learn fundamental manual therapy techniques, within the Sports Massage unit, that will provide you with the skills and knowledge to use a range of soft tissue techniques.
Progressing into our Manual Therapies unit, this will provide you with an understanding of how to safely apply a range of peripheral joint mobilisations and advanced manual therapy in practice.
This leads on to Corrective Exercise, where knowledge acquired on anatomy, biomechanics and posture help you to develop strategies to improve any deviations or chronic issues.
Another important area of study includes rehabilitation and injury, and this is where our units in the Management of Lower Extremity Injuries and Management of Upper Extremity Injuries will teach you to assess injured clients and athletes, identify and manage causes of pain/discomfort and/or injury.
In your final year, you will complete a Dissertation for Sports Science and Physical Activity where you will investigate a focused and relevant research topic of interest to you and work under the guidance of a supervisor.
To help you with this, our unit in Reading and Interpreting Research will introduce you to the research process into scientific literature.
Similarly, our Planning and Conducting Research unit will allow you to take a critical understanding of research processes and enquiry in sports science and medicine.
In each year, there are units aligned to our Practice Strand.
In Year 1, you will learn themes of professionalism in Structural Assessment and Professional Practice.
Then in Year 2, you will gain the theoretical knowledge and practical clinical skills required to be a safe and autonomous practitioner, while adopting a reflective approach to your work in Work Based Learning.
In Year 3, to help prepare you for your career, our unit in Practice Placements and Business will equip you with careers information and the business skills to build a career within clinical exercise therapy, health, fitness and wellbeing.
Throughout the three-year degree, you will also gain 150 hours of placement in a variety of settings.
You will log the placement hours and learn to reflect on them in portfolios that align to the Practice Strand units in each year.
More importantly, you have an option to be able to undertake a Professional Practice Year (Sports Science and Physical Activity) as an opportunity to develop your employability skills and gain formally recognised work-based learning for a year.
Lectures seek to provide students with underpinning theoretical research informed knowledge to allow them to critically justify their clinically reasoned assessment treatment and rehabilitation strategies within a health and wellbeing context.
Graduates can expect to enter graduate-level employment within the field of health, fitness, sports and exercise medicine including exercise referral and injury rehabilitation.
The course also embeds wider transferable skills allowing graduates the option of achieving employment in the wider market at a similar level in private (health clubs, clinics, referral schemes) or public (NHS) employment.
If you wished to progress to study at postgraduate level, there are options in related fields such as our MSc Clinical Exercise Physiology.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/computer-animation-and-visual-effects:
Our animation and games design courses rank in the UK top five in their subject field for satisfaction with teaching (Guardian, 2025).
Our computer games and animation courses rank joint 1st in their subject field for academic support; they are in the UK top 10 for learning resources, and organisation and management of studies (NSS, 2024).
Dedicated STEM building with games, animation and graphics studios; high-performance computing suites; and virtualised environments.
From flight simulators and animated e-learning to VR experiences and blockbuster films, computer animation and visual effects have reinvented our modern society.
This innovative course gives you the latest creative, design and technical skills to produce digital content in the form of computer-generated animation or visual effects for entertainment, education or promotional purposes.
You gain hands-on experience using industry-standard tools and software while exploring emerging applications such as virtual reality and mixed reality.
Specialist games, animation and graphics labs with VR technology, high-spec computers Motion-capture and green-screen studios Cutting-edge software including Autodesk 3ds Max, Maya, Unreal Engine and Blender Modern computing labs, group study hubs and bespoke teaching spaces in our STEM building
Share teaching with students from our game development course and benefit from the exchange of ideas and understanding .
Our staff’s real-world expertise feeds directly into their teaching, keeping you up to date within this rapidly progressing industry.
Learn to tackle complex problems through practical projects designed to meet the needs of customers, businesses and society.
Cutting-edge software means you become familiar with the tools used in industry right from the start.
Benefit from regular supervisor meetings that support continuous learner-teacher interaction and help you reflect on your progress.
Thrive under the guidance of our dedicated academic success tutors , there to support you through your studies.
Jim joined the School of Computer Science and Technology in 2008 as a Lecturer in Creative Technologies becoming a Senior Lecturer in 2013.
He has over 20 years of experience in the education sector and has recently specialised in teaching topics in digital art, animation, visual effects, and games technologies.
Jim currently leads the School’s Creative Technologies subject cluster and is Course Coordinator for BSc (Hons) Computer Animation and Visual Effects.
Studying our Computer Animation and Visual Effects BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the knowledge and skills around computing, digital animation and visual effects.
In practical areas of study, you will be introduced to basic digital video production skills including how to use equipment and video editing packages in our Digital Video and Animation unit.
You will learn about the digital animation development process, such as digital video and sound recording while also being encouraged to try out different techniques.
Aside from this, you will develop the skills for digital creative technologies and apply them to areas of computer games development, interactive digital technologies, computer animation and visual effects in our Fundamentals of Creative Technologies unit.
More importantly, this unit will help support your professional development by equipping you with the skills and practice for digital creative industries.
Similarly, you will be introduced to the foundations and techniques for visual and animated design for digital entertainment in our Games and Digital Asset Design unit.
You will learn to create, edit and store artwork, animation and digital audio content for different platforms and audiences.
Delving further into design practices, you will learn the fundamentals of drawing and painting for games and animation in our 2D Graphics and Digital Art unit.
This is closely linked to our Compositing for Visual Effects unit where you will study theory around optics, physics and algorithms used for visual effects as well as 2D and 3D compositing techniques.
You will explore computer animation and graphic technologies in more depth in our 3D Graphics and Animation unit that will allow you to implement a range of techniques using modern software and programming.
These include 2D and 3D modelling techniques, rendering and shading in 3D graphics, incorporating 2D and 3D assets in animation, as well as allowing you to explore state of the art computer animation packages and modern animation software to create computer graphic sequences.
Furthermore, you will be introduced to cutting-edge technologies and research trends in our Disruptive Technologies unit that is relevant to areas of virtual reality, network gaming and graphics software to name a few.
This course also gives you the opportunity to engage in various forms of project work.
With that being said, you will have the opportunity to complete a Professional Industry Portfolio to showcase a collection of your work over the course of the year.
This will allow you to gain professional feedback and reflect on your technical skills.
To add to your portfolio, our Advanced Animation and Visual Effects unit will prompt you to produce a significant computer animation artefact where you will get to practice emerging tools within computer animation and visual effects.
In a team setting, you will also get to refine your skills in focused area of practice such as programming, design, graphics or animation while working together on a Studio Development Project with students across various roles to pitch and develop a prototype based on a given topic.
Similarly, you will also be able to complete an Undergraduate Project on a topic of interest to you, and you will work to identify and create a proposal around this in our Research Methodologies and Emerging Technologies unit.
Students are assessed in a variety of ways.
You will also produce software artefacts in the area of your specialism.
At level 4 you are assessed on your understanding of the fundamental concepts of compu-ting and digital technologies and their application.
You are required to comprehend the basic range of intellectual concepts which form the foundations of the subject and application area and will be assessed on your ability to articulate such concepts in a coherent manner in a variety of project-based briefs.
For example you will learn about digital design and content creation for animation as well as introductory programming and interactive development.
At level 5 you are assessed on your ability to apply the basic concepts of the disciplines in-troduced in level 4 through further study and development on industry-standard computer animation and visual effects tools.
You should also be able to demonstrate the inter-relationships between technical development and design.
For example you might be asked to make a prototype of a new application or service based on a client briefing and carry this process out according to a user centred design process.
At level 6 you will be required to demonstrate independent thinking and initiative.This may be in the form of analysing and criticising current practice and theory in the fields of computer animation and visual effects.
In all cases you will be expected to show an awareness of the major theories and practices of the discipline.
You will progress from well-defined briefs to more open-ended and challenging assessments which culminate in your major project - the honours project where you will individually develop a project with supervision from an appointed mentor usually a lecturer from the course team.
The Initial Assessment is in the unit Fundamentals of Creative Technologies CIS085-1 fol-lowing which several units allow students to use work and feedback from the first assessment to perform best in the second.
All units benefit from weekly practical sessions or supervisor meetings that provide a constant learner-teacher interaction process which also serves to reflect on learning styles.
The course opens the door to a wide range of careers including 3D modelling; technical animation; digital compositing; and visualisation for emerging fields such as virtual production.
Successful graduates may gain employment in the digital creative industries related to computer animation and visual effects such as 3D modeller or animator for computer animation or production; VFX compositor or artist; 2D or 3D artist for games development; creative technologist or technical developer for the animation or VFX industry.
You may also wish to continue your studies at Master's level with an MSc by Research in Computer Animation or a VFX-relevant topic supervised by the Creative Technologies academic team.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/computer-games-development:
The creation and production of computer games has grown to become a huge, rapidly evolving industry with a growing need for talented technical and creative.
This course’s hands-on approach to games development prepares you for the workplace, turning game ideas into playable demos right from the start.
It also allows you to specialise in one of three areas in your second year: games programming; games design; or games graphics.
Specialist animation and graphics labs with VR technology, high-spec computers, and motion-capture and green-screen studios.
Cutting-edge software, from Autodesk 3ds Max and Maya to Unreal Engine and Blender, means you become familiar with the tools used in industry right from the start.
Study alongside like-minded people in our vibrant, purpose-built STEM building with modern computing labs, group study hubs and bespoke teaching spaces.
We are members of Ukie, which offers you benefits such as attending game conferences; applying for internships and mentorships; joining games-related events such as game jams; and receiving portfolio help and advice.
Share teaching with students from our BSc (Hons) Computer Animation & Visual Effects course and benefit from the exchange of ideas and understanding .
Learn to tackle complex problems through practical projects designed to meet the needs of players, industry and society.
From your second year, select one of three areas in which to specialise: games programming - learn industry-standard programming techniques and languages including C# and C++ so you can turn designed gameplay into a playable form games design - design immersive player experiences and game environments, levels, mechanics and game systems games graphics - create artwork models and animations tailored for use in games using the latest graphics techniques in game engines.
Benefit from regular practical sessions, studio sessions and, during your final year, supervisory meetings that support continuous learner-teacher interaction and help you reflect on your progress.
Marcia began teaching in higher education in 2007 and joined the school of Computer Science and Technology full time in 2013.
She has 15 years of experience in teaching and research within the areas of multimedia, computer games, HCI and security (with particular focus on usable security).
Marcia currently works as part of the school’s creative technologies subject cluster, is course co-ordinator for BSc (Hons) Computer Games Development and is an academic member of Ukie (the UK Interactive Entertainment association).
Studying our Computer Games Development BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the knowledge and skills around computing, digital asset creation, and animation, and will allow you to specialise in design, programming, or graphics, equipping you for a career in games.
In your first year of study, you will develop the skills for digital creative technologies and learn to apply them to areas of computer games development.
Fundamentals of Creative Technologies will introduce you to the foundations and techniques for asset creation, editing artwork, animation, and 3D modelling.
You will also explore a range of careers in games and the creative technologies sector and gain the skills for working in a professional environment.
In our Games and Digital Asset Design unit, you will be introduced to game design skills and learn to develop basic game assets, including digital audio content for different platforms and audiences, and bring them together inside a game engine.
You will further develop your design skills and learn visual scripting techniques for games in our Prototyping and Visual Programming unit.
Furthermore, you will also have the opportunity to delve further into these topics by selecting an optional unit from 2D Graphics and Digital Art, where you will learn the fundamentals of drawing and painting for games and animation; or Principles of Games Programming, where you can explore programming techniques and concepts used to make computer games.
The focus in your second year of study is to begin developing a professional work portfolio and to develop specialist skills in your chosen area of games development.
Core units at this level are the Professional Industry Portfolio, where you will learn more about your chosen career path and internships while working with support to develop a personalised action plan and professional portfolio to contain existing pieces you have made, as well as a substantial new portfolio piece in line with your career goals.
You will also have the chance to develop important skills such as interview techniques and CV creation for the creative technologies sector.
Aside from this, you will have the opportunity to work together in a team to develop a game in our Studio Development Project unit.
Here, you will learn to project manage a game development lifecycle, from inception through to release, and put into practice techniques to enable you to work more effectively within a professional team environment designed to emulate workplace roles within a typical studio.
The course also offers a range of optional units for you to diversify your knowledge and skills in the field.
If you opt to study graphics for games specialism, you will take the 3D Graphics and Animation Technologies unit, where you will explore state-of-the-art computer animation packages and modern animation software.
If you were interested in a games programming specialism, then you will take our Applied Games Programming unit, that will teach you to code game mechanics and gameplay systems while using industry-recognised design patterns for software engineering of games.
Alternatively, if you choose to undertake the design specialism, our unit in Applied Games Design will expose you to a number of game design theories, concepts, and techniques, and how these can be applied in practice.
You will also learn to iteratively improve your game designs with professional playtesting.
Other optional units in your second year that you can elect depending on your area of personal interest include Compositing for Visual Effects, where you will study theory around optics, physics, and algorithms used for visual effects, as well as 2D and 3D compositing techniques.
Alternatively, you may want to learn to use technologies involved in the design, development and implementation of web-based applications in our Web Technologies and Platforms unit, or for mobile devices and applications in our Mobile Application Development unit.
You may also choose to learn how to develop desktop applications in our Desktop Applications Development and Software Engineering unit, or develop the skills to model, design, and evaluate excellent user experiences in our User Experience Design unit.
In your final year, you will be introduced to cutting-edge technologies and research trends in our Disruptive Technologies unit.
Topics change based on industry and technology trends, but examples may include virtual reality, network gaming, and emergent graphics software and paradigms.
You will also be able to take an optional unit in line with your specialism.
In Advanced Games Design, you will consider psychological and business aspects of game design while working on a development project to produce a piece of game design.
In Advanced Games Programming, you will learn to implement a number of advanced programming techniques for games.
Example areas may include machine learning for games, network coding, pathfinding, and behaviour trees.
Our Advanced Graphics for Games unit will allow you to practice using advanced tools for computer games graphics platforms.
Example topics may include visual effects for games, advanced animation, and face-rigging techniques.
You will also be able to complete an Undergraduate Project on a topic of interest to you, and you will work to identify and create a proposal and conduct initial research and design around this in our Research Methodologies and Emerging Technologies unit.
At level 4 you are assessed on your understanding of the fundamental concepts of computing and digital technologies and their application.
At level 5 you will be specialising in your chosen option subject and are assessed on your ability to apply the basic concepts of the disciplines introduced in level 4 through further study and development on industry-standard computer games development tools.
At level 6 you will be required to demonstrate independent thinking and initiative.
This may be in the form of analysing and criticising current practice and theory in the fields of computer games development.
You will progress from well-defined briefs to more open-ended and challenging assessments which culminate in your major project - the undergraduate project unit where you will individually develop a project with supervision from an appointed mentor usually a lecturer from the Subject cluster team.
The Initial Assessment is in the unit Fundamentals of Creative Technologies following which several units allow students to use work and feedback from the first assessment to perform best in the second.
Successful graduates may gain employment within the games development industry as well as entertainment and media technology, e-sports or extended reality (XR) applications (VR AR MR).
Employment options related to each respective specialism may include: games programmer or game-engine software engineer; games designer or user-experience designer for games and applications; 2D or 3D graphics specialist; animator or technical artist for the games industry.
You may also like to continue your studies with an MSc by Research or PhD in games and interactive media-related technologies.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/computer-networking:
Our Computer Networking course is accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS) so you qualify for chartered IT professional status once you graduate.
Our computer science courses rank in the UK top 20 in their subject field for student voice (NSS, 2024).
Take the opportunity to gain AWS Cloud Foundation certification in addition to your degree.
From the office to your home and car, computer networks are at the heart of modern information systems and there is a growing need for experts who understand how these systems work.
This course focuses on the technical aspects of installation and configuration; systems administration; and maintenance and management.
You develop strong technical skills and a thorough understanding of how to manage networks; implement through design; and manage the needs of clients and businesses.
This course is fully accredited by the British Computer Society (BSC), the chartered institute for IT, meaning you qualify for chartered IT professional status once you graduate.
High-tech CCNA Academy computer networking suite Specialised IT security laboratory Cutting-edge technology such as MATLAB, VMware Workstation and resources from Oracle database Modern, purpose-built STEM building with high-performance computing suites, virtualised environments, bespoke learning spaces and group study hubs
Our unique blend of theoretical and hands-on work keeps you up to date with state-of-the-art technologies.
Challenge yourself in our dedicated test network laboratory using the latest industry-standard programs.
Alongside your degree, take the opportunity to study for the AWS Cloud Foundation certification , making your qualification even more relevant to a range of employers.
Get involved in field trips to leading sites such as Bletchley Park to see your subject in action.
Learn from academics with up-to-the-minute accreditations and certifications as well as working on real-world projects and undertaking consultancy work.
Ghazanfar Ali Safdar received a BSc (Hons) in Electrical Engineering from University of Engineering and Technology, Pakistan in 1997.
He subsequently received M.Eng in Computer Science and Telecommunications from University of Technology, Grenoble, France in 2001.
He was awarded a PhD from Queen's University Belfast, UK in 2005 for his work in the area of power-saving MAC protocols for the IEEE 802.11 family of wireless LANs.
Studying our Computer Networking BSc (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills around network design, installation and configuration, systems administration, troubleshooting, maintenance and management.
In core areas of study, you will be introduced to the basic concepts and applications of computer systems in our Databases and Computer Networks unit.
You will then be taught to combine mathematical knowledge with computer science in our Mathematics and Concepts for Computational Thinking unit.
You will apply mathematics to practical skills such as algorithms and pattern recognition while also using it to develop software applications by means of high-level programming language such as Python.
As a student in the field of computer networking, it is also essential that you are familiarised with programming and data handling.
Expanding on this, you will be provided with the foundations in data communication and Networking, including the appropriate protocols and how to implement them.
This closely links to our Advanced Networking unit where you will reflect on complex principles of network modelling and performance analysis.
You will also consider the principles of Wireless Communications and Networking by exploring the techniques for wireless networking and learning to use this to produce realistic solutions to complex networking problems.
Another essential area of computer networking is security, and this is where our Principles of Information Security unit will introduce you to the fundamentals of information security, threats, mitigations, information security management and network security while also allowing you to practice using industry-standard operating systems.
In addition, you will also study the principles of cryptography, ethics and business regulatory requirements.
You will explore networks security in more depth in our Information Security Management unit that will provide you with the theory and practical skills around compliance, threat mitigation and cybersecurity operations.
Furthermore, our unit in Switching and Routing will teach you to perform basic network configuration, troubleshooting, and to put network devices in real-life installations.
As part of project you will also produce artefacts in the area of your specialism.
At level 4 you are assessed on your understanding of the fundamental concepts of Computer Networking and its application.
You are required to comprehend the basic range of intellectual concepts which form the foundations of the subject and application area and will be assessed on your ability to articulate such concepts in a coherent manner in a variety of written assessments/written briefs.
At level 5 you are assessed on your ability to apply the basic concepts of the disciplines introduced in level 4 to existing controversies and issues on which there is already a body of research and critical opinion.
You also should be able to demonstrate the inter-relationships between critical theory and practice.
For example the units `Networking and `Wireless Communications and Networking will further your understanding of networking principles and design.
This may be in the form of analysing and criticising current approaches and theory within Computer Networking.
You will progress from well-defined briefs to more open-ended and challenging assessments which culminate in the honours project where you will be given freedom to choose your area of work.
This course opens up employment prospects across the IT sector including computer help desks; network support; network security; network and systems engineering; internet and network administration; network and information systems management; project management; and other computing-related positions.
Specific roles include network administrator; networking consultant; network design and development engineer; network support engineer; and network architect.
On graduation you can also progress to take a Master's in a related field such as MSc Computer Networking or MSc Cyber Security.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/computer-networking-masters:
Our Computer Networking course is accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS).
Gain workplace-ready skills with our practical, hands-on approach and progressive syllabus.
Computer networks and security systems underpin today’s digitally driven society, and there’s a high demand for talented individuals who can navigate them.
Our Computer Networking MSc equips you with the skills and knowledge to thrive in such a role.
Gain a deep understanding of the field’s fundamental principles then explore pioneering new advancements including wireless technologies, advanced security and parallel architectures.
With our focus on employability-based skill development and real-world applications, you graduate fully prepared for a rewarding career in the field.
This course is accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS), the Chartered Institute for IT.
You graduate with the technical skills and knowledge required for partial recognition as a registered Chartered IT Professional (CITP), demonstrating that you are a competent professional who meets the industry’s rigorous standards.
Contemporary STEM building with purpose-built facilities, including a high-tech CCNA Academy computer networking suite and dedicated computing rooms Industry-standard software from Cisco and VMware to emulate the professional workplace Bespoke lecture theatres, presentation rooms and group study spaces
Learn from our industry-experienced academics with expertise in areas such as big data management, digital health initiatives and enhanced AI applications .
Our faculty’s active involvement in real-world research and consultancy feeds directly into the course delivery, ensuring you are kept up-to-date with the latest advancements in the field.
Expand your horizons with industry visits and seminars from external speakers .
Prepare for the workplace through practical experience and hands-on training .
Boost your lifelong career trajectory with employment-focused skill development , such as effective communication; evaluation and assessment; project management; and understanding of ethical and legal dimensions.
Explore your interests with a specialist research project of your choosing .
Benefit from your own personal academic tutor .
Dr Sijing Zhang obtained his BSc and MSc degrees, both in Computer Science, from Jilin University (Changchun, China) in 1982 and 1988 respectively.
He earned a PhD in Computer Science from the University of York (York, UK) in 1997.
Sijing joined the Network Technology Research Centre (NTRC) of Nanyang Technological University (Singapore) as a Post-Doctoral Fellow in 1996, and he then returned  to the UK to work as a Research Fellow with the Centre for Communications Systems Research (CCSR) of the University of Cambridge (Cambridge, UK) in 1998.
Studying our Computer Networking MSc course will provide you with the technical and business skills for the field of networking and telecommunications.
You will explore the roles of different wireless technologies in the context of broadband communications and pervasive computing in our Wireless Networking unit.
In practical sessions, you will have the opportunity to experiment with network simulation tools and demos.
In areas of business, you will critically review the design and implementation of network systems in the context of real-world business requirements in our Network Systems and Administration unit.
You will also examine network technologies, managing and troubleshooting of network systems and emerging trends in the field.
Aside from this, you will be introduced to advanced computer and network security issues while deepening your knowledge of security principles, practices and techniques to deal with new emerging threats in our Systems and Network Security unit.
Finally, you will complete an MSc Project in Computer Networking that will allow you to bring your acquired skills and knowledge together in practice.
You can take this opportunity to work on a topic of interest to you that is relevant to your field of study.
To help you with this, you will be equipped with the skills and knowledge around Research Methodologies and Project Management that will prepare you to engage with scientific work, data analysis, establishing hypotheses and understanding research.
The assessment strategy used is a balance of written reports examinations (coursework) assignments in-class tests computer based assessment and oral viva.
The method used will depend on the nature of the subject being taught in the unit and the most appropriate method has been chosen.
Coursework assignments have incorporated formative feedback so that you can gain an insight into whether your work is meeting the necessary targets.
As a graduate of this course, you will have gained practical skills much sought after in the business world.
Career opportunities include IT and help desk support; network technician or administrator; systems analyst; systems or network designer; systems administrator; network engineer or architect; computer networking instructor; university academic or ICT teacher; or network infrastructure manager.
You may also wish to progress to further study with options including an MSc by Research, MPhil or PhD.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/computer-networking-with-project-management:
Our block delivery course structure gives you year-round entry points so you can tailor your learning to fit around your life.
Gain workplace-ready skills with our practical, hands-on approach and integrated project management units.
Our two-year Computer Networking with Project Management MSc gives you an in-depth understanding of the field’s core principles before exploring rapidly progressing developments such as wireless technologies, advanced security and parallel architectures.
With our focus on project management skills and real-world application, you graduate well prepared for a fulfilling future within the sector.
Explore specialist topics and ground-breaking new developments with our forward-thinking syllabus.
Boost your lifelong career trajectory with integrated project management units and employment-focused skill improvement , including effective communication; critical evaluation; personal development planning; and understanding of key ethical dimensions.
Studying our Computer Networking with Project Management MSc course will provide you with the technical and project skills for the field of networking and telecommunications.
Through an integrated approach, you will discover how leadership and operations management work closely together in contemporary organisations in our Leading and Managing Organisational Resources unit while analysing how this impacts financial performance.
Based on contemporary research, you will evaluate the role of Project Management in a business setting as well as analyse key project management approaches and methodologies that will enable you to approach new projects and successfully complete them.
To add to this, our unit in Developing Independent Research will support you in producing a good research proposal where you will learn to present your critical evaluations and conclusions to a professional standard.
The assessment strategy used is a balance of written Academics examinations (coursework) assignments in-class tests computer based assessment and oral viva.
Career opportunities include IT and help desk support; network technician or administrator; systems analyst; systems or network designer; systems administrator; network engineer or architect; computer networking instructor; network infrastructure manager; university academic; and ICT teacher (after further training).

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/computer-science:
Our Computer Science course is accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS) so you qualify for chartered IT professional (CITP) status once you graduate.
Our course is also recognised under the Seoul Accord, meeting international standards for the academic preparation of computing professionals and making your degree relevant to employers worldwide.
From education and healthcare to entertainment and communication, computer science underpins almost every area of today’s increasingly digital world.
On this course, you build a strong foundation of understanding before specialising in exciting new fields at the forefront of technological advancement.
In addition, you gain the highly desirable critical thinking and practical skills sought after by world-leading employers.
This course is fully accredited by the British Computer Society (BSC), the Chartered Institute for IT, meaning you qualify for chartered IT professional (CITP) status once you graduate.
High-tech CCNA Academy computer networking suite Specialised IT security laboratory Dedicated computing rooms Cutting-edge technology such as MATLAB simulation software and virtualised environments Modern, purpose-built STEM building with bespoke learning spaces and group study hubs
We have partnered with IXL to offer third-year students the opportunity to undertake further Agile project management certification.
Keep up to date with state-of-the-art technologies, thanks to our blend of theoretical and hands-on learning , informed by the latest industry developments.
Study computer systems architecture to better understand hardware, software, networks and operating systems , all of which are required for designing efficient and scalable solutions.
Gain the ability to understand and produce software based on critical thinking and logical reasoning alongside developing knowledge of algorithm design and problem solving.
Benefit from the expertise of our highly qualified, research-active academics , many of whom act as consultants in their fields.
Extend your learning through field trips to sites such as Bletchley Park.
Mitul has worked at the University of Bedfordshire since 2004.
His research interest is focussed around social media technologies and how we communicate with one another using these mediating technologies.
Particularly, he is interested in the affective impact and complex communication capability in using mediating technologies.
As of November 2012 Mitul gained his PhD which was focussed upon complex communications via online media.
He accomplished this in a part-time capacity while working full-time in a variety of roles.
Studying our Computer Science BSc (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills around computation theory, programming, systems design and artificial intelligence.
In core areas of study, you will be introduced to the Fundamentals of Computer Science and the ability to apply them to practice using state-of-the-art technologies.
Similarly, you will be introduced to the basic concepts and applications of computer systems in our Databases and Computer Networks unit.
To provide you with a foundation in AI, our Concepts and Technologies of Artificial Intelligence will introduce you to theoretical AI concepts and how these technologies are used to solve real-world problems.
Aside from this, you can also learn to use technologies involved in the design, development and implementation of web-based applications in our Web Technologies and Platforms unit.
Another essential area of computer science involves Information Security, and this unit will provide you with the theory and practical skills around compliance, threat mitigation and cybersecurity operations.
In more technical areas of study, you will understand the design and implementation demands for various types of database systems in our Systems Development and Modern Database Practices unit.
Moreover, you will learn to differentiate and critically question software architectures and solutions in our Distributed Service Architecture unit.
You will also have the opportunity to undertake a Professional Practice Year (Computer Science and Technology) to develop your employability skills and gain career-related experience.
At level 4 you are assessed on your understanding of the fundamental concepts of Computer Science and its application.
For example there will be time constraint programming assignments as well as multiple choice tests.
For example the units `Concepts of AI and `Object Oriented Programming and Software Engineering will further your understanding of software paradigms.
Also new concepts (such as Computer Security) are introduced.
This may be in the form of analysing and criticising current approaches and theory within software engineering and programme development.
When you graduate you will be well placed to take up more specialised positions in the computer industry ranging from programming software or systems development to customer IT services and IT management.
You can also go on to further study at MSc, MPhil or PhD level in a related area such as the University of Bedfordshire’s suite of Computer Science Master’s degrees.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/computer-science-masters:
Our Computer Science MSc is accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS).
If you are looking to explore the full extent of modern computer science without limiting yourself to one specialisation, then this broad-based course is for you.
Our Computer Science MSc equips you with the core theoretical knowledge and technical skills while allowing you to explore new and developing technologies; hone highly coveted workplace skills; and gain invaluable hands-on experience.
Modern STEM building with purpose-built facilities including a high-tech CCNA Academy computer networking suite and dedicated computing rooms Industry-standard technologies such as a cloud programming platform Bespoke lecture theatres, presentation rooms and group study spaces
Learn from our industry-experienced academics with expertise in areas such as artificial intelligence with applications to business and healthcare .
Immerse yourself in sector-relevant field trips and seminars from external speakers .
Enhance your job prospects with employment-focused skill development , including in research methodologies; effective communication; critical evaluation; and project management.
Explore your interests with a specialist research project inspired by a course subject .
Vitaly has obtained a PhD in Machine Learning and worked as a postdoc researcher at the University of Jena in Germany and the University of Exeter.
His research has been supported by the UK Leverhulme Trust, EPSRC and recently by the British Council of English language examination in part of AI based fraud detection.
The research impact has been developed in assessment of new-born brain development, brain computer interaction, medical imaging, and Heathrow airport traffic management.
In particular, the research in trauma survival prediction has demonstrated a significant improvement in reliability of the current technologies used in the US and UK emergency units.
Students being engaged in research normally develop a high profile and publish conference papers allowing them to continue study in Imperial, UCL, and other top universities, undertake a PhD study, as well as develop outstanding careers in industry.
Studying our Computer Science MSc course will equip you with the core knowledge and skills around programming, the development of intelligent systems and networking.
You will have the opportunity to explore the area of Distributed and Parallel Computing Technologies where you will gain an understanding of the fundamental concepts of parallel and distributed computer systems.
This unit will also allow you to develop your analytical skills to identify and evaluate parallel and distributed computational technologies while considering current and emerging trends in the field.
Another essential component in modern computer science is Intelligent Systems and Data Mining, and this unit will introduce you to the theoretical and practical concepts of designing intelligent and data mining technologies to solve real-world problems.
These practical skills will allow you to work in roles for the design of industrial and business applications.
Finally, you will complete an MSc Project in Computer Science that will allow you to bring your acquired skills and knowledge together in practice.
The assessment strategy used is a balance of written reports exams (coursework) assignments and computer-based assessment.
Coursework assignments typically incorporate formative feedback so that you can gain an insight into whether your work is meeting the necessary targets.
This course will equip you to pursue a career in the technology domain, developing the practical and business skills necessary for a wide range of careers in IT from management to high-level web application development or system administration.
IT roles include system/data analyst; programmer; IT project manager; IT consultant; web application developer or manager; database architect; or system administrator.
You can also pursue further research and study in the ever-expanding area of computer science including through an MSc by Research, MPhil or PhD.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/computer-science-masters-with-placement:
Prepare for work in the sector with an integrated 32-week placement and a specialist research project of your choosing.
Our 22-month Computer Science with Placement MSc equips you with core theoretical knowledge, technical skills and invaluable practical experience while allowing you to explore new and developing technologies; hone highly coveted workplace skills; and gain real-world exposure through a 32-week, four-block industry placement.
Modern STEM building with purpose-built facilities, including a high-tech CCNA Academy computer networking suite and dedicated computing rooms Industry-standard technology such as a cloud programming platform Bespoke lecture theatres, presentation rooms and group study spaces
Prepare for the workplace through practical experience and hands-on training as well as your integrated work placement .
Personalise your learning with flexible entry points , block teaching and your choice of MSc research project .
Studying our Computer Science (with Placement) MSc will equip you with the core knowledge and skills around programming, the development of intelligent systems and networking with the opportunity for integrated work experience.
Finally, you will have the opportunity to complete an MSc Project in Computer Science that will allow you to bring your acquired skills and knowledge together in practice.
Alternatively, you may undertake an MSc Project with Placement in Computer Science where you will have the opportunity to develop your academic and professional skills during your work placement while also using this opportunity to apply these skills to your project and vice versa.
At the same time, you will bring together your knowledge and skills acquired through the course of your study and work on a topic of your choice that reflects your field of study.
On graduation, you will be equipped with the technical, practical and business skills needed to pursue a career in the technology domain.
It opens up a wide range of IT careers such as system/data analyst; programmer; IT project manager; web application developer or manager; database architect; or system administrator.
You can also pursue further research within the ever-expanding field of computer science including continuing your studies through an MSc by Research, MPhil or PhD.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/computer-science-with-project-management:
This two-year course builds your leadership and project management skills alongside your expertise in computer science, opening up a range of professional roles.
Block delivery course structure gives you year-round entry points and intermediate qualifications so you can tailor your learning to fit around your life.
This broad-based course allows you to explore the full extent of modern computer science without limiting yourself to one specialisation while gaining valuable skills in project management.
It equips you with core theoretical knowledge and technical skills alongside introducing new and developing technologies; honing highly coveted workplace skills; giving you invaluable hands-on experience; and building leadership and project management skills that will act as a springboard into a rewarding career.
Learn from our industry-experienced academics with expertise in areas such as artificial intelligence with applications to business and healthcare.
Our faculty’s active involvement in real-world research and consultancy feeds directly into course delivery, ensuring you are kept up-to-date with the latest advancements in the field.
Develop sought-after project management skills alongside employment-focused skills such as critical analysis; effective communication and research methodologies.
Studying our Computer Science with Project Management MSc course will equip you with the knowledge and skills in the combined areas of computing technology and project management.
The assessment strategy used is a balance of written Academics formal invigilated examinations (coursework) assignments and computer-based assessment.
All assessments used in the course are in perfect alignment with QH8 using the formal descriptors as descripted in the policy.
The method used will depend on the nature of the subject being taught in the unit and the most appropriate method is chosen.
Students will also have the opportunity to engage into formative assessment throughout the course especially during exercises in the practical sessions where feedback on progress and performance will be given by their tutors for each of the tasks allocated.
The assessment strategy for this course is designed around a holistic evaluation on knowledge and skills acquired with strong emphasis on the requirements for this mode of delivery and diverse skills background and expectations of the target audience.
The lecturers are expected to take every effort to provide you the feedback as early as possible before the next assessment if any.If you fail an assessment and need to retake or resit the assessment you can do so in the next available opportunity which is normally in the assessment week of the next block.
Graduates from this course are likely to progress into careers such as IT consultant; programmer/software engineer; systems/data analyst; or IT project manager.
As a graduate of this course you will also have the opportunity for further study at MPhil or PhD level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/construction-management:
One-year full-time or two-year part-time vocational-based route into construction management.
Fully accredited by the Chartered Association of Building Engineers (CABE).
Gain experience of real building projects on site visits that have recently included individual projects worth up to £1bn.
Your next step after completing a Foundation degree in Construction Management or BTEC Higher National Diploma, this industry-focused top-up course prepares you for a thriving career in the global construction sector.
Through our combination of real-life work placements, an independent project, and expert teaching in areas such as construction economics, project management and emerging technologies, you gain the skills and knowledge needed to make your mark in this rewarding field.
Our Construction Management courses are fully accredited by the Chartered Association of Building Engineers (CABE), an internationally recognised and respected professional body.
Once you have graduated, you have the opportunity to work through the CABE membership grades and ultimately progress to chartered status, signifying you are a competent professional who strives for the highest possible standards.
Dedicated STEM building with specialist labs, group study hubs and bespoke teaching spaces High-tech facilities with cutting-edge technology Industry-standard equipment such as semi-automatic levels, total stations and a robotic total station as well as various building, surveying, measuring and monitoring equipment Advanced machine workshop and product design lab with laser cutting and 3D printing for model-making Industry-standard software such as AutoCAD, Revit and MATLAB
Improve your skills through collaboration with our expert industry partners, including NG Construction and Kier.
Learn from our highly qualified and industry-experienced teaching team .
Our academic staff’s close relationships with leading employers and active involvement in industry feed directly back into their teaching so you stay up to date with the latest developments in the field.
Work on real-life scenarios and case studies with our hands-on approach, which gives you the practical skills and technical knowledge needed to tackle a range community, business and customer needs.
Thrive with the support of our dedicated academic success tutors and close contact with your project supervisor.
Learn from industry experts in our regular interactive demonstrations and seminars , from local authority planners and construction professionals to project managers and government agency representatives.
Take part in field trips to ground-breaking new developments.
Past projects include LSE’s £145m Marshall Building; Thames Tunnel (Silvertown Tunnel) project; Old War Office; and Luton and Dunstable project.
Studying our Construction Management (Top-up) BSc (Hons) course will allow you to build on your knowledge and skills in design and construction.
In core areas of study, our Construction Project Management unit will equip you with the knowledge, understanding and experience in effective project management in construction to meet time and budget constraints.
Furthermore, when working in construction, it is also important to ensure construction projects deliver a profit.
This is where our Construction Economics unit will expose you to principles and technologies within the field such as budgeting or cost and value management that you can use to achieve commercial and contractual outcomes.
In other areas of study, sustainability has now become a major influence on construction projects, and you will explore this in our Emerging Technologies and Sustainability unit.
You will investigate emerging technologies used in current construction methods while critically analysing its importance within sustainability and financial implications.
Additionally, you will advance your knowledge and practical skills around procurement law and risk management techniques for construction in our Contract Procurement and Risk Management unit.
Finally, you will complete an Honours Project where you will be able to apply your skills, knowledge and creativity to a project of interest to you that is relevant to your field of study.
Through evaluating research and literature, you will demonstrate in-depth knowledge in your chosen topic related to the construction industry while also presenting conclusions and recommendations for complex problems in the field.
A range of assessment methods are used throughout the course.
The types of assessment used range from practical work which assesses the practical application of knowledge and concepts gained in lectures seminars and also from learning acquired during self-study through to presentation and report based assessments.
Time controlled in-class tests are also utilised to allow the students to experience and adjust to industry requirements.
Key industry bodies have indicated a huge projected demand for and shortages of construction professionals and technical staff.
This will offer a range of opportunities to our construction management graduates across different sectors disciplines and projects to fill this skills gap and provide high-quality input where it’s most needed in the industry.
The course has been designed to deliver ‘industry-ready’ graduates who have the skills and knowledge to work at a professional standard and have a high-level of understanding of industry demands.
The course has also been developed to provide graduates with different career options and to follow various career paths depending on their particular fields of interest.
In the past, our graduates have gone on to work for local authorities; housing associations; large, medium and small building contractors; as well as specialist consultancies and agencies.
Job roles that graduates have taken have included site managers, project planners, project managers, surveyors and estimators.
On successful completion of this degree, past students have also gone on to continue with their academic qualifications by enrolling on Master's-level courses.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/construction-management-foundation:
Two-year full-time or three-year part-time vocational-based programme for individuals looking to gain a practical introduction to construction management.
Successful completion automatically qualifies you for registration on our BSc (Hons) Construction Management (top-up), where you can study for a full Honours degree.
Our Construction Management courses are all fully accredited by the Chartered Association of Building Engineers (CABE).
On successful completion, you can work through the CABE membership grades and progress to chartered status.
The ideal gateway into a booming sector, this Foundation degree gives you the industry-ready skills and practical experience needed to launch your career in the construction industry.
Immerse yourself in hands-on projects; learn from seasoned industry leaders; and explore the full lifecycle from inception, design and planning to construction and demolition.
We welcome students from all manner of educational backgrounds so you can apply even if you do not have traditional academic qualifications.
Our Construction Management courses are all fully accredited by the Chartered Association of Building Engineers (CABE), an internationally recognised professional body.
On successful course completion, you have the opportunity to work through the CABE membership grades and ultimately progress to chartered status, signifying you are a competent professional who strives for the highest possible standards.
Dedicated STEM building with specialist labs, group study hubs and bespoke teaching spaces High-tech facilities with cutting-edge technology Industry-standard equipment such as semi-automatic levels, total stations and a robotic total station as well as various building, surveying, measuring and monitoring equipment Advanced machine workshop and product design lab with laser cutting and 3D printing Industry-standard software such as AutoCAD, Revit and MATLAB
We take on work projects and review case studies in close collaboration with leading employers such as Kier and NG Construction.
Prepare yourself for future employment with our hands-on approach , which gives you the practical competencies, technical knowledge and transferable skills needed to kick-start your career in construction.
Thrive under the support of our dedicated academic success tutors and regular contact with your project supervisor.
Learn from industry experts in our interactive demonstrations and seminars , from local authority planners and civil engineers to project managers and local government agency representatives.
Take part in field trips to ground-breaking developments.
Past projects include Thames Tunnel (Silvertown Tunnel) project, Old War Office, and Luton and Dunstable project.
Our academic team’s wealth of experience and active involvement in industry feeds directly back into their teaching, so you stay up to date with the latest developments in the field.
Studying our Construction Management FdSc course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise in the design, planning and contracting of projects in the construction industry.
To build on your foundations, you will be introduced to the key principles of economics within the UK construction industry in our Introduction to Construction Economics unit.
Here, you will explore the significance of economic principles to the industry and identify business operations and commercial risk.
In more technical areas of study, you will explore the foundations of Building Services and Project Management that will enable you to formulate design layouts, consider the choice of building materials, and conduct essential installations such as water, heating, electricity, gas, and security while considering the costs and risks of services installation such as lifts and escalators.
To ensure your safety in a construction environment, our unit in Academic and Computer Skills, Health and Safety will allow you to identify hazards in the workplace while developing the skills to produce reviews, evaluations and reports around current health, safety, and welfare policies.
Similarly, you will also work to ensure the safety of others by learning to meet the requirements of building quality in our Project Development and Building Control unit.
Through engaging with inspection, you will identify quality-related issues based on legislation and interpret the impact of failing to meet such standards.
Furthermore, you will build your knowledge around project development, planning design processes and project briefs to meet a client’s needs.
In areas of legislation, and this is where our Construction Contracts, Measurements and Processes unit will teach you to apply knowledge of construction contract law to projects.
Aside from this, you will explore Building Technology, construction techniques and analyse a range of materials used in construction while considering their effects on energy conservation and building production.
More importantly, you will consider issues in Sustainability, Environment and Construction Technology and analyse ways to reduce the impact of construction on the environment.
In project-based work, you will have the opportunity to work on a site to identify issues with site surveying using modern surveying equipment to provide and implement solutions in our Work Based Learning A – Construction Management and Surveying for Construction unit.
This will be an opportunity for you to work in small groups to carry out surveying exercises while demonstrating the principles and procedures of surveying in a work-based environment.
In the second part of this unit, you will focus on identifying problems relating to people and project management in construction by working on a case study scenario or during an industry work placement in our Work Based Learning B – Managing People and Projects unit.
To prepare you for your career in construction, our unit in Human Resource Management and Career Development will develop the knowledge and skills to manage your own career and personal development goals while also teaching you how to manage construction personnel to deliver successful projects.
The types of assessment used range from practical work, which assesses the practical application of knowledge and concepts gained in lectures, seminars, and also from learning acquired during self-study, through to presentation and report based assessments.
Key industry bodies have indicated a huge projected demand for, and shortages of construction professionals and technical staff.
This will offer a range of opportunities to our construction management graduates across different sectors, disciplines and projects to fill this skills gap and provide high-quality input where it’s most needed in the industry.
The course has been designed to deliver ‘industry-ready’ graduates, who have the skills and knowledge to work at a professional standard and have a high-level of understanding of industry demands.
The course has also been developed to provide graduates with different career options and to follow various career paths, depending on their particular fields of interest.
Job roles that graduates have taken have included assistant site managers, trainee project planners, managers, surveyors and estimators.
On successful completion of the Construction Management Foundation Degree, you will automatically qualify for registration onto our BSc (Hons) Construction Management (Top-up) should you choose to.
This will give you the opportunity to take the necessary level six units to complete a full undergraduate Honours degree.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/creative-digital-film-production:
Learn from a dynamic, experienced team of filmmakers, academic experts and published scholars.
Develop your industry network and employment opportunities through meeting leading filmmakers, film editors and industry executives.
The course provides you with opportunities to gain work experience in industry as well as with community projects.
Through the course, you will be able to build your portfolio, develop networking skills and get industry ready.
This course gives you the specialist knowledge and skills you need to work and succeed in the fast-evolving field of digital film production.
You explore areas such as cross-media approaches to storytelling; scriptwriting; production planning and development; digital film production; editing and post-production techniques; and film history and theory.
All students work with an external client on a real project for industry.
The Creative Enterprises unit prepares you for the world of work by helping you prepare your portfolio and CV; introducing you to industry professionals; and looking at opportunities for working freelance and within larger production houses.
For further course information, contact Kelli Watson at kelli.watson@beds.ac.uk
High-spec television broadcast studios and radio facilities Netflix-standard cameras to produce broadcast-quality film and television Industry-standard film production and post-production equipment Location recording equipment 3D green-screen room Digital video-editing suites Adobe Creative Cloud software You also have access to our Postgraduate and CPD Centre featuring: 4,254m2 of space over five storeys state-of-the-art IT and AV equipment informal learning spaces quiet study areas 24/7 access to our library services with 244,564 e-books and 68,547 e-journals
You also have access to our Postgraduate and CPD Centre featuring:
We have established relationships with a wide range of leading organisations and companies across film and broadcasting.
We have active partnerships with: Coolr Social Media Agency who are involved in the delivery of relevant course units as well as offering students workplace opportunities and live projects.
Merge XR Virtual Studios who deliver expert industry lectures and workshops using the latest virtual production techniques; student work placements; use of facilities including Unreal Engine and a virtual production studio; and potential graduate employment.
We also work with Pinewood Studios, the BBC, ITV, the Royal Television Society, MKFM, Octopus TV, Monkey Kingdom, Zig Zag Productions, the Berlin Shorts Festival and Luton Town FC.
We have active partnerships with:
Coolr Social Media Agency who are involved in the delivery of relevant course units as well as offering students workplace opportunities and live projects.
Within the 'cinematics' subject category, 96% of our students were satisfied with the learning opportunities their course offered, including teaching skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
Develop your understanding of both fiction and non-fiction film-making, through an advanced study of film theory which you apply in practice , building your creativity and personal style.
Take up regular, exciting opportunities to meet visiting, industry-active professionals .
Recent speakers include documentary film-maker, Ken Kirby; Mick Payne, Match of the Day producer; Tom Wall, TV producer/director for Channel 4, Channel 5 and Netflix; Julian Dismore, series producer for the BBC; Hayley Morray, assistant producer at ITV; Stuart Pinfold, BBC sound supervisor.
Gain work experience through our active partnerships with Coolr Social Media Agency and Merge XR Virtual Studios as well as a coveted annual placement scheme with the BBC's The One Show .
Gain radio broadcast experience via our award-winning, Ofcom-licensed local community radio service, Radio LaB, which is run by students for students and the local community.
You have the opportunity to work on Beds TV , our in-house TV station, and use our facilities to produce content for the station.
Take advantage of field trips to studios, film festivals and other work-related destinations including MKFM; Luton Town FC; BBC Studios White City and Broadcasting House; BT Sport; Sky; BAFTA networking events; Berlin Shorts Festival; and TechCon.
Our graduates have gone on to work for the BBC and ITV as well as on or in top TV shows, films and stage productions such as James Bond: No Time to Die ; Mission: Impossible ; Married at First Sight ; Strictly Come Dancing ; Gogglebox ; The Apprentice ; Dr Who ; 24-hour news stations and BT Sport.
Our Netflix Approved Cameras will allow you to produce broadcast quality Film and Television as part of the course.
The Sony Fx3 Cinema line camera has a full frame sensor and is in an amazingly compact design and enhanced mobility for easy solo hand-held shooting.
The Sony Fx6 Cinema line camera delivers compactness and performance, with a full-frame image sensor and a library of pre-set looks allows stunning cinematic expression to be achieved easily.
Kelli Watson has been teaching film production for over 19 years.
Her pedagogical approach includes developing alternative methods of teaching to support people who have struggled in mainstream educational settings.
She is also an independent and practicing filmmaker working with small and independent record companies to produce music videos and promotional material for up-and-coming musical artists.
Studying our Creative Digital Film Production MA course gives you hands-on experience of filmmaking to a professional standard, with the specialist knowledge and skills you need to work and succeed in the fast-evolving field of digital film production.
You will explore areas such as cross-media approaches to storytelling, production planning and development, digital film production, editing and post-production techniques and film history and theory.
Building on experience, filmmakers will further develop their understanding of both fiction and non-fiction film making through an advanced study of film theory, coupled with a practical application designed to build and develop creativity and personal style.
At the heart of this course is your employability.
Through our Creative Enterprises unit, you will have the opportunity to work on a live brief as well as explore employment opportunities within the film and television industry.
Building on the foundations of your study, Film Analysis will enable you to adopt an informed and sophisticated approach to film theory.
You will critically analyse various cinema forms and institutions ranging from contemporary to historical cinema and enhance your awareness of the specificity of meaning within films.
To develop your skills in film production, you will engage with a range of workshops and practical exercises in our Fiction Film Production unit.
You will practice the standard rules of film production, from sequencing shots to the continuity system, and learn to realise your ideas on the screen while working as part of a production team with performers.
Overall, you will have the opportunity to make creative and technical decisions in fiction filmmaking.
You will also get the opportunity to produce a short factual film in our Truth and Telling unit that will expose you to the creative issues and decisions at the heart of storytelling through documentaries or other experimental forms.
On a deeper level, you will consider different modes of production and how filmmakers make meaning in their work based on cultural influences or technology.
Finally, you will have the opportunity to complete a Digital Film Project where you can produce your own work of film in a documentary, fiction or hybrid style that is accompanied by a critical contextual study.
Alternatively, you will complete a 12,000-word dissertation on a topic of your choice related to film practice or studies.
Assessments take a variety of forms including written work (programme pitches research plans contextual essays) oral presentations (programme pitches) and practical work (studio or location video content).
For some units you will work individually while on other more practice-focused units you will work as a group to produce work for assessment though it is important to note that all students will be graded individually.
The assessments are designed to enable you to become more effective multi-skilled practitioners using your producing and technical skills to create innovative and industry standard programming.
They are also designed to help develop and test your ability to work both autonomously and as part of a team in a variety of production phases from development to post-production.
On all units there will be opportunity for formative feedback on assessments-in-progress before the assessment deadline and you are encouraged to integrate formative and summative feedback into your work in order to develop as television practitioners and academic researchers.
This course is ideal for you if you are seeking a job in film-related fields such as production programming, marketing and film administration.
It provides an understanding of filmmaking in relation to commercial and cultural industries both global and in the UK.
Students graduating from this degree have entered the film industry as editors, filmmakers and production crew as well as setting up their own production companies.
Graduates will also be qualified to apply for MPhil and PhD research degrees.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/criminology:
95% of our social sciences students were satisfied with the learning opportunities their course offered; 100% of our students were satisfied with how well it developed knowledge and skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
Our criminology courses rank 12th overall in the UK in their subject field (Times, 2025); they are in the UK top three for teaching quality and top five for student experience.
Our sociology courses (including criminology) rank UK 2nd in their subject field for student satisfaction (CUG, 2026).
This course examines the problem of crime, why people offend and how crime is controlled.
It also gives you the practical skills you need and the confidence to apply theories of criminology in real-world settings.
You develop an in-depth understanding of the criminal mind, criminal justice systems and principles around the rehabilitation of the offender.
After studying core topics in criminology, you then choose optional units based on your interest and chosen career pathways in areas such as youth justice; cybercrime; organised crime; gangs and serious crimes.
Simulated scene-of-crime laboratory designed as a modern flat to replicate real-world crime scenarios Mock custody suite Modern library with extensive range of physical and digital resources Bespoke lecture theatres, presentation rooms, group study spaces and socialising space
Put theory into practice through voluntary work and simulated crime scenarios embedded into the course units.
Benefit from our links with local charities and volunteering organisations ( Victim Support, Youth Offending Team, Luton Women’s Aid and Luton Women’s Centre), Luton Council and Bedfordshire Police as well as regular industry visitors and guest speakers such as experts from HMP Wells and local police forces.
Gain specialist knowledge thanks to subject-relevant field trips to The Old Bailey and Royal Courts of Justice.
Develop your research skills and ability to make sound judgements based on in-depth knowledge.
Specialised learning support and guidance from academic success coaches .
Explore your commitment to the principle of equal opportunities and anti-discriminatory practice .
Interact with local charities, policymakers and community influencers with our #SASS Change Maker initiative, which aims to increase awareness of and response to topical societal issues.
Since 1999, I have been working with children in conflict with law and children in need of care and protection especially street children in Bihar and Jharkhand, India.
I have worked as the Member of Juvenile Justice Board, Patna and closely worked with the different stakeholders in the Youth Justice System.
My PhD thesis was on the experiences, perspectives and participation of children in conflict with law under Juvenile Justice System in India.
I did my study in an Observation Home ( Secure Home for Young offenders) based on qualitative methods, mainly ethnography, with young people under 18 years and stakeholders consisting of juvenile justice board members, judiciary, welfare department, voluntary organizations and Police from Patna, Bihar, India.
Studying our Criminology BSc (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills in the combined areas of criminology and sociology.
By combining these two elements, you will be given an Introduction to Criminology by examining theoretical approaches used to explain crime, deviance and offending behaviour.
More importantly, you will be introduced to a foundational knowledge of the legal system, its institutions and practices in the UK and internationally in our Law, Society and Controversy unit.
Where criminology interacts with social movements and explore voices against inequality based on gender, class, race, etc., our unit in Anti-Racism: Movements and Campaigns will allow you to explore anti-racist campaigns developed by scholars and activists in the UK by looking at various social movements such as the Black Lives Matter movement to understand the social harms, anti-racist activism and resistance in a globalised and multicultural world.
To prepare you for your career, our unit in Career Planning for Social Scientists will support your career development journey by allowing you to identify your transferrable skills and articulate them in a confident, meaningful and positive manner.
You will also delve into the research skills in the field of criminology with our units in an Introduction to Research and Social Enquiry.
In Year 2 of your course, you will continue to analyse and evaluate why some individuals choose to engage in crime and offending as well as the mechanisms used to control crime from different perspectives in our Theorising Crime, Punishment and Justice unit.
Building on this, you will also consider crime in a localised environment and what causes it within urban and rural areas in The Contemporised Criminological Environment unit.
Furthermore, you will be able to apply career planning skills in The Social Sciences at Work unit where you will undertake relevant work experience with an organisation to gain an insight into the professional workplace and the desirable knowledge and skills you need going into graduate employment.
You will continue to prepare with the research skills in the field of criminology with our units in Research Methods 1: Collecting Data and Research Methods 2: Exploring Data.
In these units, you will explore debates and theories in social research, identify quantitative and qualitative data research methods, and learn to interpret and analyse data.
In the same year, this course also offers a range of optional units for you to specialise in.
More specifically, you may also choose to study our Crimes of the Powerful unit that will allow you to address and challenge low-level crimes in the areas of business, politics and finance that are committed by people in power or of a high social status.
If you are interested in studying criminology among youth populations, our Gangs and Serious Youth Violence unit will allow you to explore the nature, extent and impact of this issue and how to respond effectively using policy, strategy and intervention.
While learning about the contexts of crime, you will also consider the complex needs of offenders and how to effectively manage the prevention of reoffending in our Rehabilitation of the Offender unit.
Shifting the focus from offenders, you can also learn to support victims, families, survivors and witnesses affected by offending or anti-social behaviour in our Victims and Victimology unit.
In addition, you may also choose to explore the complex world of Cybercrime including issues such as cyber terrorism, cyberbullying and cyber hate, cyber-fraud, hackers and hacking etc.
In Year 3, you have again choice of a range of optional units for you to specialise in.
You will be able to narrow your study to specific areas of crime such as within our Violence in Modern Society unit where you will critically examine theories of violence and types of violent crime; or you can seek to compare and examine policies and approaches to meet the needs of young people in our Youth Justice: Models and Approaches unit.
You may also consider the ideologies that motivate individuals and groups to resort to terrorism in our Terrorism in a Global Context unit while examining the impact of terrorism as a political weapon and the responses to this on a global scale or examine the multifaceted relationship between the media, crime and culture with reference to crime journalism, novels, movies and TV dramas in our Crime and the Media unit.
If you are passionate about the environment, then our unit in Green Criminology: Environmental Crime and Ecological Justice will allow you to explore a wide range of challenges around crimes against the environment.
Aside from this, our unit in Urban Crime will expose you to various debates in urban criminology.
In the project-based dissertation, you will have the opportunity to work with a community-based organisation to deliver a project while building on your research, presentation and project management skills.
The assessments will develop incrementally across the course and allow you to gain skills and acquire knowledge receive feedback and grow thus allowing you to implement this knowledge and feedback into subsequent assessments.
Working in groups is an important attribute and as part of the assessment process you will work in groups with others.
However your contribution will be individually graded and you will receive a grade based on your contribution to the assessed group work.
At the end of the course completion of the assessments will demonstrate your ability to analyse current knowledge and communicate this in both written and presentational formats and to demonstrate a range of transferable skills relevant to your professional employability.
This course is designed to facilitate your entry to a career in the field of human services with a particular emphasis on criminal justice.
Careers include teaching criminology; youth justice and youth work; offending teams; policing; community safety; local government; and research into criminal behaviour.
Typical destinations for criminology students include:
You can also progress to further study at Master’s level in relevant areas – for example, the University of Bedfordshire’s Cybercrime, Terrorism and Security MSc

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/cyber-crime-terrorism-and-security:
Our postgraduate taught computing courses rank 4th overall in their subject field with top 3 rankings for teaching, engagement, learning community, assessment, and organisation (PTES, 2024).
Study with leading academics and globally recognised researchers who are actively engaged in cutting-edge research to protect the cyber world and have authored textbooks in the field.
State-of-the-art laboratories and resources that allow you to explore theories in practice, alongside collaborations with leading industry providers.
Our MSc in Cyber Crime, Terrorism and Security gives you the opportunity to critically examine the evolving landscape of technology and the online world; how these changes impact crime and deviance; and how to protect the cyber realm.
You explore key areas in depth including information security, cyber criminology, cyber law, cybersecurity, ethical hacking and human rights.
The course offers a cross-disciplinary learning experience, developing your understanding of the technical and criminological impacts of the emerging technologies and digital trends that pose threats to security, as well as the cybersecurity measures that protect against these threats.
You apply your theoretical knowledge in practical, hands-on sessions, using simulated, real-world scenarios.
Dedicated computing labs in our modern, purpose-built STEM building New security operations centre laboratory Range of penetration testing software and hardware tools Simulation software and virtualised environments Cisco Networking Academy courses and learning resources
Long-established collaborations with top providers in the industry such as Cisco, CompTIA and EC-Council.
A prominent partner in the Cisco Networking Academy.
Strong partnerships with industry collaborators, such as Switchshop.
Gain a unique perspective on a multidisciplinary course that integrates the fields of cybercrime (social sciences) and cybersecurity (technology) .
Access our simulated environment where you gain insights into the tools, tactics and mindsets of cyber criminals; analyse and assess vulnerabilities; and deploy threat detection and monitoring techniques in response to cyber incidents.
This MSc is delivered by highly qualified experts from both our departments of computing and social sciences, who use their active involvement in research and consultancy to keep you ahead of the curve.
Interact with the industry to gain insights into how it operates while developing your hands-on skills through practical exercises, case studies and real-world simulations.
Gain specialist knowledge from interactive workshops and seminars delivered by external experts .
Enhance your employability with our focus on developing key transferable skills such as critical thinking; academic literacy; problem-solving; and effective leadership.
The course’s MSc research project allows you to explore your unique area of interest.
The MSc in Cyber Crime, Terrorism, and Security offers a comprehensive exploration of Information Security, Cyberlaw, Human Rights, and Cybersecurity, bridging the gap between theory and practice through topics such as ethical hacking, cyber criminology, and terrorism.
This interdisciplinary approach provides a unique perspective that integrates the fields of cybercrime and cybersecurity.
Students from a social science background will find this program accessible as it familiarises them with cybercrime, terrorism, cyberlaw, and human rights while equipping them with new skills in information security and cybersecurity.
They will gain knowledge in cybersecurity concepts and practice these through activities such as security scanning, incident response, and basic penetration testing.
Students with a technology background will delve into the practical application of cybersecurity concepts while expanding their understanding of cybercrime, terrorism, cyberlaw, and human rights.
This integration allows them to combine their technical expertise with criminology, opening new career and research opportunities.
Throughout the course, students participate in practical exercises, case studies, and real-world simulations to develop hands-on skills in cybersecurity and digital investigations.
They also can be exposed to law enforcement agencies, cybersecurity firms, and other relevant organizations to gain insights of real-world applications through guest lectures and field visits.
In addition, the students will learn Research Methodologies, which will enhance their research skills and knowledge.
Students are also required to conduct a MSc Project in Cyber Crime, Terrorism and Security to showcase how they can develop an artefact based on the knowledge and skills they have acquired.
The units are also related to professional courses in their respective areas, enabling a student to get the professional certifications along with their academic qualifications.
Graduates of this course will be well prepared for careers in areas such as law enforcement, regulation, cybersecurity, digital forensics and risk management.
They are equipped to tackle the growing challenges of cybercrime and contribute to the broader field of criminology.
This unique combination of criminological and cyber expertise makes them highly sought-after professionals in an increasingly digital world.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/cyber-security-masters:
The course is delivered by cybersecurity experts, active in networking and security research.
There’s a high demand for talented professionals who can confidently navigate cybersecurity’s complexities and threats.
With its forward-thinking teaching and practice-orientated approach, our Cyber Security MSc prepares you to meet the challenges of this ever-growing landscape.
You study rapidly developing topics such as cyber defence and information governance; learn from leading academics in our cutting-edge facilities; and gain real-world experience through hands-on projects and industry applications.
High-tech Cisco Networking Academy computer networking and specialised Cybersecurity laboratory Use of Hak5 hardware for pentesting activities Modern STEM building with purpose-built laboratories, presentation rooms and group study spaces Industry-standard technology such as MATLAB simulation software and virtualised environments to reflect the most up-to-date practices
We have long-established collaborations with top providers in the industry such as Cisco, CompTIA and EC-Council.
Learn from a team of highly qualified experts , who use their active involvement in research and consultancy to shape their teaching and keep you on top of the most pivotal developments in the field.
Expand your knowledge on subject-relevant field trips to sites such as Bletchley Park.
Prepare for the workplace through case studies, problem-based learning and hands-on sessions so you can apply your theoretical knowledge to real-world situations.
The course’s MSc Cyber Security research project allows you to explore your unique area of interest .
Expand your subject knowledge outside the normal MSc route by taking certain units as dedicated, credit-based short courses .
Dr Ali Mansour is a Senior Lecturer in Computing and Information Systems at the University of Bedfordshire.
He is a Fellow of the British Computer Society (FBCS), a BCS Chartered IT Professional (CITP), an Engineering Council Chartered Engineer (CEng), and a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA).
Ali runs the Cybersecurity Club@UoB via BREO and an advocate for the integration of professional industry certification content into academic degrees as the case with the various Cisco and CompTIA courses at UG and PG levels.
His research interests are in Cybersecurity, Educational technologies, and Medical informatics.
Studying our Cyber Security MSc course will equip you with the core knowledge and skills around security processes, methodologies and practices.
To advance your cyber security skills, you will discover key domains in cyber security management from a strategic and tactical perspective within an organisational context in our Tactical and Strategic Cybersecurity Management unit.
You will be introduced optimised IT operations and information security programs used in critical business functions as part of their cyber security strategy.
It is also important that you adhere to the frameworks, standards and strategies for managing an organisation’s information assets, and this is where our unit in Information Governance and Compliance will introduce you to the principles that govern modern information systems that align with legal and regulatory requirements within the field.
More importantly, you will be equipped with the principles, methods and tools to prevent cyber-attacks and to identify them as quickly as possible in our Cyber Defence unit.
Furthermore, you will examine network security mechanisms, information gathering techniques and analytics to build and evaluate threat intelligence programmes.
Finally, you will complete an MSc Project in Cyber Security that will allow you to bring your acquired skills and knowledge together in practice.
The assessment strategy used is predominantly written assessments with only two (2) formal invigilated examinations throughout the course.
The method used will depend on the nature of the subject matter being taught in each of the units where the most appropriate method is chosen and analysed (See UIFs).
All assessments used in the course are in perfect alignment with University requirements regulations and policies.
Coursework assignments typically incorporate formative feedback so that students can gain an insight into whether their work is meeting the necessary thresholds and focus on meaningful remarks to improve both their performance and understanding in the subject matter.
The assessment strategy has been designed with strong influence by the requirements and needs of the audience in PT mode of delivery for this course.
On completing this course you are likely to progress into a career in the following areas: security associate; security analyst; information security and risk practitioner; penetration tester; security architect; intrusion analyst; DR/BCP manager; or security auditor.
As a graduate of this course you will also have the opportunity for further study at MSc by Research or PhD level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/cyber-security-with-project-management:
Certain course units can be taken as dedicated, credit-based short courses outside the normal MSc route.
There’s a high demand for talented professionals who can confidently navigate cybersecurity’s multitude of complexities and threats.
With its forward-thinking teaching and practical-orientated approach, our Cyber Security with Project Management MSc prepares you to meet the challenges of this ever-growing landscape.
Study rapidly developing topics such as cyber defence and information governance; learn from leading academics in our cutting-edge facilities; and gain real-world experience through hands-on projects, where you develop your skills in project management.
High-tech Cisco Networking Academy computer networking and specialised Cybersecurity laboratory Modern STEM building with purpose-built laboratories, presentation rooms and group study spaces Industry-standard technology such as MATLAB simulation software and virtualised environments to reflect the most up-to-date practices
Prepare for the workplace with integrated project management units and employment-focused self-development , fostering skills from effective communication and critical evaluation to leadership and problem solving.
The course’s MSc Cyber Security research project allows you to explore in depth your unique area of interest .
We offer intermediate qualifications and dedicated credit-based short courses , allowing you to expand your subject knowledge without achieving the full Master’s.
Studying our Cyber Security with Project Management MSc course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise in programming, databases, security, computer networking with a focus on project management.
You will be introduced to optimised IT operations and information security programs used in critical business functions as part of their cyber security strategy.
Finally, you will complete an MSc Project in Cybersecurity that will allow you to bring your acquired skills and knowledge together in practice.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/cybersecurity:
This course is fully accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS), meaning you qualify for chartered IT professional (CITP) status once you graduate.
Our new, immersive Security Operations Centre, developed with partners Switchshop, provides state-of-the-art, hands-on experience in cybersecurity.
It includes Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) and CyberOps Associate content, preparing you for highly valued industry examinations.
This degree aims to provide you with a deep, practical understanding of the latest security technologies, applications, and issues, ensuring you know how to put in place strong Information security and management that can cope with the vast and ever-evolving proliferation of malware and targeted cyber-attacks.
The course is uniquely designed to blend a wide spectrum of state-of-the-art domains around information and network security; it will equip you with the academic and industry skills to excel in your career.
This course is fully accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS), the Chartered Institute for IT, meaning you qualify for chartered IT professional (CITP) status once you graduate.
Modern, purpose-built STEM building with industry-relevant laboratories and equipment High-tech Cisco Networking Academy computer networking Specialised cybersecurity laboratory New immersive Security Operations Centre Cutting-edge technology such as MATLAB simulation software and virtualised environments so you become familiar with the technology used in industry Use of Hak5 hardware for pentesting activities
We have long-established collaborations with top providers in the industry such as Cisco, CompTIA, EC-Council and the CWNA.
We also have an active partnership with computer networking and cybersecurity specialists, Switchshop.
Cybersecurity learning is supported through industry-professional certification programmes such as Cisco CCNA and CyberOps Associate, to name a few.
The Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA), CyberOps Associate and CompTIA CySA+ programmes prepare you for industry examinations to gain networking and cybersecurity certifications.
Put your skills into practice through work-based projects , learning from experts at organisations such as Bedfordshire Police, the NHS, London Luton Airport and our partners, Switchshop.
Take part in a mixture of hands-on activities and interactive demonstrations from academics and guest industry speakers.
Examples of guest speakers include Mark Wilson, Technical Director of Vertali, on IBM Mainframe security; Alex Mortimer, Manager of Academic Partnerships at ISC2; and Cristian Coraci, IT Consultant, on data hiding, digital forensics and mainframe forensics.
Benefit from being supported by our dedicated academic success tutors .
Extend your learning through field trips to renowned sites such as Bletchley Park and Cisco UK.
In 2024, our cybersecurity students showcased their skills by emerging among the top three teams in the UK in Cisco’s prestigious European CyberRace ‘Capture the Flag’ final.
Two of our academics were involved in organising the 7 th International Workshop on applications of AI, Cybersecurity and Economics data analytics (ACE-2023) , ensuring their teaching is at the cutting edge of international advancements .
We understand the importance and value of professional computing certifications.
A hybrid approach of combining hands-on practical, academic and professional learning best prepares learners and gives you 'added value' as you start out on your computing career.
The School of Computer Science and Technology has long established collaborations with top providers in the industry and the School’s teaching team includes many long-standing experienced professional instructors.
Studying our Cybersecurity BSc (Hons) course will equip you with an in-depth knowledge and skills in the areas of information security, cyber defence and threat mitigation.
In core areas of study, our Principles of Information Security unit will introduce you to the fundamentals of information security, threats, and network security while also allowing you to practice using industry-standard operating systems.
You will explore this in more depth in our Information Security Management unit that will provide you with the theory and practical skills around compliance, threat mitigation and cybersecurity operations and apply this to a business standpoint through risk identification or assessment.
Furthermore, our unit in Switching and Routing will teach you to perform basic network configuration, troubleshooting, and to protect against cybersecurity threats.
More importantly, you will learn to build and evaluate successful threat intelligence programmes in our Cyber Defence and Information Governance unit.
You will be given an overview of the tools and techniques for network security and use this to prevent cyberattacks or to identify and flag them as quickly as possible.
As a crucial skill, you will then be taught to respond in the event of a security breach in our Incident Response unit by implementing incident response processes such as evidence gathering and forensic investigation techniques.
More interestingly, you will also receive specialised knowledge and hands-on experience in Ethical Hacking, vulnerability assessment and security testing.
Throughout the three years of the course, you will also be provided with hands-on content from various industry professional certifications such as Cisco CCNA, Cisco CyberOps Associate, and CompTIA CySA+ to name a few, delivered through our Cisco Networking Academy and CompTIA Partnership.
Additionally, various cybersecurity tools will be used to help develop your skills in the field that employers need.
Hak5 penetration testing hardware along with Cisco switches, routers and firewalls; and software tools such as Virtualised Environments, Wireshark, Kali Linux and other Linux distros, Cisco Packet tracer; alongside other penetration testing and network defence tools, will be used throughout the units.
Cybersecurity graduates can pursue any of the general or specialist IT positions such as a Security Analyst, Cyber Risk Analyst, SOC Analyst, Incident Response Specialist, Network Security Specialists, Network Technicians or Administrators, Penetration Testers, Governance and Compliance Officers, and many more.
Constant feedback and advice from a supervisory or unit team will be provided to support you in your studies.
You are required to comprehend the basic range of intellectual concepts which form the foundations of the subject and application area and will be assessed on your ability to articulate such concepts in a coherent manner.
There are opportunities for formative assessment particularly through guided learning.
Written assessments are used to allow the students to reflect on their experiences in the workplace and to consider steps they could take to apply their learning.
E-Portfolios allow students to collect evidence of work they have completed as well as examples and applications of their knowledge from course.
Students may also be required to make technical presentations.
At level 4 you are assessed on your understanding of the fundamental concepts of Computer Science and its applications.
Students will also be introduced to fundamental theory around data analytics and its applications to network defence underpinned by the basics of information security principles.
This may be in the form of analysing and criticising current approaches and theory within cybersecurity malware analysis and GRC frameworks.
You will progress from well-defined briefs to more open-ended and challenging assessments which culminate in the honours project - where you will be given freedom to choose your area of work.
This course opens up a range of roles including information security specialists, network security officers/administrators/engineers, penetration testers, mobile security testers, cybersecurity operations centre specialists, incident responder network administrators/engineers and systems administrators/engineers.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/dental-education-pg-cert:
This course is relevant to dental care professionals working in the NHS, higher education, professional bodies and the private sector.
The course’s part-time, blended-learning approach helps you maintain your work/life balance.
This flexible course builds your skills as an educator, scholar and education leader able to support the development of dental care professionals, their teams and the wider organisation.
It combines face-to-face, online and practice-based approaches to provide a rich range of learning, teaching and assessment opportunities, giving you the opportunity to deepen your understanding of dental educational practices and broaden your expertise in areas of particular interest.
The course fees are £3,336 for 25/26 (2 units, 60 credits).
This course is accredited by the Academy of Medical Educators as meeting the professional standards for medical, dental and veterinary educators.
24/7 access to our library services with 194,000 e-books and 192,000 e-journals Guided learning materials and e-learning resources on the University’s virtual learning platform
The course is designed with the diverse educational roles and responsibilities of dental educators in mind, with a focus on contemporary practice.
Develop a critical, analytical and reflective approach to dental education and its practice , placing it within its historical and contemporary contexts.
Our research-active academic team are established medical and dental educators with experience across dental, medical and healthcare education; they have published widely in their fields, in journals including the British Dental Journal.
We have strong links with a broad range of employers across the region in the NHS, higher education and the private sector, helping to broaden your future prospects.
The PgCert Dental Education includes 2 units, over two semesters.*
*All units are core, face to face contact takes place at Bedford campus, exact teaching rooms will be communicated via our online system (BREO) – dates may be subject to minor changes
For more information please contact the course lead Dr Hoda Wassif via email hoda.wassif@beds.ac.uk
I am a Principal Lecturer in Medical & Dental Education and Portfolio Lead Pre-Professional & Continuing Health Education Portfolio, part of the School of Nursing and Health Education.
As portfolio lead, I offer academic leadership and support related to a range of courses in Pre-Professional and Continuing Health Education including; Advanced Nursing Practice, Nursing Associates, short courses in health systems as well as Medical & Dental Education.
Studying our Dental Education PgCert course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills in dental education and practice.
Starting with our unit, Clinical Education in Practice, you will explore and develop strategies for teaching individuals and groups of learners across a range of settings.
You will adopt an informed and innovative approach to becoming a dental educator by examining effective strategies for teaching, supporting learning and assessment.
To enhance your clinical teaching practice, you will critically analyse features of real, simulated and virtual learning environments while promoting best practice and innovation in your work as an educator.
Moving on to our unit in Understanding Learning in the Workplace, you will explore the socio-political factors that influence the design, delivery and assessment of education and training.
In doing so, you will develop an ability to critique the reform of education and training and familiarise yourself with the conceptions of work-based learning.
The assessment strategy for the course combines formative and summative elements i.e assessment for learning and assessment of learning.
It is designed to foster strong links between learning on the course and the lived realities of dental educators working in a range of clinical and academic contexts.
It is also designed to enable you to evidence your achievement of standards for dental educators in order to satisfy requirements of professional bodies and organisations.
The choice of assessments is determined on the basis of their fitness for purpose i.e.
to evidence achievement of unit learning outcomes at masters level (Level 7).
However they also rehearse writing for a range of academic purposes; an early assessment point in Clinical Education in Practice unit is designed to rehearse writing in the reflective genre and Harvard referencing conventions.
Later assessments move to writing in the academic genre within the traditions of the social sciences.
Increasing emphasis is placed on academic literacy and the ability to present complex ideas coherently with reference to appropriate literature.
Plentiful opportunities are built in to the course to rehearse these skills e.g.
exercises in problematising practice in assessing exemplars of actual (anonymised) assignments using the criteria we use on the course.
By modelling and analysing best practice in educational assessment you will gain confidence and skills in critiquing using and developing their own approaches to assessment.
To enhance your understanding and experiences of assessment practices (relevant to your role as an educator) you will encounter a wide range of assessment methods.
Examples of assessment methods used across the course are: Reflective report writing (e.g.
Clinical Education in Practice); critical appraisals (Understanding Learning in the Workplace; literature review (Understanding Learning in the Workplace) Teaching and Learning patchwork (Clinical Education in Practice)
You will be able to expand and develop your educational roles and responsibilities within your current employment.
It also opens the way to more senior roles in education if you continue your academic studies and complete a postgraduate diploma or full Master’s in Dental Education.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/dental-law-and-ethics-masters:
A ground-breaking Master’s offering the only university-accredited law and ethics course specifically for dental professionals.
Taught by an interdisciplinary team of university academics and visiting experts with wide-ranging legal and ethical expertise.
This flexible, part-time course offers a seamless progression from our highly regarded PgCert Dental Law and Ethics, extending your knowledge of fundamental concepts and theories of law and ethics as well as exploring how they are applied in practice.
Encompassing both clinical and business settings, it provides you with the opportunity to examine your own practice, particularly when it comes to enhancing patient care and delivering excellent service.
To take this course, you must have a relevant qualification in the field and be working in the profession.
The course combines eight study days with online and self-directed learning .
Develop insights into the impact of legal and ethical considerations on everyday decision-making in a practice setting.
Gain an understanding of ways to address patient safety issues , and how you can develop and manage your dental team.
At final Master’s stage, move to greater levels of independence undertaking a supervised research project related to legal and/or ethical issues in dental practice .
Benefit from a wide range of learning and teaching methods including small-group workshops; micro-teaching; case studies; critical-incident analysis; and action learning sets.
Our academic team are research active and have published widely in their fields, in journals including the British Dental Journal.
For students who have completed their PgCert units (total 60 credits) in Dental Law and Ethics and wish to progress.
For students who have completed their PgCert and PgDip units (total 120 credits) in Dental Law and Ethics and wish to progress.
Studying our Dental Law and Ethics MA course will equip you with the basic and fundamental concepts as well as the contemporary and practical applications of legal and ethical knowledge relevant to dental care and practice, with an emphasis on enhancing patient care and delivering excellent service.
Our Dental Law in Practice unit will introduce you to aspects of law related to dental care and practice while enabling you to adopt a critical, analytical and reflective approach.
Moreover, you will develop an awareness of the risks associated with legal issues and learn how this can be managed in a dental team.
With a similar approach, our unit in Ethical Dental Practice will develop your knowledge of ethical issues in the provision of high-quality dental care.
Furthermore, you will explore these ethical dilemmas in more depth to understand how it impacts patient care.
Bringing these two units together, you will further explore fundamental concepts, principles and ideas of law and ethics with a critical approach towards how they are interlinked in our Law and Ethics, Concepts and Theories unit.
This will provide you with the skills to identify and evaluate ethical and legal challenges in the field.
Building on your professional skills, you will learn to explore issues related to regulating dental teams and how to ensure high-quality, professional and ethical service in our Regulating the Dental Team unit.
This builds on a range of professional skills to work collaboratively and effectively in a dental team while encouraging you to prioritise the safety and care of your patients.
To add to the list of core skills on this course, you will be given an Introduction to Research Methods that will allow you to explore quantitative and qualitative research methods, critically consider key ethical issues in health-related research and develop your ability to synthesise and critique literature.
In particular, you will be supported to construct a research proposal that feeds into the Research Project Dissertation where you will develop and conduct an individual research project into a topic of your own interest relevant to dental law and ethics.
You will have an opportunity to tailor assessment tasks in ways that allow you to deal with real issues you encountered in your professional lives.
Tutor support for assessment activities is provided.
This course is designed to address the various needs of those who are relatively new to dental practice as well as those who are more experienced.
This course is designed to develop the skills and practices of dental care professionals with an interest in legal and ethical dental practice.
After completing the course you will be able to demonstrate a systematic understanding of the wide range of legal and ethical concepts and issues that directly or indirectly impact patient care.
Your expertise will allow you to present your ideas and opinions in a structured planned and supported way.
As a graduate in this field you can enhance your legal role in dental practice (such as practice manager or clinical lead); indemnity organisations; primary care organisations; or as an expert witness to legal firms.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/dental-law-and-ethics-pg-cert:
A ground-breaking PgCert offering the only university-accredited law and ethics course specifically for dental professionals.
This flexible, part-time course provides a unique opportunity to study dental care from ethical, legal and professional perspectives.
It builds your professional knowledge of the concepts and theories of law and ethics, and how they are applied in practice.
Encompassing both clinical and business settings, it provides the opportunity to examine your own practice, particularly in relation to enhancing patient care and delivering excellent service.
Study the ethical challenges and dilemmas that occur in dental practice ; propose possible responses; and support these with well-argued rationales.
Deliver tutor-supported assessment tasks tailored to allow you to deal with the real issues you encounter in your professional life.
Develop the ability to appraise your own approach to practice using independent or collaborative methods to identify and respond to your needs.
The PgCert Dental Law and Ethics includes 2 units, over two semesters.*
Studying our Dental Law and Ethics PgCert course will equip you with the basic and fundamental concepts as well as the contemporary and practical applications of legal and ethical knowledge relevant to dental care and practice.
This course has been designed as a blended learning course combining face-to-face learning (during study contact days) with supported interactive on-line learning.
In addition the course requires students to make explicit links between their learning on the course and their own individual practice.
This is primarily through the assessment strategy and by allowing students the flexibility in selecting their topics for assessment tasks.
Students also have the chance to reinforce their knowledge by linking the legal and ethical theory into their practice through developing an artefact that emerges from their chosen topics.
Teaching learning and assessment activities across the course are designed to enable students to rehearse and hone skills required for their assessment tasks.
For example working in groups to study reported cases in the media and legal and ethical cases from the GDC help students in their selection and later in their analysis of legal case law and their links to dental practice.
The assessments for the course has been developed to ensure that:
You can enhance your legal role in dental practice (such as practice managers or clinical leads); indemnity organisations; primary care organisations; or acting as an expert witness to legal firms.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/digital-marketing:
Block delivery and flexible year-round entry points
The MSc Digital Marketing course provides a basis for understanding digital marketing from a management perspective.
To succeed in this digital transformational economy you need to be knowledgeable and effective managers with a wide understanding of how marketing crosses national, cultural and psychographic boundaries and how digital permeates marketing for the 21st century organisation.
This course offers the opportunity to develop a deep and meaningful appreciation of the impact digital marketing has, locally and internationally, operationally, tactically and strategically.
Marketing is leading the transformation of the modern economy, transforming business and driving growth.
For further course information, contact Dr Codrin Chiru at codrin.chiru@beds.ac.uk
State-of-the-art business analytics suite with over £300K of industry-standard hardware and software, tailored to crucial digital practices such as big data, SEO and marketing Access to advanced learning resources from Harvard Business Publishing and the Institute of Data and Marketing (IDM) Immersive Semrush simulation software for realistic marketing practice Business pods, boardroom areas and IT suites designed to simulate a professional office environment
Choose to specialise further by undertaking your dissertation in an area that sparks your interest, applying your learning to solve complex problems.
Studying our Digital Marketing MSc course will equip you with the in-depth skills and knowledge in digital marketing including in areas of branding and communication, digital media and analytics.
Digital Relationship Marketing will expose you to the techniques of engaging customers and consumers through the use of emerging digital technologies.
This will allow you to utilise knowledge about customers to make better marketing decisions and create competitive advantage.
More specifically, you will learn about the role of customer engagement, its behavioural theories and how this case generate customer knowledge.
At the end of this unit, you should be able to identify emerging and future patterns of customer behaviours and brand engagement while being able to target specialist audiences in a business setting.
Similarly, Marketing in the Digital Era will allow you to explore elements of devising digital marketing strategies, conducting online market research and preparing a digital marketing plan.
You will gain a critical awareness of the role of digital marketing in business success while learning to apply digital marketing techniques with a focus on digital platforms, new business models and social interaction.
At the same time, you will gain a practical understanding of how organisations deal with complex issues systematically and creatively through online communication of brands, digital interaction with consumers and digital transformation of consumers’ lives and preferences.
Following this, you will learn to apply Business Analytics techniques to a variety of business contexts by practicing the analytics and problem-solving skills to make recommendations for business performance decisions.
As a graduate of the course you will have the right skills to find career opportunities in digital marketing; mobile marketing; digital account management; search and social media; web content management; digital creative development; marketing communications; or marketing.
This course is an appropriate foundation for further academic study at either MPhil or PhD level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/early-childhood-education-graduate-practitioner:
Our education courses rank in the UK top 20 for student satisfaction (Complete University Guide, 2026).
95% of our Education students were satisfied with the learning opportunities their course offered, including developing knowledge and skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
If your dream is to work with young children, this course gives you a deep understanding of early years education, preparing you for a wide range of careers or for further study to become a teacher.
You will develop an inter-disciplinary knowledge of how children develop in learning and thinking in their early years (0-7 years).
The course gives you a DfE-recognised Graduate Practitioner qualification alongside your degree.
Forest School where you can deepen your understanding of the long-term educational benefits of outdoor learning Specialist sensory centre for practise in teaching SEND and early years pupils Multi-media space for webinars and podcasting 80-seat black-box theatre and 260-seat professional theatre A wide range of sports facilities including the Polhill Sports Arena, an international PE venue
You learn the latest innovative practices in early childhood education and care, with the support of a highly experienced academic team, actively involved in research in their fields.
You participate in practical workshops on campus and in early years settings , and benefit from university-organised placements (80 days over three years) in a variety of early childhood settings.
You benefit from the support of your own personal tutor, a subject and/or placement mentor, a unit and course coordinator , and the additional support of our experienced library staff, all of whom will help you throughout your student journey and with balancing study with work and personal commitments.
You have the opportunity to go on relevant field trips to places you would be likely to take your pupils, such as theatres; museums; art galleries; and attend relevant educational conferences.
We have regular visits by professionals from schools and academy chains including both primary and secondary head teachers; SEN schools; local education authorities; and other agencies involved in broadening students understanding such as the NHS (neurodiversity), museums, local faith leaders and sports representatives.
I gained Qualified Teacher Status in 1987 and have worked in a number of educational settings since then.
I have taught across the whole primary age range.
My main focus, however, has been working with children in the Foundation Stage (0 – 5) in schools, day nurseries and Children's Centres in both a hands-on practitioner and an advisory capacity and in a range of different local authorities in England.
Studying our BA (Hons) Early Childhood Education (Graduate Practitioner) course will equip you with specialist knowledge and skills around early years education.
It offers you a full and relevant practising qualification recognised by the Department for Education.
You will undertake 80 days of assessed placement within the 0 to seven age group and collect a range of evidence for a professional portfolio as well exploring your understanding of a range of childhood theories and approaches in taught sessions and assessments.
As an aspiring early years practitioner, it is essential that you have in-depth knowledge of Early Child Development, therefore this unit aims to provide you with a wide range of research and theory in the field.
You will be introduced to current legislation and guidance around Early Years Curriculum Studies to examine how academic research and child development theories are used to develop policy.
To broaden your views on educational practice, these units later link to our International Perspectives on Early Childhood Education unit where you will examine international and renowned approaches used to support early years learning.
The unit Narratives of Childhood will be useful in developing your understanding of theories on childhood, youth and education.
This knowledge will allow you to raise critical questions about children’s care policies, welfare and education over time.
In more specific areas of study, our Early Representations of Numeracy and Literacy unit will allow you to explore how young children develop their literacy and numeracy skills at an early age and can be supported by practitioners and the environment in appropriate ways.
In practical areas of study, you will learn to support and promote early education and development in our Developing Practice in Early Childhood Settings unit.
You will keep this knowledge in mind during the Developing Teaching Practice unit.
Moreover, our unit in Reflecting on Quality in Early Childhood Settings will enhance your understanding of how reflective thinking can enable the most effective provision for young children’s thinking and help practitioners to tune into children and help those children make sense of their world.
To diversify your skill set further, our unit in Professionalism, Leadership and Management in the Early Years will equip you with the organisational, legal and interpersonal skills you need to lead a team and ensure that your work with diverse groups of people is of a high quality to help you to support both team and children’s needs effectively..
As an early years professional, a deep knowledge of children with differing needs is a crucial factor in ensuring equality of opportunities for them to be included and to flourish.
This is where our units in Inclusive Education in the Early Years and Inclusive Practice in Early Childhood Settings will enable you to examine approaches to ensure an understanding and equitable approach to curriculum opportunities.
More generally, The Lifelong Curriculum unit aims to develop your understanding of key considerations in curriculum design, and you will learn not only to design curriculum, but how to implement it based on educational policy.
With more young people experiencing mental health issues, our unit in Children and Young People’s Wellbeing will teach you to support children through understanding social and emotional issues in education.
Similarly, our unit in Representations of Disability will allow you to criticise disability representation in the media and how this influences perceptions of disability.
In other areas of study, you might select to study an Introduction to Educational Philosophy where you will consider a range of philosophical concepts and methods that can be applied to educational contexts.
We support you from the beginning to the end of your academic and research journey.
Our Key Concepts in Education unit gives you the skills to produce academic work to a higher education standard through debates and written exercises.
To introduce you to research skills, our unit Investigating the Social World will equip you with an understanding of quantitative and qualitative research methods, data collection, analysis and reporting.
Finally, you will plan and execute an independent research project in our Dissertation unit where you will choose a relevant topic of interest to you and work under the guidance of a supervisor.
This is a celebration of all the skills you have learned and offers you an opportunity to specialise in studying an area that interests you.
This course aims to provide a range of assessment methods to support the diverse needs of all learners.
Assessments include exams essays case studies portfolios presentations reflections on work-based learning and culminate in a research-based dissertation.
The assignments will build directly on the teaching sessions and you will be supported by lecturers to develop your individual assignment through tutorials and in class activities.
In level 4 more support is also provided in the form of formative assessments.
At Levels 5 and 6 developmental assessment opportunities are offered in the form of peer assessment and individual/group tutorials.
Substantial guidance is provided on how to complete the assignments on the university Virtual Learning Environment called BREO (Bedfordshire Resources for Education Online) and in Unit handbooks seminars and detailed assessment briefs.
Many of the assessments relate to real world situations and will encourage you to draw upon your work experience and observations from Early Years settings.
After graduating from this course, you will be well placed to enter a career working with young children in community and social care settings; educational welfare; children’s centres; or as a senior play worker/co-ordinator/manager.
This course can also be a route to further study to gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), Early Years Teacher Status (EYTS) or progress to a Master’s-level course in a related area.
Please note that studying to gain QTS/EYTS requires GCSE grades A/8-C/4 in maths, English and science (or equivalent).

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/early-years-studies:
They rank in the UK top 20 for student satisfaction (Complete University Guide, 2026).
If you work with young children in a setting such as pre-school, childminding, day nursery or children’s centre, this Foundation degree has been designed to fit around your work commitments.
It combines academic study with your work experience, preparing you to work in multi-disciplinary teams in early years settings.
On completion, you also have direct entry to one of our one year top-up pathways (Early Years, SEND or Education), enabling you to gain a full BA (Hons) degree.
This course offers opportunities for students to study through blended learning in which 60% is online and 40% attending Saturday study days (6 per academic year).
Designated online classroom and learning space Forest School where you can deepen your understanding of the long-term educational benefits of outdoor learning opportunities Specialist Early Years and Sensory Centre to support your understanding of how teachers teach and children learn, within early years and SEND contexts Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting.
Designated study space and activity agenda for all Saturday study days
Our Bedford campus is a small, thriving academic community where academic staff get to know you well and offer personalised, student-centred learning .
You benefit from the support of your own personal tutor, a unit and course coordinator, and the additional support of our experienced library staff, all of whom will help you throughout your student journey and with balancing study with work and personal commitments.
Studying our Foundation Degree Early Years Studies course will equip you with specialist knowledge and skills around early years education and child development.
Introduction to Higher Education Study is the first unit you will study, where you will be introduced to a range of academic skills and tasks that will support you to demonstrate the ability to reach your full academic potential.
Through examining research, theory and pedagogy, our Developing Learning unit will support you to develop the knowledge and skills to support the development of babies and children.
In more specific learning areas, you will develop your understanding of English and Mathematics in our Contextual Curriculum: Early Years unit.
These subject areas are crucial to early years and modern education for supporting babies’ and children’s needs.
In other areas of Early Years, our unit in The Importance of Play will allow you to examine how children learn and develop through play, based on established research and theory.
This will inform your future work where you will be able to develop and support play-based approaches.
Furthermore, another crucial area of education is inclusivity and especially within special educational needs and disability (SEND).
This is where our unit in Inclusive Practice and SEND will encourage you to question to what extent education is inclusive, while also considering the existing barriers to inclusive education, and how to support all children including children with SEND within Early Years.
As an early years educator, your involvement extends far from the child alone.
Early Years: The Child, The Family, The Community explores the impact that settings, families and communities have on the experiences and dispositions of children.
Furthermore, you will explore how families, parents and carers are supported to engage with their child and examine potential support from their community.
To prepare you for your work in early years education, Developing Professional Practice will explore aspects of professionalism in early years contexts.
You will consider the sociological, psychological and philosophical influences on policy and practice.
At the same time, Reflections on Practice will encourage you to identify your current strengths and areas for further development in both your studies and professional work.
In the long term, you will develop the personal and practice skills of an educational professional.
The purpose of the assessment strategy is to maximise the outcomes of summative assessment through effective personalised formative assessment.
This is made possible by a variety of assessment types to engage a number of approaches to learning.
In the feedback to each unit of work students are marked against a level specific marking grid and are given advice on their strengths and areas for improvement.
Such advice should then be fed into their subsequent assignments to form a gradual building of knowledge rigor and application.
It is expected that the student's workplace setting will give context to their individual assessment and will also be used in many of the assessments to provide secondary or primary materials to inform the assessment criteria.
You will have the opportunity to continue your studies at degree level through the University of Bedfordshire's Applied Early Years Studies (top up) BA (Hons); all successful Foundation degree students have the right of direct entry to the BA at the end of their study.
You could then choose to follow a Primary PGCE or School Direct programme to gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) or Early Years Teacher Status (EYTS).
GSCE grades A*/9-C/4 in maths, English and science or equivalent will be required.
If you do not wish to progress to the top-up degree, you have various options in employment including leadership and management roles within an early-years setting.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/early-years-studies-with-early-years-educator-status:
On this course pathway, you gain the Early Years Educator (EYE) qualification alongside your Foundation degree; EYE status further supports those who may not currently have a licence to practice, enhancing your employability and progression within the workplace.
This course pathway includes an Early Years Educator qualification that has Department for Education accreditation.
Designated online classroom and learning space Forest School where you can deepen your understanding of the long-term educational benefits of outdoor learning opportunities Resourced early-years classroom leading to our Forest School and garden space Specialist Early Years and Sensory Centre to support your understanding of how teachers teach and children learn, within early-years and SEND contexts Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting.
Our Bedford campus is a small, thriving academic community where academic staff get to know you well, offering personalised, student-centred learning .
On this Foundation degree pathway with Early Years Educator, you are supported by a designated University mentor and workplace observation tutor who works with you to arrange and support work-based observations of your practice.
GCSE grades A*/9-C/4 in maths, English and science or equivalent will be required.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/economics-and-finance:
Learn from highly qualified and experienced academics and professionals whose research achievements in the field ensure your studies are dynamic and relevant.
Develop the digital skills essential for success in the financial sector, using industry-standard applications and platforms.
This course teaches you to apply economic theory and analysis to real-world financial problems.
It provides you with the subject knowledge to understand key developments in global markets and the challenges faced by economies alongside building the technical and analytical skills you need to find innovative solutions.
You gain an in-depth understanding of the main ideas and principles of modern economics and finance, and how they shape the operation of businesses, policies of governments and interactions between countries.
New business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, SEO and other management skills needed in today's workplace Access to industry-standard applications and platforms to aid practical learning including Sage, Refinitiv Workspace and econometrics software STATA Access to digital learning platforms and knowledge tools A well-equipped trading room to access economic data and enhance your financial skills Gain competencies in key digital skills such as Excel through SIMnet, our Microsoft Office training platform
Benefit from our connections with top financial firms, including Ernst & Young (EY), KPMG, PwC, and Deloitte, along with professional bodies like the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW).
Our business analytics suite and state-of-the-art trading room give you the opportunity to simulate real-world economic decision-making; you experience what it’s like to be on the trading-room floor, reacting to live ‘stock-market’ data and building international investment portfolios.
Build your transferable skills and experience in critical thinking, problem solving, presentation and team working as well as in using information technology.
Learn from masterclasses from industry experts, benefitting from their experience and keeping at the leading edge in the finance field.
Enhance your student experience with conferences, Industry networking events and field trips to major financial institutions including the Bank of England.
Working with the University’s Research and Innovation Service (RIS), get involved in solving real-life problems for businesses, from start-ups to established corporations, through our business development packages.
Companies that have benefited from our business development packages include Vauxhall; Drax Technology; the Royal Air Force; Luton and Bedford Borough Councils; and a range of national charities.
Studying our Economics and Finance BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills around economic principles and financial analysis.
You will then get to apply this knowledge in our business-focused units, such as in an Introduction to Accounting and Business Technology.
Using the latest technology alongside various analytical tools, you will engage in preparing, analysing and interpreting account statements within a business environment.
Paired with our Data Analysis for Finance and Economics unit, you will also be guided to use statistical techniques and software to collect, summarise and analyse data that informs business processes and economic policy.
To help you with this, our unit in Applied Numeracy for Business will give you the confidence to develop the mathematical and numerical skills used for decision making and problem solving for businesses.
You will be introduced to microeconomic and macroeconomic theory in our Economics unit, while also examining government economic policies, growth, and factors that contribute to the levels of income and employment in an economy.
Using this economic theory, you will discuss major economic issues faced by EU countries and their effects on businesses in our International Economics unit.
Here, you will develop your understanding of international trade and international monetary theory and policy.
To apply this knowledge, our unit in Applied Economic Policy will allow you to consider how economics can be applied to design, guide and interpret economic policies.
Furthermore, you will also analyse government policies and evaluate economies in various countries.
Other units include Financial Management, where you will receive specialist knowledge required for financial and investment decision making based on long-term business objectives.
To expose you to working with numerical information, our Fundamentals of Econometrics unit will develop your understanding and interpretation of quantitative analysis and judgements in economic environments.
Finally, you will also have the opportunity to conduct thorough academic research and/or a practical project using a range of tools and approaches in our Business Project Unit.
To support you with this, our units in Data and Research Methods for Business will provide you with the knowledge and skills to conduct research and analyse data in a business context.
To prepare you for this, we have specialised units - Beginning your Professional Business Journey and Personal Development and Employability - that aim to ease your transition into the workplace and provide an insight into professional business environments.
Different assessment methods are chosen to evaluate and support your learning in understanding and applying economics and finance theories to real issues.
The assessment strategy is also focused on enhance your employability throughout this course.
A pivotal element of this is that feedback will be given in due time so it is integrated in the learning process.
Some of assessments are listed below and in some cases they will be used in combination.
In addition your knowledge and skills will be also formatively assessed through problem solving sessions or case study discussions.
This course provides an excellent pathway for a career as an economist in financial institutions and banking business management consulting commerce the public sector and voluntary organisations.
They can be skilled managers researchers analysts and strategists.
Graduates may also progress on to postgraduate study.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/education:
Our education courses rank in the UK top three in their subject field for teaching quality; they rank in the UK top 10 for student experience (Times, 2025)
They are in the UK top 20 for student satisfaction (Complete University Guide, 2026).
Do you believe in the power and potential of education to improve people’s lives?
But do you feel that there are key issues within the education system that need changing?
If you answered yes to these questions, then this could be the degree for you.
Committed to education, critical of its structures: this describes not only our approach to education studies, but also many of our students.
On this exciting and broad degree, you will study education – in national and international contexts – in relation to political history, sociology, philosophy, psychology and issues of media representation.
There is a strong focus on employability and practical experience, with opportunities for professional training, gaining additional certificates and qualifications, trips, and work placements over the duration of your course.
Mock classrooms with specialist technology so you can watch and assess your lesson.
Forest School where you can deepen your understanding of the long-term educational benefits of outdoor learning opportunities.
Specialist sensory centre to support your understanding of how teachers teach and children learn, within early years and SEND contexts.
Multi-media space for webinars and podcasting.
Flexible unit choices allow you to specialise in a particular area that may align with your future career intentions.
You work with an academic team with expertise across sociology, history, philosophy of education and critical pedagogy.
Many of our staff also have "previous lives" in frontline professions , including youth work and education, and bring real-world perspectives to teaching sessions.
If you would like to have an informal discussion about the Education BA (Hons) degree, please contact the course lead, Dr.
Oli Belas at oliver.belas@beds.ac.uk If you would like to study for the Education BA(Hons) degree but think you do not yet meet the entry requirements, we also offer an Education with Foundation Year BA(Hons).
Successful completion of the Foundation Year guarantees progression to the degree.
For more information, contact course lead, Dr.
Kay Calver at kay.calver@beds.ac.uk or Dr.
Oli Belas at oliver.belas@beds.ac.uk
If you would like to study for the Education BA(Hons) degree but think you do not yet meet the entry requirements, we also offer an Education with Foundation Year BA(Hons).
I have been an educator – working in HE, secondary education (as a classroom assistant and teacher), and HE again – since 2005.
I joined the University of Bedfordshire’s School of Education and English (SEE), where I teach on the Education and English Literature degrees, in January 2018.
Year 1 (all core units)
Year 2
Core units
Optional units
*Please note: we may not be able to offer all options every year
Year 3
Optional units*
We do not assess by exam on this course, and we offer lots of opportunities for you to gain assessment support and guidance during your studies to help you excel.
You will experience a range of assignment types through which we assess your learning and support your development.
Common assignment types include:
Our graduates are inspired to work with children and young people and to make a difference in their communities.
You can follow a number of pathways after completing your undergraduate degree in BA (Hons) Education.
You can choose to further your studies through postgraduate degrees, professional qualifications and PhDs in areas such as:
There are also a number of Graduate Schemes where you can progress your career, including:
You will be able to pursue a career relating to children, young people, and education, with our graduates in successful roles such as:
You can listen to some of our graduates share their employment stories on the Working with Children and Young People podcast available on all major podcast platforms.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/education-masters:
This course explores a range of contemporary issues in education, in the UK and globally.
Designed to support development across a range of educational professions.
Shape the course to your own career aspirations or interests with a range of optional units.
This MA fosters evidence-based practice, encouraging you to make direct and meaningful connections between the course and your own experiences and aspirations.
It engages you with key and contemporary issues in education and broadens your knowledge of educational ideas and research findings, prompting you to identify and justify recommendations for further action.
This places you in the best position to develop your work as a classroom practitioner or leader, usually in schools, the lifelong-learning sector and universities.
Explore the process of teaching, learning support and/or educational leadership , focusing on your personal, academic and vocational interests.
Engage with global perspectives on different aspects of education, drawing on theory, practice and case studies from a range of contexts.
Learn from academic staff who are either qualified teachers or have extensive experience in wider education; all are professionals who understand the sector.
Benefit from guest speakers , visits and placement opportunities , helping you contextualise your studies and gain experience of a range of settings.
The University of Bedfordshire’s Bedford campus is a small, thriving academic community where staff get to know you well and provide individual academic support.
Since 2013, I have been the course co-ordinator for our MA Education Pathways.
These courses support the continuing development of practicing educators, as well as supporting the academic development of recent graduates, both British and International.
I teach across a range of our postgraduate courses and units, as well as supervising PhD students.
I am also link co-ordinator for the MA Education (Leadership) course that is running at a partner institution in Guyana.
I also co-ordinate our recently approved MA International Education Courses.
Studying our full-time Education MA course will provide you with in-depth knowledge and skills around education systems and policy for you to work with children and adults in educational contexts.
Throughout the course, we engage with contemporary debates around teaching and learning, in the UK, and globally.
The course includes a range of core and optional units, to provide opportunities for students to develop and specialise based on their own interests.
This is supported by our assessment policy, which provides students options to focus on particular topics of most interest to them within our units.
To better understand children and their needs, our unit in Children’s Voice: Researching and Analysing Children’s Lives will allow you to examine children’s lived experiences based on tensions within family, welfare and education policies.
This may involve considering how low pay or long working hours of parents could place constraints on family time available to children, and the implications of issues such as this for policy and practice.
Similarly, you will investigate issues around social justice in relation to education in our Citizenship and Welfare in the 21st Century unit.
Here, you will explore challenges posed towards education and welfare and the questions this raises for human rights, diversity and culture.
As an educator, child development is a core part of your learning and practice, and this is where our Early Years Education and Care unit will introduce you to theoretical concepts surrounding young children’s learning.
Another crucial area to your educational practice involves Meeting Diverse Needs, and you will do this by engaging with research literature on how diverse needs can be supported in educational settings to promote inclusion in your professional practice.
With the same approach to diversity, you will explore the development of international education systems in our Education and International Development unit to analyse the different factors that influence the educational experiences of children.
Finally, you will complete a Dissertation in Education in a research area that interests you.
To help you with this, our Research Methods in the Workplace unit aims to develop your research skills through a range of activities
Each unit in this course has its own assessment.
Wherever possible the specific focus of assignments is negotiated individually between the unit co-ordinator and the student within the parameters of the unit in order to ensure that the assignment meets your personal and professional needs.
The course provides students with a carefully planned and coherent sequence of learning opportunities that facilitate their development through formative and summative assessments.
At this level the expectations in terms of the quality of work produced are high and students will need to take active control of their learning.
At Master's level the expectation is that students are autonomous and confident learners will undertake assessments that are challenging and require mature argument and sustained research and fluent and cogent presentation.
You are encouraged in their assessments to draw upon an extensive range of sources to demonstrate a deep theoretical understanding and the ability to apply that to current issues and contexts.
The assessments test the ability to construct a reasoned sustained and coherent argument and to articulate it fluently.
Students are required to demonstrate an appropriate level of research of independent argument and to reference in an appropriate way.
Through the assessments designed for individual units students practise and reinforce skills in researching evaluating and synthesising materials with a critical eye; quantitative and qualitative data collection and handling together with skills associated with conventional academic tasks.
Unit assessment is based on specified learning outcomes and threshold criteria.
The unit information forms state clearly the aims objectives and learning outcomes of the unit and delineate the criteria of assessment for each outcome.
The unit assessment feedback offers detailed comment to the student on the assessment piece.
The taught stage of the course (stage 1) requires you to pass 120 credits before progressing to stage 2 the 60 credit dissertation.
As a Master’s graduate of this course, you will have the confidence, knowledge and critical skills to prepare and present a strong application to senior posts in the field of education.
Previous graduates have gone on to take up enhanced roles within their organisation.
Some have used the research skills they have gained to engage in future research and undertake PhD or EdD study.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/education-leadership:
A flexible, part-time course that can work with your other commitments.
Designed for those presently working as, or interested in, becoming mid-senior managers and leaders in an educational organisation.
A choice of optional units allow you to follow a programme which meets your professional interests and individual needs.
This course equips you with the knowledge and skills required to analyse practice, lead change and inspire excellence.
Through your studies, you have the opportunity to think critically and creatively so you can effectively navigate the evolving demands of leadership within education.
The course is made up of core and optional units, providing you with the flexibility to design a programme which meets your individual needs.
The course covers a wide range of theoretical and practical aspects of leadership and management , drawing on multidisciplinary research.
Through activities and assessments, you develop analytical and practical skills that support you to progress successfully along a leadership or managerial career path.
The course team have extensive experience , are all professionals who understand the sector and contribute to wider knowledge through cutting-edge research .
The University of Bedfordshire’s Bedford campus is a small, thriving academic community where staff get to know you well and provide individualised support.
Studying our part-time Education (Leadership) MA course will provide you with in-depth knowledge and skills in the combined fields of education, leadership and management to support aspirations towards more senior roles in academic settings.
The core unit for this course, Educational Leadership in Context, critically explores the distinction between leadership and management, and a range of theoretical perspectives.
Leadership elements are also explored in depth in the unit Leading Change in Education, which looks at the application of change management concepts to the changes needed to support development in schools.
The unit, Exploring Coaching and Mentoring, highlights in particular the interpersonal skills required of leaders to support the development of their team.
As well as having substantial units focusing on aspects of leadership, the course also allows you to select from a range of other optional units available across our part-time MA Education pathways depending on your research interests.
More importantly, you will adopt a reflective approach in our Enhancing Practice in Educational Settings unit that will enable you to identify your strengths and areas for development to be responsive to student needs.
Finally, you will complete a Dissertation in Education (Leadership) in a research area that interests you.
To help you with this, our Research Methods in the Workplace unit aims to develop your research skills through a range of activities.
Wherever possible the specific focus of assignments is negotiated individually in order to ensure that the assignment meets the personal and professional needs of the student.
The course provides you with a carefully planned and coherent sequence of learning opportunities that facilitate your development through formative and summative assessments.
At this level the expectations in terms of the quality of work produced are high and you will need to take active control of your learning.
At Master's level the expectation is that you are an autonomous and confident learner that you will undertake assessments that are challenging and require mature argument developed from sustained research and that you will demonstrate fluent and cogent presentation.
You are encouraged in your assessments to draw upon an extensive range of sources to demonstrate a deep theoretical understanding and the ability to apply that to current issues and contexts.
The assessments test the ability to construct a reasoned sustained and coherent argument and to articulate it fluently in a range of contexts.
You are required to demonstrate an appropriate level of research of independent argument and to reference in an appropriate and accurate manner.
Through the assessments designed for individual units you will practise and reinforce skills in researching evaluating and synthesising materials with a critical eye; quantitative and qualitative data collection and handling together with skills associated with conventional academic tasks.
Unit assessment is based on specified learning outcomes and threshold standards.
An alternative to this is if you already have a PG Certificate (60 credits) e.g.
PGCE you would be able to complete your qualification with a further 2 x 30 credit units and our Applied Research Methods and Project for stage 2 of your study.
For existing professionals, this Master’s qualification will enhance your chances for promotion to senior positions in the field of education and, in particular, senior management roles within schools.
It acts as an important indicator of your ability and understanding of the roles and responsibilities of a senior leader in educational settings.
It is designed to help you critique key issues in education as well as to identify and justify recommendations for further action.
As a Master’s graduate, therefore, you will have the confidence, knowledge and critical skills to prepare and present a strong application to senior posts in the field of education.
It is also an ideal base from which to progress to study at Doctoral level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/education-practice:
A flexible, part-time course with blended learning (face-to-face sessions as well as online support and activities), helping you work around your other commitments.
Designed for current and aspiring education professionals with a particular interest in educational practice.
Focus on your own personal, academic or vocational interest in our optional units.
This course equips you with the knowledge and skills required to think critically and creatively in order to support the development of your teaching practice.
Led by experts, this programme builds on current research in teaching and learning, and offers the opportunity to explore a range of topics.
Teacher Education Centre with realistic mock classrooms supported by advanced ICT resources Up-to-the-minute simulation technology Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting Extensive library with physical learning spaces and online resources to support your studies
We have well-established partnerships with more than 500 schools and other associated organisations across our region.
This network is extended nationally and internationally through research activity, putting us in a strong position when it comes to understanding national priorities, issues and key developments in educational practice.
The course covers a wide range of theoretical and practical aspects of education practice , drawing on multidisciplinary research.
Through activities and assessments, you develop analytical and practical skills that support you to progress successfully along your chosen career path.
Develop your analytical and practical skills so you can progress successfully along a management career path .
Study with professionals from schools, local authority organisations, the lifelong-learning sector and universities.
Studying our Education (Practice) MA course will provide you with in-depth knowledge and skills around educational practice to support your development in the classroom.
This course gives an open opportunity to select a range of units available across our different pathways, which explore a range of different aspects of education and ultimately impact practice in the classroom.
Aside from teaching, our unit in Exploring Coaching and Mentoring will help you gain a better understanding of your role as a coach or mentor including how to make an effective and positive impact in your work.
To add to this, you will also explore key literature and theory around leadership and management within educational contexts in our Educational Leadership in Context unit.
It is also important that you are adaptable and able to facilitate change in the workplace, therefore this is where our Leading Change in Education unit will enable you to adopt changing practice in education settings and how to develop positive staff relationships to bring about this change.
Finally, you will complete a Dissertation in Education (Practice) in a research area that interests you.
An alternative to this (set out in Course structure 2) is if you already have a PG Certificate (60 credits) e.g.
PGCE or SENCO Certificate when you would be able to complete your qualification with a further 2 x 30 credit units and the Applied Research Methods and Project for stage 2 of your study.
This Master’s qualification will enhance your chances for promotion and employment in other contexts; it supports promotion to senior positions in the field of education.
The course is designed to help you explore, study and critique key issues in education as well as identify and justify recommendations for further action.
Previous graduates have also undertaken PhD study.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/education-special-educational-needs:
Designed for practising professionals in special educational needs and disability (SEND) or those interested in research in the field.
Supported by a very experienced team of highly skilled educators who are focused on helping you achieve your aims.
This Master’s programme is ideal for inspirational educators who want to transform the prospects of others.
The course makes use of the latest policy and research to support you in making meaningful connections between your studies and your own experiences.
You will have the opportunity to learn with leading educators in the field and will explore the complexities of inclusion.
The course has a choice of optional units so you can create a programme that meets your needs.
Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting Forest School for training in outdoor learning Specialist sensory building for teaching SEND Extensive library with physical learning spaces and online resources to support your studies
This network is extended nationally and internationally through research activity, putting us in a strong position when it comes to understanding national priorities, issues and key developments in SEND.
The course covers a wide range of theoretical and practical aspects of working in SEND and is informed by recent research.
Through activities and assessments, you develop analytical and practical skills t hat support you to progress successfully along your chosen career path.
Our part-time MA Education (Special Educational Needs) offers an opportunity to explore the wide range of need that children can present with and the evidence underpinning current and emerging approaches to meeting those needs.
Our core unit in Meeting Diverse Needs aims to explore the range of needs presented, explore the different meanings of inclusion, and how best to identify and address different needs.
To better understand children and their needs, Children’s Voice: Researching and Analysing Children’s Lives will allow you to examine children’s lived experiences based on tensions within family, welfare and education policies.
Aside from external factors, you will then consider student behaviour in our Understanding Pupil Behaviour in Schools unit where you will learn of theories and approaches to behaviour management and inclusion including for problematic or challenging behaviour in schools.
More importantly, you will also learn to support students with literacy difficulties in our Understanding Difficulties in Literacy and Dyslexia unit using a range of interventions.
Finally, you will complete a Dissertation in Education (Special Educational Needs) in a research area that interests you.
Wherever possible the specific focus of assignments is negotiated individually between the unit tutor and the student within the parameters of the unit in order to ensure that the assignment meets the personal and professional needs of the student.
At Master's level the expectation is that you are an autonomous and confident learner particularly when you are undertaking distance learning units that you will undertake assessments that are challenging and require mature argument developed from sustained research and that you will demonstrate fluent and cogent presentation.
Unit assessment is based on specified learning outcomes and assessment criteria.
This Master’s qualification will enhance your chances for promotion and for employment in other contexts.
Master’s study supports promotion to senior positions in the field of education.
Previous graduates have also gone on to undertake PhD/EdD study.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/education-leadership-pgcert:
A flexible, part-time course that can work with your other commitments
Designed for those presently working as, or interested in, becoming mid-senior managers and leaders in an educational organisation
A choice of optional units allow you to follow a programme which meets your professional interests and individual needs
Your student experience The course covers a wide range of theoretical and practical aspects of leadership and management , drawing on multidisciplinary research.
Recognising the continually changing nature of contemporary educational leadership and theory, this unit explores key literature and research to support you to reflect upon key aspects of leadership and management within a range of educational contexts:
This unit will help you to acquire the knowledge and skills required to lead developments within a specific context, with a focus on improved outcomes.
The unit will cover different aspects of change, including changing practice in education settings, and exploring how to manage and develop positive staff attitudes in order to secure positive outcomes in the short, medium, and long term.
The application of this focus might be in a range of educational contexts; as a teacher in your classroom, as a leader in a school or college, as a leader of Children’s Services or a Leader involved with direct provision of services to children and young people.
Whatever role you apply this unit to, the learning outcomes will enable you to apply new skills and understanding within your organisation with a view to enhancing outcomes of others.
The unit will enable you to:
For existing professionals this Master’s qualification will enhance your chances for promotion to senior positions in the field of education and in particular senior management roles within schools.
As a Master’s graduate therefore you will have the confidence knowledge and critical skills to prepare and present a strong application to senior posts in the field of education.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/education-with-psychology:
Our Education courses rank in the UK top 15 in their subject field for career prospects and in the UK top 20 for satisfaction with teaching (Guardian, 2025).
They are in the UK top 3 in their subject field for teaching quality (Times GUG, 2025).
This degree brings together two important research fields to gain different perspectives on how today’s children and adolescents develop and learn in the UK and around the world.
You will have the opportunity to apply your specialist knowledge to real-life practice and take your first steps into a rewarding career in the fields of education and psychology.
Mock classrooms with specialist technology so you can watch and assess your lesson Forest School where you can deepen your understanding of the long-term educational benefits of outdoor learning Specialist sensory centre for teaching SEND and early years courses Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting A wealth of IT facilities and resources available throughout the campus Access to the wider University sports resources and facilities including our on-site gym
As one of the largest providers of teacher education in the eastern region, we have well-established partnerships with more than 500 schools and other associated organisations, including community-led initiatives and support in the community.
This network puts us at the forefront of educational developments.
Study with an expert academic team from teaching, education and psychology backgrounds.
You have the opportunity to go on relevant field trip s and attend educational conferences.
We have regular visits, internal seminars and talks on relevant areas of focus as well as external speakers to the University, which all students are able to attend.
My research interests are in the areas of children, young people and families, as well as, professional working in the areas of inter-professional working and communication.
Specifically in the areas of how professionals working with children, young people and their families engage with social care processes.
I am also interested in undergraduate student motivation.
Studying our Education with Psychology BA (Hons) course will equip you with the in-depth skills and knowledge around child development, education and psychology.
In core areas of study, you will explore contemporary ideas around the Psychology of Education, including theories of learning, educational contexts, engagement and motivation.
You will consider this in more depth in our Positive Psychology in Education unit by exploring the purpose and impact of positive psychology in educational settings.
If you are passionate about working with children, young people and families, our unit in the Narratives of Childhood will be useful in developing your understanding of theories on childhood, youth and education.
In areas of teaching, our unit in the Lifelong Curriculum will not only teach you to design curriculum, but how to implement it based on established educational policy.
You will keep this knowledge in mind during our Developing Teaching Practice unit, where you will learn to deliver effective classroom sessions based on current research in the field.
Similarly, our Deschooling unit will allow you to critically analyse accepted norms in education and pedagogy.
In more recent areas of study, you will learn about the increasing presence of technology in children and young people’s lives in our Working with Children and Young People in the Digital Age unit.
In areas of the mind, you will be introduced to Early Child Psychology where you will examine changes in development during early childhood and how to utilise this within educational settings.
Moving up an age group, you will consider the same aspects in our Psychology of Adolescence unit.
Similarly, our unit in Social Psychology and Education will allow you to explore key topics in developmental and social psychology, including aspects of biological, cognitive and social development from early to old age.
With a particular focus on children and young people, our Inclusion and Psychology unit will expose you to the causes, symptoms and treatments for atypical or exceptional children.
Furthermore, you will analyse social policy and inclusion in the context of UK contemporary welfare reform in our unit in The Inclusive Society.
Moreover, with more young people experiencing mental health issues, our unit in Children and Young People’s Wellbeing will teach you to support children through understanding social and emotional issues in education.
Shifting to home environments, our Families and Communities unit will allow you to consider the social, economic and cultural factors that shape family experience in a contemporary British society.
Additionally, you will be introduced to the concepts of coaching in our Coaching Psychology in Education unit.
In other areas of study, you will discover why and how Safeguarding and Child Protection has changed in recent years while also completing relevant safeguarding training.
Finally, you will complete an independent research project in our Dissertation unit where you will choose a topic of interest relevant to your course and apply your academic and practical skills under the guidance of a supervisor.
To help you with this, our Key Concepts in Education unit will also give you the skills to produce academic work to a higher education standard and our unit in Investigating the Social World will equip you with an understanding of quantitative and qualitative research methods, data collection, analysis and reporting.
This course aims to provide a wide range of assessment methods to support the diverse needs of our learners.
Assessments include exams exhibitions essays webfolios panel discussions debates practicals case studies reflective logs and presentations.
The assignments will build directly on the teaching sessions and you will be supported by lectures to complete the assignments.
Substantial guidance is provided on the VLE and in detailed assessment briefs.
In level 4 more support is provided in the form of formative assessment opportunities and we will explain the role of constructive feedback to you.
You will also have more hours dedicated to guided (staff directed learning activities) in level 4 compared to later in the course.
There are opportunities for 1 to 1 and group tutorials to support the assessments both within units and in personal tutorials and staff office hours.
The overall purposes of assessment in this course are: 1.
Objectively to measure your achievements against the specified learning outcomes of the unit and course (summative).
To assist student learning by providing appropriate feedback on performance (formative).
To provide a reliable and consistent basis for boards of examiners to determine the progression of and conferment of achievement.
Many of our graduates follow one of our postgraduate routes into teaching for rewarding careers in the education sector or working with vulnerable children and young people.
In addition, we see our graduates go on to careers in healthcare as well as the tertiary and voluntary sectors.
You also graduate with the skills and knowledge to continue on to a Master’s-level psychology conversion degree to gain British Psychological Society (BPS) accreditation.
At the University of Bedfordshire, completing our MSc Applied Psychology will give you BPS chartership, opening career opportunities (after further qualifications) in the clinical field of educational psychology.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/educational-leadership-and-management:
This course is distance learning with an optional on-campus summer school; distance learning helps you fit study alongside work commitments
Designed for those presently working as, or interested in, becoming mid-senior or senior managers and leaders in an educational organisation
In the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) 2024, the University of Bedfordshire ranks UK 3rd overall for student satisfaction with their teaching and learning experience
Spanning the fields of education and business, this distance-learning Master of Business Administration (MBA) in Educational Leadership and Management develops the understanding and skills needed to make decisions at senior level in schools and other educational organisations.
Alongside exploring the theories that underpin successful leadership, the course examines the contemporary issues faced by schools, focusing on policy development and people management.
You also explore the intricate systems senior staff must now work with, gaining the skills to analyse and evaluate large datasets.
For further information, contact Dr Cathal Butler cathal.butler@beds.ac.uk
This distance-learning course has a full range of online resources to support your studies including e-books and e-journals.
We have well-established partnerships with more than 500 schools and other organisations across the region.
As a course with a global focus, it builds on our experience of working with global partners including in Guyana, Oman, Myanmar and Egypt.
This distance-learning course is delivered via online taught sessions, reading and digital resources , and is supported by individual tutorials and online activities .
The University of Bedfordshire’s School of Education has a strong track record in providing distance- and blended-learning courses and is equipped to fully support students with their online studies.
Our academic team has a range of experience in management and leadership in education across mainstream and specialist educational institutions; primary education; secondary education; and further and higher education.
The course has been developed by staff with a research background in educational leadership and management.
Units and assignments can be personalised , focusing on leadership and management development in your institution, so you are able to explore key issues for your setting.
Learn how to analyse and evaluate complex, large-scale data to ensure the smooth functioning of your school.
Explore how to plan strategically in the long term ; develop school policy; manage and drive change; and embed change within an institution.
You have the opportunity to attend our on-campus summer school where you will meet other professionals and guest presenters; to attend, international students only require a standard visitor’s visa .
The course culminates in an applied project that explores an aspect of leadership and management in your setting in critical detail.
On successful course completion, you are prepared for a diverse range of employment opportunities in education, including in schools and further/higher education.
The course is aimed at those wishing to progress to middle and senior leadership roles in education, including executive head; professional services’ leadership roles; and similar or wider educational roles internationally.
The Forest School provides a resource for the University’s trainee teachers to be trained in outdoor learning and for their classes to experience the long term educational benefits of outdoor play.
The purposely designed teaching spaces house a range of seminars, lectures and practical sessions providing an excellent teaching space for primary and secondary education.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/educational-practice:
Our education courses rank in the UK top 15 in their subject field for career prospects (Guardian GUG, 2025).
If you are a teaching assistant or work in a similar educational role, this flexible Foundation degree can give you the professional qualification you need to put you on the path to a career in teaching.
Combining academic study with practical experience, this part-time course builds on the experience you have gained in the classroom to develop the knowledge, skills and expertise you need to work with pupils, adults and teachers.
The course offers degree-level study, delivered within a partner college.
This Education Practice FdA is delivered by a University/college partnership.
Your degree will be awarded by the University of Bedfordshire.
As one of the largest providers of teacher education in the eastern region, the University of Bedfordshire has well-established partnerships with more than 500 schools and other associated organisations, a network that puts us at the forefront of educational developments.
The course is delivered by the Bedford College Group , in both Bedford and Kettering, and the Buckinghamshire College Grou p at their Aylesbury campus.
Studying an FdA at a local college centre supports you to undertake University study while remaining close to home, family and work.
University lecturers work closely with college staff to support and enhance your provision and student experience.
Study is part-time and encompasses one evening per week for the duration of the course, at your chosen college centre.
Benefit from a robust induction to University processes and receive regular online sessions with University support staff ; student services; careers advice and guidance; and study-skills support.
You are welcome on the University campus throughout your degree to join a larger group of students for specific study sessions, such as Forest School and Sensory Centre experiences.
Studying our Educational Practice FdA course aims to equip you with the knowledge, skills and abilities required by teaching assistants in areas of classroom practice and curriculum.
You will have the opportunity to develop your understanding around core subjects in our units in Developing English and Mathematics, Developing Mathematics and English: Theory and Practice.
By drawing links from theory and practice, you will examine how English and Mathematics studies have developed across all phases of education.
You will investigate mathematical thinking, processing and problem solving among children in classrooms, as well as how they develop these processes.
Furthermore, you will explore the various pedagogical approaches to the teaching and learning of mathematics.
This will complement your study of the theories on the teaching of language, where you will be introduced to concepts such as genre theory and synthetic phonics that inform current practices in schools.
Curriculum is an essential part of child development, and you will be able to explore this connection in our Developing Learning unit where you will examine research, theory and pedagogy that informs child development, its policies and practice.
Another crucial area of education is inclusivity, especially within special educational needs and disability (SEND).
This is where our unit in Inclusive Practice and SEND will make you question to what extent education is inclusive, while also exposing you to the existing barriers to inclusive education, and how to support children with SEND within the education sector.
Furthermore, you will learn to create safe and stimulating environments for pupils that maximises their opportunities and are rooted in mutual respect in our Environments for Learning unit.
As you go along the course, you will also engage with our Reflections on Practice unit where you will be supported in identifying your strengths and areas for improvement in your academic and practical work for your long-term professional and personal development.
Similarly, our Introduction to Higher Education Study unit will introduce you to the academic processes and study skills needed for you to reach your academic potential through independent and proactive behaviours and approaches.
Assessments will help you to reflect upon your practice and that of your workplace.
Assessments include essays case studies portfolios presentations reflections on work-based learning.
Developmental assessment opportunities are offered in the form of peer assessment and individual/group tutorials.
Substantial guidance is provided on how to complete the assignments on the university virtual learning environment (BREO) and in assessment handbooks workshops seminars and assessment Briefs.
Throughout the course you will be able to use your workplace setting as a source of information and context for assessments and be able to undertake research that will contribute to other assessments.
This course is your first step to following a Primary PGCE, School Direct or SCITT route to Qualified Teacher Status (if you have the required GCSE grades in maths, English and science).
There will be a transition programme of events and activities to help you prepare for this.
For those who do not wish to progress on to the full degree, you have various options in employment in education - for example, as a teaching assistant or higher-level teaching assistant; SEND support; or teaching and learning support within a school in Reception or key stage 1.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/electronic-engineering:
Our Electronic Engineering courses are in the UK top 5 for satisfaction with assessment (Guardian, 2025).
Our Electronic Engineering courses rank in the UK top three in their subject field  for ‘value added’ progression - how students’ entry qualifications compare with their degree results (Guardian, 2025).
Accredited by The Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET), this course fully meets the academic requirement for registration as an incorporated engineer .
From consumer electronics and 5G communication to renewable energy systems and intelligent transport, electronic engineering has the power to shape our modern world.
Our course provides you with a thorough understanding of all key electronic engineering areas and teaches you how to solve real-world problems.
Thanks to a focus on hands-on experience and contemporary practices, you graduate with the confidence and skills needed to launch your career in this fast-growing field.
This course has been accreditated by The Institution of Engineering and Technology.
Purpose-built STEM building with modern facilities and dedicated study spaces, providing you with a vibrant and supportive learning environment New electronic engineering lab with state-of-the-art equipment supplied by National Instruments and Rohde & Schwarz Access to 3D printers, solder stations, autoCAD software and an extensive range of manufacturing tools Industry-standard equipment and software in teaching, such as Multisim and MATLAB, prepares you for a future in the workplace right from the start
We collaborate with local industries such as Jaltek Systems Limited and TeknTrash, offering you opportunities to get involved in skill-building and work-based projects.
Our highly qualified academic team have close links to the industry and their teaching reflects the latest developments in the field.
Showcase your work projects to industry professionals and get involved in exciting research studies.
Take part in external trips to leaders in the field Bletchley Park, Oxford University Labs and Jaltek Gain a thorough understanding of contemporary issues within the industry from equality and diversity to the commercial contexts of electronic engineering.
Our hands-on approach gives you the practical skills and technical know-how needed for a range of future careers.
Take part in external trips to leaders in the field Bletchley Park, Oxford University Labs and Jaltek
Gain a thorough understanding of contemporary issues within the industry from equality and diversity to the commercial contexts of electronic engineering.
Studying our Electronic Engineering BEng (Hons) course will equip you with knowledge and expertise in computer techniques, technologies and engineering.
In core areas of study, you will learn the basics of how a computer works and identify ways to use mathematics in a computer science setting in our Fundamentals of Computer Studies unit.
Similarly, our Engineering Mathematics unit will allow you to perform mathematical calculations to solve real-world problems within the field of engineering.
Additionally, as a student in the field of computer science you will also be given an Introduction to Software Development where you will learn the fundamentals on how to develop software, identify, analyse and model problems, test programs and distinguish between forms of programming and modelling.
In more technical areas of study, you will be introduced to the Foundations of Electronic Systems and Computer Networks, and this includes circuits, electronic components, signals, data communications and computer networking.
You will also be familiarised with advanced topics in electronics in our Analogue and Digital Electronics unit where you will gain hands-on experience in building advanced digital combinational and sequential logic circuits.
Similarly, you will learn of the fundamental concepts in Circuit Analysis and Signal Processing to analyse electrical circuits.
With a critical approach, you will also analyse real-world problems in electronic engineering and identify ways to solve them using Digital Signal Processing and Embedded Systems Development.
In addition, you will develop your knowledge and skills in advanced programming and software development methods in our Digital Communications & Software Engineering unit.
Furthermore, you will be introduced to control theory, low power communication and energy harvesting in the context of wireless sensor networks (WSN) in our Control, WSN and Energy unit.
Some areas include computer science, electronic engineering and computer games development.
In addition to this, you will be supported with a range of tools and techniques in the field of project management to help with your research in our Social and Professional Project Management unit.
The assessments provide you with opportunities to diagnose your skills abilities academic/occupational background and to give you an early indication of what specific learning practices may help you improve in specific areas of study starting from student induction period in conjunction with Fundamentals of Computing unit and throughout the entire in-course period of study.
There will be frequent opportunities to get feedback both from tutors peers and via self-assessment and some assessments will allow for draft submissions to be considered by a tutor or peers to identify aspects in need of development prior to final hand-in.
Assessment methods include portfolios laboratory practical work group and individual production projects individual and group written reports and formal written exams.
Mini-projects and case studies provide you with real-world problems.
You are expected to find solutions to the problems following the process of analysis technique evaluation design and syntheses and solution evaluation.
These mini-projects and case studies are designed in both group work and individual work fashions to allow you to practice your communication skills and team working skills and to develop the capability of working individually.
Completion of this course will open up a wide range of career opportunities as an engineer or researcher in electronics as well as many other opportunities within the electronics and telecommunications industry.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/electronic-engineering-masters:
This MSc is aimed at graduates with a background in electronics who wish to follow a specialist career in digital electronics or communications.
Designed in collaboration with professionals at the forefront of the industry, the course advances your technical knowledge and practical expertise while allowing you to explore cutting-edge technologies in a rapidly developing field.
You prepare for the workplace through practice-based learning and hands-on sessions, applying what you learn to real-world situations and projects, and explore your specialist interests with an Electrical Engineering MSc project of your choice.
Purpose-built STEM building with modern facilities and bespoke study spaces New electronic engineering lab with state-of-the-art equipment supplied by National Instruments and Rohde & Schwarz Access to 3D printers, solder stations and an extensive range of manufacturing tools Industry-standard software such as Multisim and MATLAB to prepare you for current working practices
Our course is designed in close collaboration with experts across the field, ensuring you gain up-to-the-minute knowledge and keep up with the latest industry breakthroughs.
Study with a team of highly qualified, research-active teaching staff .
Enhance your employability with our focus on developing key transferable skills such as effective communication; critical thinking; advanced analysis; and innovative problem solving.
Build knowledge and connections through field trips, interactive seminars and collaborative work opportunities with sector employers.
Professor Vladan Velisavljevic received PhD degree at EPFL, Switzerland, in 2005 and has been with the School CST, University of Bedfordshire, since 2011.
He has a rich research background and interest in signal, image and video processing and sensor technologies.
Vladan teaches in the field of electronic engineering and coordinates MSc final student projects at the School CST.
Studying our Electronic Engineering MSc course will equip you with knowledge and expertise in hardware techniques, technologies, and engineering.
In practical areas of study, you will be provided with the fundamental concepts, principles and applications of electronic system design and optimisation as well as advanced digital signal processing in our Signals and Electronic Systems unit.
Here, you will develop the skills to work with real-world problems by applying these advanced theoretical and practical skills.
Similarly, you will develop your understanding and applied knowledge of technologies and techniques related to Digital, Microwave and Optical Communications that you will use to design solutions for complex problems with computational and analytical techniques.
Furthermore, you will evaluate these methods and techniques in the context of their effectiveness and limitations.
You will also discover important emerging technologies and ideas within wireless, embedded and control systems to develop an in-depth understanding of the embedded system, wireless sensing, automatic control and microprocessor architecture in our Wireless and Embedded Systems unit.
Finally, you will complete an MSc Project in Electronic Engineering that will allow you to bring your acquired skills and knowledge together in practice.
The subject of electronic engineering involves the development of enhanced knowledge and understanding of technical concepts combined with the ability to apply these concepts with practical real world environments.
With this is mind an assessment strategy that makes use of the most appropriate assessment technique (be that a written report research essay practical laboratory exercise practical log book presentation etc.) has been chosen.
The assessment methods for each unit on the course have been chosen as the best way for you to demonstrate that you have acquired the requisite technical knowledge and that you can apply this knowledge within a variety of real world context.
In line with University guidelines each unit is assessed using two assessment points.
In most cases this will involve the completion of a practical-based piece of work (typically a coursework assignment with a practical element) and a more formal assessment (typically a formal examination).
Once you have graduated, you will be qualified to work in a wide range of associated fields including electronic systems design; as a development engineer; in software design; as an embedded systems engineer; communications engineer; product support engineer; or technical consultant.
Graduates from this course have moved on to work in the development of microcontroller-based embedded systems; computer systems engineering; robotics; automotive electronics; and the design of mobile and wireless communications systems.
You may also wish to continue your studies through an MSc by Research, MPhil or PhD.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/electronic-engineering-with-project-management:
Enhance your future job prospects with dedicated project management units.
This two-year MSc is aimed at graduates with a background in electronics who wish to follow a specialist career in digital electronics or communications; it also adds to your skill set through units focused on building your project management capabilities.
Designed in collaboration with professionals at the forefront of the industry, the course advances your technical knowledge and practical expertise while allowing you to explore cutting-edge technologies in a rapidly developing field and apply what you learn to real-world projects.
Purpose-built STEM building with modern facilities and bespoke study spaces New electronic engineering lab with state-of-the-art equipment supplied by National Instruments and Rohde & Schwarz Access to 3D printers, solder stations and an extensive range of manufacturing tools Industry-standard software, such as Multisim and MATLAB, to prepare you for current working practices
Prepare for the workplace through practice-based learning and hands-on sessions so you can apply your theoretical knowledge to real-world situations.
The course’s integrated project management units build your transferable skills and prepare you for the modern workplace in areas such as effective communication; critical thinking; advanced analysis; and innovative problem-solving.
Explore your specialist interests with an Electrical Engineering MSc project of your choice .
Studying our Electronic Engineering with Project Management MSc course will equip you with the advanced knowledge and skills in the areas of digital communications, signal processing, electronic circuits and microprocessors with a focus on project management.
Through an integrated approach, you will discover how leadership and operations management work closely together in contemporary organisations in our Leading and Managing Organisational Resources unit, while analysing how this impacts financial performance.
You will progress from well-defined briefs to more open-ended and challenging assessments which culminate in your major project - the MSc Project - Electronic Engineering where you will be given freedom to choose your area of work.
The most common career destination will be in industries related to electronic systems such as designing novel solutions for wireless communications, avionics or cars, with a focus on electronic engineering tasks such as microcontrollers, sensors or actuators for final products.
You may also work in companies providing solutions for signal processing problems - for example, manufacturing medical imaging tools, healthcare monitoring or for seismology analysis.
As a graduate of this course, you will also have the opportunity for further study at PhD level which can lead to a career in higher education.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/english:
Our English courses tied 1st in their subject field for ‘continuation’, where students continue with their course after the first year (CUG, 2025).
You have the opportunity to prepare for TEFLi status, which will help you start a career in language schools in the UK and worldwide.
Our English courses incorporate career-oriented features such as internships, volunteering opportunities and work experience.
If you are fascinated by English language, linguistics, literature and creative writing, this course provides you with a wealth of opportunities to explore a wide variety of approaches to English.
You’ll discover key linguistic frameworks as well as exciting and varied forms of literature, and have the flexibility to design your studies to fit your strengths, learning style and areas of interest.
You’ll also have the option to study for the TEFLi, an important qualification should you wish to teach English in language schools both in the UK and worldwide.
Four-storey library with extensive range of physical and digital resources as well as PCs, group-work areas, presentation-practice rooms and a silent study floor Access to the Hockliffe Collection, a unique collection of 18th- and 19th-century children’s books, as well as our Cinderella archive of books, scripts, designs, theatrical memorabilia and ephemera relating to the Cinderella story Mock classrooms with specialist technology so you can watch and assess your TEFLi lesson
Our academic team are experienced in the field as language consultants, trainers and a published poet ; they are also recognised researchers in their areas of expertise.
You develop your subject knowledge, powers of analysis and critical thinking as well as professional communication skills , creating a portfolio of work and a skill set to launch you into your graduate career.
You also benefit from the support of your own personal tutor , a unit and course coordinator, and the additional support of our experienced library staff, all of whom will help you throughout your student journey and with balancing study with work and personal commitments.
You have the opportunity to go on relevant field trips to theatres, museums and art galleries (recent trips include a visit to Jane Austen’s house) as well as attending relevant conferences and research seminars.
You can contribute to research projects such as Literary Bedfordshire and get involved in organising conferences.
I graduated with a PhD in English Literature in 2007, and I've been working at the University of Bedfordshire since 2009, teaching across all years of undergraduate study and supervising research degrees.
I teach on a range of units, introducing students to literary theory, poetry, prose and plays from the medieval period to the twenty-first century, through to more specialist units such as Modern Irish Literature.
I'm the course coordinator for the undergraduate English provision, and really enjoy working with students as they make their transition into higher education, helping them to achieve their full potential during their time at the university.
My own field of research focuses on women writers of the twentieth century and the literature of Bedfordshire, and I've published work on Elizabeth Bowen, Stella Benson and Nancy Spain.
I'm also the co-editor for a journal dedicated to the work of Elizabeth Bowen.
I'm currently working on an edited collection of essays on women writers of the interwar period, and the University's Literary Bedfordshire project which brings to life writers who have lived or worked in Bedfordshire.
I also enjoy working with our local secondary schools as part of the University's outreach programme, helping to enthuse students and encourage engagement with literature and language.
Studying our English BA (Hons) course will equip you with a solid foundation in the combined fields of English language, linguistics and literature.
In the first year, you will begin with an introduction to a range of literary genres and theoretical approaches in Approaching Literature, while also developing an understanding of phonetics and exploring concepts used to describe how language works in an Introduction to Linguistics and Phonetics.
Our unit Describing Language aims to introduce you to the main structures of English language while also familiarising you with the anatomy of the vocal tract and how sounds are produced.
You’ll learn How Talk Works and How Text Works by focusing on the rules of conversation, its patterns and norms, and how it varies between people and situations.
You will do the same with the written word by examining how texts are produced to help build your language interpretation skills.
In your second and third years, you’ll build on the knowledge and skills that you developed in the first year.
You will be introduced to key concepts of literary Style and Stylistics by examining linguistic practices of poems, plays and prose and deepening your understanding and enjoyment of literature.
In English Sentence Structure you will build on key elements of English grammar, descriptive and communication skills.
In Investigating the Social World, you will develop an understanding of quantitative and qualitative research methods, data collection, analysis and reporting.
You can then choose from a range of units, depending on your interests.
In The Meaning of Meaning, you will explore the nature of language interpretation from a cognitive perspective.
Language is also heavily influenced by cultural and societal conventions; therefore, our Forensic Linguistics unit will allow you to understand how language can provide useful insights into an individual’s background.
You can study the relationship between phonology and grammar, speech and accent variation in our The Sounds of English and develop these interests in Exploring Language Professions, where you will identify aspects of language and its value in specific career fields.
Our Radical Change in the Long Nineteenth Century unit will expose you to how literature has contributed to ideas around religion, gender, science and the arts in the long nineteenth century.
Through examining poetry, prose and plays, you will consider Modern and Postmodern Literary Practices around popular culture from the early twentieth century to the present day.
In other areas of the study of literature, you can explore plays from the ancient Greeks to the 21st century in our The Play’s The Thing unit as you develop your understanding of the philosophical, cultural and political conditions under which they were produced.
Alternatively, you could study postcolonial texts in World Literature: Crossing Borders or engage in critical language study in our Discourse and Ideology unit.
Another key skill as an educational professional is writing, and this is where our Creative Writing unit will introduce you to writing short stories and poetry that you will share in small group workshops.
Our Children’s and Young Adult Fiction unit will familiarise you with a range of fictional genres written for children, including film adaptations, fairy tales, and other popular fiction.
Moreover, you will get the chance to explore various types of Gothic Literature as well as how contemporary readers respond to the fictional genre.
You will also be able to experience the excitement of working in an archive with our Research in Action unit where you’ll have the opportunity to learn about publishing, book history, and the development of reading material for young children.
You can learn how language is developed and realised by the human mind and brain in our Psycholinguistics - Language and the Brain unit.
In areas of teaching, you will be exposed to research in second-language learning in our Language Teaching, Learning and Assessment unit.
Similarly, our TESOL Teaching Practice unit will allow you to apply current theoretical issues in language teaching and methodology to practice by providing you with the skills to design and deliver your own lessons and materials using various teaching techniques.
Finally, you will complete a Dissertation where you will choose a topic of interest relevant to your course and apply your academic and practical skills under the guidance of a supervisor.
The course takes an incremental and varied approach to the assessment of the course content, culminating in the Dissertation (a substantial piece of original research whose precise focus is determined by each student, according to their anticipated career plans).
Here, the ability to plan, execute and evaluate linguistic data and/or literary sources (both primary and secondary sources) is assessed and represents the apex of a student's undergraduate studies.
Other assignments include essays, oral presentations, close readings, reviews, research proposals, a range of phase tests and seen and unseen exams.
As you progress from Level 4 to Level 5 to Level 6, it is expected your response to assessment tasks will become more sophisticated as your skills and subject knowledge develop.
The level of study is reflected in the level of response required by assessment criteria.
Upon graduation, possible career pathways include teaching English as a second language; teaching in a primary or secondary school setting; speech and language therapy; forensic linguistics; research; public relations; librarianship; arts administration; journalism; and publishing.
(Some careers require further qualifications.)
You can also progress on to a Master's in an associated area such as our MA Applied Linguistics (TESOL) or you could undertake a Master’s by Research, both of which will expand your career opportunities or enable you to study for a doctorate.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/environmental-management:
This course has a part-time route to help you fit your studies around existing commitments.
Our Life Sciences Liaison Board features representatives from Luton Borough Council and organisations such as TeknTrash, who are experts in areas such as climate change and waste management using AI.
Opportunities for industry links through external visits to Rothamsted Research and Biogen as well as collaborations with other institutions such as Shuttleworth College.
In our forward-thinking course, you focus on environmental change on a local and global scale before exploring the principles and sustainable techniques underlying its effective management.
You investigate cutting-edge biotechnological solutions at the forefront of modern innovation and, with our student-centred teaching, go on to assess how they work in practice via real-world projects and hands-on application.
You also have the opportunity to explore your specialist interests with an MSc research project of your choosing.
Contemporary STEM building with purpose-built facilities and bespoke study spaces High-tech cell culture lab and analytical science suite The latest industry-standard equipment to emulate the professional workplace
The University’s Life Sciences Liaison Board collaborates closely with real-world organisations, ensuring our degree aligns with the needs of both industry and society as well as providing you with invaluable opportunities for networking and work experience.
Study under the supervision of our highly qualified academic staff and learn from their active involvement in cutting-edge research and consultation .
Benefit from our varied teaching approach , combining lectures and tutorials with group work and laboratory sessions so you gain both theoretical knowledge and hands-on experience.
Develop key transferable skills such as project management; critical evaluation; modelling and statistics; communication; and social, ethical and legal understanding.
Benefit from interactive masterclasses and seminars delivered by industry experts such as the UK Health Security Agency and Luton Borough Council's climate change lead.
Link theory to modern-day application with external visits to relevant sites such as Biogen, Rothamsted Research and the Centre for Alternative Technology.
We host an annual STEM Careers Expo , bringing together employers and students through presentations, workshops and networking sessions.
Studying our Environmental Management MSc course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills in the field of environmental studies, biotechnology and management.
A large focus of environmental studies involves sustainable development, and this is where our unit in Environmental Management and Sustainability will allow you to critically analyse key theories relating to sustainable environmental management while also discussing different approaches to sustainably managing the environment and how to apply these methods to practical situations.
This includes evaluating environmental and ecological surveys to assess impact and risk across terrestrial and aquatic environments.
You will also explore areas of biodiversity, biological processes and the sustainability of ecosystems in our Environmental Biotechnology unit.
Your understanding of this topic will equip you with the skills and knowledge to deal with practical problems in the areas of food, energy, health and the environment using environmental biotechnology to sustainably manage global environmental change.
To help you with this, you will be taught to integrate principles of management with the challenges of sustainability in running projects on both local and global levels in our Environmental Project Management unit.
On a broader scale, you will consider the effects of human action on Global Environmental Change and examine the magnitude and nature of how these physical changes will affect our ecosystems.
You will engage in contemporary debates about environmental change as well as its causes and consequences.
Finally, you will complete an Environmental Research Project that you can choose to explore through laboratory, management or field work in a chosen environmental topic of your interest.
This will give you the opportunity to perform an independent research investigation and gain experience in professional scientific reporting with guidance from experienced researchers.
The assessment philosophy of MSc Environmental Management conforms to the recommendations of the aspects of QAA statements for Earth Sciences Environmental Sciences and Environmental Studies and also takes elements from the QAA statements for Biosciences.
The methods used for the assessment of students' achievements will correspond with the knowledge abilities and skills that are to be developed through their degree programme.
Both formative and summative modes of assessment will be used.
The course assessment strategy is compliant with the University of Bedfordshire's Regulations.
All assessed work will be marked using the Universitys percentage based marking scheme.
Evidence on which assessment of student achievement is based will include: - Formal written examinations; - Written reports including scientific and consultancy-style reports; - Oral presentations; - Poster presentations; - Individual planning conduct and reporting of project work; and Essay assignments.
The commitment to field and lab-based practical skills and the ability to communicate and interpret data through scientific and professional report writing is emphasised at throughout the course.
As such written reports based on field or laboratory work form an important element of student assessment.
The importance of oral communication skills is also acknowledged and four units require oral or poster presentations as a part of the unit assessments.
Students that fail to successfully complete the initial taught units may not be eligible to progress to the laboratory based research project stage of the course; this is determined by the Universitys regulations.
Students who do not initially progress will be expected to undertake either referral assessments or if necessary retake failed units (no student can retake a unit more than once).
When students pass the number of other units prescribed by the regulations they will be able to undertake their laboratory based research project.
Graduates of this course can choose from a wide range of career paths in environmental science and management in the public and private sectors including environmental agencies and ecological consultancies; biotechnological environmental and agricultural research organisations; academic institutions; national and international government agencies and non-governmental bodies; and related business and industry including food security.
You also have the option of further study leading to PhD.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/bedfordshire-executive-mba:
Internationally recognised as the premium management qualification, helping to shape innovative leaders who excel in creativity and strategic free thinking.
Designed for experienced, mid-career professionals from a wide range of sectors seeking to progress into more senior roles or launch their own enterprises.
Includes the CMI’s Level 7 Diploma in Strategic Management & Leadership Practice; taught credits are mapped to the L7 Senior Leader Apprenticeship standard, opening up an alternative route to a Master’s.
The University has a long-standing reputation for innovation and, as our flagship programme, Bedfordshire’s two-year part-time Executive Masters in Business Administration (EMBA) is a truly transformative MBA.
It alters the way you view the ever-changing normal by developing how you think, lead and deal with uncertainty in a disruptive age.
Entrepreneurial in spirit and practice, it fosters strategic skills, innovation and adaptability as well as free thinking and problem solving while addressing contemporary challenges such as digitalisation, AI and evolving work environments.
For further course information, contact David Williams at david.williams@beds.ac.uk
The course is dual accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) , offering the opportunity to gain chartered management status.
Successful students are awarded the Level 7 Diploma in Strategic Management & Leadership Practice.
Range of learning resources, such as the Harvard Business Review and Oracle OPERA, to support you on your learning journey Library resource service offering full support 24/7
We work closely with the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), the UK’s leading organisation representing businesses.
Benefit from executive coaching to support your personal development and ambitions while developing your skills through group work guided by industry and academic experts .
Work on live consultancy projects with leading employers in organisations across private, public and not-for-profit sectors.
Acquire essential professional skills aligned with bodies like the Chartered Management Institute and chambers of commerce.
Enrich your learning journey through immersive visits to a range of organisations, offering first-hand exposure to diverse business environments and practices.
Solve real-life problems working with the University’s Research and Innovation Service (RIS where you can assist local businesses and SMEs to up-skill and innovate .
I love working in this sector with students and employers to have a real impact on skills and work place learning.
Executive Education, Entrepreneur and Enterprise, and Apprenticeships are my passion, along with diversity and showing respect for everyone.
I am the Chair of University Staff LGBTQ Alliance Network, supporting colleagues and students.
Studying the Bedfordshire Executive MBA course will equip you with the diverse knowledge and a range of skills in strategic management, entrepreneurship, leadership, business and innovation.
As a premium management qualification, this course will develop your ability to think creatively, problem solve, innovate and lead in a range of complex business environments.
Our unit in Creative Leadership will allow you to develop ‘next generation’ leadership and strategic thinking skills and abilities, including creativity, innovation, critical thinking, reflection, emotional intelligence, resilience, agility and many more.
You will learn to adapt and evolve your leadership to effectively deliver results, shape organisational culture and lead transformational change.
To add to this, Innovating in the Strategic Environment will equip you with the knowledge and skills to effectively lead and manage integrated innovation at operational and strategic levels.
Here, you will explore how a strategic and innovative management approach can be used to address organisational dilemmas in a flexible, dynamic, sustainable and integrated way.
Moving on to an equally challenging and stimulating unit, Critical Debates in Business will allow you to explore core business functions and engage in debates organisations face resulting from strategic pressure.
This is an opportunity for you to develop your confidence to debate and deliver creative, commercially successful projects.
In addition, you will explore elements of accounting, finance, how to interpret accounting information, understand accounting conventions, budgets and learn how accounts are prepared.
Alongside this, you will be exposed to marketing approaches and techniques, branding and media.
With applications in the HR field, our unit in the Future of Work and Management will prompt you to question how and where to source required talent with flexible skills, and how to retain them for organisational sustainability.
The unit will discuss the influence of AI in the future workplace and consider what makes a manager effective in the business world through looking at the wider considerations, wider issues and the human value of work.
In other areas of study, our unit in Entrepreneurialism aims to support your aspirations to finance and launch and enterprise.
You will work with specific techniques to develop a business idea, create a business model and a business plan as you reflect on your entrepreneurial potential.
In doing so, you will develop critical, analytical, problem-solving skills while developing a first-hand understanding of entrepreneurship practice.
Through integrating your knowledge on people management, marketing, accounting, finance, strategy and more, you will aim to successfully plan for launch and grow a new business, product or service.
Our career and employability-focused unit, Your Professional Future, will focus on facilitating your continued personal, professional and organisational leadership development.
facilitating your continued personal, professional and organisational leadership development.
This will support you in realising your ambitions using key research tools, skills and behaviours such as reflective practice, collaboration and building a personal brand.
Furthermore, you will be able to tailor your own development according to your goals with the opportunity to collaborate with people from a diverse range of managerial backgrounds on the course that will help with cross-sectoral understanding.
To complete your learning from this course, you will undertake an MBA Project as an opportunity to investigate a work-based problem with a creative and innovative approach.
Engaging with either a research or work-based project, you will explore a topic that adds value to your organisation or is a relevant problem in the field of business.
You will be able to explore new ideas and create a distinct piece of research with a potential for impact.
The MBA Project encompasses into reality the aim of applying academic theory intro real world work-based practice.
Many previous MBA students have, upon the unit’s conclusion, had their work implemented by their employer or published by their sector organisations.
The assessment strategy is forward looking and deliberately innovative both to best test the intended learning outcomes and to reflect complex tasks undertaken in practice.
Students are exposed to a range of assessment types and individual assessments within units are clearly identified and provide an effective measurement of performance with an acceptable and balanced overall student workload.
The underpinning philosophy of all the assessments is to develop the skills to support students success in the new economy foster collaboration and reflection as well as the ability to learn how to learn.
For this reason there are no traditional exams on this course instead challenging and stimulating tasks that will develop participants.
Tutors will provide timely feedback on formative and summative assessments to support students skills knowledge development and understanding.
To maximise learning for all students a range of innovative assessment methods appropriate for developing the professional skills and knowledge of an Executive MBA are used throughout the course including:
Such a strategy avoids mechanistic formulaic assessment; stimulates creativity; underpins the applied focus of the course; and supports enquiry-based learning.
Students will receive constructive feedback from course tutors and student peers.
The team will support students to use this feedback as part of continuing professional and self-development.
The culmination of study is the MPA Project which enables students to engage in a focussed investigation leading to a distinctive analysis of a selected problem and will be supported by classroom sessions aimed at focussing the project and supporting research techniques.
There will also be scheduled Research Methods workshops to develop your research capabilities.
The notions of accountability and academic integrity will be an integral part of this course; plagiarism and any other attempt to deceive in the context of assessments will not be tolerated and the courses will be managed in this respect in line with current university regulations.
The assessments designed are new require interaction and cooperation and are difficult to plagiarise.
Graduates typically join when they are on a mid-level management position and aspire to move into senior executive-level posts within their current organisation or to pursue a change of career at senior level.
Many students use the Executive MBA to help them develop their own businesses social enterprise or to begin an entrepreneurial career.
Elsewhere the MBA could be part of a route back into employment after a career break - for instance following a period as a full-time parent.
The standard fee for the Executive MBA (2yr course) for students starting in the academic year 2025/26 is £17,350.
This is the cost of the whole two year course.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/executive-mba-human-resource-management:
Designed for practising HRM professionals who have at least two years’ relevant experience and wish to progress into more senior roles or launch their own enterprises.
Bedfordshire’s 20-month Executive MBA in Human Resource Management prepares you for pivotal career paths in HR management, talent development and organisational-change leadership, where you will excel in nurturing positive workplace environments; maximising employee potential; and driving organisational success.
Our robust industry connections, expert academic team and industry-relevant projects ensure your learning reflects real-world HRM scenarios and challenges.
The course is part time and uses a blended approach, combining on-campus study with online distance learning in your own time.
This flexibility helps you to fit your studies around your work and other commitments.
For further course information, contact Lubna Siddiqi at lubna.siddiqi@beds.ac.uk
State-of-the-art business suite equipped with industry-standard hardware and software Access to Harvard Business Publication learning resources and simulations Business pods, boardroom areas and IT suites designed to simulate a professional office environment Library resource service offering full support 24/7
The EMBA Human Resource Management is aligned with the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), the professional body for HR, learning and development.
We also work closely with the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), the UK’s leading organisation representing businesses.
Develop the essential skills needed for success as an HR business professional, including in organisational development, learning and development, and people management , enhancing your ability to navigate complex workplace dynamics and drive meaningful change.
Learn from a highly qualified academic team who play an active role in human resource management, using their engagement in research, conferences and consultancy to shape their teaching and expose you to the latest industry developments.
Benefit from executive coaching to support your personal development and ambitions while developing your skills through group work guided by industry and academic experts.
Areas of study may include:
The assessment strategy is forward-looking and deliberately innovative both to best test the intended learning outcomes and to reflect complex tasks undertaken in practice.
Students are exposed to a range of assessment types and individual assessments within units are clearly identified and provide an effective measurement of performance, with an acceptable and balanced overall student workload.
The underpinning philosophy of all the assessments is to develop the skills to support students’ success in the new economy, foster collaboration and reflection as well as the ability to learn how to learn.
For this reason, there are no traditional exams on this course, instead challenging and stimulating tasks that will develop participants.
Tutors will provide timely feedback on formative and summative assessments to support students’ skills, knowledge, development and understanding.
To maximise learning for all students, a range of innovative assessment methods appropriate for developing the professional skills and knowledge required of an Executive MBA are used throughout the course including:
Such a strategy avoids mechanistic, formulaic assessment; stimulates creativity; underpins the applied focus of the course; and supports enquiry-based learning.
Students will receive constructive feedback from course tutors, and student peers.
The culmination of study is the EMBA Project which enables students to engage in a focussed investigation leading to a distinctive analysis of a selected problem and will be supported by classroom sessions aimed at focussing the project and supporting research techniques.
The assessments designed are new, require interaction and cooperation and are difficult to plagiarise.
Graduates of this course have the essential HR and business skills, specialist expertise and adaptability to drive meaningful change across various professional fields including human resources, organisational development, and learning and development.
If you are in a mid-level management position within your organisation, you can now look towards a more senior executive-level post.
Many students use the Executive MBA to develop their own business, social enterprise or entrepreneurial career.
The MBA could also be part of a route back into employment after a break – for instance, following a period as a full-time parent.
Finally, you may choose to continue your studies at Doctoral level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/executive-mba-operations-and-supply-chain-management:
Designed for professionals in operations and supply chain management who have at least two years’ relevant experience and wish to progress into more senior roles.
This 20-month Executive MBA gives you the specialist strategic insights and leadership capabilities to not only solve current global supply chain challenges but also anticipate future trends and disruptions.
The course’s approach to problem solving involves developing and adapting existing models, methods and techniques as well as incorporating approaches from other fields.
It is practice-led with daily interactions across a wide spectrum, from your own team and managers to external experts, regulators, researchers and local or central government.
For further course information, contact Gary Hudson at gary.hudson@beds.ac.uk
This course is accredited by The Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT).
Accreditation demonstrates that our degree meets a globally recognised benchmark for logistics and transport training, equipping you with the depth of knowledge and technical prowess required to excel in the industry.
In line with our career-powered education aims, the course gives you advanced skills in leadership, strategic thinking and business management for supply chain management alongside a broader understanding of organisational dynamics, financial processes , and how to drive meaningful change and innovation .
Become a specialist in assisting clients in making strategic, tactical and operational decisions, using advanced analytical methods to solve complex supply chain issues.
Gain a deep understanding of cross-cultural business practices and global market dynamics , preparing you to lead and innovate in multinational corporations, start-ups and entrepreneurial ventures worldwide.
Learn from a highly experienced academic team , using their engagement in research, conferences and consultancy to shape their teaching and expose you to the latest industry developments.
Benefit from executive coaching to support your personal development and ambitions while developing your skills under the guidance of industry and academic experts .
Access our Global Guest Speaker series , featuring academics, industry leaders, and professionals from organisations like Luton Borough Council, the European Commission, and bodies such as the Association of Project Management (APM).
Whether aiming for top executive positions, consulting roles or leadership in non-profit organisations, the EMBA provides the foundation for a successful and impactful career working in the UK or internationally.
Logistics and supply chain management specialists have a wide range of career opportunities with potential career paths including supply chain or logistics manager; operations manager: inventory control specialist; demand planner/analyst; consultant; data analyst/data scientist; project manager; and healthcare supply chain specialist.
There is also the option to continue your studies at Doctoral level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/fashion-design:
We are members of the Association of Fashion and Textiles Courses (FTC) and participate in Graduate Fashion Week, enhancing your opportunities to make creative industry connections and build employability.
Our close links with the industry and leading fashion designers mean you work on real briefs and live projects, and are encouraged to enter competitions and awards.
Our graduates have completed internships with Alexander McQueen, Mary Katrantzou, Sophia Webster, Amanda Wakeley and Jimmy Choo, to name a few.
Fashion at Bedfordshire is fun!
Our course asks you to think outside the box, finding creative approaches, and negotiating conceptual and wearable designs.
While providing you with technical skills alongside open and creative briefs, our highly experienced academic team encourage you to experiment and play, taking you on a journey of creative discovery and suspended disbelief.
There is an emphasis on digital design skills in textile and pattern cutting as well as 3D garment design using specialist software.
Spacious studios and facilities in Alexon House, the previous home of the Alexon and Eastex fashion company Textile and pattern-cutting facilities with cutting tables; digital pattern cutting; and industrial sewing machines Access to Browzwear, the fashion industry’s leading 3D apparel design software, allowing you to use 3D modelling directly on avatar
Our teachers are industry-experienced practitioners and academics eager to develop your creativity and technical skills, preparing you for a vibrant future in fashion.
Our course incorporates both manual and digital skills so you develop to be a well-rounded fashion practitioner, ready for industry and the professional world.
Benefit from hands-on learning in a nurturing environment with ample contact time with tutors.
Participate in Graduate Fashion Week , where students can interact with potential employers and new graduates as well as showcasing their work.
Attend weekly World of Work guest talks from a wide range of creative-industry professionals, who share insights into how to get your first job in fashion and establish yourself as an independent creative.
Join national and international trips to visit trade fairs and galleries.
Photography credited to Catrine Val and Hugh Quberzky
Studying our Fashion Design BA (Hons) course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills in the areas of fashion, art and design.
In core areas of art study, you will be introduced to key theories on art and design as well as its effect on culture and society in our Context and Ideas unit.
With a particular focus on fashion, you will have various opportunities to express your creativity in our Fashion Design: Exploring Materials and Methods unit by exploring ways to translate your ideas into a reality through design.
Here, you will discover a variety of production methods such as pattern cutting and sewing and turning 2-D designs into 3-D while developing your understanding of industrial garment production.
In addition, you will explore and experiment with a range of textiles and materials while also considering the ethical and environmental concerns behind them.
You will then get to practice this knowledge in our Fashion Design: Developing Materials and Methods unit by researching, testing and experimenting with creative production methods while also learning to manage creative risk.
This is closely linked to our Thinking Through Making unit that will encourage you to take creative risks and develop an aesthetic sense through using various technologies, processes and ideas.
To further deepen your insight on contemporary art and design practices, our unit in Critical and Creative Contexts will allow you to explore issues and critical debates around art and design that you will use to inform your Final Major Project: Fashion Design.
This research-based project is a brilliant opportunity for your development as a designer to pursue your creative and artistic interests as you will be made to produce a fashion collection and present this to the public.
Another area of project work involves our Collaborative Enterprise unit where you will work to apply your knowledge and expertise gained throughout this course into a collaborative interdisciplinary project.
To prepare you for your career in a professional creative role, our unit in Creative Futures will provide you with the skills and knowledge you need for a professional creative role.
Furthermore, this unit will encourage you to participate in live projects, competition briefs and other group work while developing your ability to professionally present yourself and your portfolio.
To add to this, our unit in Developing Professional Practice will teach you to incorporate independence and professionalism in the presentation of your work while also developing your confidence to take creative risks.
The formative and summative assessment methods used across the course include: Coursework to include examples of Fashion Design research sketchbooks/portfolios professional portfolio research assignments garment manufacture 3-D development essays contextual writing and blogs.
This instils the right attitudes towards professional work whereby you can use your portfolio to promote yourself in professional contexts.
Essays and reports feature in developing writing skills helping you to express ideas in a variety of ways and styles and to develop academic writing skills that are of particular benefit in producing the final year contextual rationale for your major project.
A midpoint Formal Formative Assessment to review all work in progress Key making skills are embedded in the teaching and learning of the course and will be taken into account in all assessments.
At the end of the course completion of the assessments will demonstrate your ability to analyse current art and design practice - in relation to Fashion Design - and communicate this in both written and visual formats as well as demonstrate a range of transferable skills relevant to your professional employability.
Employability and professional practice skills are integrated into the course and provide you with an awareness of the real-world context of the creative industries in general and fashion design in particular.
You will be helped to develop a strategy for obtaining appropriate employment at the end of your course with a work-related learning unit that will especially help you to become more focused on managing your career.
You will also be supported with the preparation of a professional portfolio including a CV and learn the social-media skills needed to promote yourself in a social-mediated art and design world.
Typical graduate destinations for Fashion Design students include work within the field of contemporary fashion and textile design as a fashion designer, fashion stylist, textile developer and selector, or pattern cutter.
Many graduates also choose to work in areas related to design practice such as teaching, garment technology and production.
Previous graduates have gone on to work with Alexander McQueen, Mary Katranzou, Lulu Liu, Sopie Webster, Amanda Wakeley, Zandra Rhodes, Love Magazine and Denza International.
Some of our graduates have started their own label such as Aaugust who won Young Designer of the Year at Africa Fashion Week London.
Another avenue is further study at Master's level (Level 7) in areas such as advanced design studies, accessory design, fashion business and promotion.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/film-and-television-production:
Our students have gone on to work for some of the biggest film and TV programmes including James Bond: No Time to Die, Mission: Impossible, The Wheel, RuPaul's Drag Race, Dr Who, 24-hour news stations and BT sport..
Our cinematics courses rank UK 7th in their subject field for student satisfaction (Complete University Guide, 2026).
Our cinematics courses rank 2nd in their subject field for learning opportunities and are in the UK top 10 in their subject field for teaching (NSS, 2024).
On this highly practical course, you study ‘hands on’ in our state-of-the-art TV studios, using a range of industry-standard camera, sound, lighting and editing equipment.
At the end of your three years, you will be multiskilled, industry-ready practitioners.
Employability is a core feature of this course: it is our job to help you break into TV and film and we work with you to develop industry links and find paid work or internships during your time with us.
High-spec multi-camera television studios Industry-standard radio facilities Award-winning, Ofcom-licensed radio station, Radio LaB 3D green-screen room Digital video-editing suites including Adobe Creative Cloud software (Premier Pro) Specialist make-up studios Location-recording equipment Netflix-approved Sony FX6 cameras for broadcast-quality film and television content Sony FX3 Cinema Line camera with full-frame sensor and enhanced mobility for easy solo hand-held shooting Industry-standard sound and lighting equipment
We also have active partnerships with: Coolr Social Media Agency who are involved in the delivery of relevant course units as well as offering students workplace opportunities and live projects.
Merge XR Virtual Studios who deliver expert industry lectures and workshops using the latest virtual production techniques; student work placements; use of facilities including Unreal Engine and a virtual production studio and potential graduate employment.
We also have active partnerships with:
Learn how to create content on location and in the studio , and how to pitch, write, produce and direct film and TV programming.
Learn from an academic team who are also TV and film industry professionals across fields including podcasting and radio, TV operations management, producing, scriptwriting and journalism..
Take on live creative briefs through our links with the local film and TV community, including Luton Culture and Clearhead Production .
Take up work experience opportunities at industry organisations including an annual placement scheme with the BBC's The One Show.
Broadcast your own work and assist with the running of a TV studio through BedsTV, the University’s student-run online television channel.
Engage directly with the industry through networking events, guest talks and workshops with film professionals.
Build your knowledge through field trips to studios, film festivals, award shows, conferences and other destinations including BBC Studios; BBC Broadcasting House; BT Studios; Sky Studios; RTS Awards shows; Bafta networking events; Berlin Shorts Festival; Pinewood Studios; and the TechCon, broadcast media’s technical conference.
Benefit from regular opportunities to meet visiting, industry-active professionals .
Past guest speakers include Julian Dismore, series producer for the BBC; Hayley Morray, assistant producer at ITV; Stuart Pinfold, BBC sound supervisor; Tom Wall, TV producer/director for Channel 4, Channel 5 and Netflix; BBC Radio 1 hosts Melvin Odoom and Rickie Haywood-Williams; station sound producer Matt Fisher.
Photos taken by Vasile Burla, a student on our BA Photography course.
I have been producing, writing and directing in the television industry for several years.
I have worked with companies such as the BBC, ITV and Sky.
My production experience spans a variety of genres including comedy, chat shows, music programming, documentaries, sports and children's TV.
Studying our Film and Television BA (Hons) course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise in film and TV production and analysis.
You will begin by studying our Making Images unit which will expose you to principles, techniques and the practice of image making and sound recording, and help you develop your own visual style.
You will then develop these skills in our unit in Film Production , which will enable you to take an idea and successfully realise it on screen by giving you the opportunity to develop and practice your production skills.
Through a series of workshops and practical exercises, you will apply production theory such as the continuity system, learn to choreograph shots, and experience working in a production team.
You will also be introduced to multicamera practice in TV Studio Production where you will experience a variety of different production roles including Director, Vision Mixer, Camera Operator and Floor Manager.
As a filmmaker or producer, it is also important that you are capable of telling your own stories.
This is where our unit in Cinema and Narrative will develop your understanding of storytelling conventions based on various forms of cinema.
If you are a fan of fiction, our Fiction Filmmaking unit will provide you with a holistic approach to the production of fiction films.
You will have the opportunity to bring these skills together to produce a short fiction film.
This links closely with our Writing for The Screen unit where you will examine key elements of classical narratives and practice writing screenplays to improve your writing and storytelling skills.
Employability is embedded throughout the course, but you will take a bespoke employability unit, Becoming a Freelancer which will support you in building the confidence to establish contacts in the creative industries while introducing you to the nature of freelance work.
With the help of a tutor, you will work on your CV, engage in explicit networking and create a professional development plan to secure work in the field.
You also have the option of working in a studio setting in the unit TV Studio Music which examines multicamera practice in our purpose-built HD studio.
You will also critically examine Non-Fiction Filmmaking and the explore theory and practice of documentary making.
This unit will allow you to experiment with digital recording and editing equipment while also exploring how it is used in documentary practice.
A key feature of the Film and Television course is its focus on multicamera studio production and in your final year you will take the unit BedsTV: Studio where you will be tasked with producing and filming a live programme for our BedsTV station.
You will also take part in the unit The Creative Agency ; focussing on the content creation and agency work, it will open the door to a new – and growing – world of employment for video makers.
Finally, you will have the opportunity to showcase your knowledge and skills acquired from this course in our Final Project unit.
You will have the freedom to choose between producing a type of film (a drama, TV show, documentary, etc.), a script or a dissertation in film-studies.
Assessment will test both the processes that you go through to develop your production and writing as well as the quality of your final work.
Assessments will range from directed short assessments in level 4 which will enable you to build up your skills and your confidence in both writing and production progressing to more open briefs at levels 5 & 6 which will allow you to generate your own ideas and new ways of working.
You will learn to reflect on your work and to identify where you excel and where you need to improve.
You will have regular feedback sessions with your tutors and feedback sessions with your peers.
Practical work for portfolio submission or your film work will be reviewed during the unit to ensure that you are on target and to enable you to respond to peer and tutor feedback to re-evaluate and improve your work.
Essays will be submitted via Turnitin.
You will work in teams and individually and your assessments will test your abilities to think creatively write effectively and to know what is expected in terms of professional standards within the creative industries.
You will work in groups on production to replicate working patterns in the film and television industries however all marks for production work are individual and are assessed through your own contribution within the group and through your individual component to each unit.
The assessments are designed to enable you to develop your own voice and your own creative signature in your work.
This degree recognises the need to emphasise the development of your key employability skills alongside critical and analytical judgement in order to equip you to adapt to change to grasp opportunities and to move upwards in your career paths.
The course systematically develops skills and qualities in critical thinking, creativity, autonomy, employability and professionalism which will enable you to seek employment in a wide variety of career destinations.
Currently alumni can be found working in the arts, in entertainment and in film or television including:
Ram Tripathi, Editor, on Crazy Rich Asians and His Dark Materials
Carl Akkouh, Producer/Director on Strictly Come Dancing , The Apprentice and Married at First Sight
Sakkina Merali-Piercy, Producer, on The Wheel and Michael McIntyre’s Big Show
Ben Blakey, Production Manager, for Gogglebox , Three in a Bed and Ben Fogle: New Lives in the Wild
Tom Wall, Producer/Director, on A League of their Own , Great British Menu and RuPaul’s Drag Race
David Wiseman, Video Editor, for Celebrity Hunted and Ant & Dec’s Saturday Night Takeaway
Stuart Pinfold, Audio Engineer, at BBC Broadcasting House
Ayanna Golding, Researcher, for The Jonathan Ross Show , The Voice and The Greatest Dancer
More of our alumni success stories

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/financial-economics:
Real-world learning experiences through immersive simulations, modern case studies and industry collaboration.
Industry-standard software such as Sage, Eikon and econometrics tools such as STATA and R.
This course is developed at the interface between economics and finance.
A basic goal of the course is to demonstrate the use of ideas and tools in contexts of financial economics where they are indispensable and widely exploited.
You explore the global role of financial systems in modern economics and learn to analyse the impact of economic events on financial markets while fostering the ability to develop and evaluate strategic decisions for businesses, with a focus on financial risk and return.
The course also supports you to stay updated with the latest developments in financial economics, as the field is dynamic and constantly evolving.
You learn to apply financial analysis techniques in real-world business scenarios, leading to more effective financial management which will enable you to better understand the impact and reach of economic and financial decisions.
Finally, this Master's promotes ethical behaviour and professional standards in the financial industry, emphasising the importance of integrity and responsible financial decision-making.
For further course information, contact Dr Ourania Dimitraki at ourania.dimitraki@beds.ac.uk
Cutting-edge business analytics suite specifically tailored to essential data practices Industry-standard financial and econometrics software - including Sage, Eikon and STATA - to prepare you for today’s workplace Reuters trading room offering live ‘stock-market’ data for a realistic investment experience Access to learning resources from Harvard Business Publishing, providing advanced simulations in core areas Business pods, boardroom areas and IT suites designed to simulate a professional office environment
Due to our focus on putting theoretical knowledge into hands-on learning, you gain the tools and techniques needed to solve genuine business challenges .
Develop key vocational skills including critical thinking; academic enquiry; sound judgement; and effective communication.
Get involved in real-life accounting and business problems with the University’s Research and Innovation Service (RIS), where you can assist businesses, from start-ups to established corporations, to up-skill and innovate.
Take part in field trips to major financial locations including the Bank of England.
Shape the course to your interests and career ambitions with your choice of Master’s capstone dissertation, professional placement, internship or live project .
Ourania Dimitraki is a Senior Lecturer in Economics and Finance with over 15 years of experience teaching at universities in the UK and Greece.
She brings a wealth of expertise in applied economics, particularly in defence and peace economics, and is skilled at engaging students from diverse backgrounds.
Before academia, Dr.
Ourania worked as a governmental official in Greece.
She holds an MRes in Politics (2007) and a PhD in Economics (2012) from Brunel University, UK, following her undergraduate studies in Economics at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece.
Her research focuses on the impact of political regimes, defence policies, and social dynamics on economic well-being, particularly in less developed countries.
Known for her rigorous research and clear communication, Dr.
Ourania has managed complex projects and produced influential publications.
She is also committed to expanding her involvement in international peace research programs.
Studying our Financial Economics MSc course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills in the combined areas of modern economics and finance.
Our unit in Economics and Financial Markets will allow you to explore the core principles of microeconomics, macroeconomics, financial markets, institutions and their practical application.
You will analyse the functions of a financial system and identify key financial instruments alongside comparing the differences in financial systems between countries.
Similarly, our unit in Advanced Management Accounting will provide you with a critical understanding of tools and techniques used in management to make decisions, maximise revenue and minimise cost.
Through combining management accounting and financial planning, you will learn to make effective management decisions in order to drive successful businesses.
Aside from this, you will assess theories of International Trade and Monetary Policy to discover how countries exchange goods and services, manage international migration and facilitate foreign direct investment flows.
This unit will explore the reason behind restrictions or regulations on international trade and the implications of these policies on economic welfare.
This includes analysing the operations of international and European monetary systems, its advancements and challenges.
Alongside this, you will consider real-world issues such as balance of payment problems, causes of exchange rate movements and the impact of economic connections between countries.
You will have the skills needed to take up opportunities in banking and finance or the public sector.
Career paths include research and analysis; financial risk analysis; and economics and research.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/financial-technology-masters:
Our postgraduate taught business and management courses rank 4th overall in their subject field with top three rankings for teaching, engagement, learning community and course organisation (Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey, 2024)
Learn from experienced experts who are leaders in the field with a strong track record in research
A flexible course designed to accommodate your work and life commitments with block delivery and different entry points through the year
We live in the digital age, facing an increasingly digital future.
This forward-looking course shapes you into a creative digital professional by following a unique, problem-solving ‘two pillars’ approach that puts you at the leading edge of financial technology (fintech).
First, it equips you to tackle the biggest challenges facing the financial sector, particularly around increased regulatory requirements and customer satisfaction.
Second, the course gives you the tools to use fintech to build a more sustainable future.
Using a hands-on approach, you develop innovative solutions to real-world problems using real-time, transformative digital technologies including AI, big data, machine learning, blockchain, cryptocurrencies and cybersecurity.
In the Fintech Guest Lecture series, we collaborate with academics and experts at the forefront of financial technology across a wide range of industries, who share their knowledge and practical experiences with you.
Cutting-edge business analytics suite specifically tailored to digital data practices Up-to-date financial databases and statistical software such as FAME; Eikon; Stata; and SPSS Access to running algorithms using programming languages such as Python, and learning resources from Harvard Business Publishing providing advanced simulations in core areas Business pods, boardroom areas and IT suites designed to simulate a professional office environment
Gain a qualification that puts you ahead of the curve , focusing on the contemporary financial sector’s new approach to policy and decision-making: how to use fintech to build a sustainable future.
With our commitment to hands-on learning , you gain the skills needed to solve genuine, real-world financial-sector challenges.
Explore the ways in which financial technology can be utilised to achieve fintech solutions aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals .
Study the transformations that machine learning is introducing to the financial sector and put learning into practice by building machine-learning algorithms .
Benefit from talks by experts from academia and the fintech sector , touching various areas of financial services, technology, social business models and entrepreneurship.
Develop the essential personal skills needed to succeed in an era of rapid and ever-changing technological advances including critical thinking, creativity and mental flexibility, agile, entrepreneurial and sustainable decision-making skills.
Get involved in solving real-life fintech problems with the University’s Research and Innovation Service (RIS), where you assist businesses, from start-ups to established corporations, to upskill and innovate.
The assessment includes coursework to test student knowledge and understanding and to demonstrate their ability to research, apply theories and models, critically thinking, communicate, and work in teams.
Also, there will be group work where an individual’s contribution to group work is evaluated via various methods, i.e.
a set of individual questions at the end of presentations which are video recorded or/and via an assessment of the project logs stored in BREO group spaces.
For MSc students, the final unit demonstrates student’s ability to independently conduct academic enquiry, bring together knowledge and action, relate theory to practice, thereby to solve problems; or undertake dissertation or live projects.
The Course’s various Assessment Strategy includes:
Students will have to identify the research question or problem under investigation, review relevant literature, develop a sound methodology in order to explore the problem, proceed with the analysis, discuss their findings and make recommendations.
At the end, student viva will be conduct with students.
Students will undertake formative assessment activities; these are designed to support the development of their knowledge and skills.
The purpose of such assessment is to enable them to monitor and improve their performance.
For example, they will have the opportunity to discuss a report structure before completing the report, to present concepts/findings through presentations and receive feedback before producing a final report or presentation.
In preparation for exams, they will have opportunity to attempt revision questions with guidance on how to address these, with appropriate solutions.
Whether a start-up company or a long-standing firm, many corporations have already started to implement fintech in their business operations and are achieving an increase in the speed and efficiency of their operations as a result.
Typical career routes for graduates of this course might take you to roles within long- standing financial companies including banking, insurance and regulatory bodies; UK and international financial and governmental institutions; consulting firms; and academia, where you could progress to further PhD studies.
Roles include financial or business analyst; environmental, social and governance (ESG) consultant or analyst; fintech innovator; social innovator; social business modeller; impact investor; and data scientist.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/food-and-nutrition-science:
Our graduates have gone on to work at industry-leading companies and institutions such as Unilever and Arla Foods.
Take a fee-free placement year in industry, gaining real-world experience and building contacts for the future.
This course is now only taking applications for 2027 entry.
For further information or to apply contact admission@beds.ac.uk
The growing global population and increasing awareness of how diet impacts our health means food and nutrition science has never been more relevant.
This degree gives you the skills and knowledge required to succeed as a talented and qualified food scientist.
Through our combination of specialist teaching, practical lab training and employability-focused, hands-on experience, you graduate ready to take on a multitude of different roles within this exciting field.
Modern STEM building with specialist facilities and bespoke study spaces, providing a vibrant and supportive learning environment Specialised analytical science laboratories equipped with HPLC and GC-MS machines Microscopy facilities High-spec equipment and technology such as spectrophotometers
Our Life Sciences Liaison Board works with industry professionals across the pharma-biotech, health and food sectors, including Glaxo Smith Kline, Life Science Group, the NHS, Medicines & Healthcare products Regulatory Agency and GrowPura.
Enjoy a diverse and immersive learning experience under the guidance of our highly qualified academics , whose active involvement in industry feeds back into their teaching.
Gain the technical ability and key transferable skills highly coveted by employers, thanks to our focus on applied learning and practical experience.
Benefit from working with students on our Biomedical Science, Biological Science and Forensic Science BSc (Hons) courses, helping t o broaden your knowledge and understanding of related fields .
See your subject in action through fields trips to Biogen (food waste to energy), Rothamsted Research (global food security), Shuttleworth Farm (environmental sampling) and Bottom Farm (sustainable food production).
Get involved in regular interactive masterclasses and demonstrations from industry leaders , such as the recent ‘Workshop on Microorganisms in Food and Environment’ delivered by the UK Health Security Agency.
Expand your network of professional contacts through our annual STEM Careers Expo .
Nursing and midwifery students will be eligible for additional support of at least £5,000 to help with living costs with funding from the NHS.
Studying our Food and Nutrition Science BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the skills and expertise around food production and consumption, nutrition, health and disease, and the food industry.
In areas of theory, you will be introduced to the study of microorganisms in our Microbiology and Biochemistry unit that will give you an understanding of biochemical principles using practical techniques such as light microscopes while establishing good laboratory practice.
Moreover, you will be given a broad understanding of Human Anatomy and Physiology to analyse the relationship between body parts and their functions.
You will explore the basics of Molecular Genetics unit with topics including chromosome function, genetic inheritance and cell division as well as develop your knowledge on basic concepts in Chemistry.
To equip you with the research and practical skills for this course, our Skills in Food and Nutrition Science unit will teach you to record, analyse and report data from experiments.
In your second year, you will build on this in our Skills in Science unit will equip you with a range of skills you need for your research and for a career in science.
You will explore Human Metabolism on a cellular level and do the same in our Immunology unit where you will closely study the human immune system and how it protects us against a range of pathogens and diseases.
Biotechnology will allow you to discover genetic processes in the field of biotechnology that involves the genetic manipulation of cells and tissues for research purposes.
In our Food Microbiology unit, you will be introduced to the importance of microbiology and its role in the food and nutrition industry, such as within food production or regarding spoilage or expiry.
By exploring this further, you will learn to characterise and measure chemical and nutritional properties of food in our Food Analytical Techniques unit while also exposing you to the chemical, biochemical and biophysical measurement techniques for food and nutritional research.
Similarly, you will examine the role of nutrition for maintaining health and function in our Human Nutrition unit where you will look closely at the biochemistry of nutrients, evaluate the role of metabolic rates and energy balance for weight control, and consider the role of diet and nutrition in human development.
In the field of medicine, you will develop your understanding of how the human body functions in our Medical Physiology unit that will provide you with in-depth knowledge in human physiology, how it is affected by disease and its impact on drug development strategies.
In your final year, our Public Health Nutrition unit will allow you to explore the importance of nutrition for the health and wellbeing of people through analysing public health initiatives and strategies to alleviate the risk of disease.
This will be particularly useful in our Clinical Nutrition unit where you will explore the role of nutrition in health and disease prevention.
With a societal approach, you will also develop an understanding of how humans produce and consume food while evaluating how we can feed the world in our Food Security and Management unit.
In practical areas of study, you will be introduced to methods for Food Processing and how this preserves and enhances the nutritional values of food using distribution and packaging to ensure the delivery of nutritious products that meet dietary requirements and consumer trends.
You will also consider different types of food and food products in our Nutraceuticals and Health unit to develop your skills in discovering, designing and developing functional food.
Finally, you will undertake a Food and Nutrition Science Research Project in your final year that will give you the opportunity to plan, design and execute a piece of research into a topic of your interest that is relevant to your field of study.
The course is designed to introduce students to fundamental principles of anatomy chemistry genetics cell biology and microbiology at Level 4.
These subjects underpin the biosciences.
Students will also be introduced to fundamental principles of food and nutrition.
Assessments at Level 4 therefore focus on knowledge retention and understanding through a combination of end of unit examinations and the ability to produce a range of assignments to present data from laboratory practical sessions to variety data sources.
The practical reports use a structure that is the professional standard for publishing scientific research and encourage students to employ an effective scientific method in considering the background and aim of an experiment the appropriateness of the method employed the reliability of the results obtained and the meaning of the data in a broader scientific context.
As students progress through Level 5 they are expected to apply their basic understanding to novel situations and the analysis of more complex biological phenomena.
Although practical reports are still a key assessment method the assessment criteria weighting changes from an emphasis on subject understanding and written structure at Level 4 to an emphasis on accurate analysis of the results critical evaluation of the method and data and effective use of literature at Level 5.
Similarly end of unit exams involve short essay answers allowing students to demonstrate broader understanding of the subject material and an ability to apply their knowledge in different contexts.
Additionally Level 5 students will prepare and orally present a proposal to address a need identified in scientific literature.
The presentation will include the design of an experiment to test the scientific need you have identified.
This requires students to develop and practice the scientific method to generate hypotheses and to consider the commercialisation and broader applicability of the science.
On completing this course, you are likely to progress into one of the following areas:
The skills you develop in information sourcing, data analysis and presentation also allow you to seek employment within a broad range of non-scientific careers from managerial posts to politics.
Further study

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/food-security-in-public-health:
Benefit from a course that works in collaboration with the University’s School of Life Sciences and School of Society, Community and Health, drawing on expertise across two academic teams.
Opportunities for industry links through external visits to relevant sites such as Rothamsted Research and LEAF Demonstration Farm.
On this multidisciplinary course, you explore and evaluate current research; the issues within food security in public health and how to overcome them; the effectiveness of public health information; food systems management; and the legal and ethical considerations including those relating to food standards.
The course links theory to practical application with case studies from both developed and developing economies so you develop the skills necessary to respond in innovative ways to current and future challenges.
Modern STEM building with specialist laboratories, lecture theatres and bespoke study spaces The latest technology and industry-standard equipment to emulate the professional workplace Seven-storey library featuring an extensive collection of physical and digital resources
Establish links and gain valuable work experience through our Life Sciences Liaison Board, which draws in industry-wide professionals such as Life Science Group, the NHS and GrowPura.
The Board’s close partnerships with real-world experts means our forward-thinking course is aligned with the needs of both industry and wider society.
The course is delivered collaboratively by the University’s School of Life Sciences and School of Society, Community and Health , drawing on the academic teams' collective knowledge and expertise to address the subject’s multidisciplinary nature.
Study under a team of international experts at a University with 30-plus years of experience teaching biological sciences .
Our highly qualified academics lead the way in research areas such as COVID-19 testing technology; obesity; cancer pathways; medicines development; and global food security.
Our School’s active involvement in cutting-edge research and consultancy feeds directly into course delivery, ensuring you’re up-to-date with the latest advances in the field.
Take part in subject-relevant field visits to sites such as Rothamsted Research, LEAF Demonstration Farm and the Centre for Alternative Technology.
Gain specialist knowledge from external speakers in interactive seminars, workshops and masterclasses.
Benefit from our student-centred teaching approach to help you get the most from your degree, combining lectures and practical sessions with case studies and e-learning .
Develop employability-based skills including in assessment and evaluation; effective communication; application of knowledge; and informed decision making.
Explore a current-day issue with your choice of MSc food security research project .
Studying our Food Security in Public Health MSc course will equip you with the knowledge and skills in the combined areas of food systems management and public health policy.
In the core areas of study, you will learn to ensure that food industry products are of a high quality, are safe for consumption and conform to fairtrade practices by assessing the management of quality processes in our Food Quality Assurance unit.
You will study various aspects of the food supply chain from production to the final consumer while taking into account the tools and methods used for food quality design, control, improvement and assurance.
This is closely linked to our unit in Food Safety where you will develop a critical understanding of the topic and its implications in public health.
This includes exploring various biological and chemical agents that are potentially present in human foods and animal feed while examining the potential risks to human health.
More importantly, you will have the opportunity to design and implement a traceability system that is compliant with customer and legal requirements.
Similarly, you will explore the complex management of food systems from the farms where it is grown, harvested, processed and packaged, to how it is transported and marketed, and finally consumed and disposed in the form of food and food packaging in our Food Systems Management unit.
You will also analyse the best practice of delivering nutritious products that meet dietary requirements and consumer trends.
Moreover, you will consider ethical issues in the food industry that have implications in environment and food law while ensuring this practice is applied to food management standards.
One pertinent issue faced on a global scale is Food and Nutrition Insecurity.
This unit, therefore, will prompt you to investigate the food and nutrient supply chain to identify the challenges faced in the field while integrating this with principles and policies in public health.
Furthermore, this unit will allow you to develop your knowledge of sustainable agriculture and its implications in the field of public health.
Aside from this, you will be exposed to key Principles, Policies and Issues in Public Health and explore how this shapes the way that public health issues are addressed within the UK and internationally.
Furthermore, you will be introduced to key concepts of Epidemiology in Public Health to equip you with the knowledge and skills to describe, analyse and interpret epidemiological studies.
Finally, you will complete a Food Security Research Project where you will undertake a significant piece of research that is either laboratory, management or field based and focus it on a relevant area in the food industry or government policy.
This will be a great opportunity for you to showcase your work professionally while developing specialised knowledge skills you can take with you as you progress into your career.
Assessment is integral in all units to check that you have met the threshold standards expected of all graduates.
They are also linked to learning designed to develop key subject specific and transferable skills for future employment.
Units that include an end of unit examination shall include a formative exam experience to prepare students.
The assessment tasks will include:
Studying this course will create career opportunities for you in government agencies, industry and other organisations related to the broad areas of food systems management, public health and environmental sustainability.
Recent graduates have gone into a diverse range of sectors including healthcare; pharmaceutical; food; research; and science and education.
Others have secured funding to pursue PhDs and/or places to study medicine.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/football-business:
You benefit from placement opportunities with our official Education Partner, Luton Town FC, as well as other football organisations and clubs.
Please note that, from September 2026, this course is running as BA (Hons) Sport Business Management
We offer two football-related pathways (business and coaching) where you choose your preferred specialism after your first year.
This course focuses on the business of football, exploring areas such as economic impact; investment in facilities; community programmes; marketing; and management.
You learn the academic theory related to the football, sport and leisure, and apply your knowledge to industry-related scenarios and real-world simulations, with opportunities for placements including with our official Education Partners, Luton Town FC.
External 4G sports pitches Sports arena Purpose-built strength and conditioning facility Free gym and Olympic weight room Multi-use games areas Sports therapy and rehabilitation centre with a sports injury clinic, open to staff, students and external athletes/clients Sports massage rooms
We are official partners of Luton Town FC and Bedford Blues RFC as well as other sporting organisations in the region such as Bedford Tigers RLFC, MK Dons, Cricket East and Be Active, giving you opportunities to build your employability through work placements
Gain a wide perspective of the sports and football industries , exploring sport and physical activity; sport management; and working in sport.
Learn from top-class professionals within the field , working with governing bodies such as the FA, UEFA and FIFA as well as experts from professional football teams.
Take part in behind-the-scenes tours and match-day experiences to football clubs such as Luton Town FC and MK Dons as well as local football organisations and non-league clubs.
Opportunities for placements through our official partnership with Luton Town FC and other local football organisations.
Field trips include St George’s Park, Burton-on-Trent, the home of England Football, and football clubs around the country.
Our Bedford campus is a small, thriving academic community where academic staff get to know you well ; you also have the support of your own personal academic tutor who will guide and support you throughout your student journey.
Before coming into lecturing, I worked as a Football Development Officer, Director of Sport and Recreation, Regional Training Unit Coordinator and as a Football Coach.
I enjoy playing and watching football and am a keen supporter of Barnsley Football Club.
I also like to play golf, go skiing and I have ran the London Marathon raising money for Diabetes UK.
Studying our Football Business BA (Hons) course will equip you with the knowledge and skills around the sports industry, marketing and management.
You will gain a broad understanding of the football industry as well as its impact on contemporary society in our units in an Introduction to Football Studies, The Football Industry and Contemporary Issues in Football.
You will look closely at the causes of fandom and question what makes people support a particular team - successful or unsuccessful – while also examining how economic factors have shaped football into a global cultural phenomenon.
In areas of business, you will explore the recent changes within the football industry such as stadium reconstruction and development, the relationship between clubs and fans, and the relationship between football and the media in The Business of Football unit.
Furthermore, you will discuss the impact of football on local and international economies, how differing ownership models for football clubs affect their position in the industry, and factor in the role of marketing within football in our Sport Marketing unit by examining how owners maximise revenue potential.
With this approach, you will also look at research into Football Governance to understand how football organisations operate at all levels.
Moreover, our Football Finance unit aims to outline the financial and economic aspects of the football industry for you to assess the financial strength of such organisations in the field.
Another key factor you will consider is environmental sustainability, and you will analyse how committed sport governing bodies and event organisers are to this cause alongside international development and world peace in our Sport in a Global Context: Sustainability and Development unit.
Regarding sport management, our Strategic Sport Management unit will expose you firsthand to the strategic management processes behind the development of sport and physical activity.
Based on real-life case studies, you will critically analyse the vital issues and approaches to creating sports programmes while assessing the needs of participants and managing the provision of sport and physical activity.
Similarly, our unit in Sport and Physical Activity Management will allow you to consider the management and provision issues that arise from constraints and pressures of the commercial sector.
You will then learn to apply this knowledge within sport organisations in our Sport in Action: Management unit while examining the role of the state, non-profit and professional sectors in sport.
In addition, you will also learn the discipline of Managing Elite Sport and the role of high-performance directors in athlete success as a developing area of study.
You will also be exposed to units focused on individual performance and career, such as by developing practical coaching skills to provide positive learning environments for performers in our Foundations for Football Coaching unit.
This closely links to our Football Development unit where you will assess youth development programmes in football from around the world to highlight best practice used to identify and support talented young players.
Similarly, you will also explore current biographies of famous sports figures and other research in sports sociology in our Sport, Physical Activity and Life Story unit.
Alternatively, you can complete a Work Placement Project that will allow you to undertake work experience in the field that can be used to develop reflective practice, critical evaluation and work-based skills.
To prepare you for your career, our Working in Sport and Physical Education unit will introduce you to multiple career pathways available within the Sport & Physical Activity industry.
You will then acquire the skills for the job application and interview process in our Professional Development and Employability unit, while also learning how to apply for grant funding.
Furthermore, our Professional Development (Sport Policy Enactment) unit is where you will engage in project management to design a school or community-based intervention based on your knowledge of government policy, partnership and grant applications.
To add to this, you can also undertake a Professional Practice Year (Sport Science and Physical Activity) that will allow you to gain work experience while developing your professional skills.
You will be required to undertake a variety of assessments that vary depending upon the learning outcomes of the unit delivered.
The range of assessment styles includes: written reports and essays oral presentations e-portfolios phase tests and collaborative projects.
In addition you will undertake practical assessments related to the design planning and delivery of a wide variety of football projects providing opportunity to develop and demonstrate critical analysis problem solving communication styles needed in business.
Assessment of these activities will be based on tasks which develop vocational skills underpinned by subject knowledge requiring higher levels of cognition in the upper levels of the course.
As you progress through the levels of study the marking criteria for all assessment styles undertaken will be that much more rigorous with the expectation you progressively demonstrate a more theory driven understanding of the football industry and practices.
The workshop approach of the teaching and learning strategy enables formative assessment to be ongoing.
Units combines formal -summative' (e.g.
individual and group-based assignments) and informal -formative' (e.g.
reflective tasks) modes of assessment drawing also upon peer review and peer support techniques staggered periodically throughout the units so as to emphasise and support incremental individual student learning as process.
Our graduates are able to secure roles in the football industry as well as the wider sports industries.
Examples include broadcast executive, referee development officer, broadcast sport technology specialist, sport business owner, sports business technology owner, commercial development and global strategic partnership manager and academic roles in other universities.
These roles, and others, have been with a wide range of clubs in the FA Premier League and the English Football League as well as with FIFA and in countries outside of the UK such as USA, Latvia, China and Malaysia.
Students often also progress to postgraduate degrees.
Our graduates have also been successful in gaining employment within a wider range of sport-sector areas including community, local authority and sport governing-body sport-development teams; professional sport clubs; international sport development; project and event management; and health and fitness management.
Students have also developed their own sport-sector businesses.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/football-coaching:
You will benefit from placements with our official partners Luton Town FC as well as other football organisations and clubs.
Our graduates have gone on to work in roles across the football sector including FIFA and professional clubs in the UK and overseas.
We offer two football-related pathways (coaching or business) where you choose your preferred specialism after your first year.
This course prepares you to work as a skilled coach across a variety of football settings.
You learn a range of coaching skills to help you deliver and plan training sessions; evaluate performances; implement improvement strategies; and put your learning into practice in football-related scenarios.
There are also opportunities for placements, including with our official Education Partners, Luton Town FC.
Purpose-built strength and conditioning facility Free gym and Olympic weight room Sports arena Multi-use games areas Sports therapy and rehabilitation centre with a sports injury clinic, open to staff, students and external athletes/clients Sports massage rooms Industry-leading performance-analysis equipment, including a Nacsport camera system, In-Play Sports online performance analysis and Catapult GPS system
Gain valuable work experience at our Human Performance Centre , which offers testing to sports people, teams and the public for fitness, flexibility and body composition assessments.
Take advantage of coaching opportunities with local schools and football clubs.
I have worked at the University of Bedfordshire since 2006 and am currently a senior lecturer in the faculty of Education and Sport at the University of Bedfordshire with responsibility for coordinating all academic study of coaching and player and match analysis.
Studying our BA (Hons) Football Coaching course will equip you with the knowledge, skills and experience to work in the sports industry in general, but more specifically the football industry with a focus on football coaching and performance analysis.
You will gain a broad understanding of the study of football in the unit Introduction to Football Studies that will introduce many of the areas of study that you will engage with later in the course such as psychology, performance analysis, player potential and development, technical and tactical understanding, and coach development.
In the unit The Football Industry, you will explore the football industry as well as its impact on contemporary society.
Furthermore, you will actively engage with a suite of units across the course focused on player development and performance by developing practical coaching skills to provide positive learning environments for performers in our Foundations for Football Coaching unit, the first of four practical football coaching units.
This unit is followed by Applied Football Coaching where you will explore the relationship between understanding your role as a coach and understanding the player to apply your practical coaching knowledge.
The knowledge, experience and skills gained in these units provide the foundations to study Advanced Coaching for Football and Coaching Alternative Populations.
Understanding Football Governance is an important, but understudied area of football and this unit will help you to understand how football organisations operate at all levels.
In areas of the mind, you will look at the Social Psychology of Sport by analysing theories, principles and concepts to understand behaviour and its effects on performance and participation in sport and physical activity.
You will then use this information in a football context to inform player development in our Long-Term Player and Coach Development unit and Applied Sport Psychology units.
The coaching units above tie in closely to units on Football Development, Long-Term Player and Coach Development, Performance Analysis and Performance Analysis for Football.
In Football Development we assess youth development programmes in football from around the world to highlight best practice used to identify and support talented young players.
We then make connections to Long-Term Player and Coach Development where we examine what player potential looks like at various ages, how to identify this and the best ways to develop this potential.
Long-term coach development is also considered as you build on the career planning that starts in week one.
Career planning and personal development is a central pillar across the course and is built into numerous units.
For example, in all the practical coaching units you are required to engage with your own personal development planning, including the completion of an allocated number of hours of coaching experience in a real-world setting.
In our performance analysis units Performance Analysis and Performance Analysis for Football, you will use industry standard tools to analyse individual and team performance and then learn how to provide effective feedback from your findings.
These units link very closely to the football coaching units by underpinning understanding of the technical and tactical aspects of football.
In order to provide a broad view of the football industry, we continue the discussions that began early in the first year and address the challenges facing those who use football for social change in our Football in the Community unit.
As stated above, career planning and development is central to the course and its aims.
To prepare you for your career, our Working in Sport and Physical Education unit will introduce you to multiple career pathways available within the sport & physical activity industry.
Career planning and development is also built into the football coaching units (Foundations for Football Coaching, Applied Football Coaching, Advanced Coaching for Football and Coaching Alternative Populations) and the units Work Experience for Sports Science and Physical Activity and Work Placement Project provide opportunities to gain extensive industry experience towards the end of the course.
You can also undertake a Professional Practice Year (Sport Science and Physical Activity) that will allow you to gain work experience while developing your professional skills.
This is a one-year programme that sees you taking a year out from formal study to work in industry before returning to university to complete the final stage of your degree.
Finally, you will have the opportunity to complete an independent study, where we offer two options, a Dissertation for Sport Science and Physical Activity or a Work Placement Project.
To help you with this, you will study a suite of research-based units that span the course; Introduction to Research Methods, Research Methods for Sport, Exercise and Physical Activity and Dissertation Preparation.
These units will prepare you to complete an independent project at the end of the course, while also enabling you to read and understand research, to complete a proposal with ethical documentation and to write a coherent independent research project.
You will be required to undertake a variety of assessments that vary depending upon the learning outcomes of the unit.
The range of assessment types includes: written reports and essays, oral presentations, e-portfolios, phase tests and collaborative projects.
In addition you will undertake practical assessments related to the design, planning and delivery aspects relevant to a wide variety of football coaching projects providing opportunities to develop and demonstrate critical analysis, problem solving and communication styles needed in coaching.
As you progress through the levels of study the marking criteria for all assessment styles undertaken will be that much more rigorous with the expectation you progressively demonstrate a more theory driven understanding of football coaching issues and practices.
Our teaching and learning strategy enables us to provide a very practical course with many opportunities for feedback and support from both staff and peers.
Formative assessment is undertaken to allow for opportunities to act on feedback when completing summative assessment.
Our graduates are able to secure a wide range of roles in the football industry as well as the wider sports industries.
Examples include, but aren’t limited to, academy coach; broadcast executive; first-team performance analyst; academy performance analyst; referee development officer; head of recruitment; broadcast sport technology specialist; sport business owner; sports business technology owner; first-team sport scientist; commercial development and global strategic partnership manager; and academic roles in other universities.
These roles, and others, have been with a wide range of clubs in the FA Premier League and English Football League as well as with FIFA and in countries outside of the UK such as USA, Latvia, China and Malaysia.
Students often also progress to postgraduate degrees such as our Sport Leadership & Management MBA.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/forensic-psychology-masters:
Our MSc Forensic Psychology is accredited by the British Psychological Society, giving you Stage 1 training towards becoming a registered psychologist.
Our Forensic Psychology team has strong links with various agencies and custodial establishments, enabling our teaching to be informed by both research and practice.
Supporting the requirements of the British Psychological Society’s Division of Forensic Psychology, this course develops a systematic understanding and critical awareness of current issues in the field while exploring core areas such as criminal, investigative and legal psychology; victimology; and forensic assessments and interventions.
You gain new insights into the theory and practice of forensic psychology as well as a high level of knowledge of advanced research methods, allowing you to perform complex data analysis, interpretation, evaluation and synthesis.
For further course information, contact Prof Andy Guppy
It covers knowledge and key skills relevant to forensic psychology as described by the accreditation standards (BPS, 2019).
Access to specialist, industry-standard psychology laboratories and computing environments including a biological and cognitive psychology lab; cognitive neuropsychology lab; VR lab; and a suite of research cubicles with a range of specialist equipment Up-to-the-minute technology, such as a driving simulator to test hazard perception; eye-tracking software; a physiological data-acquisition system; EEG recording equipment; and KAT Walk omnidirectional VR slide mills, plus an extensive range of psychometric instruments
We have links with a range of organisations who have provided training for our MSc students in recent years.
These have included Bedfordshire Police; the probation service; victim support; and forensic psychologists from HMPPS.
This course equips you with in-depth knowledge and understanding of the discipline alongside core skills, supporting you in progressing to your Stage 2 training where you can develop your practice to become a registered forensic psychologist.
Our staff’s research and practice expertise directly informs their teaching, creating a focus on the real-life application of psychology.
Build your skills working on cutting-edge research projects with our academic staff, through your dissertation research project.
Benefit from field trips to relevant locations such as observing real-life court cases from the public gallery at Luton Crown Court.
Take up membership of our Student Research Institute , providing opportunities to engage in research; work with staff as an assistant; and attend specialist research conferences.
Present your supervised research to your peers and psychology professionals at our annual Student Research Conference .
Studying our Forensic Psychology MSc course will equip you with in-depth knowledge in the areas of criminal, investigative and legal psychology and skills in relation to the assessment and rehabilitation of offenders.
In Advanced Research Methods for Psychologists you will have sessions covering advanced qualitative and quantitative research methods including training on relevant analytical software.
You will develop an understanding of why criminal behaviour occurs in our Criminal Psychology unit by exploring a range of theories of offending and different types of offenders.
These sessions will help you understand how these theories have developed psychological practice.
You will then learn about the methodological and practical skills relevant to conducting and interpreting psychological assessments of offenders that may include cognitive, personality, mental health or offence specific tests in our Assessments in Forensic Psychology unit.
Following this, you will develop a thorough understanding of the psychological interventions used to treat and rehabilitate offenders in the field of forensic work in our Interventions in Forensic Psychology unit.
Shifting the focus from offenders, you will also explore the concept of Victimology by gaining a critical understanding of the psychological effects of experiencing victimisation while exploring the ethical and clinical applications to effectively help and support victims of serious offences.
Aside from this, you will consider the role of psychology in investigative and police contexts in our Investigative Psychology unit which could potentially inspire you to pursue a career in this specialised field.
In areas of Legal Psychology, you will discover how psychology can be applied to legal contexts including false confessions and jury decision making.
To prepare you for your career, our unit in Professional Skills will support you in developing the academic and professional skills to work in forensic contexts.
Finally, you will complete a MSc Forensic Psychology Dissertation that will give you the opportunity to carry out a substantial piece of research into a specialised area of forensic psychology that is of interest to you.
The MSc Forensic Psychology is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) Division of Forensic Psychology in partnership with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
As such, the course is only available to those able to demonstrate Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) with the BPS.
Successful completion of the MSc Forensic Psychology confers to Stage 1 of the training required towards becoming a full member of the Division of Forensic Psychology (BPS) and a Registered Forensic Psychologist with the HCPC.
The primary focus is to build upon the core skills developed through successful achievement of the completed Graduate Basis for Chartered Status (via an approved undergraduate degree or conversion postgraduate course) and to move towards the competences required of a Forensic Psychologist as outlined in the Subject Benchmark statement for Psychology (QAA, 2016) and aims and objectives of a Stage 1 Qualification in Forensic Psychology as set out by the British Psychological Society (2017).
The assessment strategy therefore reflects the academic rigour required for a BPS accredited MSc degree.
The assessments are designed to test academic knowledge, oral and written skills, use of literature using primary and secondary sources, critical analysis of ideas, connections made between theory, practice, real life situations and the understanding and application of professional values, to include ethical issues as detailed by the BPS.
The criteria for passing a unit are set out in the University Regulations.
Examples of the range of assessment include: written essays, short answer questions exams, literature/systemic reviews, statistics workbooks, reflective portfolio, case studies, treatment formulation, presentation, review of an ethics submission, designing a training programme, and dissertation.
Your BPS-accredited MSc opens the way to further applied training in forensic psychology to become a full chartered member of the BPS and gain eligibility to register with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Career opportunities for graduates of this course include various roles in prison and probation services, the police, the criminal justice system, and the NHS.
You will also have acquired specific knowledge in research methods to put you in a position to continue your research studies within Psychology with a PhD.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/forensic-science:
Our forensic science courses rank 1st in their subject field for teaching; learning opportunities (including knowledge and skills for the future); and the organisation and management of their studies (NSS, 2024).
Our forensic sciences courses rank UK 2nd in their subject field for student satisfaction (CUG, 2026).
Accredited by The Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences, ensuring the course content and teaching are of a high, internationally recognised standard.
Technological advances have made the role of the forensic scientist increasingly important in crime investigations and other fields such as archaeology.
Our degree course provides you with a comprehensive understanding of the biological and chemical sciences involved as well as exploring the most recent advances in areas such as DNA analysis, toxicology, criminal psychology, and fire and explosive analysis.
Our BSc (Hons) Forensic Science is accredited by The Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences (CSFS) so you can be sure its content and teaching are of a high, internationally recognised standard.
Modern STEM building with high-tech labs and bespoke study spaces, providing you with a vibrant and supportive learning environment Specialist forensic laboratory with state-of-the-art microscopes and insectary Mock crime-scene flat designed as a typical residential home, allowing you to simulate crime scenarios and apply your learning to real-life situations Clinical suite for simulated mortuary experience Practise for court appearances in the University’s Moot Court
Our Life Sciences Liaison Board works with industry professionals across the pharma-biotech, health and food sectors, including Glaxo Smith Kline, the NHS and Cellmark Forensics.
Prepare for future employment with our courses’ hands-on approach to learning .
Put theory into practice in a real-world research project of your choosin g.
Our academic team are industry professionals in forensic science.
Study with academics who have world-leading research expertise in areas such as community safety, offending and youth justice; their experience shapes their teaching, keeping you up to date with the latest industry developments .
Explore your prospects and connect with leading employers at our annual STEM Careers Expo .
Learn from our regular masterclasses and interactive demonstrations by industry experts such as Paul Kingdon, former New Scotland Yard detective and police training manager for the Metropolitan Police Service Crime Academy.
Take part in night-time, mock crime-scene investigations at our Putteridge Bury campus.
I joined the School of Life Sciences in November 2015, having completed my PhD with the Forensic Research Centre at Northumbria University.
Prior to this, I worked for the Forensic Science Service (FSS) from 2006, firstly as a DNA Analyst in the Intelligence Crime Stain Unit and subsequently as an Examiner with the Homicide & Violence Team, alongside being trained to assist with cases for the Sexual Offences Team.
Studying our Forensic Science BSc (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth skills and knowledge needed for crime scene investigation, examination and analysis of evidence in the laboratory and communication of your findings for court.
You will be given a broad understanding of core scientific areas including Human Anatomy and Physiology, Molecular Genetics and Chemistry for Forensic Scientists where you will get to explore topics such as structure and relationship between body parts, patterns of genetic inheritance and the structure of molecules.
To equip you with the research and practical skills for this course, our Skills for Forensic Scientists unit will teach you to record, analyse and report data from experiments as well as the key skills you need for investigation of a crime scene, including photography, evidence selection and exhibit packaging.
As one of the crucial parts of your study, you will learn how to conduct a basic search of exhibits for evidence of interest and to complete your casefile notes in our Evidence Examination Skills unit.
This leads into our Biology in Forensic Science unit where you will learn to examine biological evidence that could be encountered at a crime scene.
This is a crucial part of forensics, as biologists can support a range of investigations from preserving, recovering and analysing biological samples such as blood, saliva and hair, and using bones and teeth to help identify a body.
Aside from human samples, you will also learn to examine and analyse a range of biological evidence using animals and plants to aid forensic investigations in our Animals and Plants in Crime unit.
Underpinning many types of biological evidence in forensic investigations is DNA, this is where our Forensic Genetics and Advanced Applications in Forensic Genetics units will introduce you to DNA analysis and profiling techniques to develop your understanding so that you can devise a forensic strategy for any sample type.
Other key evidence types, such as paint, firearms, digital evidence and documents analysis will be covered in Crimes Against Property where you will investigate how forensic techniques are used to identify class and individual characteristics of trace and physical evidence in order to reconstruct events of the crime of to form associations between people and crime scenes.
You will also learn to identify properties of legal and illegal substances encountered in forensic drug examinations in Forensic Toxicology and Drug Analysis and to identify, recover and analyse evidence from fire or explosion crime scenes in the Fire Analysis unit.
To deepen your understanding of criminal behaviour, our Psychology and Criminal Behaviour unit will help you understand the contexts in which criminal behaviour occurs while introducing ways to assess and rehabilitate various types of offenders based on different types of crime, including stalking, violence and terrorism.
Similarly, you will learn how science contributes to law-making processes, enforcement and prosecution in criminal justice settings in our Psychology and Criminal Justice unit.
As a result of your examinations, Presentation of Evidence will equip you with the basic statistical methods to critically evaluate and communicate your scientific findings in the form of expert witness statements and presentation of evidence in a court environment.
You will then get to apply these skills in our Crime Scene to Court unit where you take the role as the lead scientist and work on a simulated forensic investigation that develops in real-time over the course of a semester.
During this time, you will manage your own work, complete examination notes and subsequently present your results in a court session.
In addition, you will undertake our unit in Suspicious Death Investigation during which you will develop the skills needed to build a biological profile when the deceased is unknown and to estimate the post-mortem interval.
Finally, you will undertake a Forensic Science Research Project in your final year that will give you the opportunity to plan, design and execute a piece of research into a topic of your interest that is relevant to your field of study.
To help you with this, our Skills in Science unit will equip you with a range of skills you need for your research and for a career in science.
The course is designed to introduce students to fundamental principles of anatomy chemistry genetics and crime scene management at level 4.
Assessments at level 4 therefore focus on knowledge retention and understanding (end of year examinations) as well as the ability to produce effective reports to present data from laboratory practical sessions.
These reports use a structure that is the professional standard for publishing scientific research and encourage students to employ an effective scientific method in considering the background and aim of an experiment the appropriateness of the method employed the reliability of the results obtained and the meaning of the data in a broader scientific context.
As students progress through level 5 they are expected to apply their basic understanding to novel situations and the analysis of more complex scientific phenomena.
Although practical reports are still a key assessment method the assessment criteria weighting changes from an emphasis on subject understanding and written structure at level 4 to an emphasis on accurate analysis of the results critical evaluation of the method and data and effective use of literature at level 5.
Similarly end of year exams involve short essay answers allowing students to demonstrate broader understanding of the subject material and an ability to apply their knowledge in different contexts.
Students will be introduced to essential topics around the interpretation and presentation of forensic evidence including use of statistics to support casework conclusions how to write both streamlined forensic reports and full witness statements and how to present their findings in court.
Additionally level 5 students will complete a scientific proposal assignment in their BHS022-2 skills unit that requires that they assess the published literature to identify a research need that they can address through proposal of a novel experiment/product/service.
At level 6 students are expected to demonstrate an ability to integrate varied knowledge and to critically evaluate their understanding.
Students will write reports based on the laboratory work evaluate and communicate case study information through the production of a scientific webinar as well as further develop their skills in the communication of their findings in their role as an expert witness.
Teaching throughout this year is more student focused and students are expected to lead discussion and to devise their own research question to answer a forensic case related query.
As part of this project students will be required to assess literature to support their research and design a scientific experiment to test their hypotheses.
End of year exams are long essay based to enable students to demonstrate knowledge synthesis and critical evaluation.
This course is designed to open a range of opportunities in analytical and investigative science.
These include working in research organisations and institutes as well as in commercial laboratories plus careers in teaching, scientific publishing and medical sales.
Careers directly linked to your degree might be:
Careerswhere your degree would be useful include:
The careers listed here are for information and guidance purposes only.
Many employers accept applications from graduates with any degree subject.
By completing your degree, you have demonstrated skills which are transferable to a range of careers.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/forensic-science-and-criminology:
Our forensic science courses rank UK 1st in their subject field for teaching; learning opportunities (including knowledge and skills for the future); and the organisation and management of their studies (NSS, 2024).
Awarded ‘Recognition’ by The Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences (CSFS), ensuring course content and teaching are of a high, internationally recognised standard.
This course provides you with a strong foundation in the biological and chemical sciences involved in forensics; the latest developments in criminal theory; and how these disciplines come together to support the criminal justice system in the prevention, deterrence and punishment of criminal behaviour.
It has been designed to develop your skills in laboratory analysis; the interpretation and evaluation of evidence; and the communication of scientific findings.
This combined course has been awarded ‘Recognition’ by The Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences (CSFS) so you can be sure its content and teaching are of a high, internationally recognised standard.
Our academic team are industry professionals with world-leading research expertise in criminological areas such as community safety, offending and youth justice.
Academics use their wealth of experience to shape their teaching, keeping you up to date with the latest industry development s.
Prepare for future employment with our practical-orientated approach to learning, with hands-on laboratory experience and court case simulations .
Gain expert knowledge from our regular workshops held by speakers such as Paul Kingdon, former New Scotland Yard detective and police training manager for the Metropolitan Police Service Crime Academy.
Get a taste of work in the field with night-time mock crime-scene investigations at our Putteridge Bury campus.
Gain additional lab-work experience via the Student Skills Lab scheme where you can test and try out techniques for real-world applications, and practise skills under the guidance of recent graduates.
Studying our Forensic Science and Criminology BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the knowledge and skills in the combined areas of biological and chemical sciences, criminological theory and the criminal justice system.
To build the foundations of your study, you will be given a broad understanding of core scientific areas including Human Anatomy and Physiology, Molecular Genetics and Chemistry for Forensic Scientists where you will get to explore topics such as structure and relationship between body parts, patterns of genetic inheritance and the structure of molecules.
In Evidence Examination Skills you will learn how to conduct a basic search of exhibits for evidence of interest and to complete your casefile notes.
Moreover, you will learn how to examine biological evidence that could be encountered at a crime scene in our Biology in Forensic Science unit.
To further develop your knowledge in DNA and drug evidence you will take Forensic Analysis to introduce you to the scientific principles and practical skills needed for these key evidence types.
To add to this, Evaluation of Evidence will equip you with the basic statistical methods to critically evaluate and communicate your scientific findings in the form of expert witness statements and presentation of evidence in a court environment.
You will also undertake Suspicious Death Investigation during which you will develop the skills needed to build a biological profile when the deceased is unknown and to estimate the post-mortem interval.
In areas of theory, you will be given an Introduction to Criminology by examining theoretical approaches used to explain crime, deviance and offending behaviour, and you will explore this in more depth in our Theorising Crime, Punishment and Justice unit to analyse and evaluate concepts of crime, justice and punishment used for crime control.
More specifically, you will address and challenge low-level crimes in the areas of business, politics and finance that are committed by people in power or of a high social status in our Crimes of the Powerful unit.
Aside from this, you will also explore the complex world of Cybercrime to identify emerging issues in the field such as cyber terrorism, cyberbullying and cyber hate as well as the rationale behind it.
You will also consider crime, disorder and social harm in urban areas such as within neighbourhoods, gated communities and housing systems in our Urban Crime unit.
Finally, you will undertake a research project in your final year that will give you the opportunity to plan, design and execute a piece of research into a topic of your interest that is relevant to your field of study.
Depending on your main area of research interest, you can select to take either the criminology-based SASS Change Maker Research Dissertation or the Forensic Science Research Project if you would prefer a lab-based project.
In addition, you will also have the opportunity to undertake a Professional Practice Year (Life Sciences) that will provide you with valuable career-related experience while allowing you to build on your professional skills.
Assessment is integral in all units to check that you have met the threshold standards expected to pass each unit.
They are also linked to learning and are designed to develop and assess key subject specific and transferable skills for future employment.
Formative assessment activities including preparation for the end-of-unit examinations are integral to the unit delivery to support student learning and development.
The commitment to development of practical skills and the ability to communicate and interpret data through scientific report writing is emphasised at all levels of the programme.
Assessment throughout the later units most notably in the level 6 research project will call upon you to develop abstract writing and journal review skills to promote critical thinking and integration of knowledge across the course units.
The importance of oral communication skills is also acknowledged as some units in level 5 of the award require all students to undertake oral presentations as a part of the unit assessments.
This is then continued in level 6 units.
As a graduate, you will possess the knowledge and skills for subject-related employment such as in a forensic laboratory, the police probation and prison service as well as non-subject-related employment in a wider range of careers within academic or government research, the biotechnology industry, social work or education.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/games-art:
Our computer games and animation courses rank joint 1st in their subject field for academic support (NSS, 2024)
Our postgraduate taught computing courses rank 4th overall in their subject field with top 3 rankings for teaching, engagement, learning community, assessment and organisation (PTES, 2024)
First-hand experience of how the industry operates through collaborative projects with industry partners
This hands-on, career-oriented course develops advanced knowledge and skills in digital art, animation and emerging technologies for games.
It gives you both a strong technical foundation and practical experience of asset creation while building your understanding of new industries such as spatial computing (VR/AR/XR) and virtual production.
You work on real-life projects, solving complex problems across games development and enhancing your abilities in 2D and 3D digital asset creation so you are well prepared for a range of careers in this rapidly evolving field.
You also collaborate on projects with industry partners, providing first-hand experience of how the industry operates and allowing you to apply your skills in real-world contexts.
Specialist games, animation and graphics labs with VR technology and high-spec computers Motion-capture and green-screen studios Industry-level software including Autodesk 3ds Max, Maya, Unreal Engine and Blender Modern computing labs, group study hubs and bespoke teaching spaces in our STEM building
Apply your creativity and craft your own visual environments and characters that captivate players, enhancing their overall gaming experience.
Study in an immersive learning environment where you apply your knowledge to real-world challenges , gaining invaluable experience and building a robust project portfolio.
Benefit from the personalised guidance and industry insights of leading academics who have developed influential projects in games art worldwide.
As well as working on projects with industry partners , you also work collaboratively with students in MA Games Design and other courses.
Take the opportunity to publish your games in collaboration with companies like Andrews.
Benefit from guest lectures by professionals from leading games art and development companies, gaining valuable industry insights.
The assessment strategy used is a balance of coursework, group and individual reports, portfolios, presentations or exams.
You will also produce artefacts in the subject of your specialism.
The method used for the assessments will depend on the nature of the subject being taught in the unit, and the most appropriate method has been chosen.
Constant feedback and advice from a supervisory or unit team will be provided to support you in your work, so that you can gain an insight into whether your work meets the necessary targets.
Acquiring skills in games art will enable you to join one of the most dynamic and rapidly growing sectors within the global creative industries.
Choosing our MA Games Art is a transformative step towards a career in the games-development industry or building and enhancing the skills in your current portfolio.
The course equips you for various roles within the gaming industry such as concept art, 3D modelling, games animation and effects.
Graduates of this course will be well prepared for roles in game-development studios, film, multimedia production and other related media and digital fields.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/games-design:
Our postgraduate taught computing courses rank 4th overall in their subject field with top 3 rankings for teaching, engagement, learning community, assessment and organisation (PTES, 2024
First-hand experience working with our industry partners on collaborative projects that have the potential to be published
This course provides you with a 360-degree perspective on the game design and development pipeline.
Deepen your technical understanding by working with cutting edge game engines; hone your design skills analysing and creating innovative game mechanics; follow industry-standard development processes to bring your ideas from prototype to final release.
You will work individually on game projects driven by your personal research interests and collaborate with fellow students on extended, challenging group briefs.
The course furnishes you with the skills and confidence to join development teams across the globe or follow your own rules as an indie developer.
Group projects are driven by industry-set briefs, providing first-hand experience of how the industry operates and allowing you to apply your skills in real-world contexts.
Gain advanced skills in games design , development and emerging technologies for games.
Enhance your abilities in programming and scripting as well as procedural and generative techniques.
Develop a creative practice in games for entertainment or serious purposes , or learn to solve complex, games-adjacent problems in emerging industries like spatial computing (VR/AR/XR) and virtual production.
Undertake hands-on projects using bespoke, industry-standard facilities and working in collaborative teams across the fields of games design and games art.
Benefit from the personalised guidance and industry insights of leading academics across the fields of creative technologies and computing.
Enjoy guest lectures by game designers and other professionals from game development studios, gaining valuable industry insights.
Develop a professional mindset that makes you highly attractive to employers.
The assessment strategy used is a balance of coursework, group and individual reports, portfolios and presentations.
You will also produce artefacts in the form of playable games.
Constant feedback and advice from a supervisory or unit team will be provided to support you in your work, so that you can gain an insight into whether your work is meeting the necessary targets.
The course equips you for various roles within the gaming field such as games designer; level designer; games programmer; and games producer.
As a Games Design Master’s graduate, you are well prepared for opportunities in game development studios, immersive media production, serious games and other relevant fields.
Industry-devised collaborative briefs provide first-hand experience of how the industry operates and allows you to apply your skills in real-world contexts.
This exposure enhances your understanding of industry dynamics and sets you apart in the job market, making you a well-rounded candidate familiar with both the creative and practical aspects of game development.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/graphic-design:
His work has been exhibited in The Design Museum and the V&A Museum, and is in the collections of the V&A Museum, the Museum of London, and British Museum.
Staff team includes designers, illustrators, artists and animators educated at leading-edge art and design schools including the Royal College of Art and the National Film School.
Expert talks and insights from celebrated agencies, Barnbrook and Studio Dumbar, known respectively for having worked with Rihanna and David Bowie, and curating DEMO Motion Graphics Festival.
Combining practical design skills with creative problem-solving, this course offers a solid foundation in contemporary forms of visual communication.
It explores all contexts where graphic design is found such as digital content; interface design; web and social media; editorial design; print and publishing; moving image; visual identity; typography; and graphic illustration and engages with important themes like the climate emergency and social justice.
Spacious studios and facilities in Alexon House, the previous home of the Alexon and Eastex fashion company Excellent studio facilities including screen printing, large format printing and RISO printing, and photo studio Set-design studio Mac computers with access to Creative Cloud, Dragonframe and TB Paint software Creative Cloud for personal use Equipment including drawing tablets; cameras; C-stands; and coloured gels 360° green-screen room with motion-capture suit
Projects collaborations include with Luton Town Football Club, the NHS and Luton Council.
Develop a reflective, outward-looking approach to design challenges, and become adept at using a variety of platforms from digital to print, moving image to illustration.
Gain a solid knowledge of the cultural, critical and creative contexts of contemporary practice including how social media has transformed the role of the graphic designer.
Take the opportunity to work on live projects through national competitions and awards such as D&AD, RSA Student Awards and Penguin Design Award, alongside local collaborations and University-wide initiatives.
Get involved in our volunteer programme that gives you the opportunity to gain experience while studying.
Attend weekly World of Work guest talks from a wide range of creative-industry professionals, who share insights into finding your first job in graphic design and establishing yourself as an independent creative.
Enhance your studies with regular field trips to art and design studios, galleries, museums and exhibitions throughout the UK including Tate Modern, the Royal Academy and Gagosian.
We're excited to share that our student Karin won third place in this year's Penguin Book Cover Design Award!
For more details, visit our news page and see Karin’s work on the Penguin Shortlist .
Studying our Graphic Design BA (Hons) course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills to creatively use communication design skills, in graphics, illustration and animation on exciting taught and self-driven projects in a beautiful old factory in Luton’s Hat District located in the Creative Quarter, that is 20 minutes from Central London.
With a particular focus on graphic visual design, you will have various opportunities to express your creativity in our Communication Design: Exploring Materials and Methods unit.
Here, you will get to explore a range of skills, methods and material processes for communication design and subsequently use these technical skills for image making and storytelling.
You will then get to practice this knowledge in our Communication Design: Developing Materials and Methods unit by researching, testing and experimenting with creative production methods and material processes for communication design.
This is closely linked to our Thinking Through Making unit that will encourage you to take creative risks and develop a graphic aesthetic sense through using various technologies, software, print, RISO, web, AR and different work processes and ideas.
To further deepen your insight on contemporary art and design practices, our unit in Critical and Creative Contexts will allow you to explore issues and critical debates in the field which will be particularly useful for your Final Major Project: Graphic Design.
This unit is a brilliant opportunity for you to pursue your creative interests and channel it into a piece of work for public display.
Another area of project work involves our Collaborative Enterprise unit, where you will work to apply your knowledge and expertise gained throughout this course into a collaborative interdisciplinary project.
To diversify your skill set, our unit in Introducing Studio Practice will allow you to develop discipline-specific skills and experience such as independent learning, self-confidence, collaborative working and reflection, and apply them in other areas of study.
To prepare you for your career, our unit in Creative Futures will provide you with the skills and knowledge you need for a professional creative role.
Whether you aspire to become a freelance designer or to pursue further study, this unit will support you in developing a career that suits your ambitions and interests.
To add to this, our unit in Developing Professional Practice will teach you to incorporate independence and professionalism in the presentation of your work while also developing your confidence to take creative risks through live projects solving real world needs, from local community engagement to global problems, such as the climate emergency.
This unit introduces Context and Ideas in Art and Design, exploring visual culture, ideologies and interpretations of historic and contemporary practice.
You will consider research methods to help you analyse art and design theory and practice.
Lectures and seminars will introduce key ideas in art and design, and their effects on culture and society, allowing you to reflect on how they impact and influence your own studio practice.
You will develop your academic study skills.
This unit will introduce you to essential practical and critical skills involved in Communication Design.
It will introduce you to new ways of considering materials and methods in the production of your work.
The aim of this unit is to provide an opportunity to explore, test and experiment using a range of skills, methods and material processes for Communication Design.
You will apply technical skills to support image-making and story-telling.
This unit will help you learn practical and critical skills that are fundamental in the development of your studio practice.
This unit introduces you to Art and Design study in a higher education environment.
It will introduce you to the learning resources available to you and the types of learning in which you will engage.
An important aspect of the unit is to lay the foundation for your own personal approach to study.
This will include helping you to develop as an independent learner with the self-confidence to reflect upon personal performance and identify areas for action.
There will be a strong relationship between the learning involved in this unit and its application to other units on the art and design courses.
Over the duration of this unit, you will experience cross discipline learning and development, collaborative working, as well as discipline specific skills and experience.
This unit introduces you to practical working methods in Art and Design - where you will be encouraged to develop a personal understanding of your discipline through testing, experimenting and making.
The unit will enhance your ability to communicate and ‘play’ in a range of formats the capacity to be creative and to develop an aesthetic sensibility through engagement with technology, processes and ideas.
Using a practice-based approach you will be encouraged to take creative risks, allowing you to develop practice that enriches your work, giving you the freedom to explore and discover creative processes that are both discipline and non-discipline specific.
You will learn how to test and translate your ideas using a range of media that articulate and communicate visual ideas and develop an understanding of your practice.
This unit allows you to apply your acquired knowledge and expertise in your discipline, to a collaborative interdisciplinary project.
The work and learning of this unit are seen as an important link between your academic work and the professional world.
You will negotiate your learning with your supervising tutor who will take account of your agreed role within group scenarios.
The unit tests your abilities to work both independently and collaboratively in the wider professional community.
The aim of this unit is to provide an opportunity to research, test, experiment, explore and learn to manage creative risk.
You will establish a focused and effective Communication Design studio practice using creative production methods.
You will investigate subject specific skills, methods and material processes for communication design.
You will select and develop technical skills and integrate working methods to support problem solving and design thinking.
This unit consolidates and develops practical and critical skills involved in communication design introduced in level 4.
This unit consolidates your development and understanding of subject specific materials and methods, and encourages you to consider their application to professional practice.
You will take into account commercial, cultural and social contexts in response to projects and visual enquiry, and develop the confidence to take creative risks in your practice.
There is an increasing emphasis on your portfolio and exhibition practice, to further encourage independence and professionalism in the presentation of your work.
This unit builds upon knowledge gained at level 4, to place theory and practice into global contexts.
You will examine a range of critical texts and practices related to art, design and visual culture.
You will further develop your research and analytical skills, so that you can engage with the contexts and meanings that underpin your own practice, and inform the way you critically evaluate the development of your creative work.
At level 6, you will be preparing yourself for a professional creative role.
This unit provides an environment in which you will prepare for a professional life after your degree, helping you to develop creative futures that focus your ambition and interests.
This may include preparation for: becoming a freelance artist, designer or maker; working independently, in a co-operative, agency or enterprise; teaching or pursuing further study.
The unit will encourage you to participate in live projects, competition briefs or collaborative teamwork.
As part of professional practice, you will further develop your ability to present yourself and your professional portfolio.
You will learn how to create relevant marketing and self-promotional material and engage with online media to promote your professional identity, concepts and products.
This unit offers you the opportunity to deepen your insight of contemporary art and design practices, issues and critical debates.
Programmes of tutorial support and self-determined study will help you to develop a context, in which you can place your emerging practical work and underpin your major project with a critical and contextual rationale.
The unit will support you in developing and implementing research strategies in the context of your Final Major Project – your investigations and growing knowledge will further inform your final project.
This unit will give you the opportunity to pursue your personal creative interests and artistic concerns in the production of a body of work for public display.
The unit allows you to demonstrate your acquired skills and abilities through individual research and practice.
The production of a self-initiated research-based project will enhance your personal development as a designer.
You will explore the relationship between practice and theory in relation to communication design and your Final Major Project.
This unit builds on the skills learnt and practised in its partner semester 1 unit 'Foundation Academic Skills'.
We will add more skills to the list, including summarizing and synthesising, argumentation, critical thinking and referencing and citation skills, as well as several others and practise and test them in the same way as with the semester 1 unit.
We will also investigate the research skill and you will learn how to prepare a research proposal and conduct a literature review, and how to plan a research project, learning about the research tools available and how they can be used to conduct research in your chosen field.
You will continue to broaden your knowledge of key current issues and theory in your chosen subject area, and apply the critical thinking and argumentation skills you acquire in this unit to argue for and against propositions you have studied in the form of in both essays and presentations and in seminar situations, ensuring that you are ready to step up to your chosen undergraduate course with a base level of subject area knowledge from which to continue your academic development as you progress to level 4 study.
The aim of this unit is to provide the opportunity to undertake career-related experience which will allow you to understand and undertake responsibilities in the workplace at an appropriate level and use the opportunity to assess your readiness to undertake a career in your chosen field.
Coursework to include examples of Graphic Design visual communication possibly 3-D work or installation research portfolios notebooks research assignments essays contextual writing.
Key Skills are embedded in the teaching and learning of the course and will be taken into account in all assessments.
At the end of the course completion of the assessments will demonstrate your ability to analyse current design practice in relation to Graphic Design and communicate this in both written and visual formats as well as demonstrate a range of transferable skills relevant to your professional employability.
Employability skills are integrated into the course and provide you with an awareness of the real-world context of the creative industries in general and graphic design in particular.
Professional practice is also embedded into learning with a work-related unit that will especially help you to become more focused on managing your career.
You will be helped with the preparation of a professional portfolio including a CV and taught the social-media skills needed to promote yourself in a social-mediated art and design world.
Typical graduate destinations for Graphic Design students include various roles within the design and creative industries: graphic design; digital and interactive design; advertising; editorial and book publishing; animation; television and video; public or community arts participation; museum and exhibition work; arts education; freelance creative practice; and teaching.
You may also like to progress to further study at Master's level in a related field for example graphic design; visual communication; and web digital media or motion graphics.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/health-psychology:
Our MSc Health Psychology course is accredited by the British Psychological Society.
Forms Stage 1 of the training you need to gain chartered psychologist status and registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) as a health psychologist.
Opportunities to engage in research internships, conducting research alongside local voluntary, community and social-enterprise groups.
This course enables you to develop your understanding of how psychology and health can be used to promote general wellbeing.
You learn how to apply the scientific and theoretical principles and ideas of health psychology while developing the practical skills and knowledge required for employment or research in the field.
You study social and psychological issues, including aspects such as obesity, lifestyle and stress, and explore how we can understand, intervene and promote health and wellbeing across the lifespan.
For further course information, contact Dr Erica Cook at erica.cook@beds.ac.uk
This course is accredited to the British Psychological Society (BPS).
It forms Stage 1 of the training you need to become a chartered psychologist member of the Division of Health Psychology within the British Psychological Society.
Access to specialist, industry-standard psychology laboratories and computing environments including a biological and cognitive psychology lab; cognitive neuropsychology lab; VR lab; and a suite of research cubicles with a range of specialist equipment Up-to-the-minute technology, such as a driving simulator to test hazard perception; eye-tracking software; a physiological data-acquisition system; EEG recording equipment; and KAT Walk omnidirectional VR slide mills
Our courses are developed and regularly reviewed by a panel of industry professionals from the NHS, local authority and commercial organisations.
This course equips you with in-depth knowledge and understanding alongside core skills, which will support you in progressing to your Stage 2 training , where you can develop your practice to become an accredited health psychologist.
Gain a systematic understanding and critical awareness of current issues in the field as well as a high level of knowledge of advanced research methods , allowing you to perform complex data analysis, interpretation, evaluation and synthesis.
Learn from an academic team actively involved in research in the field.
Their research and practice expertise directly informs teaching, creating a focus on the real-life application of psychology.
Gain first-hand experience of psychology in action through course contributions from specialist speakers and our alumni .
I am a Chartered Psychologist with the British Psychological Society (BPS) a Registered Health Psychologist with the UK Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (HEA) with interests in health psychology and public health.
Studying our Health Psychology MSc course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills to examine the psychological, social and biological factors in the areas of health and illness.
In core areas of study, you will be exposed to Advanced Research Methods for Psychologists that will equip you with advanced qualitative and quantitative research methods and statistical analyses using relevant software.
To introduce you to the foundations of this course, our Health Psychology in Context unit will provide you with a broad understanding of health psychology as a discipline and profession including the models and methods used in the field.
Integrated with areas of biology, you will develop a basic understanding of the biological mechanisms associated with a range of body systems and disorders in our Mechanisms of Health and Disease unit.
You will then be introduced to the socio-cognitive models of health behaviours to understand how these can be predicted by health beliefs and psychological factors in our Perceptions and Actions unit.
This includes exploring theories surrounding different areas in health psychology such as exercise, alcohol, AIDS, smoking and weight loss.
More importantly, you will question the role of health psychology in Public Health and how this science can be used to promote the prevention of disease and illness among the UK population.
Furthermore, you will critically examine the impact of Lifestyle and Individual Differences on health and illness to identify the role played by demographic variables, such as culture, in predicting disease.
Similarly, you will consider the ways that stress can impact psychological and physical wellbeing in our Stress, Coping and Chronic Disease unit.
Finally, you will complete a Dissertation (Health Psychology) that will give you the opportunity to carry out a substantial piece of research into a specialised area of health psychology that is of interest to you.
To prepare you for your career, our Professional Skills for Health Psychologists unit will equip you with an excellent grounding in the professional skills you need to work in health psychology.
This unit aims to provide students with:
The elements of this unit cover core requirements of the Accreditation through partnership handbooks: Guidance for health or forensic psychology programmes (BPS 2017).
The content reflects staff expertise and published output from staff is used to support teaching.
Behavioural factors are important determinants of the progression of chronic and infectious illnesses.
In this unit students will be introduced to socio-cognitive models of health behaviours, which illustrate how these behaviours can be predicted by health beliefs and other psychological factors.
The usefulness of these theories and models in different areas in Health Psychology including exercise, alcohol consumption, vaccination uptake, breast self-examination, and smoking cessation will be demonstrated.
These theoretical models are central to the practice of Health Psychology as they typically form the basis of a range of health interventions and promotion initiatives delivered by health care practitioners.
Developing an awareness of the advantages and disadvantages of each will be essential in guiding students’ future work in practice.
The aims of this module are to provide students with:
This unit provides student with a broad understanding of the growth of health psychology both as a discipline and a profession alongside other disciplines delineating career opportunities for health psychology both nationally and internationally.
.
It provides students the opportunity to apply the field of health psychology and associated skillset to a wide range of work roles thus enhancing employability.
This unit will develop skills required by reflexive practitioners in ongoing personal and professional development.
The aim therefore is for students to demonstrate a critical awareness of historical and contemporary approaches to models and methods in health psychology.
This unit will consider the contexts in which health psychologists work, emphasizing clinical settings and the role of professional and statutory bodies including the BPS and the HCPC as well as the application of Health Psychology in different clinical and medical contexts.
This unit aims to:
The elements of this unit cover core requirements of the Accreditation through partnership handbook: Guidance for health psychology programmes (BPS, 2017).
The aims of this unit are to:
The content reflects staff expertise and published output from staff is used to support teaching
What role does health psychology have in public health?
This unit introduces you to the discipline of public health and demonstrates the role that health psychology can play in relation to the promotion of health and prevention of disease and illness among the UK population Drawing on the research of staff, this unit will provide you a critical insight into developing and evaluating the role of psychology driven and interventions in the remit of facilitating positive health behaviour change.
Moreover you will acquire a critical appreciation of public health policies, methodologies and epidemiological concepts.
How might stress and coping styles impact on people’s experiences of health and disease?
This unit aims to develop a critical appreciation of the ways in which psychosocial stressors can impact on psychological and physical wellbeing.
It focuses specifically on the following issues: (1) historical and contemporary models of stress; (2) the key mechanisms that link psychosocial stressors and health outcomes; (3) coping styles and their implications in sickness and health; (4) the ways in which stress can be alleviated and (5) the research methods utilised in the field and their strengths and weaknesses.
What professional roles and competencies do health psychologists need in the UK?
How can health psychology be applied in practice?
This unit aims to bring alive the academic knowledge base of health psychology and offers clear linkages between theory, research and practice.
Based on the foundations of staff expertise in applied practice this unit aims to provide students a portfolio of professional skills focusing on four core aspects; (1) teaching and training, (2) communication strategies in healthcare (3) consultancy and (4) research and presentation skills.
This unit provides students an excellent grounding of the professional skills required in health psychology, preparing students for the core competencies that underpin the Stage 2 Health Psychology Qualification.
Aim
The overall aim of this module is to give students the opportunity to experience the research process in a systematic, supervised way, from start to finish.
In particular:
to foster autonomous research skills;
to offer students the chance to research an area of health psychology systematically and in depth
to provide students with an opportunity to carry out a substantial, independent research project in health psychology
to promote scholarly activity necessary to produce a substantial research report approaching publishable standard and expanding / redefining current knowledge;
to develop skills in planning, managing and critically reviewing the research process
to provide a platform for the further development and application of advanced qualitative and /or quantitative research skills to real health psychology research questions
This unit covers a core requirement of the Accreditation through partnership handbook: Guidance for health psychology programmes (BPS, 2013)and in line with the recommendations for further enhancement outlined in BPS post accreditation visit report (2014).The research expertise of the programme team is used to support teaching and supervision.
The primary focus is to ensure build upon the core skills developed through successful achievement of the completed Graduate Basis for Chartered Status (via an approved undergraduate degree or conversion postgraduate course) and to move towards the competences required of a Health Psychologist as outlined in the Subject Benchmark statement for Psychology (QAA 2016) and aims and objectives of a Stage 1 Qualification in Health Psychology as set out by the British Psychological Society (2017).
The assessments are designed to test your academic knowledge oral and written skills use of literature using primary and secondary sources critical analysis of ideas connections made between theory practice real life situations and the understanding and application of professional values to include ethical issues as detailed by the BPS.
The ability to engage in research at a high level and to analyse data using advanced statistical techniques are assessed as these are important skills for health psychologists as well as important in many employment settings.
Communication skills are assessed through videotaped role play as these are very important in any career.
The ability to analyse and understand issues and apply theory to practice are assessed through a consultancy brief.
Finally the important career skill of project management is assessed mainly through the research dissertation involving selfdirected problem-based enquiry managing time reviewing evidence generating and analysing data and communicating results in an extended piece of writing.
This BPS-accredited MSc opens the way to stage two training to become a chartered psychologist and registered health psychologist.
Career options include working for the government (for example, advising on policy making, effective interventions or advertising strategies); research preventing illnesses especially coronary heart disease and cancer; and patient/practitioner communications and teaching.
Graduates also work in the NHS on preparing for surgery and psychological methods to manage stress, pain or terminal illness.
If you wish to move into employment following graduation, there are a variety of areas where you will find opportunities such as research; teaching; social care; health care including roles in the NHS; business including human resource management; and the sports sector.
You will also have acquired specific knowledge in research methods and other core areas in psychology to continue your research studies at PhD level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/human-resource-management:
We are a Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) accredited centre, and all courses offered within our HRM portfolio are CIPD accredited
This course equips you with the knowledge, skills, behaviours and graduate competencies that employers value and need, in line with the CIPD professional accreditation.
You explore key areas of human resource management (HRM) such as talent management; operational management; leadership and motivation; data management and interpretation; selection and recruitment; and employee relations.
You may also take up opportunities to engage with real-life HRM problems, allowing you to carry out practical projects that emulate working as a professional manager.
You may also want to consider our BSc Human Resource Management (with Placement) course, which offers a guaranteed 12-week placement.
Learn from expert tutors, active within the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) , and in both consultancy and research.
Apply what you have learnt to real-life situations experienced by companies and organisations globally.
Gain from having regular engagement and support from CIPD members and branch officials, helping you make a smooth transition into the world of HRM employment.
Studying our Human Resource Management BSc (Hons) course will equip you with expert knowledge and skills in the combined areas of social sciences and business management.
In your second year, our unit in Innovative Practice in HRM and Human Resource Development (HRD) will equip you with the knowledge and skills to implement creativity and innovation in the workplace and understand how this contributes to organisational performance, competitive advantage and employee engagement.
You will also be introduced to The Strategic Context of HRM where you will unpack theory around strategic HRM approaches in different business contexts while learning to make informed judgements in Employment Relations as a crucial skill in the HRM sector.
Another fundamental part of HRM is resourcing and developing people, and this is where our unit in People Resourcing and Development will expose you to how organisations manage resourcing and development activities in the most effective way using key operational tools, techniques and practices.
In addition, you will be introduced to the principles and norms of Employment Law.
At the University of Bedfordshire Business School, we prioritise your employability and hope to equip you with skills you can take with you into the next stage of your career.
This is where our Planning Careers and Employability unit will support you with practicing and preparing for a range of interview scenarios while also allowing you to get involved with local employers to gain insight on your own employability and prepare yourself to become a business-ready graduate.
In line with the Business School's commitment to practice-based education, a large part of the assessment will relate to your demonstration of your ability to do HRM in practice.
All of this comes together in being able to demonstrate rigorous human resources practice for an organisation.
To assess this range of integration of theory and skills into sound practice, we use a range of methods.
You will encounter many different kinds, including the ones listed below, some of which are used in combination, for example a report might be required as an outcome of a time-limited assessment task.
All units have a form of non-graded formative assessment which feeds into the summative methods of assessment; this may come directly from tutors or from your peers and self-assessment.
If you use this feedback, you will be able to improve your learning and your grades on future assignments.
You will be equipped for starting a career as a HR professional, with all the knowledge and experience to hit the ground running in a HR practitioner role within a variety of organisational contexts.
Equally, your skills would enable you to excel in a range of more generalist people-management roles.
A human resource management (HRM) degree can be applied to almost any organisation in any sector.
It is a versatile qualification for dealing with hiring, training, development and general people skills
Careers directly related to your degree include:
Careers where your degree would be useful include:

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/human-resource-management-with-law:
We are a Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) accredited centre, and all courses offered within our HRM portfolio are CIPD accredited.
You explore key areas of human resource management (HRM) such as talent management; leadership and motivation; data management and interpretation; and employee relations.
The additional law element ensures you have a good understanding of areas such as employment contracts and immigration, and you can manage people effectively while working within relevant legal frameworks.
The Law team work closely with local law firms and often encourage students to engage directly with these legal experts.
Learn from expert tutors, active within the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), and in both consultancy and research.
Learn from employer site visits and visits to the University by employers and local HR managers, who to share their HRM stories - a great way to network and ask questions relating to HRM career development.
Studying our Human Resources Management (with Law) BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the knowledge and skills in the combined areas of business, law and human resources management (HRM).
In areas of law study, you will be provided with a solid understanding of the English Legal System that will allow you to find and use legal sources, conduct legal research and evaluate law.
In more specific areas of law, units across Year 2 and 3 will introduce you to the principles and norms of Employment Law, allow you to explore key legal concepts in Immigration and Asylum Law, develop your understanding of the nature and functions of a business and its regulatory legal frameworks in our Company Law unit, and provide the foundations to promote and protect fundamental rights in our International Human Rights Law unit.
As well as additional legal expertise this course gives you a range of subject-specific and transferable skills suited to a career in specialist human management roles or professional business and management environments both national and international.
It also delivers transferable skills that could lead to a career in areas such as office manager; legal assistant; training and development; careers adviser; mediator; recruitment consultant; management consultant; and counsellor or life coach.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/information-systems-management:
Our business and management courses rank 4th overall in their subject field in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024, with top 3 rankings for teaching, engagement, community and organisation.
Learn from leading local and international companies through guest talks, field trips and industry projects.
MSc Information Systems Management is specially designed to meet the need for graduates who are able and interested in information technology and information systems but wish to pursue management roles in charge of information systems.
The course exposes you to the most recent developments in the theory and practice of modern information systems alongside learning relevant concepts and applications of management thinking, helping you to further develop the transferable skills needed for engaging with the challenges of employment/self-employment as well as business activities within the global economy.
For further course information, contact Dr Sajeel Ahmed at sajeel.ahmed@beds.ac.uk
Cutting-edge business analytics suite with over £300K of industry-standard hardware and software tailored to essential management and data practices Access to learning resources from Harvard Business Publishing Virtual simulations providing first-hand, modern-day business management experience Business pods, boardroom areas and IT suites designed to simulate a professional office environment
I joined the Business School in January 2015 as a visiting faculty member, became a full-time Lecturer in September 2019 and Senior Lecturer in Business Systems and Management in July 2021.
I have taught in various business-related subjects at the university.
Mainly my expertise is in teaching and researching in subjects related to digital technologies, information management, information systems, computer mediated communication, digital marketing and digital business management.
Studying our Information Systems Management MSc course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills in information technology and strategic management.
Our unit in Technology and Information Systems will develop your understanding of business and information systems, its key characteristics and its potential or limitations towards business success.
You will discover the role of information systems in the field of strategy, data analytics and more.
Another crucial area of your study involves Digital Projects and Risk Management, and this unit will equip you with the skills and knowledge of risk management in digital projects.
You will learn to apply, evaluate and adapt risk management principles to address digital project risks based on case studies and real project experiences.
These include financial, security and ESG risks.
At the same time, you will be able to demonstrate effective, rigorous and reflective self-management skills and independence to plan, motivate and show initiative in the field.
Aside from this, our unit in Business Intelligence and Data Utilisation aims to develop your knowledge of business intelligence tools and techniques for effective management in a variety of business settings.
You will discover the role of data utilisation in the field of strategy, data analytics and more while focusing on how data can be transformed into value-added information, where to source, integrate, enhance and deliver it as an analytics insight to support business decision-making.
The knowledge and concepts acquired during the four periods of block teaching along with a number of highly important transferable skills will be combined and evaluated during the writing of the final piece of work the master's capstone experience unit.
When students progress to the Master's capstone stage where they can choose one of the three options - Business Dissertation Business Live Project and Professional Practice.
Regardless of which masters capstone experience they opt for they will have to produce an individual independent piece of work (dissertation/business report).
Students will have to identify the research question or problem under investigation review relevant literature develop a sound methodology in order to explore the problem proceed with the analysis discuss their findings and make recommendations.
All capstone options are evaluated as equivalent based on the unit learning outcomes.
This final unit will enhance student ability to produce an independent piece of work and it will provide them with an opportunity to show the creativity and independence required in the workplace by holders of postgraduate degrees.
Student contribution to own learning is pivotal.
While the main concepts and theories might be following the structure of a textbook students will expected to do a substantial amount of reading themselves.
It is essential that in order to maximise the educational benefit and to derive the best experience students must make optimum use of the time provided for individual learning.
Direct contact times will be highly interactive and student preparation in advance is a key element for success.
Starting in induction week students will prepare for what will be an intensive delivery which will then be followed by their own individual learning and assessment.
The Lecturers who will deliver this Course are active researchers and will guide students through this process by exposing them to the latest developments of the relevant subjects.
Research-informed teaching is the basis for transforming a course into a unique student experience in an area of knowledge which is very dynamic in its evolution.
Additionally active external engagement though for example guest lectures real-world projects and industrial visits will provide the opportunities for students to integrate theory and practice.
Besides the knowledge of theories and concepts and their application to real life business situations four basic elements have been used in developing this course.
Critical and creative thinking should be part of every postgraduate course.
Students will be encouraged to receive discuss and evaluate across all Units.
They will also participate greatly in developing their own learning through independent and guided reading and they will be encouraged to share their views ideas and knowledge.
Systemic thinking will be greatly promoted.
A postgraduate student in Information Systems Management should understand that all theoretical ideas and their applications are not independent of the world we live in and should be interconnected when trying to analyse information systems and their relationship to strategy.
The ability to decompose and synthesize will be a key factor in achieving this and it will be developed in all Units.
Finally collaboration at all stages of this course will be required either informally in the context of class discussions or when formative group assessments have to be prepared.
Along with sharing their ideas and contributing to their team students will learn to appreciate the importance of being dependable.
You will have the skills to find career opportunities in the following industries: information systems; IT; management information; financial services; consulting; hospitality; or electronics.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/information-technology:
Alongside your degree, take the opportunity to study for CompTIA Security+ and CCNA certification, making your qualification even more relevant to a range of employers.
Our high-performance computing facilities enable you to work at the frontiers of computing and AI, gaining the most in-demand skills in the graduate job market.
IT is a vast and ever-evolving sector, and there is no shortage of demand for qualified individuals who can expertly navigate our modern digital landscape.
Our forward-thinking, hands-on course provides you with the in-depth technical and professional training needed to practise as an information technologist.
Through a combination of work-based projects, industry collaboration and expert tuition, you’ll graduate fully prepared for a successful career in a range of IT domains.
High-tech CCNA Academy computer networking suite Dedicated computing rooms Specialised IT security laboratory New Security Operations Centre Cutting-edge technology such as Oracle APEX Virtualised environments Modern, purpose-built STEM building with bespoke learning spaces and group study hubs
Start by gaining a solid foundation in computer science alongside students studying similar subjects then deepen your knowledge of specialised topics as you progress through the course.
Take the opportunity to put your theoretical knowledge into action through our links with local companies , gaining real-world experience of working in the sector.
Develop your critical thinking and effective collaboration skills through work-based projects , giving you the edge when it comes to future employment.
Learn from experts thanks to interactive demonstrations and seminars .
Benefit from dedicated academic support tutors and ongoing supervisor-student feedback.
Our highly qualified teaching staff are actively involved in the industry , meaning the course content reflects the latest developments and advancements in information technology.
Jon Hitchcock obtained a degree in mathematics at the University of Cambridge and then started a career in the computer industry.
This included long periods of working for GEC Computers in Dunstable and Borehamwood, and for Uniplex in Hemel Hempstead.
Studying our Information Technology BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the knowledge and skills around core IT concepts, programming, cybersecurity and networking.
Similarly, you will be introduced to the basic concepts and applications of computer systems in our Computer Systems Structure unit.
As a student in the field of computer science, you will also be given an Introduction to Software Development where you will learn the fundamentals on how to develop software, model problems, test programs and distinguish between forms of programming and modelling.
More importantly, you will develop your programming skills in our Principles of Programming to explore the process of analysing, designing, testing and implementing computer systems.
To diversify your skill set, our Advanced Information Technology unit will advance your skills to deal with advanced IT concepts in various organisational settings.
Aside from this, you will also learn to use technologies involved in the design, development and implementation of web-based applications in our Web Technologies and Platforms unit.
Building on this, you will develop the skills to model, design and evaluate good user experiences in our User Experience Design unit.
In more technical areas of study, you will be given an understanding of the design and implementation demands for various databases or data centric systems in our Systems Development and Modern Database Practices unit that will enable you to use IT to develop realistic solutions to organisational problems.
You will decide on your proposal topic with your supervisor in our Research Methodologies and Emerging Technologies unit where you can choose from a range of ideas relevant to your career aspirations, such as creating a software artefact or a data-driven system.
Similarly, our Agile Project Management unit will equip you with the project management skills for such academic work and more importantly, your future employment.
To prepare you for your career, you will complete an Information Technology Employability Project by producing an individual portfolio of work with the aim of identifying your IT career goals and subsequently working to achieve them.
For example the units 'User Experience Design' and 'Web Technologies' will further your understanding of key aspects of IT systems.
This may be in the form of analysing and criticising current approaches and theory within Information Technology in general and software use and development in particular.
You will progress from well-defined briefs to more open-ended and challenging assessments which culminate in the honours project where you will be given freedom to choose your area of work within the constraints of the subject discipline.
Completion of this course will open up a wide range of career opportunities in the IT industry.
Our graduates find work in the computer industry leading to long-term and specialised positions in fields that include programming, systems development, customer services and IT management.
Possible roles include IT developer; IT system architect; IT consultant; database developer; mobile app developer; data engineer; and information engineer.
If you want to continue your studies at Master's level, there is a wide choice within computer science, information science and data science as well as courses related to computer science and information application.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/information-technology-management-for-business:
This course was developed in partnership with leading technology companies including Accenture, Amazon Web Services, BAE Systems, IBM, Network Rail, NHS Digital, BT, Cisco and Deloitte.
Our new business analytics suite features £300K of industry-standard hardware and software including Vensim simulation software for immersive skills practice.
Employment trends show a growing gap in the market for graduates who are as comfortable in the world of IT as they are in management.
This course develops your understanding of business management practice as well as offering you the opportunity to design technology solutions for business.
You engage with live projects and real business issues, using an IT-driven approach to problem solving across a range of regional small/medium enterprises.
New, state-of-the-art business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills Our London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) trading room allows you to react to live ‘stock-market’ data Software includes Microsoft Power BI, Vensim simulation and VR immersive experience Access to Sage, Refinitiv Workspace (Eikon) and the econometrics software STATA
You explore core IT and data analytics areas and how to use a range of emerging IT platforms , making links between IT and business management.
Benefit from masterclasses from industry experts so you learn from their experience and keep at the leading edge in your field.
Studying our Information Technology Management for Business BSc (Hons) course is designed to address the rapidly changing technological business environment and to equip you with the technical and soft skills needed for career opportunities in various organisational settings.
Your learning journey will begin in Year 1, where you will learn about the transformative nature of business through units such as Data Centric Organisations to develop an awareness of how data is being created and used in a business decision context and understand the evolution of data analytics.
Computer systems are an integral part of our daily life, and in Computer Systems Structure you will learn about the organisation of data and computer architecture offering fundamental grounding in computing.
You will use various programming languages and architectures that are contextualised during the course with lab-based practical sessions that will provide you with hands-on experience.
Building on the foundation of your first year, Year 2 will develop your understanding the current business and management complexities in units such as Systems Development and Modern Database Practices which appreciates the need for the deployment of real-world information systems that comprise data centric (database) systems.
This includes the practical creation and interrogation of RDBMS databases using Structured Query Language (SQL).
In Managing Business Complexity, you will also work with real companies on consultancy projects where you will apply the knowledge and skills gained during previous units into practice.
Similarly, in Business Intelligence, you will analyse the challenges facing a business and how agility and innovation can support evidence-based decisions through data.
You will work with a live business case by identifying their data needs and providing them with effective strategies.
Furthermore, you will evaluate sources of threats and strategies to prevent and protect against cyberattacks in our Cyber Defence and Automation units.
In your final year, you will design business solutions through units such as Building Business Agility which looks at the increase reliance and insights derived from data analytics resulting in data centric organisations seeking to be adaptive and responsive.
You will develop an understanding of agile business process models and link them to innovation and critically evaluate business processes to develop risk averse decisions that will lead to transformational change.
In Data Driven Business, you will gain in-depth knowledge on the decision-making process exploring the uses of data information and tools and techniques within various context of business functions.
You build an awareness of the current and future trends related to various aspects of data and explore and understand the legal and ethical responsibilities associated with the collection, organisation, use, and analysis of data in the business context.
Strategic Leadership will then explore the strategic role of technology in making strategic-level choices that enables strategy evaluation and implementation in business.
You will use problem-solving strategies, methods and techniques to define, investigate and critically evaluate problems using information and data in complex and interrelated contexts.
Finally, our Business Project unit establishes a framework for conducting academic research project leading to technology-based solutions for business problems informing an in-depth understanding and learning of the practical use of data in business and how it shapes critical business decisions.
The portfolio of skills you develop during the course will open opportunities for you to gain employment in business areas that require data/technology solutions such as IT management or digital marketing.
The course also provides a thorough grounding in IT and data-analysis skills developing you to become a business manager who is able to make evidence based decisions on IT resource acquisitions and provide business solutions using a wide range of IT.
You also develop the skills required for lifelong learning meaning you are well prepared to keep up with the ever-evolving field of business information technology and ensure your future employability.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/integrated-health-and-social-care:
Our social sciences courses rank in the UK top 5 in their subject field for teaching; learning opportunities; and academic support (NSS, 2024).
Collaborate with local charities, policymakers and community influencers through our #SASS Change Maker initiative, which aims to increase awareness of topical issues.
92% of our health studies students were satisfied with how well their course developed knowledge and skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
This practice-led course is designed for students with or without a health and social care background who aspire to support or manage transformative health and care projects; it would also suit professionals who want to approach leadership in care settings with a strong grasp of data-driven decision making.
With specific focus on health inequalities, challenges across the lifespan, integrated care and leadership, you graduate able to address the challenges confronting policymakers and professionals grappling with fast-changing, contemporary social issues.
Seven-storey library with an extensive range of physical and digital resources Bespoke lecture theatres, presentation rooms and group study spaces Simulated learning facilities mimicking workplace scenarios
We work collaboratively with statutory and voluntary agencies in Luton, Bedford, and the surrounding areas on health and social care projects and large-scale research.
Our staff and alumni work on the Bedford, Luton and Milton Keynes (BLMK) Integrated Care Board in policy development and analytical roles; these staff are engaged as practice partners on the course.
Students work on projects in collaboration with statutory and voluntary agencies.
Gain core knowledge in health care, social policy, data analysis, governance and leadership while exploring areas such as health inequalities; mental health and addictions; digital health; health and care policies; health prevention and social outcomes .
From your second year, tailor your studies to your interests or chosen graduate career with a range of optional units and the choice of a final-year community-based project or research dissertation .
Actively prepare for the workplace while you study with virtual placements that develop professional skills and competencies.
Virtual placements take place in simulated learning facilities that mimic workplace scenarios, building your understanding of professional behaviours and enhancing your employability skills.
Study with an academic team with wide experience in the field , actively involved in health and social-care research.
Their expertise feeds back directly into their teaching.
Staff areas of expertise include population health; safeguarding children, young people and adults; elderly care; research methods; career planning; health inequalities; and strategic leadership and management.
Develop resilience and innovation - core skills to navigate the complex and fast-changing landscape of the care sector.
Learn from guest speakers at the forefront of the field in our interactive workshops and seminars.
Several Seats, Tuff2Talk, Space2Talk and ice&fire (Actors for Human Rights) are some examples of our guest speakers.
Broaden your horizons with subject-relevant field trips .
There is an excellent synergy between campuses, with students frequently attending events together and visiting each others’ campuses.
The Health and Social Care teaching team undertake a range of research studies as part of the Health and Social Care Interdisciplinary Research Group (HSCIRG).
We carry out interdisciplinary and community-based participatory research that involves service users and stakeholders in health and social care, with a focus on a co-production and bottom-up approach to involving all citizens in health-related matters.
To promote how our research informs world-class teaching on our degree programme we run a series of webinars throughout the year.
Find out more and register your interest in our series of interactive webinars
I have been teaching criminology in a number of educational settings since I qualified with a degree in criminology in 2007.
I developed a keen interest in many aspects of criminology, the criminal justice system and mental health in relation to criminal behaviour.
I am now the Course Coordinator for the Foundation Degree program (SASS Cluster).
I have worked as a teacher and trainer in a number of educational settings for the last twenty-five years.
My interest ranges from Young People, adult learners, health and Creative Arts.
I joined the School of Applied Social Studies at the University of Bedfordshire in January 2018, after being a Teaching Fellow in Sociology at Royal Holloway, University of London from 2014-2017 and a Mildred Blaxter Postdoctoral Researcher from the Foundation for the Sociology of Health and Illness in 2013/2014.
I have been teaching Sociology since I qualified with a PhD in Medical Sociology at Royal Holloway, University of London, in 2012.
I also hold an MSc and a BSc in Sociology, taken back in Portugal, where I am from.
My main research interests lie in the areas of Sociology of Health and Illness and Sociology of the Professions.
I am particularly interested in professional work, regulation, and change.
Studying our Integrated Health and Social Care BSc (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills in the areas of sociology, population health and health inequalities.
You will explore the Foundations of Health and Social Care Practice while discussing the historical importance and explore the contemporary developments of the health and social care sector.
This will allow you to address the needs of people in the UK in health contexts, including for vulnerable people or people with protected characteristics, while considering the current legislation and policies that shape health and social care practice.
Building on this, you will study the interaction between society, health and illness in our Sociology of Health unit that will introduce you to the various social determinants, such as race and ethnicity, class, gender, etc., that influence health outcomes and disparities.
You will also examine the various sociological theories that can elucidate these disparities.
At the same time, Inclusivity and Diversity in Health will better your understanding of equity, diversity and inclusion in public healthcare by equipping you with the knowledge, skills and attitudes to address systemic barriers that impact health outcomes for marginalised communities.
To prepare you with the essential skills and competencies needed for effective learning throughout your degree, you will also study Introduction to Academic Skills.
You will build on this knowledge in your second year with our unit in Integrated and Inter-professional Responses to Care across the Lifespan that will provide you with a deeper understanding of how systems and processes respond to needs and mitigate health inequities and inequalities in health and social care delivery.
Furthermore, you will expand your study to areas such as our unit in Living with Mental Health Conditions that will give you an insight into what it means to live with a mental health condition and to be a recipient of mental health care.
This will be crucial to your practice, as you will learn to provide appropriate support based on the main sociological and psychiatric perspectives of mental illness that this unit will expose you to.
As an opportunity to apply your skills, you will undertake Work Based Experience in Health and Social Care that comprises of 300-hours of work-focused learning and virtual placement experience.
Among our optional units, you may choose to develop a theoretical understanding of addictive behaviours in our Addictions and Society unit such as gambling, gaming, substance misuse, pornography and food.
Our unit in Population Health Management will allow you to focus on key concepts of population health such as health inequalities, groups at risk, service delivery and the wider determinants of health.
Alternatively, you may choose to explore Social Prescribing, its concepts, processes and approaches to promote social change.
In your final year, you will examine the process of Safeguarding in Health and Social Care to identify the possible and wider risks of harm as well as the strengths and limitations of safeguarding legislation.
You will also consider the diverse needs of populations, inequity and factors contributing to health inequalities in our Leading Improvement in Health and Care Services unit.
This will allow you to navigate the tools used to enhance, improve and design services to mitigate inequities while developing the leadership skills to bring about this change.
Our optional units in Year 3 include Young People, The Urban Environment and Social Determinants of Health, where you will explore the relationship between the socio-economic environment and young lives in the city.
Alternatively, you may be interested in exploring health issues that affect an ageing population with our unit in Health and Social Care in an Ageing Society.
Here, you will focus on key challenges including dementia care, palliative care, and the provision of pensions and age-related benefits for older people.
In areas of technology, our unit in Digital Health will allow you to explore the emerging technological innovations in the healthcare field and learn to apply this to different healthcare settings to address inequalities and improve services.
You may also choose to study our unit in Promoting Better Health Outcomes that will enable you to critically appraise strategies and campaigns in promoting health and wellbeing.
To equip you with the research skills in the field of social sciences, you will explore debates and theories in social research, identify quantitative and qualitative data research methods, and learn to interpret and analyse this data across different levels of your study with our units in an Introduction to Research and Social Enquiry, Research Methods 1: Collecting Data and Research Methods 2: Exploring Data.
To prepare you for your career, our unit in Career Planning for Social Scientists will support your career development journey by allowing you to identify your transferable skills and articulate them in a confident, meaningful and positive manner.
The academic skills unit in level 4 develops both students' study skills and Academic English skills required to succeed.
The feedback given to students as part of the assessment process will enable self-assessment and development of learning and skills and promote progress to overcome any learning problems identified.
Tutors will also refer students onto appropriate services in the event of issues that lie outside the boundaries of the tutor.
This degree’s emphasis on applying theory to practice in areas including social policy, social research, and strategic leadership and governance will help you thrive across a range of exciting roles in integrated health and social care and be a ‘Change Maker’ locally in your community, nationally or internationally.
It opens up employment opportunities in the NHS; central and local government; the third sector; consultancy; and private business.
You may also choose to go on to further study at postgraduate level in an associated area, such as our MSc Integrated Healthcare Practice and Strategic Leadership.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/integrated-healthcare-practice-and-strategic-leadership-masters:
Accredited by the UK Chartered Management Institute (CMI), opening the way to CMI Chartered Manager status.
We collaborate with Healthwatch Luton to provide work-based learning and engagement with health and wellbeing boards in Bedford, Luton and Milton Keynes.
If you aspire to support, lead and manage transformative healthcare provision, in the UK and abroad, this course advances your understanding of the opportunities and strategies for integrating hospital and community services including local services, GP partnerships, local authorities, and other healthcare and voluntary bodies.
You are encouraged to adopt a critical lens when exploring real-life issues alongside the challenges of planning cost-effective funding and joined-up care, with the aim of improving health outcomes.
The course is dual-accredited by the UK Chartered Management Institute (CMI), offering successful graduates eligibility for a CMI L7 qualification in Strategic Management and Leadership Practice.
We collaborate with Healthwatch Luton as well as the local health and wellbeing boards for Bedford, Luton and Milton Keynes, offering students opportunities for work-based learning; interaction with health leaders; and experience of real-world settings and contemporary issues.
The course is offered at three levels: PgCert (60 credits), PgDip (120 credits) and Master’s (180 credits); it’s your choice how far you take your studies.
Learn from an industry-experienced academic team, many of whom maintain relevant registrations via practice or CPD, or are research active across multiple areas.
Local leaders from care boards and other relevant organisations contribute to course delivery, giving you practical experience of working in the system.
Work with Healthwatch Luton to research, explore and design health services for different groups.
Experience field visits to health and wellbeing boards to observe proceedings and gain experience of a range of real-world settings and contemporary issues.
Studying our Integrated Healthcare Practice and Strategic Leadership MSc course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills to support, lead and manage transformative healthcare provision through integrating a range of health and social care services.
To develop your practice, you will be equipped with the critical leadership knowledge and capabilities used to strengthen partnership and collaborative working across various sectors in our Collaborative Leadership in Integrated Health and Care Systems unit to understand how this instils compassion and high-quality performance and collaborative work practices at every level of health and care.
Similarly, our unit in Strategic Management and Leadership of Organisational Mental Health and Wellbeing will allow you to understand the impact of mental health and wellbeing on organisational performance as well as the complexities of managing wellbeing in an organisation.
Furthermore, you will be exposed to the contemporary approaches in creating healthy work systems and a positive culture of mental health and wellbeing.
It is also important that you consider the economic factors affecting the health and social care sector so that it can continue to produce financially sustainable systems and effective strategies to meet increased demand and inform policy.
This is where our unit in The Principles and Application of Health Economics will provide you with the foundations to make cost-effective decisions around the intervention and treatments as well as develop your understanding on how economic models can influence leadership decision making processes when it comes to allocating finite resources around in a health and social care organisation.
This course also offers a range of optional units for you to explore, such as our unit in Health Informatics that will allow you to gain a critical awareness of the ethical and practical complexity of managing health data across integrated care.
If you are passionate about sustainability, you will be able to integrate this practice with leadership qualities in our Implementing Sustainable Lifestyle Redesigns in Allied Health Professionals Care unit.Here, you will be equipped with the knowledge and skills to work within NHS environments, social and community care, social enterprises or charities to implement a sustainable lifestyle redesign.
You may also choose to develop your understanding of Health and Social Care Inequalities while analysing research to reduce inequalities in health and social care.
You will also consider different social categories such as gender, age, race, sexuality, disability and mental health to understand how these factors influence the social care people receive.
Finally, you will have the option to complete a Research or Work-Based Dissertation in Integrated Healthcare and Strategic Leadership.
If you choose to engage with the research option, this unit will prompt you to actively research a question related to integrated health and social care practice or organisation.
Through working with a supervisor, you will study a topic of your interest in more depth, particularly a core topical issue facing integrated healthcare settings.
You will then perform an original analysis based on theory and literature acquired from the course alongside your own research and subsequently apply this learning to a specific research topic in the broad field of integrated healthcare.
Alternatively, the Work-Based Dissertation will give you the opportunity to join a health and/or social care organisation to complete a minimum of 100 hours as you deliver on a work-based project aimed at creating change within integrated healthcare services.
You will develop a personal development plan to monitor and develop your employability skills alongside this project while practicing in a leadership role in the health and social care workforce.
The assessment strategy is one that draws on applied principles in addressing challenges faced in the context of integrated healthcare pathways.
Consequently a wide range of assessment that are informed by the wealth of practice information the workforce will face are incorporated into the assessment on this course; including but not limited to; work-based learning portfolios applied research dissertation e-learning modules posters oral presentations case-study-based assessments and reports.
Career opportunities include health services evaluation and research manager; health informatics/data analyst; health economist; health policy adviser; mental health liaison practitioner; health-related project business manager/coordinator; client-care manager; data quality and assurance leads; digital health/primary care transformation project leads; health/quality improvement/implementation officer; HR; workforce development lead.
This is also a pathway for allied health professionals to specialise in integrated care systems and provisions.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/integrated-healthcare-practice-and-strategic-leadership:
Studying our Integrated Healthcare Practice and Strategic Leadership PgCert course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills to support, lead and manage transformative healthcare provision through integrating a range of health and social care services.
If you are passionate about sustainability, you will be able to integrate this practice with leadership qualities in our Implementing Sustainable Lifestyle Redesigns in Allied Health Professionals Care unit.
Here, you will be equipped with the knowledge and skills to work within NHS environments, social and community care, social enterprises or charities to implement a sustainable lifestyle redesign.
Consequently a wide range of assessment that are informed by the wealth of practice information the workforce will face are incorporated into the assessment on this course; including but not limited to work-based learning portfolios e-learning modules essays and posters.
Progressing on to the Master’s opens up the opportunity for further postgraduate and research studies.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/interior-architecture-and-design:
Our academic team has professional connections with the British Institute of Interior Design; Royal Institute of Architects; and BREEAM, the world-leading certification system for sustainably built environments.
Course Leader Dawn Hesketh-Joslin has worked in the architectural and design industry for 35 years; she is an Affiliate Member of the British Institute of Interior Design and Royal Institute of British Architects.
Senior Lecturer Anna Stanton has over 30 years’ experience in the field of architectural design and branding; she is a BREEAM Associate and a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Interior architecture designers are experts in creating experimental, imaginative and stimulating spatial environments.
On this course, you learn how to design spaces that are individual and experiential while offering ergonomic and environmentally sound functionality.
You discover the latest innovations used to solve contemporary design problems, and broaden your understanding of building, structure and fabric construction, enabling you to take a design from initial research through to detail design and specification.
Spacious studios and facilities in Alexon House, the previous home of the Alexon and Eastex fashion company Equipment includes 2D and 3D computer-aided design; digital image creation and manipulation; video production and editing Alongside developing your analogue skills, such as sketching, orthographic hand drawing and 3D model-making, industry-replicating software includes Adobe Creative suite, AutoCAD, Vectorworks and SketchUp.
Work on live projects and unique proposals for a range of environments from bars, restaurants and theatres to workplaces, retail spaces and exhibitions.
Learn to analyse and utilise real sites, and design projects in collaboration with companies such as Caravane Ltd in Coal Drops Yard, King’s Cross, and PSLab Lighting in Bermondsey.
Final year students work on a large, spatial design project within a live site, with reference to construction, building regulations, specification and BREEAM considerations.
Attend weekly World of Work guest talks with students from other courses and begin to establish a deep understanding of the creative industries.
Benefit from sessions with leading professionals in the field, offering insights, networking, the opportunity to ask questions and studio visits.
Experience industry-relevant field trips such as the Surface Design Show, Building Centre , Material Lab , Roca Gallery and Chelsea Harbour Design Centre .
Take up the opportunity to join an international study trip, a great chance to get to know students from all courses and see amazing art, design and culture in real life.
Previous visits have been to Berlin, Amsterdam and Paris .
Dawn is a 'Creative Practitioner' with over thirty years of experience in the commercial spatial design professional practice, within both design studios and architectural consultancies.
My work has taken me to sites in the UK, Europe and South-East Asia.
Studying our Interior Architecture and Design BA (Hons) course will allow you to explore the relationship between interior spaces, architectural forms and human experience.
You will have various opportunities to express your creativity throughout the course, one area being our Spatial Design: Exploring Materials and Methods unit where you will explore a series of design and skill enhancement projects to develop your ability to create and present spatial designs.
You will then get to apply this knowledge in our Spatial Design: Developing Materials and Methods unit where you can research, test, experiment and explore with creative production methods and material processes for spatial design while also learning to manage creative risk.
To further deepen your insight on contemporary art and design practices, our unit in Critical and Creative Contexts will allow you to explore issues and critical debates in the field which will be particularly useful for your Interior Architecture: Final Major Project.
Key Skills relevant to Interior Architecture Design and creative enterprise are embedded in the teaching and learning of the course and will be taken into account in all assessments.
At the end of the course completion of the assessments will demonstrate your ability to analyse current design practice in relation to Interior Architecture Design practices - and communicate this in both written and visual formats as well as demonstrate a range of transferable skills relevant to your professional employability
Employability skills are integrated into the course and provide you with an awareness of the real-world context of the creative industries in general and interior design in particular.
Professional practice will be emphasised as part of all learning with a work-related learning unit that will especially help you to become more focused on managing your career.
You will be helped with the preparation of a professional portfolio, including a CV and the social media skills needed to promote yourself in a social-mediated art and design world.
Typical graduate destinations include various roles within interior design, interior architecture, architectural practice, scenographic decoration and styling.
Further study at Master's level (Level 7) may include an MA in interior and spatial design, art and design and other specialist fields.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/international-business:
Take up the option of a placement, building your hands-on experience; developing professional networks; and boosting your employability.
We are 1st in the UK for successful graduate social-enterprise start-ups still trading after three years; 2nd in the UK for all business start-ups (HESA, 2024)..
This innovative BSc International Business is designed to equip you with the knowledge and skills needed to effectively manage and lead in the global marketplace.
The course offers a distinctive global perspective through specialised units on international trade and investment; international business negotiations; and cross-culture management in business.
These components prepare you to navigate the complexities of global markets, making you an invaluable asset to businesses operating on an international scale.
Our Reuters trading room gives you the chance to experience what it’s like to be on the trading-room floor, reacting to live ‘stock-market’ data and building investment portfolios using data on listed companies from around the world.
Access to Harvard Business Publishing’s international learning resources, providing immersive simulation software to aid your learning, including Semrush (Marketing), Sage, Refinitiv Eikon and the econometrics software STATA.
You gain competencies in key digital skills such as Excel through SIMnet, our Microsoft Office training platform.
Students can join our International Business Club, giving them a lively platform to share ideas and opportunities in the global business world.
It’s more than an extracurricular activity; it's a pathway to learning and growth for future IB leaders.
Gain a theoretical and practical understanding of global business operations, on a highly vocational course that combines 21st-century management skills with an international business perspective.
Develop skill sets much in demand by employers , including communication, analysis, problem-solving, interpersonal and collaborative.
Benefit from a recognisably high level of professionalism, enabling you to fit in and be effective from day one when working across cultures in international teams .
Undertake a s upervised final-year dissertation involving an individually conducted research element.
Get involved in research projects at our Centre for International Business and Marketing (CIBAM), as well as short-term consultancy projects and competitions within the School.
Attend talks from business professionals across the world.
Recent speakers include international business expert Ahmed El Bassyouni; Rajendra S Shirolé, talking on developing business models in emerging markets; expert strategist Ben Chai; and Colin Jolly, an expert in cryptocurrencies.
Join our International Business Club and benefit from a lively platform to share ideas and opportunities in the global business world.
Fields trips include to TUI headquarters; Qualtrics XM Fair; World Travel Market; and the Property Investor Show.
Studying our International Business BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills on global business operations, business functions and marketing.
To provide you with a solid foundation, our International Business unit will introduce managerial and strategic aspects within business, discover international environments in which firms operate and examine conflicts in the business field.
In core areas of study, you will learn the fundamentals of financial and managerial accounting in our Accounting for Business unit where you will learn of costing techniques, budgeting processes and how to prepare and interpret account statements.
More importantly, you will be introduced to economic theory in our Economics for Business unit and how micro and macroeconomic concepts are relevant to a business context.
Furthermore, our unit in Applied Numeracy for Business will give you the confidence to develop the mathematical and numerical skills used for decision making and problem solving for businesses.
As a key aspect of business practice, you will be introduced to the Principles of Marketing where you will be equipped with key marketing tools, techniques and concepts around consumer marketing.
Moreover, you will discover the opportunities and challenges present in International Trade and Investment Relations and how this can be used to improve competitiveness and performance of multinational firms.
As a business professional, it is also important that you are able to communicate effectively within diverse groups and this is where our Intercultural Competence in Business unit will introduce you to theories around culture, language and communication and how this can be used to develop interpersonal relationships in a business context.
On an international level, you will refine these communication skills in our International Business Negotiations unit that will equip you with the negotiation and conflict resolution skills to create and maintain successful relationships in a business context.
In areas of management, you will discover the role of strategy in organisational success in our Strategic Management unit and how to develop, evaluate and implement realistic and practical strategies for businesses.
To diversify this approach, our Cross-Cultural Management in Business unit will allow you to explore communication theories, working relationships and management behaviour across different cultures and international business environments.
In more specific areas, you will explore how international new ventures are set up in our International New Ventures and Innovation unit, while also examining various approaches to internationalisation and familiarising yourself with creative and innovative business opportunities.
Furthermore, you will consider the negative implications on unethical practices in business in our Business Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility unit while examining various social responsibilities, ethical issues and frameworks and how this affects business decisions.
To support you with this, our units in Data and Research Methods for Business and Preparation for Business Project will provide you with the knowledge and skills to conduct research and analyse data in a business context while developing your ability to construct, evidence and reason your work.
Building on your employability skills, our Career in Practice unit will allow you to apply your learning in a project of your choice.
This will enable you to experience what it is like in your chosen field of work while receiving insights from local employers and industry professionals.
Furthermore, you will be encouraged to take a reflective approach in our Continuing Professional Development unit.
Through engaging with psychometric tests and learning activities, you will better understand your strengths and weaknesses that will inform your professional development.
Additionally, you will also have the opportunity to undertake a Professional Practice Year (Marketing) for you to gain career-related experience.
This course uses a range of assessment types and methods including essays and reports, portfolios, research proposals and exams.
Some group work is included at each level since being able to function as part of a team is a critical skill for international business, and assessments are used to develop your employability as a graduate going into the international market place.
Support to enable you to submit your best work is provided in a variety of ways including briefings in class, supporting materials provided through the virtual learning environment, drop in sessions with the Study Hub team, subject-specific Academic Librarians and individual tutors.
In addition, extensive online supporting materials are available.
This course will provide you with the skills and knowledge to follow a rewarding career in business, across a number of areas and wide range of sectors, including positions in a medium or large organisation with an international orientation.
It also opens the door to further postgraduate and professional study.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/international-business-masters:
Block delivery, year-round entry points and intermediate qualifications that help you fit study around your other commitments.
Assessments linked to live projects where you engage with industry professionals and find real business solutions; open up your opportunities for networking and work placements; and gain specialist employability and research skills.
This course enhances your professional prospects by developing your capability to take on leadership roles in international businesses.
You develop the attributes and skills expected of postgraduates, as recognised by professional and industry bodies such as the Chartered Management Institute, including team-working, negotiation skills, leadership, confidence and the ability to apply critical and creative thinking to complex and unclear problems, developing innovative solutions.
The course covers international business, cross-cultural competencies, strategic management and financial management, all viewed through the lens of evolving global trade patterns and dynamic geopolitical and market contexts.
For further course information, contact Dr Maria Jerez Jerez at maria.jerezjerez@beds.ac.uk
Industry-standard hardware and software to prepare you for the modern workplace Access to learning resources from Harvard Business Publishing, providing immersive simulations in advanced areas London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) trading room offering live ‘stock-market’ data for a realistic investment experience Business pods, boardroom areas and IT suites, designed to simulate a professional office environment
Maria received her PhD in Business Management from Middlesex University, London, UK.
She has a Master of Arts degree in International Hotel and Restaurant Management from London Metropolitan University, UK, and a Bachelor of Science degree in Hospitality and Tourism, Madrid, Spain.
She worked in the hotel and tourism industry in various functional areas and managerial roles before becoming an educator.
Studying our International Business MSc course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills in various areas of business such as strategic management, accounting and finance, alongside elements of global brand communication, reputation and people management.
Our unit in International Business Design will equip you with a comprehensive knowledge of global business operations and the advanced skills in international market analysis and research.
You will apply innovative business models, identify growth opportunities and assess market entry strategies specific to international business.
This will allow you to lead diverse teams, drive cross-border initiatives and navigate the complexities of multinational organisations.
Our unit in International Trade and Monetary Policy will enhance your understanding of global trade and monetary systems.
You will explore the theory of international trade, the reasons behind trade restrictions, and their economic impacts.
The unit also covers the operations of international and European monetary systems, addressing issues like balance of payments, exchange rate movements, and economic interconnections between countries.
This will equip you with the tools to navigate complex global economic challenges.
To enable you to thrive in a globalised business environment, our unit in Intercultural Business Practice aims to foster cultural sensitivity and awareness by exposing you to the values, beliefs, norms and behaviours of people from different cultures.
This will allow you to communicate effectively across cultures, build relationships, negotiate and collaborate with international partners.
You will be able to explore different communication styles in order to accommodate cultural differences and prevent misunderstandings in a business context.
A number of different assessment methods will contribute to your development and will enhance your employability.
We consider it essential that comprehensive feedback is provided in due time so it is integrated in your learning process.
In some cases different kinds of assessment may be used in combination making sure however that there are no hidden tasks.
The intensive character of this Course's delivery as it is outlined in its Teaching and Learning philosophy is consistent with the needs of todays world for graduates who accumulate knowledge fast and are able to express the outcome of this process in a way that is meaningful and comprehensive.
After Induction a week of intensive direct contact time followed by your own contribution through individual learning which will take you to your first assessment point.
At the end of your six-week block your final assessment will be due.
The end-of-unit examinations focus primarily on critical discussion of theory and current practice and provide the reassurance of guaranteed student authorship and a true measure of your own ability and understanding.
The overall underpinning assessment strategy on this course tests the intended learning outcomes through exposing students to a range of assessment types.
The aim is to develop both knowledge and skills to support students' entry to employment as confident managers .The units on this course therefore use varied combination of types of assessments for both formative and summative purposes to enrich the learning experience.
The range of assessments used for this course includes:
The use of a wide range of sources both academic and other is a requirement for a postgraduate degree.
The notions of accountability and academic integrity will be an integral part of your course.
You will be supported in developing an understanding of academic integrity on this course.
You will be informed about what plagiarism is and how to avoid it during the delivery of each Unit.
Where an individual project is required you will be asked to show the different stages of your work or to present it in its entity upon completion.
Where collaborative tasks are assigned an individual reflective report will be necessary to indicate your contribution to the team.
All coursework assignments will require a thorough evaluation of the sources used and referencing will be done according to the Harvard Referencing System.
The successful completion of your MSc provides a strong foundation for your professional development, equipping you to join an organisation in a variety of roles.
For those already in employment, it can give you the opportunity for fast-track career progression or a move into a leadership position.
Your knowledge and skills can open the way to a career as a trading executive; product manager; business development manager; or buyer, to name a few.
This course is also an appropriate foundation for further academic study either at MPhil or PhD level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/international-business-law:
Research-informed, practice-oriented and truly global course, delivered by experts in the field, and designed to equip you with the perspective and skills necessary for a wide range of legal careers.
Guest talks by prestigious speakers, including arbitrators, judges, renowned academics, Members of Parliament, and leading legal practitioners from City law firms.
In the National Student Survey 2024, 96% of our law students were satisfied with how well their course developed knowledge and skills for the future.
This LLM course explores international business law and the legal framework that regulates transnational and international business activities, including both commercial and corporate matters.
It provides you with in-depth comparative insights into the key areas of law relevant to international business, encompassing dispute resolution mechanisms available to businesses.
You gain contextual awareness of the relevant legal rules, policies and jurisdictions; their operation in practice; and their impact on the efficiency and attractiveness of conducting business in a highly globalised world.
For further course information, contact Dr Ana Harvey at ana.harvey@beds.ac.uk
Contemporary Moot Court facilities with digital technology so it simulates an actual court-room environment Industry-standard hardware and software to prepare you for the modern workplace Access to international learning resources and legal databases such as Lexis Nexis and Westlaw
Learn from our highly experienced team of active researchers and established practitioners.
Our teaching is directed by close industry involvement , keeping you up to date with the latest developments in the field .
Immerse yourself in current-day business and legal challenges through case studies, mooting simulations and independent research projects .
Work with those in need at our three community law clinics for family law, criminal law and law related to asylum seekers.
Benefit from actively participating in research events organised by our Centre for Research in Law (CRiL).
Gain specialist knowledge and industry insight in our series of guest talks , featuring arbitrators, judges, renowned academics, Members of Parliament and leading legal practitioners from City law firms.
Widen your experience through field trips to the Inns of Court in London; Houses of Parliament; UK Supreme Court; Luton Crown Court; and by taking part in mooting competitions .
Develop essential transferable skills such as critical and creative thinking; effective communication; information analysis and evaluation; and systematic reasoning.
Dr Ana Harvey is Senior Lecturer in Law and LLM Course Coordinator at School of Accounting, Finance and Law of the University of Bedfordshire.
Previously, Ana was a research fellow at Max Planck Institute Luxembourg for Procedural Law and a member of the International Max Planck Research School for Successful Dispute Resolution (Luxembourg and Heidelberg).
Prior to joining the University of Bedfordshire, Ana was a visiting lecturer at this institution.
She also taught arbitration at University of Luxembourg and Universidade Católica Portuguesa in Porto.
Our International Business Law LLM course will equip you with the knowledge and skills in the combined areas of global business and the law that governs it.
The foundational unit on International Trade Law will provide you with a solid foundation in commercial law, with a focus on both interstate trade (in the context of the World Trade Organisation) and trade between businesses, with a specific focus on the UN Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (CISG).
Furthermore, you will critically assess contemporary legal issues and implications for Intellectual Property Law on an international level as well as its applications involving the protection and commercial exploitation of intellectual property.
The unit on International Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility will provide you with a global and comparative overview of the general corporate aspects of international business law, whilst also bringing you up to speed with the contemporary issues of social responsibility, climate change and sustainability.
In addition to examining the substantive laws and rules governing commercial transactions, you will gain a critical understanding of the laws and rules that relate to the different mechanisms for resolving disputes between businesses, including both litigation (explored in the unit International Commercial Litigation) and alternative dispute settlement (which you will study as part of our International Commercial Arbitration unit).
Finally, you will bring this acquired theory and practice together to complete an LLM Dissertation where you will conduct a major research project into a topic of your interest in the field of international business law.
Here, you will engage with various sources such as statues, treaties, regulations, policy documents and other academic literature alongside the relevant research methods to help you analyse and critically evaluate your research.
The course as a whole, and each individual unit, are designed in such a way as to enable you to build upon the knowledge and skills that you gained during your undergraduate studies and to develop greater autonomy of learning, independent analysis and critical evaluation.
Learning activities and assessment tasks are designed to foster the incremental development of your subject knowledge and transferrable skills, whilst at the same time supporting your personal and professional development.
In-class learning activities are structured around lectures, seminars and workshops.
Although the nature and format of the activities will vary from unit to unit, interactive learning and practice-based activities are key to all units.
In-class activities and exercises will involve a mix of group discussion, debating, individual and group presentations and moots and will provide you with the opportunity to test and consolidate your knowledge and to apply it in a variety of contexts requiring analysis, evaluation and synthesis and/or problem-solving.
Alongside in-class activities, you will also be expected to engage in a range of online learning activities, including virtual workshops and seminars delivered by guest speakers, training sessions for legal databases such as Lexis Nexis, Westlaw, discussion forums and group and individual e-journals.
The opportunity to be an active participant in the learning process will improve your learning experience and increase your confidence as a future legal professional.
Your contribution to your own learning, and particularly your engagement with assigned reading in advance of each session, will maximise the benefit of in-class activities and your learning experience.
Throughout the course, you will be assessed in various ways.
The different types of assessments will enable you to demonstrate both breadth and depth of subject knowledge and contextual understanding, whilst at the same time developing your academic and professional skills.
Assessment methods which you will encounter in the course of your LLM studies include:
The notions of accountability and academic integrity play an integral role in the course.
Starting from the initial induction, and in the context of each unit, you will be given extensive training on the principles of academic integrity, how to avoid plagiarism, reference legal sources, and correctly acknowledge other peoples’ work and ideas.
Specific training on the use of AI tools in an academic and professional context, with a particular focus on legal practice, will also be provided.
All coursework assignments will require a thorough evaluation of the sources used and all sources will need to be fully acknowledged and referenced in accordance with the OSCOLA referencing system.
In the context of individual projects and coursework, students will be expected to be able to show evidence of the different stages of preparation of the final submission and to be able to present and discuss their work in its entirety upon completion.
The course will equip you with the perspective and skills necessary for a wide range of legal careers including within international law firms - many of which have departments specialised in business law - or as in-house counsel within international corporations.
Other potential careers include working as legal adviser to governmental and non-governmental organisations as well as international and intergovernmental organisations such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD); the Organisation for the Harmonisation of Business Law in Africa (OHADA); the World Trade Organisation (WTO); the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO); and International Chamber of Commerce (ICC).
The course also provides an excellent pathway for further studies including postgraduate research at MPhil or PhD level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/international-business-law-with-legal-practice-sqe-1-and-2:
This course includes professional preparation, training and coaching for the Solicitors Qualifying Examination (SQE 1 and 2).
Gain professional supervised practice at our three community law clinics: family law, criminal law and law related to asylum seekers.
The University of Bedfordshire ranks UK 3rd overall in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES, 2024), showing we offer students an exceptional experience.
This exciting LLM offers LLB law graduates and LLM law graduates a progression route to qualify as solicitors while developing a sought-after specialism in international business law.
You explore in detail the core areas of law related to international business, including the legal frameworks that regulate transnational and international commercial and corporate activities.
The SQE preparation element of the course equips you with the legal skills and knowledge required to practice as a solicitor alongside gaining the qualifying work experience you need at our three community law clinics.
For further course information, contact Dr Oke Ejims at oke.ejims@beds.ac.uk
The Legal Practice element of this LLM equips you with the legal knowledge and skills required to pass the Solicitors Regulatory Authority’s SQE 1 and 2.
Contemporary simulated Moot Court with the latest digital technology Industry-standard hardware and software to prepare you for the modern workplace Access to international learning resources and legal databases such as Lexis Nexis and Westlaw
Benefit from a course that meets all your professional study needs on campus including professional preparation, training and coaching for the Solicitors’ Qualifying Examination (SQE).
Gain qualifying work experience at our three law clinics , putting your legal skills into practice in the areas of family law, criminal law and law related to asylum seekers.
Develop essential transferable skills such as critical and creative thinking; effective communication; information analysis and evaluation; problem-solving; and systematic reasoning.
I am a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Law and Finance where I coordinate and teach varied commercial law courses at undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
I also supervise postgraduate dissertation students and PhD research students.
The course will equip you with the perspective and skills necessary for a wide range of legal careers including within domestic and international law firms - many of which have departments specialised in business law - or as in-house counsel within international corporations.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/international-business-with-data-analytics:
This career-expanding, 22-month course provides a comprehensive understanding of core business areas such as accounting and finance, cross-cultural competencies and brand management, all viewed through the lens of the global marketplace.
It additionally focuses on building your data-analysis skills in specialist units designed with non-computing graduates in mind.
You apply your knowledge to real-life issues, thanks to our industry collaborations, so you are fully prepared to use data and management skills on the international business stage.
High-tech business suite complete with £300K of industry-standard hardware and software, uniquely tailored to essential management practices such as data analytics, digital marketing, SEO and ‘big data’ mining Access to immersive simulations and learning resources from Harvard Business Publishing London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) trading room offering live ‘stock-market’ data for a realistic investment experience Business pods, boardroom areas and IT suites designed to simulate a professional office environment
This unit aims:
The aims of the Unit are:
This unit covers the field of strategy-making and strategic management.
You will consider current issues and challenges facing directors, senior managers and entrepreneurs in guiding the long-term development of organisations.
This short course is a professional development course that is designed to support all PG students in the University of Bedfordshire Business School to enhance their employability and develop a professional profile through their journey in the Masters.
The central aim of this Unit is to provide you with a thorough understanding of the role that Communications plays within the marketing strategy of any organisation and be able to critically analyse and reflect upon the relationship between buyer behaviour and the development of a Marketing Communications Strategy.
The unit will enable you to understand the main functions of the marketing communications mix including key areas of integrated marketing communications systems: public relations, advertising, and digital media.
In addition, the unit will seek to develop a critical appreciation of the role of Public Relations and Digital Marketing as a key tool for ‘reputation management’ and the mechanisms for developing successful digital campaigns.
Relevance:
International business demands managing strategies in international markets, with considerations of interdependencies of intercultural competence in managing differences in interpersonal interactions, which is key for successful business operations.
In this unit you will evaluate the major dimensions of the international markets and the different strategies.
You will explore the application of oral and written communication theories within the context of a technological and international business environment.
Additionally, you will demonstrate expertise in formulating and evaluating business strategies for different business environments.
Emphasis is placed on developing your competences as an international manager.
You will determine key aspects of the work environment and its implications for interactive work behaviour.
Excellent high performing international marketing managers exhibit self-awareness and engage in decision making with an understanding of their own and others’ capabilities.
These abilities enable visionary approaches to problem solving and effective development of others.
This unit gives you the opportunity to better understand your personal performance, get insight into working in international markets and across cultures, manage yourself effectively and become a more reflective learner.
This will help prepare you for the ever-changing and increasingly global working environment.
Managing data is an area of crucial importance in any field.
Its application facilitates the rational decision making process that is the basis for successful operations within any environment.
To this extent, the purpose of this unit is to discuss how data should be managed during its lifecycle through a mixture of relevant topics.
This includes development tools and basic techniques for data capture, modelling, storing and retrieval to serve as the mechanisms for making effective and efficient use of available data.
The approach will be based on exploring basic applied principles and practices to enable students to develop an information system as a solution to a problem for a particular field of application.
These are fully informed from practices employed in small to middle and, middle to large sized companies.
The primary aim of the unit is:
Therefore, the objectives involved are as follows:
This unit aims to help you to gain the full benefit of your extended Master’s programme by supporting you in preparing for employment and career progression.
You should develop realistic awareness of the challenges and opportunities that exist within the employment market place and how to successfully present yourself and navigate your future career.
Scheduled coaching and reflection will support you in realising your ambitions.
Participants have an equal partnership and control.
You set and own the goals and shape your development.
It provides you with key tools of research and learning at the overarching / meta level in terms of skills and behaviours including those of self-knowledge, reflective practice, working collaboratively, enhanced problem solving and building a personal brand.
Through Executive Coaching and Action Learning Sets, Your Professional Future allows you to tailor your own development through whatever routes are appropriate and anchors these achievements in reflective practice.
The unit aims and objectives are captured specifically in the reflective professional development plan the students develop by the end of this unit.
This unit introduces core computer networking and information security concepts to those who need a foundation in the subjects.
It is relevant for a wide range of career pathways - from business and risk management, software development, to cyber and data security and sciences.
Learners will be shown the fundamentals of how computer networks operate and the essential principles of cybersecurity.
In this unit you will learn what goes into a research proposal and application, the rudiments of good research design at masters level and beyond.
The unit examines the processes of authentication, verification, dissemination of knowledge through scholarly publishing.
You will learn about contemporary debates over access and peer review, impact evaluation (citations, H-index, etc), revenue models and research funding.
Completion of this unit will support your ability to critically evaluate research data and to present your conclusions to a professional standard.
An important aim of a Master’s degree is to master and apply your knowledge and skills independently so that you can successfully carry out research.
The aim is to develop both knowledge and skills to support students' entry to employment as confident managers.
The units on this course therefore use varied combination of types of assessments for both formative and summative purposes to enrich the learning experience.
The course is designed to develop graduates able to operate as effective and efficient managers with a particular set of sought-after skills in data analytics.
For those already in employment, it can open up the way to fast-track postgraduate progression or a leadership role.
Once you've graduated, you are likely to progress into management in a range of areas including marketing communications; data management; and organisational data security.
Particular roles might include trading executive; product manager; business development manager; and buyer.
This course also provides an excellent pathway for further studies at MPhil and PhD level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/international-dispute-resolution:
Research-informed, practice-oriented and truly global course delivered by experts in the field, and designed to equip you with the perspective and skills necessary for a wide range of legal careers.
This LLM allows you to explore in detail the mechanisms and processes through which disputes are resolved in key areas of international legal practice.
It enhances your ability to understand the ways in which dispute resolution plays out in legal environments such as commercial, human rights and environmental.
You gain a broad knowledge of international legal rules and policies and their operation in practice, the international legislative environment within specific jurisdictions and adjudicative institutions as well as their mutual interactions and their impact on dispute resolution.
Contemporary Moot Court with digital technology, simulating an actual court-room environment Industry-standard hardware and software to prepare you for the modern workplace Access to international learning resources and legal databases, such as LexisNexis and Westlaw
Work with those in need at our three community law clinics for family law, criminal law and law relating to asylum seekers.
Gain specialist knowledge and industry insight in our series of guest talks , featuring arbitrators, judges, renowned academics, Members of Parliament, and leading legal practitioners from City law firms.
Studying our International Dispute Resolution LLM course will equip you with specialist knowledge and skills in the areas of legal theory and international legal practice.
You will be provided with a solid grounding in traditional, common law as well as EU law rules that regulate International Commercial Litigation to understand the current development and trends in the field.
At the same time, you will be introduced to the fundamental principles and legal institutes of international commercial litigation.
You will also develop a critical understanding of the principles and legal theories in International Commercial Arbitration by exploring its practice, the relevant laws and international treaties that govern it.
In particular, you will apply this knowledge and relevant legal rules to case scenarios to gain an awareness of the contemporary challenges and developments in the field.
As a crucial skill, Settlement of International Disputes will allow you to explore the law, practice and institutional design of international courts that will enable you to effectively conduct a comparative analysis.
To add to this, you will learn how different dispute settlement bodies interact, and understand its multiple functions and influences.
With a critical approach, you will also consider the tensions, challenges and possible solutions in the practice of international dispute settlement.
Furthermore, you will study the core principles of Investment Treaty Arbitration and learn to apply this alongside relevant legal rules to case problem scenarios.
Here, you will discuss a range of issues and criticisms in the investment treaty arbitration regime, different procedures for settlement of investment disputes and the growing number of arbitral decisions in this field.
In Transnational Human Rights and Climate Change Litigation, you will gain a critical understanding of strategic human rights litigation, its role in fostering change and its potential pitfalls and ethical considerations on a national, regional and global scale.
You will learn the mechanisms for the protection of human rights while critically evaluating practices in strategic human rights litigation, such as in the area of human rights-based climate change litigation.
Finally, you will bring this acquired theory and practice together to complete an LLM Dissertation where you will conduct a major research project into a topic of your interest that is relevant to your field of study.
The course will equip you with the perspective and skills necessary for a wide range of legal careers including within international law firms - many of which have departments specialised in international dispute resolution - or as in-house counsel within international corporations.
Other potential careers include working as legal adviser to governmental and non-governmental organisations, as well as international and inter-governmental organisations, such as the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in The Hague; European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) in Strasbourg; International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) in Paris; London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA); International Centre for Investment Dispute Settlement (ICSID) in Washington DC; and the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) in The Hague.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/international-dispute-resolution-with-legal-practice-sqe-1-and-2:
This exciting LLM offers LLB law graduates and LLM law graduates a progression route to qualify as solicitors while developing a sought-after specialism in international dispute resolution.
You explore in detail the core areas of law related to international business and dispute settlement, including the mechanisms through which international disputes are resolved.
Other potential careers include working as legal adviser to governmental and non-governmental organisations as well as international and intergovernmental organisations such as the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in The Hague; European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) in Strasbourg; International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) in Paris; London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA); International Centre for Investment Dispute Settlement (ICSID) in Washington DC; and the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) in the Hague.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/international-human-resource-management:
Block delivery, year-round entry points and intermediate qualifications.
Close collaboration with local, national and international business communities to prepare you for the ever-evolving world of work.
Our MSc International Human Resource Management equips you with critical expertise in HRM, talent management, strategic management, and international employment law alongside advanced research skills developed through a capstone project.
The curriculum emphasises practical application, with specialised units integrating core HRM principles to address real-world challenges; align HR practices with organisational goals; and leverage data-driven insights for decision-making.
Other units immerse you in the complexities of international business, enhancing your ability to lead diverse teams, manage intercultural dynamics and apply global HR strategies as well as preparing you to navigate legal frameworks, resolve workplace disputes, and uphold equality and diversity standards.
By combining specialised knowledge with actionable skills, the course prepares you to adapt to evolving workplace demands and excel as a strategic, globally minded HR professional.
For further course information, contact Peter Akinsowon at peter.akinsowon1@beds.ac.uk
State-of-the-art business suite equipped with industry-standard hardware and software Access to learning resources from Harvard Business Publishing Business pods, boardroom areas and IT suites designed to simulate a professional office environment
The course is aligned to the standards set by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) and Society of Human Resource Management (SHRM).
Master the competencies essential for modern HR leadership in areas such as stakeholder management, strategic consultancy, and ethical practices, empowering you to deliver impactful HR solutions in global contexts.
Peter Akinsowon is a Senior Lecturer in Human Resource Management at the University of Bedfordshire, Luton.
Prior to this, he has worked at Anglia Ruskin University, London; the University of Greenwich, Business School, London and at Regent’s University, London where he served as a Post Graduate Module Leader in Entrepreneurial Research between 2014/2015.
He has taught at Greenwich School of Management, London and at Icon College of Management & Technology, London.
He used to be the Module Leader for Resourcing the Organisation (RTO) for well over 3 years at Anglia Ruskin University London.
Studying our MSc in International Human Resource Management will equip you with critical knowledge and skills in human resource management (HRM), people analytics, talent management, strategic management and international employment law, culminating in cutting-edged research skills through a Capstone project.
Our comprehensive curriculum includes a specialised unit in People Analytics and HR Strategies, where you will gain essential insights and skills, preparing you to adapt and respond with agility to the ever-changing demands of the business world.
You will learn to solve real-life people management issues, make strategic decisions and manage human capital effectively by aligning people practices with organisational goals and driving performance and success using People Analytics.
This unit also integrates core HRM knowledge and behaviours such as analytics, value creation, ethics, talent management, and resourcing.
Moreover, our Global Human Resource Management unit further enhances your expertise by immersing you in key business areas, including equipping you with an understanding of the global business environment and its impact on HRM practices.
You will learn to lead and manage diverse teams in various geographical locations, while enriching your HR specialist knowledge in areas of global talent management, international employment law, intercultural communication and global HRM.
At the same time, you will develop the skills to offer strategic HR advice, engage in stakeholder management and consultancy services in a global context.
Furthermore, you will be introduced to the principles of International Employment Law that will allow you to understand the regulations that govern employment relationships.
This unit will equip you with the practical skills to manage employer-employee relationships such as hiring and firing.
This will allow you to navigate the complex scenarios within the parameters of employment law, such as ending employment contracts or addressing termination issues in a real-world context.
At the same time, you will learn to navigate legal frameworks surrounding employment legislation with equality, diversity and inclusion in mind.
Additionally, you will develop a critical and informed understanding of business environments and the business opportunities within them in our Strategy unit.
Since our course units are designed in alignment with the standards of leading professional bodies, such as the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) and the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM), as well as their curriculum mapping, this course will equip you with the expert knowledge and competencies needed to succeed in the field.
When you complete this course, you will be ready to work as a human resources business partner in an international organisation, giving support to other managers and able to offer critical insights into the world of people in the workplace.
You will be in a good position to progress into one or more of the following areas: human resource management; administrative services; compensation; benefits and job analysis; business development; labour relations; training development; personal coaching leadership; and leadership management.
The course also opens the way to roles in researching specialist HRM fields and consultancy.
If you would like to continue with your academic studies you will have a good foundation for progression onto MPhil or PhD level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/international-social-welfare-and-social-development:
Volunteer with the University's Refugee Legal Assistance Project (RLAP), gaining real-life, practice-based knowledge and skills while supporting refugees.
Highly experienced staff with global work experience with the United Nations and NGOs in the humanitarian and international development sector.
The perfect course for professionals and recent Honours graduates looking to give their career an international perspective.
This course focuses on social issues with an international dimension such as humanitarian aid, forced migration, human rights, social justice and social enterprise.
In addition to gaining theoretical knowledge, you develop practical skills – such as advocacy and intercultural competence – so you can work effectively with communities and individuals from diverse cultural and social backgrounds, in the UK and abroad.
The course also exposes you to innovative approaches to enhancing and decolonising international social welfare and development, with case studies from across the globe.
For further course information, contact course coordinator Dr Lena Opfermann at lena.opfermann@beds.ac.uk
We collaborate with the University's Refugee Legal Assistance Project (RLAP) , supporting refugees with family reunification applications.
Highly interactive, student-centred learning with in-class debates, role plays and weekly presentations applying course work to current affairs.
Learn from an industry-experienced, research-active academic team, producing high-quality research that influences policy making and improves the protection of vulnerable migrants.
Get first-hand experience of the situation of asylum seekers through a field visit to the Luton City of Sanctuary network.
Expand your knowledge through guest lecturers with global work and research experience , teaching on topics such as public health in emergencies; humanitarian sanitation; and the relationship between climate change and international social work.
I am Senior Lecturer in Applied Social Studies and coordinate the MA International Social Welfare and Social Development.
Prior to joining the University of Bedfordshire in September 2019 I worked as Teaching Fellow in Post-conflict Reconstruction at Durham University where I was Programme Director of two MSc Programmes at the Durham Global Security Institute (DGSi) from 2017-2019.
Studying our International Social Welfare and Social Development MA course will introduce you to theoretical foundations, approaches and practice skills around social welfare and social development in a global context.
You will develop your knowledge of the origins, development and future of International Social Welfare and Social Development to understand the landscape in which it operates.
More specifically, you will learn the requirements for effective and ethical social welfare practice in diverse countries and cultures to ensure that you are culturally competent in our Comparative Social Welfare and Cultural Competence – Approaches, Policy and Practice unit.
Here, you will compare different approaches to practice in various settings to consider how global social work values and ethics can be integrated into local practice.
Aside from this, our core unit in Humanitarian Aid, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and Social Welfare in Disasters will allow you to develop a critical awareness of the role of social welfare and development in contexts of humanitarian aid and disasters.
In particular, you will interrogate the relationship between humanitarian principles and human rights, question issues of power and exploitation, learn about humanitarian standards (such as the SPHERE project) and humanitarian communication.
You will also familiarise yourself with approaches aimed to decolonialise the humanitarian sector through a stronger focus on participation and localisation.
This course also offers a range of optional units for you to specialise in.
For instance, you may choose to develop your knowledge of international Human Rights frameworks and apply them to a variety of case studies.
Alternatively, you may want to explore the theories and concepts of social entrepreneurship and learn how to design and implement a social enterprise project in our Social Enterprise unit.
In our unit on the Complexities of Forced Migration, Displacement, Trafficking and Refuge, you will be able to explore the international system that protects refugees, the shrinking space for asylum in the UK, separated children and debates around human trafficking.
You will complete the course with a Dissertation in Applied Social Sciences where you will engage in an independent research project focused on a research question of your own interest that is relevant to your field of study.
With the support and guidance of a supervisor, you will conduct an original piece of research.
You will be prepared for this through our units Research Methods 1: Setting Deep Foundations and Research Methods 2: Design, Data Collection and Ethics.
In these two units you will be taught to combine policy, data and research evidence to propose a research idea that is robustly designed, makes use of appropriate data collection methods and is ethically sound.
The assessments develop incrementally across the programme allowing you to gain skills, acquire knowledge and receive feedback on your performance.
This will enable you to apply the knowledge gained and feed it into subsequent assessments.
A small number of non-graded formative assessments are also used to enable you to receive feedback and further support your learning.
At the end of the course the assessments will demonstrate your ability to analyse, evaluate and synthesise knowledge and communicate this in both written and other presentational formats and to demonstrate a range of high level transferable skills, attractive to prospective employers and evidenced in the course learning outcomes.
The assessment methods include:
The dissertation allows you to carry out an independent research project and communicate knowledge, findings and recommendations in an academic way
Graduates typically go on to work in the humanitarian, human rights and international development sector with local, national and international non-governmental organisations (NGOs) or government institutions.
Some students take up further study at Professional Doctorate or PhD level.
Globally, there is a growing demand for social welfare and social development professionals with the academic and professional competences acquired on this MA.
Alumni of this course currently work with a range of NGOs and government institutions in the fields of migration, human trafficking, modern slavery and humanitarian aid.
Some have gone on to pursue PhDs.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/international-tourism-and-hospitality-management:
We are a member of the Association for Tourism in Higher Education (ATHE), demonstrating our high standing, esteem and commitment to supporting the subject field.
With a core focus on global management issues, this Master's provides you with critical understanding of the interconnectedness of the international tourism and hospitality sectors and the impact they have across various contexts, including economic, socio-cultural, environmental and technological.
You also gain knowledge of strategic management and planning, equipping you with the skills necessary to address tourism and hospitality challenges.
For further course information, contact Sanaz Vatankhah at sanaz.vatankhah@beds.ac.uk
State-of-the-art business suite with industry-standard hardware and software Access to Opera Hotel software, the industry-standard property management system, as well as other simulation software Access to learning resources from Harvard Business Publishing Business pods, boardroom areas and IT suites designed to simulate a professional office environment
I am a Senior Lecturer in Business Management and Strategy, focusing on the service industries within the Graduate School of Business (GSB).
I lead the Tourism, International Business, and Marketing Research (TIBAM) centre, highlighting my role in academic leadership and research excellence.
I have published extensively in respected journals on topics spanning tourism, service marketing, and sustainable business practices.
My work also emphasises the importance of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and innovative business models in driving sustainable development.
With my expertise, I contribute significantly to shaping the strategic direction of business education and research, particularly in the evolving service industries field.
Studying our International Tourism and Hospitality Management MSc course will equip you with the knowledge and skills in the combined areas of international tourism, business, and strategic management.
You will explore current trends and issues in the constantly changing nature of tourism in our Sociocultural Dimensions of Tourism unit to understand how this impacts the relationship between tourism, culture, and society.
This will allow you to apply tourism theories and current trends to analyse tourism policies, as well as the role of tourism in representing public culture, heritage, and the nature of places in a postmodern era.
Furthermore, Approaches in Sustainable Travel and Tourism will allow you to develop insights into socio-economic and environmental challenges in travel and tourism industries.
You will explore planning frameworks for sustainable tourism development that can be used to integrate economic equality, environmental conservation, and community participation while using tourism as a medium for poverty reduction and alleviation.
In areas of business, Marketing in the Digital Era will allow you to explore elements of devising digital marketing strategies, conducting online market research, and preparing a digital marketing plan.
You will gain a critical awareness of the role of digital marketing in business success while learning to apply digital marketing techniques with a focus on digital platforms, new business models, and social interaction.
To further enhance your industry skills, we offer complimentary access to Opera software – a leading tool in hospitality management, providing hands-on experience for students to excel in the global hospitality industry.
Here, you will be introduced to a range of tools and concepts for strategic analysis and business modelling that will allow you to assess the strategic position of business organisations, formulate strategies, evaluate options, and implement strategic decisions.
Finally, you will complete our Capstone unit, which will allow you to bring theory and practice together and research a topic of your interest relevant to your field of study.
On successfully completing this Master's, you will gain the knowledge and skills to understand the role of critical-evaluation techniques and decision-making strategies in establishing yourself and thriving in a senior management role.
You will have the skills to find career opportunities in industries such as travel management; hospitality management; food and beverage management; public relations; and marketing.
Possibilities include:
Tourism and hospitality manager Oversee daily operations in hotels, resorts or tourism enterprises, ensuring high-quality guest experiences while managing profitability and efficiency.
Strategic planner in tourism development Develop sustainable tourism strategies that balance economic growth with environmental conservation and cultural heritage preservation for governments and organisations.
Digital marketing specialist Create and manage digital marketing strategies for tourism and hospitality businesses, focusing on online campaigns, social media engagement and data-driven marketing optimisation.
Hotel and resort manager Lead teams, optimise operations and ensure guest satisfaction while managing marketing and driving revenue growth for hospitality establishments.
Sustainable tourism consultant Advise on sustainable tourism projects, helping businesses and governments implement environmentally and socially responsible tourism practices.
Operations manager Ensure the smooth operation of tourism and hospitality businesses, managing staff, optimising processes and maintaining service standards.
Event manager Plan and execute events such as conferences, weddings and meetings, ensuring logistics, budgets and client expectations are met seamlessly.
Revenue manager Maximise revenue through data analysis, pricing strategies and forecasting, focusing on optimising occupancy and profitability for hospitality businesses.
Tour operator/travel agent Design and coordinate travel packages and logistics, ensuring clients have seamless, tailored travel experiences.
Food and beverage manager Oversee the food and beverage operations, ensuring quality, compliance and an excellent dining experience for guests.
You will also be well prepared for further academic study at either MPhil or PhD level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/international-tourism-management:
Our tourism, transport and travel courses tied UK 7th in their subject field for graduate prospects - on track (CUG, 2025).)
They are in the UK top 20 for student satisfaction (CUG, 2025).
Option of a year-long placement, giving you industry experience and the chance to boost our future employability.
This dynamic course builds your theoretical knowledge and practical management skills while exploring key global issues; environmental challenges; sustainable tourism; and new and developing technologies.
You experience real-world situations through real-life industry scenarios, field trips and an optional industry placement in the UK or abroad.
Our ethical approach looks at the business of tourism and its impact on environmental and cultural preservation.
Access to the Opera hospitality management programme as well as Harvard Business Publishing’s learning resources, providing immersive simulation software Our simulation software ‘Simulate’ allows you to take control of your own airline and gain key insights into airline management Gain competencies in key digital skills such as Excel through SIMnet, our Microsoft Office training platform Excellent Learning Resources Centre with an extensive library, giving you access to a wide range of academic and industry knowledge including e-journals, e-books and information databases as well as traditional printed books
We work closely with the Student Union’s Tourism and Aviation Society to develop your entrepreneurship and managerial skills, including in event planning.
Take advantage of local industry-relevant employment opportunities such as London Luton Airport, TUI, EasyJet, Luton Hoo Hotel, and leading hotel brands such as Hilton, Ibis and Marriott.
Attend talks from international tourism professionals from across the world, broadening your understanding of what is possible in the field.
Recent speakers have had influential positions at EGL Tours, London Luton Airport, Enterprise Rent-a-car, Wizz Air, and the Cuban Tourist Board.
Field trips are organised in conjunction with the Student Union’s Tourism and Aviation Society and may include visits to London Luton Airport, TUI, Olympic Park and the World Travel Market.
I am a Cultural Geographer schooled at the University of Cambridge and now work as a Lecturer in Tourism Studies at the University of Bedfordshire.
Currently completing a doctorate on the changing identity of British Muslim women through travel, I am deeply interested in matters of Islamic modernity.
My other research interests concern geopolitical issues as they relate to the traditional / transitional use of space and place today, and I have published articles and chapters in the realm of public culture, the politics of tourism, issues of representation and cultural mobility.
Studying our International Tourism Management BSc (Hons) course will equip you with a wealth of knowledge and a range of skills relevant for anyone interested in entering the global tourism industry, or related areas of business and management.
From a business perspective, you will gain an understanding of tourism and hospitality operations and build on this by considering how to manage operations sustainably in our Sustainable Business in Tourism and Hospitality unit.
Within Cultural Tourism and Heritage Management you will explore how international tourism demand can have both positive and negative effects on attractions and destinations.
This unit will also make you think about how the tourism industry uses culture and heritage to ‘sell’ destinations.
To add to this, you will also examine Critical Issues in Tourism which will see you explore contemporary issues at the intersection of tourism and society, such as child exploitation, human trafficking and gender equality.
To develop your industry awareness, you will undertake a unit in Strategic Business Planning where you will learn and apply key elements of financial management, discover the benefits of utilising technology such as metrics and data analytics, and how these business tools and skills can support business growth decision making.
To help with this, our first-year unit in Applied Numeracy for Business will provide you with the confidence to develop your mathematical and numerical skills which will benefit you throughout your time at university and as you enter graduate employment.
In addition, within this course you will learn of key marketing principles to help you design and implement effective tourism marketing plans in our Marketing and Digital Transformation in Travel and Tourism unit.
Moreover, early on in the course you will develop your leadership, management and teamworking skills within our Managing People in Tourism and Aviation unit.
Aside from this you will be exposed to a range of optional units including learning about workplace rights in Employment Law; developing your awareness around Contingency Planning and Crisis Management; and learning how experiences now curate many current touristic encounters in the Managing the Experience Economy unit.
Additionally, you can choose to gain a critical perspective of Management and Leadership theories; consider how organisations can actively enhance society and the environment through the Business Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility unit; or explore how to start your own business in our Entrepreneurship and Business Excellence unit.
Other areas of study include exploring the phenomenon of globalisation, issues of indigeneity and orientalism in our Tourism and Society unit while also critically evaluating how tourism contributes to the development of tourist areas in our Tourism Destination Development unit.
With sustainability being a vital concept for the tourism industry, you will delve into how a balance between society, environment and social-cultural aspects of tourism development can be achieved in the Managing Sustainable Destination unit.
Finally, you will conduct a thorough piece of academic research on an area of your choosing within the Business Project unit.
To support you with this, our unit in Data and Research Methods for Business will provide you with the knowledge and skills to conduct research and analyse data in a tourism context.
Furthermore, you will also have the opportunity to undertake a Professional Practice Year (Tourism and Aviation) for you to gain valuable career-related experience.
In line with the Business School's commitment to practice-based education a large part of the assessment will relate to your demonstration of your ability to synthesise class room learning with real life scenarios within the international tourism industry.
To assess this range of integration of theory and skills into sound practice we use a range of methods.
You will be expected to complete one or two assessments per unit which depends on the number of credits allocated to the unit.
You will encounter many different kinds of assessment methods for example: written exams written assignments portfolios reports individual or group oral presentations and practical skills assessment.
All of which will enable you to gain valuable experience to use within the workplace.
The course opens up diverse career opportunities with companies like tour operators; destination management companies; airlines; and major hotel chains.
You can find roles in areas such as international tourism development; tour operations; air transport management; destination management; business development and marketing; ground handling; and tourism marketing.
You can also choose to study at postgraduate level in related areas such as our MSc International Tourism Planning and Management.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/international-tourism-with-hospitality-management:
Situated close to industry-relevant employment opportunities with London Luton Airport on the doorstep as well as TUI, Easyjet, and leading hotel brands such as Hilton, Ibis and Marriott.
Our tourism, transport and travel courses are in the UK top 20 for student satisfaction (CUG, 2025).
This comprehensive course combines business and international tourism with a specialism in hospitality, preparing you for management roles in this rapidly growing sector.
You unpack the complex nature of 21st-century tourism, while learning the ethics of managing a business, in a curriculum that covers cultural tourism, heritage management, marketing, international operations and sustainable development.
There is also a focus on developing your practical skills, applying what you have learnt to real-life scenarios.
Access to the Oracle Opera hospitality management programme, providing immersive simulation software Our simulation software ‘Simulate’ allows you to take control of your own airline and gain key insights into airline management You gain competencies in key digital skills such as Excel through SIMnet, our Microsoft Office training platform Excellent Learning Resources Centre with an extensive library, giving you access to a wide range of academic and industry knowledge including e-journals, e-books and information databases as well as traditional printed books
Recent speakers have had influential positions at EGL Tours, Enterprise Rent-a-car, London Luton Airport, Wizz Air, and the Cuban Tourist Board.
I have been lucky enough to spend my working lifetime either in the travel and tourism industry or in an educational environment sharing my passion of the industry with my students.
Tourism, hospitality and events are ever changing and I have enjoyed roles in companies from the largest such as TUI, both overseas and in the UK, to running my own hospitality business as an entrepreneur.
Studying our International Tourism with Hospitality Management BSc (Hons) will give you a critical understanding of the hospitality industry, global tourism and business.
From a business perspective, you will gain an understanding of tourism and hospitality operations - its impact and current issues - and how to manage this sustainably in our Sustainable Business in Tourism and Hospitality unit.
More interestingly, you will explore the complexity of Cultural Tourism and Heritage Management and how the international demand for this sector can have both positive and negative effects on attractions and destinations.
In areas of business, you will be equipped with the skills for Strategic Business Planning where you will learn of key elements of financial management, discover benefits of technology such as metrics and data analytics, and how this supports growth and support decision making.
Similarly, you will also develop your understanding of the role of marketing in travel and tourism industries in our Marketing and Digital Transformation in Travel and Tourism unit.
Here, you will learn of key marketing principles as well as how to design and implement marketing plans.
Moreover, people-skills are just as important to have in the tourism industry, and this is where our Managing People in Tourism and Aviation unit will develop your leadership, management, teamwork and people-management skills.
You will also learn how this interacts with development and hotels in our Managing Sustainable Destinations unit.
To add to this, you will be equipped with the strategies and skills to manage International Hospitality Operations based on case studies and current issues in the field.
This closely links to our Managing Service in the Hospitality Sector unit where you will apply theories on service quality to resolve challenges and manage people and performance in a dynamic hospitality or service environment.
With a reflective approach, you will then build on your professional development in our Hospitality Management in Practice unit.
More importantly, you will also consider Contemporary Issues in the Hospitality Industry from major concerns such as modern-day slavery and child labour to useful skills such as menu engineering and Airbnb hospitality.
Aside from this, our range of optional units include introducing you to the principles and norms of Employment Law; developing your awareness around Contingency Planning and Crisis Management; and learning to enhance and create experiences in our Managing the Experience Economy unit.
Additionally, you can choose to gain a critical perspective of Management and Leadership theories; consider the negative implications on unethical practices in business in our Business Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility unit; or explore key concepts in entrepreneurship in our Entrepreneurship and Business Excellence unit.
In line with the Business School's commitment to practice-based education a large part of the assessment will relate to your demonstration of your ability to synthesise class room learning with real life scenarios within the international tourism and hospitality industry.
This course can open up a wide range of career paths in the tourism and hospitality industry to suit your particular interest including tourism officer; tour operator; business and conference organiser; customer service manager; accommodation or hotel manager; tour manager; tourist information centre manager; and travel agency manager.
You can also progress to further study at postgraduate level with Bedfordshire’s MSc International Tourism Planning and Management.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/law:
Our law courses are in the UK top 10 in their subject field for student satisfaction and teaching quality (CUG and Times, 2025).
92% of our law students were satisfied with the learning opportunities their course offered; 96% were satisfied with how well it developed knowledge and skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
Our LLB courses cover all the Foundations of Legal Knowledge subjects and allow you to progress to the professional stage of Bar training.
Explore the latest developments in legal practice with this comprehensive degree encompassing the core areas of the English legal system while offering a fascinating choice of optional subjects.
This allows you to follow your interests in areas such as medical law and ethics; family and child law; immigration and asylum law; aviation law; and international human rights law.
You also develop essential, transferable skills including the ability to ‘think on your feet’ and present your views in a reasoned, convincing manner.
Law LLB (Hons) students study a Chartered Institute of Legal Executives (CILEX) qualification that gives you examination exemptions; once you have completed the course, you can apply for employment as a legal executive in areas such as conveyancing and contract drafting.
This course is mapped to the National Association of Licensed Paralegals (NALP) guidelines, offering a dual qualification: LLB (Hons) Law and Higher Diploma in Paralegal Studies.
On graduating, you can become an NALP member and work as a paralegal.
All our LLB courses cover the Foundation of Legal Knowledge subjects and satisfy the requirements set by the Bar Standards Board for the academic component of Bar training.
Upon successfully completing the LLB with a minimum grade of 2:ii, graduates who wish to qualify as barristers will be able to progress on to the Bar training course.
Modern Moot Court Leading legal research databases used by professionals, including LexisNexis, Westlaw and HeinOnline Oxford Law Trove, an online platform giving students access to the wealth of legal educational materials published by Oxford University Press
We offer hands-on experience of real legal work through our community Law Clinic and our award-winning Refugee Legal Assistance Project, helping those in need.
Opportunity to complete work experience at law firms such as Macfarlanes LLP and Machins Solicitors LLP as well as at Luton County Court and the Crown Prosecution Service.
This work experience counts towards your qualification as a solicitor.
Widen your experience through field trips to the Inns of Court in London, the Houses of Parliament, the UK Supreme Court, Luton Crown Court and by taking part in mooting competitions.
Attend research events organised by our Centre for Research in Law (CRiL) and guest talks by prestigious speakers including Members of Parliament, judges and leading legal practitioners from City law firms.
Benefit from our unique partnership with the University of Law , who provide SQE preparation workshops, bespoke networking opportunities, employability events, an exclusive £250 fee reduction, and other scholarship opportunities for those wishing to progress to professional legal training courses.
Studying our Law LLB (Hons) course will provide you with the in-depth knowledge and skills around the legal practice with options to specialise in various areas of law.
In core areas of study, you will be introduced to the criminal process in England and Wales as well as explore categories of criminal behaviour in our Criminal Law unit.
You will explore circumstances in which individuals may be prosecuted or plead defences, examine elements of different crimes and learn the principles, norms and social functions of criminal law.
In other areas of legal practice, you will be introduced to the foundations of Public Law while reflecting on its historical, philosophical and political developments.
This consists of looking at the state’s power to make, amend and implement law and how it is continuously being developed.
In addition, you will explore the nature of property and ownership rights in relation to land in our Land Law unit.
This involves discussing how these rights are created and transferred, investigating registered and unregistered land, and looking beyond the physicality of land through examining invisible rights such as mortgages and leases.
In civil law, our Law of Tort unit will allow you to explore the role of Tort in a societal context through engaging with common law principles while also critically analysing and evaluating case law.
Another important area of study is our Fundamentals of EU Law unit, and this will equip you with a solid understanding of EU law and politics and its role within the international community, which is crucial for future lawyers who may deal with legal issues raised by Brexit.
To add to this, you will also be introduced to the nature, creation, purpose and enforcement of trusts in our Equity and Trusts unit.
To expand your knowledge and practice, the course offers a range of optional units from exploring the role of law within commercial transactions in our Commercial Law unit; explore key legal concepts in Immigration and Asylum Law; analyse topical issues such as abortion and organ transplants or donation in our Medical Law and Ethics unit; learn how an individuals is prosecuted and defendant at a criminal trial in our Criminal Litigation and Evidence unit; or learn of will drafting law and estate administration in our Probate and Wills unit.
In addition to this, we also offer optional units in Employment Law, Public International Law, Civil Litigation and Advocacy, International Human Rights Law, Aviation Law, Company Law, Intellectual Property Law, Family and Child Law and Conveyancing.
To assist you in practice, you will be provided with a solid understanding of the English Legal System while developing your professional legal skills in our Academic and Legal Skills unit.
This is crucial in supporting your ability to find and use legal sources, process this information, prepare and apply legal materials and to identify, read and present legal cases.
To apply this knowledge, our Legal Practice unit will help to develop your professional skills through understanding principles of professional integrity, confidentiality and legal ethics.
Finally, you will complete a Dissertation into an area of public interest by analysing and evaluating a range of legal research under the guidance of a supervisor.
The course has been carefully designed to develop a wide range of academic, legal and practical skills, including by giving you the opportunity to engage with a varied range of assessment methods.
A developing range of assessments will enable you to grow in confidence and demonstrate your acquisition of knowledge and skills.
In the final year of your course, the dissertation unit will allow you to undertake a complex research project in a subject area of your choosing.
With the support of your supervisor, you will be expected to formulate a relevant and viable research question.
The project will allow you to further develop your legal research skills and the ability to communicate knowledge, findings and recommendations.
For students who aim to get into the legal professions, this course is your first step towards professional qualification to become a solicitor or to practice at the Bar.
Even without acquiring further professional qualifications, the course provides a solid foundation for access to a range of graduate roles in the legal sector, for instance as a paralegal or member of court staff; in the civil service (whether in local or central government); or in third-sector organisations working with offenders and victims of crime.
In addition to building your legal knowledge, our law degrees will help you to improve your career prospects by developing essential professional skills, including the ability to ‘think on your feet’ and to present your point of view in a clear, reasoned and convincing manner.
In this way, it prepares you for a career in a broader range of graduate roles within the criminal justice system, including in the police, prison administration and other law enforcement agencies.
This course will also provide you with the necessary research and critical analysis skills which you will need if you choose to pursue further study at Master’s level and beyond.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/law-with-criminology:
Our law courses are in the UK top 10 in their field for student satisfaction and teaching quality (CUG and Times, 2025).
Our criminology courses rank 12th overall in the UK in their subject field (Times GUG, 2025).
Study the latest developments in legal practice with this comprehensive degree focusing on crime and punishment.
Through the course, you gain an in-depth knowledge of all core areas of the English legal system while also exploring the theories and approaches at the forefront of the current criminological debate including topical issues such as youth crime and comparative youth justice; corporate and organised crime; victimisation; and rehabilitation of offenders.
We offer hands-on experience of real legal work through our community Law Clinic and our award-winning Refugee Legal Assistance Project , helping those in need.
Widen your experience through field trips to the Inns of Court in London, the Houses of Parliament, the UK Supreme Court, Luton Crown Court, and by taking part in mooting competitions.
Attend research events organised by our Centre for Research in Law (CRiL) and guest talks by prestigious speakers, including Members of Parliament, judges and leading legal practitioners from City law firms.
Benefit from our unique partnership with the University of Law , who provide SQE preparation workshops, bespoke networking opportunities, employability events, an exclusive £250 fee reduction and other scholarship opportunities for those wishing to progress to professional legal training courses.
Studying our Law with Criminology LLB (Hons) course will provide you with in-depth knowledge and skills around criminology and the criminal justice system.
To support your learning in this unit, you will be introduced to the criminal process in England and Wales and categories of criminal behaviour in our Criminal Law unit.
As a result, you will then learn about the contemporary youth justice system, discuss the current delivery of youth justice services and explore the current debates around policy and practice in this area in our Youth Justice: Models and Approaches unit.
Shifting to a focus on broader society, you will also examine Violence in Modern Society as a social and cultural phenomenon.
You will learn of the legal definitions of violent crime, including its various forms including sexual violence, violence against children, terrorism, and discriminatory violence such as racial or homophobic violence.
This unit will allow you to discuss the contexts in which violence occurs while also looking at how different types of media feature violence in ‘entertainment’.
In other core areas of study, you will be introduced to various units including Contract Law where you will learn how contracts are formed and regulated, as well as the legal issues that arise when contractual relationships break down.
Separately, you will explore the nature of property and ownership rights in relation to land in our Land Law unit, while also exploring the role of Tort in a societal context in our Law of Tort unit through engaging with and critically analysing case law.
To add to the foundations of your law study, you will be introduced to Constitutional and Administrative Law where you will learn of the UK’s constitution and the impact that the European Union and Council of Europe has on this.
On the other end, you will also gain a solid understanding of EU law and politics in our Fundamentals of EU Law unit which is crucial for future lawyers who may deal with legal issues raised by Brexit.
If you are passionate about human rights, then our International Human Rights Law unit will equip you with the fundamental principles for the protection and promotion of human rights such as education, working conditions and freedom of expression.
To assist you in practice, you will be provided with a solid understanding of the English Legal System that will be crucial in supporting your ability to conduct legal research and utilise legal sources while developing your professional legal skills in our Academic and Legal Skills unit.
Throughout the course, you will be involved in a variety of learning activities which are designed to foster the incremental development of your subject knowledge and transferrable skills, whilst at the same time supporting your personal and professional development.
Learning activities are structured around lectures, seminars and workshop.
The nature and format of the activities will vary from unit to unit, with emphasis being placed upon interactive learning and practice-based activities, such as mooting and debating.
The various units, and the course as a whole, are designed in such a way as to enable you, first, to adjust to university-level education, and then to develop towards greater autonomy of learning, independent analysis and critical evaluation.
Our course is taught by a team of experienced, professional and committed academics and practitioners.
The lecturers on the course combine expert knowledge underpinned by current research and professional experience which enables them to offer teaching which reflects current developments and issues within the context of contemporary practice.
Alongside these career tracks, the course prepares you for a career in a broader range of graduate roles within the criminal justice system, including in the police, prison administration and other law enforcement agencies.
In addition, by allowing you to explore criminology alongside your qualifying law degree, it will open up career opportunities in a range of other professional areas, including the probation service; youth justice and youth work; victim support; and the charity sector.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/law-with-financial-management:
Set within a cluster group of similar universities, our law courses are in the top 5 in their subject field for UK full-time graduates progressing into employment (source: HESA Graduate Outcomes for 2021/22, pub 2024).
Study the latest developments in legal practice alongside gaining valuable skills in financial management.
This course is your first step to qualifying as a solicitor or progressing to a career at the Bar.
It also prepares you for roles in the financial and commercial sector, developing your understanding of the principles that underlie the preparation, analysis and interpretation of financial information.
Modern Moot Court Leading legal research databases used by professionals, including LexisNexis, Westlaw and HeinOnline Oxford Law Trove, an online platform giving students access to the wealth of legal educational materials published by Oxford University Press New business analytics suite featuring £500K of industry-standard hardware and software, including Vensim simulation software for an immersive experience Access to Harvard Business Publishing - international learning resources providing advanced business simulations in areas such as sustainability and digital processes Reuters trading room offering the chance to experience what it’s like to be on the trading-room floor, reacting to live ‘stock-market’ data Financial databases such as FAME, Refinitiv Eikon and MarketLine to identify financial information of companies in the UK and worldwide
Studying our Law with Financial Management LLB (Hons) course will equip you with the knowledge and skills in the combined areas of law, accounting and finance.
In other areas of study, you will be introduced to Contract Law where you will learn how contracts are formed and regulated, as well as the legal issues that arise when contractual relationships break down.
If you have an interest in business, you will be able to build on your knowledge on the nature of companies and business functions in our Company Law unit in the context of the legal framework in which they are regulated.
With a specialised focus on finance, you will be given an Introduction to Economics and Finance that will expose you to basic economic theories and policies underpinned by finance concepts and techniques.
Building on this, our Financial Theory and Practice unit will discuss core finance theories for you to analyse financial statements and identify revenues and costs for management solutions and decision making.
Similarly, our Financial Management will provide you with the specialist knowledge required for financial and investment decision making based on long-term business objectives.
The LLB Law with Financial Management programme has been carefully designed to develop a wide range of academic legal and practical skills via a varied portfolio of assessment methods.
The assessments will develop incrementally across the course and allow you to gain skills and acquire knowledge receive feedback and grow, thus allowing you to implement this knowledge and feedback into subsequent assessments.
At the end of the course, completion of the assessments will demonstrate your ability to apply, analyse and evaluate current legal and financial knowledge, and communicate this in both written and presentational formats.
Thus you will be able to demonstrate a range of transferable skills relevant to your professional employability.
This degree provides the starting point for qualification as a solicitor or a barrister, particularly in the commercial sector.
Other potential career pathways include company secretary, finance departments and business advisors.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/law-with-psychology:
91% of our psychology students were satisfied with the academic support they received while studying with us (NSS, 2024).
On this combined course, you gain an in-depth knowledge of the core areas of the English legal system alongside exploring the fascinating fields of criminal, investigative and forensic psychology.
It is your first step to qualifying as a solicitor or progressing to a career at the Bar while also developing skills you might use for professional roles in the criminal justice system, such as those needed to be a forensic practitioner.
Studying our Law with Psychology LLB (Hons) course will equip you with the knowledge and skills in the combined areas of law psychology and human behaviour.
In areas of criminology, you will be introduced to the criminal process in England and Wales as well as explore categories of criminal behaviour in our Criminal Law unit.
To deepen your understanding of criminal behaviour, our Psychology and Criminal Behaviour unit will cover a range of compelling issues, theories and research in criminal and forensic psychology.
This will help you understand the contexts in which criminal behaviour occurs and subsequently learn to assess and rehabilitate various types of offenders based on different types of crime including stalking, violence and terrorism.
To effectively rehabilitate offenders within the prison system, our Applied Forensic Psychology unit will teach you to investigate and evaluate various treatment and rehabilitation programmes for both people in custody and for those following release from custody to prevent relapses in behaviour.
These concepts will allow you to then discuss psychology in a broader context, such as in the English and Welsh Criminal Justice System that is taught in our Psychology and Criminal Justice unit.
Here, you will learn how this science contributes to law-making processes, enforcement and prosecution in criminal justice settings.
On the other end, you will also gain a solid understanding of European Union law and politics in our Fundamentals of EU Law unit which is crucial for future lawyers who may deal with legal issues raised by Brexit.
If you are passionate about Family and Child Law, this unit will allow you to explore legal issues around adult relationships, such as divorce or domestic violence, and regulating children’s life situations such as in the case of children’s rights, child protection, adoption and parental responsibility.
The course has been carefully designed to develop a wide range of academic legal and practical skills including by giving you the opportunity to engage with a varied range of assessment methods.
In the final year of your course the dissertation unit will allow you to undertake a complex research project in a subject area of your choosing.
With the support of your supervisor you will be expected to formulate a relevant and viable research question.
The project will allow you to further develop your legal research skills and the ability to communicate knowledge findings and recommendations.
For students who aim to get into the legal professions this course is your first step towards professional qualification to become a solicitor or to practice at the Bar.
Even without acquiring further professional qualifications the course provides a solid foundation for access to a range of graduate roles in the legal sector for instance as a paralegal or member of court staff; in the civil service (whether in local or central government); or in third-sector organisations working with offenders and victims of crime.
Alongside these career tracks the course prepares you for a career in a broader range of graduate roles within the criminal justice system including in the police prison administration and other law enforcement agencies.
In addition by allowing you to explore psychology alongside your qualifying law degree it will open up career opportunities in a range of other professional areas including youth justice and youth work; victim support and mental health advocacy; and the charity sector.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/management:
Close collaboration with local, national and international business communities prepare you for the ever-evolving world of work.
Our MSc in Management recognises the need to produce postgraduates who have a wide variety of skills within the field of management such as problem solving, leadership, communications, teamwork, stakeholder analysis and management, planning and organising, and self-management.
For further course information, contact Dr Omar Al-Habash at omar.al-habash@beds.ac.uk
I have extensive teaching and research experience and has led many modules across business & management, accounting & finance, and economics.
I pride myself on delivering a deep level of human insight always with a focus on actionable recommendations.
I have worked as a consultant and market researcher for a considerable amount of time.
My research addresses the issue of ownership and location advantages affecting multinational enterprises’ (MNEs) entry mode strategies in developing countries.
Studying our Management MSc course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills to engage in the strategic, effective and tactical management of local and international businesses.
You will be able to practice core management skills such as in collaboration, teamwork, numeracy, negotiation, problem-solving and research in diverse business environments to deal with diverse management challenges.
To enhance your transition to the industry, our unit in Management Theory and Practice will provide you with an opportunity for experiential learning.
Here, you will be able to build on your personal, interpersonal and business skills to improve your professional working practice and increase your employability.
In addition, this unit will allow you to examine contemporary management theories and practice in light of real-world business issues.
Building on this, our unit in Global Human Resource Management will develop your skills and knowledge in key business areas, including equipping you with an understanding of the global business environment and its impact on human resource management (HRM) practices.
You will learn to lead and manage diverse teams in various geographical locations while enriching your HR specialist knowledge in areas of global talent management, international employment law, cultural communication and global HRM.
At the same time, you will learn to provide strategic HR advice, engage in stakeholder management and consultancy services in a global context.
Aside from this, you will consider a prevalent element in the field of management – sustainability.
Business Sustainability in Practice will expose you to business impacts on the natural environment while allowing you to consider how these impacts can be managed to improve the environmental sustainability of large and small businesses to meet its obligations – such as transition to net or zero greenhouse gas emissions or other pollutants.
You will also be introduced to the concept of environmental management systems and the UN Sustainability Development Goals (SDG) that will allow you to enhance your management skills and assess business and management practices to develop strategic and operational opportunities to embed sustainability more deeply throughout an organisation.
On successful completion you will have the skills to follow career opportunities in the following industries: financial services; management services; consulting; marketing; or advertising.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/marketing:
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and the Institute of Data and Marketing (IDM), offering discounts on exam and membership fees.
Opportunity to take CIM’s Introductory Certificate in Marketing qualification with further exemptions for the CIM Professional Certificate and Diploma.
This professionally accredited degree covers the latest developments in communications, artificial intelligence, and digital and social media alongside critical marketing areas like consumer behaviour, data analysis, management, branding, innovation and popular culture.
You engage with both theory and practice, making links between your studies and workplace practice through real-life marketing scenarios and real-world projects.
Placements are also available to get you that career-powered start to life after you graduate.
This includes real live projects in our Marketing Club.
You'll be working with small business enterprise (SME) strategies, and client collaborations through the Marketing Club.
From dissecting marketer success in Semester one to crafting live campaigns in Semester two.
Take a look at our marketing hub
Our courses are accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and the Institute of Data and Marketing (IDM), offering you exemptions from units, and discounts on exam and membership fees.
Access to Semrush campaign management software for digital marketing.
Access to databases such as the Institute of Data and Marketing (IDM).
Our student-led Marketing Club is run in association with the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), and organises field trips and workshop events.
Our industry panel includes representatives from a broad base of organisations.
Benefit from our focus on making links between your studies and workplace practice through real-life marketing scenarios and real-world projects .
Our student-led Marketing Club, affiliated with CIM , runs field trips, events and workshops across a wide range of marketing areas, building your knowledge base and skills.
Maximise your learning with visits from industry specialists and professionals including senior staff from Bute Street Festival, IBM Global Markets, Luton Town Football Club, Andrews UK, RetroGames, West Wing Studios and Wonderbly.
Gain professional insights with field trips to digital marketing agencies and museums including the award-winning Receptional and Museum of Brands.
Attend industry events and practice pitching campaign ideas to companies such as Boots, among others.
Dive into real-world marketing with hands-on projects, SME strategies, and client collaborations through the Marketing Club.
Take a look at our marketing hub.
Studying our Marketing BSc (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills around communications, business and marketing that will turn you into a curious and questioning marketer.
In core areas of study, you will be introduced to the Principles of Marketing that will uncover specialised knowledge around the marketing mix, the dynamics of innovation, marketplace analysis and data-driven marketing, all of which you will use to create simple marketing plans while addressing the important questions - such as how we make buying decisions or how product and branding decisions are made.
By combining traditional and emerging techniques, you will receive an Introduction to Digital Marketing and Analytics where you will discover digital marketing and brand building techniques used to implement effective digital campaigns while learning to interpret customer-related data from digital and AI analytics tools.
More interestingly, you will discover the ins and outs of working with a range of brands and how to uniquely market what might be some of your favourite products in our Brand Management unit.
This will equip you with the industry skills to analyse brand management strategies, feedback and performance to really understand the beating heart of today’s brands.
It is also important that you understand the people you are marketing to - and this is where our Consumer Behaviour unit will allow you to discover how people think, act and interact with a range of brands and use this knowledge to identify how brands communicate with unique audiences and develop successful marketing plans to reach them.
With an innovative approach, you will also explore traditional and newer forms of Marketing Communications in the Digital Age to discover how brands use viral or influencer marketing on social media, AI, beacon and even virtual reality marketing.
Building on this, you will develop the numerical skills that are crucial for the modern marketer in our Digital Communications Strategy unit while also learning to apply techniques in the design and management of contemporary marketing communication strategies in our Digital Marketing Communications unit.
To fuel the modern marketer in you, our Marketing in a Global Context unit will enable you to analyse, create and implement global marketing strategies to improve company performance and competitiveness.
You will also develop the strategic skills to take a business or organisation closer towards growth and success, which will help you stand out as a modern marketer with our units in Strategic Leadership and Strategic Business Planning.
You will also diversify your skills by developing the mathematical and numerical techniques used for decision-making and problem-solving processes that are increasingly in demand in the business sector within our Applied Numeracy for Business unit.
Placing your practice in the context of marketing responsibility is where our Marketing Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) unit will introduce you to theories on ethics, CSR and purpose that will allow you to practice as a responsible and fair marketer.
Innovation is yet another key to your practice and this is where our Digital Innovation and Entrepreneurship unit will familiarise you with the industry skills to use digital technologies to design and enhance innovative business models.
Among our optional units, you may also gain advanced insight into Interactive Marketing Management to develop your IT skills around analytics, database management and programmable marketing techniques.
Moreover, if you have an interest in working in Small to Medium Enterprises (SME’s), where many of our alumni have been successful, our Marketing for SMEs unit will allow you to develop your creativity, customer relationship and content creation skills targeted towards the development of SMEs in a well-connected business environment at the University.
Finally, our Business Project unit will allow you to identify and analyse emerging and contemporary issues in marketing ranging from client, brand and organisational challenges.
The assessment strategy supports the course's focus on being an independent learner and employability.
Your subject knowledge and key skills such as team work communication information literacy research and evaluation creativity and critical thinking are tested throughout the course using various relevant assessments to meet the learning outcomes as well as your different learning styles.
The key subject themes increase in intensity as you progress to the next level and then to the final year allowing you to build on previous knowledge.
The assessments are therefore designed to support you to work both in a team and independently.
The assessments reflects incremental learning as well as focus on being a confident independent learner by providing more group work opportunities at the start of your course to build your team skills and engagement and progresses to more individual and guided assessments to challenge you academically and professionally.
The variations of assessments you will engage with ensures that you accumulate all the skills necessary to interact efficiently within the world of marketing.
For all assessments you will have an assignment brief which clearly sets out requirements and the criteria for grading your work; this develops your understanding of the assessment standards and what is needed to do well at a task.
You will receive feedback on all your assessments to enable you to improve your learning.
It is important that you use this feedback accordingly to maximise your performance on future assignments and to buttress your learning.
The combination of subjects you will take throughout this course will allow you to think rigorously and creatively about problems.
Employers value people who can get things done and on this course you will bring the thinking and doing together.
The course will enable you to access a varied career path which will enable you to experience marketing and marketing communications and potentially be employed within areas of integrated brand communications specialist marketing or in-house functions e.g.
advertising client-side brand management business to business marketing industrial marketing and for Not for Profit organisations.
Alternatively you may want to further your studies in specialist areas of marketing communications e.g.
corporate communications media planning or take a Masters programme including MA Marketing MSc Marketing Communications and some MBA programmes.
Marketing provides you with a hands-on approach to gaining skills in a fast-paced marketing environment.
You will learn from our academic staff with relevant professional backgrounds and extensive industry experiences as you engage with real marketing projects.
Lecturer

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/marketing-masters:
Assessments linked to live projects where you can engage with industry professionals and find real business solutions.
Course curricula align with professional bodies like the Chartered Management Institute.
Our business and management courses rank 4th overall in their subject field in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024, with top 3 rankings for teaching, student engagement, community and organisation.
MSc Marketing is aimed at providing a comprehensive understanding of marketing in the 21st century.
It is both global and strategic in outlook, helping you understand the complex and dynamic world of marketing.
You learn how to reconcile operational, tactical and strategic approaches with a deep awareness of the impact that the digital world is having on how we consider marketing.
Key areas include responsible leadership, digital business acumen, and equality, diversity, and inclusivity (EDI).
Studying our Marketing MSc course will equip you with a range of knowledge and skills in the principles of marketing, brand engagement, digital consumer behaviour and analytics to name a few.
You will be able to explore Brand Management concepts and theories in the global marketplace with a strategic approach for organisational competitiveness.
In this unit, you will be able to apply these brand management strategies in diverse marketing and business contexts.
Paired with our unit in Consumer Behaviour, you will analyse the psychological, emotional and societal influences on consumer choices as you learn to impact consumer decisions in real-world scenarios.
Based on this, you will learn to turn marketing theories into actionable strategies as you develop the skills to engage with consumers online in a digital sphere, in-line with contemporary trends.
On successful completion, this course opens up a world of career opportunities in the public, private and not-for-profit sectors from large global organisations to small and medium enterprises nationally and locally.
You may also wish to work freelance or set up your own agency.
You will have the skills to follow a career in brand management; advertising; sales; account management; media management; media buying; marketing research; or public relations.
You will also be well prepared for further academic study at MPhil or PhD level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/marketing-data-analytics:
Our new business analytics suite features £300K of industry-standard hardware and software including specialist marketing analytics software.
Get involved in consultancy projects: in 2023/24, our Business School students engaged with businesses around 7,000 times, using their knowledge and skills to support real-life projects.
Power up your career with a course designed to meet the growing demand for graduates who can use leading-edge, industry-standard analytics tools such as R, Python, Excel and Tableau.
You learn to transform market and customer data into business insights, using your findings to make strategic and tactical marketing recommendations that drive business success.
The course appeals to those with strong numerical or analytical skills, or who are keen on developing these skills to boost their career opportunities.
If you have any questions about the course, please contact the course leader, Dr Long Vo at long.vo@beds.ac.uk
New, state-of-the-art business analytics suite to support data analytics, 'big-data', data mining, digital marketing, SEO and other management skills Access to Semrush campaign management software for digital marketing and resources from the Institute of Data and Marketing (IDM) Access to R, Python, SQL and other industry software
Constant training in data analytics using industry-appropriate software offers you many opportunities to explore how customer data and marketing metrics can help support data-informed decisions.
Learn from experts in data analysis who teach you how to make marketing decisions around target customer profile selection; which product features to develop; and how much to invest in a campaign while still maintaining profitability.
Join our student Marketing Club , affiliated with the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), and attend workshops on a range of areas – recent workshops have been on neuromarketing, AI and influencer marketing.
Recent industry visitors include senior staff from Bute Street Festival; IBM Global Markets; Luton Town Football Club; Andrews UK; RetroGames; West Wing Studios; and Wonderbly.
See digital marketing and data analytics in action with field trips to relevant companies and agencies.
Units for year 1
Units for year 2
Units for year 3 (year 4 with PPY, where year 3 is your professional practice year)
Course work; practical tests; exams; group and individual project work.
The course may appeal to those working in marketing/business who wish to advance their career and improve their decision making by using a data-driven approach.
On graduation, you can expect to be highly in demand and command an above-average graduate salary.
Typical job roles would be marketing analyst, marketing strategist, customer insight specialist or business analyst.
You can also choose to progress onto one of the University’s postgraduate courses such as our MBA with Data Analytics, MSc Business Analytics or MSc Digital Marketing.
GCSE grade 5 Maths or equivalent

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/mass-communications:
Experienced, research-active team including specialists with industry backgrounds in journalism, political communications and broadcast media, to name a few.
Opportunities to meet visiting, industry-active professionals and academics, including those involved in media production and international development.
This Master’s opens up career options in the media and communication industries including online media, broadcasting, journalism, regulation and media research.
This course examines the key issues affecting media and communication in a culturally diverse, modern society.
It explores issues related to social media, print and broadcasting, building your understanding of how interconnected the industry is as elements of mass media continue to converge.
You explore the theories that underpin the practice of media and communication – including policy and ethical issues - while placing theory in real-life scenarios and developing your skills in critical analysis, research and communication.
For further course information, contact Lawrie Hallett at lawrie.hallett@beds.ac.uk
Broadcast TV studio and newsroom with radio news booth and transmission gallery RadioLaB, our own local, online and FM community radio station, offering extra-curricular opportunities to get involved in broadcasting or producing shows Access to our Postgraduate and CPD Centre featuring state-of-the-art IT and AV equipment; informal learning spaces; and quiet study areas
Explore the central issues and concepts of mass communications in a culturally diverse and modern society, looking at media practices, effective content delivery and media regulation.
Develop a global perspective via a core unit on the media’s role in international development.
Tailor elements of the course to your own interests (subject to staff supervisory expertise) in your final independent dissertation, based on a specific research project.
Learn from an experienced, research-active team that includes specialists with professional industry backgrounds in audience studies, journalism, political communications, broadcast media, technologies and regulation.
Take up opportunities to network with visiting industry and academic experts through University events and conferences including guest speaker events as well as seminars organised by our Research Institute for Media, Arts and Performance (RIMAP).
Benefit from one-on-one and group tutorials with your personal tutor as well as wider professional and academic support, including academic writing skills for those who have English as a second language.
I've been lucky enough to work in broadcasting all my adult life.
From working as a producer and presenter on stations in the UK and elsewhere in Europe, I went on to run a broadcast engineering and design company, before becoming a broadcast consultant specialising in technology and community-based broadcasting.
Studying our Mass Communications MA course will provide you with knowledge and skills in the world of media and communication.
To build on the foundations of your study, you will explore the political economy of the media in our Media Institutions, Structures and Policies unit.
Here, you will examine concepts from press freedom and de-regulation to public sector broadcasting and the adaptation of media institutions.
You will explore various factors and relationships that involve the state and the media, the media and its audiences, media economics and technological changes in the media industry.
Furthermore, you will develop a firm understanding of the major issues of media theory in our Current Research in Mass Communications unit while also discovering advanced levels of media theory.
You will also consider the main issues in Media and International Development including democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and media structures.
To demonstrate the knowledge and skills gained from this course, our Final Project in Mass Communications will give you the opportunity to produce a dissertation on a specialist media topic of your interest.
To help you in this investigation, you will be introduced to Research Methods used to study the media in relation to government, enterprise and scholarship.
More importantly, this will help you develop the skills to produce a research proposal with the appropriate methods and ethical considerations in place.
The course is fully compliant with University regulations for assessment mitigation appeals and complaints.
The assessment strategy is designed to provide students with the knowledge and skills that are required in a professional environment.
Assessments take a variety of forms including written work (essay report research proposal dissertation) oral presentations and practical work (empirical research).
For some assessments there will be opportunity for formative feedback on assessments-in-progress before the assessment deadline and you are encouraged to integrate formative and summative feedback into your work in order to develop as mass media experts and academic researchers.
The knowledge and understanding you gain on this course will be invaluable when seeking employment in the media.
In addition the project work on the course helps you make professional and industry contacts while developing specialist knowledge of a specific area of personal interest helping you develop your career in that direction if you choose.
Typical areas for Mass Communications graduates to find employment include broadcasting; journalism; media development; arts administration; photography; theatre; media research; PR and advertising; design; and copywriting.
It can also open the way to work in areas such as education and human resource management.
As an MA graduate you also have the opportunity to study at Doctoral level with an MPhil or PhD.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/mechanical-engineering:
Our mechanical engineering course ranks in the UK top 5 in its subject field for learning opportunities, organisation and management of studies, and student voice (NSS, 2024).
Our mechanical engineering course ranks in the UK top 10 in its subject field for assessment and feedback (NSS, 2024).
Use industry-standard engineering software suites such as AutoCAD, Ansys, MATLAB, DesignBuilder and COMSOL Multiphysics.
This course offers you the in-depth technical training you need to begin your career as a practising mechanical engineer.
You practise in our on-campus labs as well as in those belonging to local industry partners, giving you the opportunity to develop or contribute to real-world solutions around transportation, energy, power generation and manufacturing.
You gain a thorough background in engineering science, structural mechanics and dynamics before moving onto specialist advanced units including sustainable energy systems.
The university is currently seeking accreditation also from the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE), opening up career opportunities in industries ranging from manufacturing and energy to consultancy and design.
Access to our modern STEM building with a range of laboratory facilities including general engineering Specialist mechatronics and product design labs with solder stations, 3D printer and an extensive range of manufacturing tools Cutting-edge equipment provided by leading suppliers such as National Instruments and Rohde & Schwarz Industry-standard software suites, from AutoCAD and Ansys to MATLAB, DesignBuilder and COMSOL Multiphysics
Take on real-world work projects in collaboration with industry partners such as The Welding Institute, Jaguar Land Rover and Grippatank.
Our hands-on approach gives you both the practical skills and technical knowledge needed to tackle a range of business and customer needs.
Take part in field trips to industry leaders like Jaguar Land Rover, Jaltek Systems and the London Automotive Show.
Learn from guest speakers at the forefront of the field in our regular interactive demonstrations and lectures.
Get involved in opportunities such as the UAV payload competition , designed to enhance your analytical and project management skills.
Benefit from the support of dedicated academic success tutors .
Our industry-experienced academics are involved in real-world research and consultancy, keeping their teaching at the cutting edge of developments in the field.
Studying our Mechanical Engineering BEng (Hons) course will equip you with the knowledge, skills and expertise in the areas of mechanics, engineering and dynamics.
In core areas of study, our unit in Engineering Mathematics will allow you to perform mathematical calculations to solve real-world problems within the field of engineering.
As a student in the field of computer science, you will also be given an Introduction to Software Development where you will learn the fundamentals on how to develop software, identify, analyse and model problems, test programs and distinguish between forms of programming and modelling.
Furthermore, you will build an understanding of Engineering Design and Manufacture along with relevant software used for engineering design, while also developing your knowledge of Mechanics and Heat Transfer to be able to design and apply relevant heat transfer systems.
Within your engineering design, it is also important that you have a good understanding of how to select materials and therefore, our Engineering Structure, Materials and Analysis will allow you to practise this.
Similarly, you will discover theory and practices in the design and performance of Power Cycles and Power Systems.
Aside from this, you will develop your knowledge on the properties and principles of fluid and flows and thermodynamics in our Fluid Dynamics, Thermofluids and Modelling unit.
This closely links to our Thermal Systems and Applications unit where you will be introduced to theory and practices within the design and performance of various thermal systems.
In more technical areas, you will learn to use typical sensors, control strategies and interface technology in our Dynamics, Measurements and Control unit.
In an effort to support sustainable practice, you will explore Sustainable Energy Technologies such as solar and wind energy, hydropower, etc., and how to incorporate this within your engineering practice.
To help you with this, our Research Methodologies and Project Management unit will support you in contextualising your project idea, teach you to create the define appropriate methodologies and equip you with strategies to implement your project.
The students will be assessed in a variety of ways.
The majority of units are assessed through coursework group and individual projects portfolios essays presentations and exams.
The students will also be expected to produce software/hardware artifacts in specialist units.
At level 4 assessments will focus on the understanding of the fundamental concepts in design material and thermal engineering techniques that are related to mechanical engineering.
The students are expected to articulate the concepts in a coherent manner in a variety of written assessments/written briefs.
At level 5 assessment focus will be on the ability to perform critical analysis including the needs for different or new solutions to the existing problems where there are already a body of solutions and critical opinions.
The students are also expected to be able to synthesize the different or new solutions either independently or working in teams.
At level 6 assessments will address initiatives and creative thinking.
The students are encouraged to identify problems and to develop their own solutions to the problems.
They are also required to critically evaluate their own solutions.
At this level the students will progress from well-defined briefs to more open-ended and challenging assessments which culminate in their major project – the honours project.
You gain the skills you need for a career in engineering, benefitting from our industry links with local and national companies.
Graduates with this degree go on to engineering careers in industries such as energy, manufacturing, automotive and aerospace.
They may also choose to specialise in associated fields, taking up careers in product design and/or development; systems optimisation; quality control; and customer services, to name a few.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/mechanical-engineering-masters:
Students have the opportunity to work with a number of leading industry partners such as The Welding Institute, JLR and London Luton Airport.
Our specialist engineering labs with industry-standard equipment and the latest technology prepare you for real-world working environments.
Learn from experts in their fields who are active in research and consultancy.
With its blend of innovative teaching, hands-on experience and key skill development, this MSc allows you to experience a blend of postgraduate taught modules; exciting research opportunities; field trips to state-of-the-art engineering and business facilities; and access to cutting-edge technology and tools including the latest advanced software.
You learn in an immersive environment, using the latest technologies in mechanical engineering, with an emphasis on applying your advanced engineering knowledge to real-life practice.
Dr Rohitha Weerasinghe is a Senior Lecturer at University of Bedfordshire in Mechanical Engineering.
After graduating from Imperial College London where he read gas turbine combustion, he worked in academia as well as in the industry for more than 20 years.
He has specific expertise in Energy, Mechanical Engineering and Automotive Engineering, Computational Fluid Dynamics and energy modelling with working experience in the building industry as a principal energy and sustainability specialist.
Studying our Mechanical Engineering MSc course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise in the areas of mechanical systems, transport and automotive engineering technologies.
In core areas of study, you will develop your knowledge and understanding of typical sensors, actuators, control strategies, interface technology and learn to apply them to electro-mechanical systems in our Mechanical Dynamics and Mechatronics unit.
Furthermore, our unit in Applied Heat Transfer, Thermofluids and Computational Fluid Dynamics will provide you with the advanced knowledge and skills around heat transfer, the principles of thermodynamics and fluid dynamics, thermodynamic processes and systems.
In areas of sustainability, you will consider concepts of mechanical and thermal energy as well as theory and practice relating to the design and performance analysis of sustainable energy systems in our Advanced Mechanical Systems and Sustainable Energy Systems unit.
More importantly, you will have the opportunity to produce preliminary designs for power and energy systems.
Finally, you will complete an MSc Project in Mechanical Engineering that will allow you to bring your acquired skills and knowledge together in practice.
The assessment strategy used is a balance of coursework group and individual reports portfolios presentations and exams.
Presentations are usually given and assessed in the context of some coursework.
The method used for the assessments will depend on the nature of the subject being taught in the unit and the most appropriate method has been chosen.
Feedback and advice will be provided at key points throughout students course so that students can gain an insight into whether students work is meeting the necessary targets.
With the course’s emphasis on exploring the latest technologies within the mechanical engineering sector, you are ready to apply the latest real-life theory and practice to a range of settings and tools.
This opens the way to careers in automotive, railway and aerospace engineering; energy including sustainable systems; and construction, to name a few.
Roles include mechanical engineer; automotive or aerospace engineer; civil engineer; utilities engineer; and CAD technician.
The wider skills you build in taking this Master’s – such as those in IT and maths – make other career paths an option such as management finance and teaching.
You may also wish to continue your studies with an MSc by Research or PhD in a related field.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/media-production:
Industry links with sector leaders such as the BBC, ITV, Reuters, Bloomberg and UK newspapers as well as active partnerships with Coolr Social Media Agency and XR Merge Virtual Studios..
Success in the media industry means creating powerful products that communicate with target audiences through a constantly evolving range of media platforms.
This broad-based course focuses on the production process while giving you the theoretical grounding you need.
So you study practical units such as digital design, making sound and images, film-making and experimental production, combined with units ensuring your understanding of media theory, digital cultures and future digital production.
Develop live projects and enjoy work experience opportunities at industry organisations including the BBC; Coolr Social Media Agency; XR Merge Virtual Studios; Pooja Studios; Luton Town FC’s Media and PR department; MK Dons FC; and MKFM radio station.
Produce shows for our award-winning local community radio service, Radio LaB, and our in-house online TV station , Beds TV.
Regular opportunities to meet visiting, industry-active professionals , from TV producers to published writers and performers.
Recent guest speakers include Tom Wall, TV producer for Channel 4, Channel 5 and Netflix; Julian Dismore, series producer for the BBC; Hayley Morray, assistant producer at ITV; Stuart Pinfold, BBC sound supervisor; Keanu Rattray, Digital Content Manager at FIFA; and BBC Radio 1 hosts Melvin Odoom and Rickie Haywood-Williams.
Build your knowledge through field trips to studios, film festivals, award shows, conferences and other destinations including BBC Studios; BBC Broadcasting House; BT Studios; Sky Studios; RTS Awards shows; Bafta networking events; Berlin Shorts Festival; Pinewood Studios; and the TechCon, broadcast media’s technical conference.
Studying our Media Production BA (Hons) course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise around media theory, digital design and production.
In core areas of study, you will develop your understanding of a range of film and media theories in our Media Theory and Research unit while also exploring the cultural and historical contexts of contemporary film and media.
Building on this, you will also explore a variety of cultural, economic, technological and social perspectives to explain the effects of new media forms on society in our Digital Cultures and Practices unit.
With a critical approach, you will also consider Contemporary Practices and Debates in The Media in the context of their cultural, political and socio-historical developments.
In practical areas of study, you will develop your digital media production skills in our Future Digital Production unit while also building on your project management and analytical skills.
This closely links to our unit in Experimental Production where you will have the opportunity to create a short experimental production based on approaches around surrealism and expressionism as well as production practice beyond the mainstream.
Furthermore, you will learn the core skills to design and evaluate web-based media and digital imaging in our Digital Design Skills unit.
To develop your visual style, our Making Images unit will expose you to principles, techniques and the practice of image making and sound recording.
This will be particularly useful in our Reading the Screen unit where you will be introduced to the principles of audiovisual material.
Moreover, you will also critically examine Non-Fiction Filmmaking and explore theory and practice around how reality is represented in the media.
Another important element of any production is sound, and you will learn to effectively communicate with still or moving images together with sound and interaction in our Sound, Image and Interaction unit.
You will explore the potential of stills in portraying narratives and movement alongside the use of soundtracks.
Finally, you will have the opportunity to produce a piece of practical media production work or a media studies dissertation in our Special Project: Media Production unit.
If you prefer to work on a practical project, you will have the option to choose the type of production you want to submit, and this could range from a documentary film to a script supported by a 3,000-word contextual study.
With the dissertation option, you will be able to explore a topic of your interest that is strongly relevant to media studies while working on this with a supervisor.
To help you with this, our unit in Research, Development and Industry will develop your skills in production research, documentation and development.
To prepare you for the real-world environment, our unit in Becoming a Freelancer will support you in building the confidence to establish contacts in the creative industries while introducing you to the nature of freelance work.
Assessment is an integral part of your learning.
Your assessments will follow the pattern of teaching and learning.
As you complete each stage of your production we will give you feedback and give you advice on how to further develop and improve your work so that you can take it to the next stage.
We will assess both the processes you use to produce work and the quality of the final production.
The media industry expects high quality work completed to absolutely fixed distribution deadlines.
We will reflect this in our assessment of your work and so whilst the way in which you work is important, ultimately it is the quality of what you produce that will be the main influence on your grade.
The theoretical aspects of the course will be assessed through essays, presentations and computer-based examinations.
This will prepare you for writing a dissertation for your final project if you wish.
As the course progresses we will move from well-defined conventional production briefs to more open-ended challenging briefs that require you to generate new ideas and new ways of working.
You may also be required to research the availability of new production tools and apply them to your work.
We will always expect your production work to be contextualised.
You will normally be required to submit a written evaluation of your production work along with some reflection on its strengths and weaknesses.
You will also be required to relate your work to current genres and practices.
Career paths open to you in any industry that requires excellent communication and team working skills alongside understanding of different media platforms and how they work together.
Many of our graduates have now progressed to successful careers in the UK and international media.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/media-marketing-and-public-relations:
Regular, exciting opportunities to meet visiting, industry-active professionals, from TV producers and presenters to content creators and top editors.
Live projects and placement opportunities via our links with media organisations such as Coolr Social Media Agency; Luton Town Football Club’s Media and PR department; Reuters; Bloomberg; and leading UK newspapers.
Our graduates now work in communication and PR departments; events management agencies; magazine publishing; journalism; and media production.
This degree gives you a thorough understanding of both mass media and the workings of the PR industry.
The media side of the degree gives you the practical skills you need to work confidently in a rapidly evolving field.
The marketing and PR side allows you to explore a range of PR activities; develop your business skills; and build your knowledge of marketing practices, particularly around brand management and corporate communications.
Mac-equipped newsroom with radio news booth and transmission gallery Industry-standard radio facilities Award-winning, Ofcom-licensed radio station, Radio LaB In-house TV station, Beds TV Digital video-editing suites including Adobe Creative Cloud software Location-recording equipment Netflix-approved Sony FX6 cameras for broadcast-quality film and television content Sony FX3 Cinema Line camera with full-frame sensor and enhanced mobility for easy solo hand-held shooting Industry-standard sound and lighting equipment
Develop the skills to become an effective media communicator .
Learn how marketing and public relations shape businesses and corporate communications.
Learn from an academic team who are also industry professionals across journalism, marketing and PR, podcasting and radio, directing, producing and scriptwriting.
Engage directly with the industry through guest lectures, networking events, workshops and media masterclasses .
Gain personal confidence and the ability to express yourself using appropriate media to inform opinion.
Acquire valuable research and project management experience while working both independently and in teams.
Studying our Media, Marketing and Public Relations BA (Hons) course will equip you with the business skills you need to succeed in mass media, marketing and public relations (PR) industries.
In areas of marketing, you will be equipped with the fundamental knowledge around digital marketing and analytics including the tools, techniques and challenges within the field in our Introduction to Digital Marketing and Analytics unit.
In practical areas of study, you will be able to critically analyse and apply integrated marketing theory in our Topical Marketing Communications Practice unit.
More interestingly, our Consumer Behaviour unit will introduce you to theories and trends in the subject to identify how brands communicate with unique audiences and ways to develop successful marketing plans.
To familiarise you with the general media landscape, our unit in Understanding Media will allow you to engage with an academic study of the media by considering its various genres, narratives, representation, audiences and ideologies.
You will have the opportunity to participate in editing workshops and create long-form pieces of journalism so that you can demonstrate and develop your writing skills.
With a focus on digital content creation, you will also be equipped with the digital storytelling skills to record and edit audio and video to be uploaded online in our Introduction to Digital Storytelling unit.
It is also crucial that you know how to effectively present your work, and to help you with this our Print and Digital Production and Design unit will allow you to examine practical and aesthetic demands of design and pay particular attention to typography, image selection, sub-editing and web design for newspapers, magazines and online publications.
If you have a particular interest in audio storytelling, then our Radio, Audio and Podcasting unit will enable you to develop your digital audio editing skills by producing various types of content using studio and location recording techniques.
Here, you will be able to conduct your project within an area of your interest that is also relevant to your studies, and this may involve exploring topics within radio and audio, media communications, journalism, video or television.
This is an opportunity for you to showcase a range of skills such as independent thinking, perseverance, responsibility and a high standard of work.
To support you in your career, our unit in The Creative Industries will expose you to the different types of work available in the field, strategies to enter the job market and the skill you need for the industry.
Furthermore, you will be equipped with the relevant business skills to enter the industry in our Routes to Market unit where you will learn to monetise audio-visual content, how to target and distribute this content to audiences using marketing strategies.
The majority of units are assessed through coursework portfolios essays presentations or in a few cases exams.
Presentations and practice-based activities may be developed as group-work although you will be assessed individually.
At level 4 you are assessed on your understanding of the fundamental concepts and disciplines of which media communications marketing and Public Relations are composed.
At level 6 you will be required to demonstrate independent powers of judgement and you will be expected to show an awareness of the major theories and practices of the disciplines.
You will progress from well defined briefs to more open-ended and challenging assessments which culminate in the student initiated level 6 project which hopefully will combine the areas of media marketing and public relations.
Former students now work in communication and PR departments, events management agencies, magazine publishing, journalism, media production and research, digital media production and teaching.
Some former students continued their studies focusing in areas covered in the undergraduate studies such as TV production and events management.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/medical-education-pg-cert:
Designed to fit around your work schedule, combining intensive face-to-face study days with supported online and self-directed learning.
On completing this PgCert, progress seamlessly on to our Medical Education MA.
This PgCert is designed for busy medical professionals who wish to build their skills as a clinical educator but need a flexible course that can work around their other commitments.
You develop your competence as a clinical educator in both professional practice and educational settings, with a focus on contemporary practice.
This course is accredited by the Academy of Medical Educators and aligns with appropriate professional standards.
Gain the understanding and techniques you need to support the development of clinical professionals, your teams and the wider organisation.
Each unit combines study days and live online sessions that range over the semester with online learning and supported self-directed study.
Develop a critical, analytical and reflective attitude to medical and healthcare education, and grow as a medical educator and leader.
Learn from a team who bring expertise and experience from higher and professional education contexts .
Study the latest research scholarship and practice , and learn to deal with complexity, contradictions and gaps in the current evidence base.
The PgCert Medical Education includes 2 units, over two semesters.*
Studying our Medical Education PgCert course will equip you with the specialist knowledge and skills in clinical education and its practice.
You will adopt an informed and innovative approach to becoming a medical or healthcare educator by examining effective strategies for teaching, supporting learning and assessment.
Furthermore, you will examine contemporary educational perspectives in the field of higher and professional education in the fields of medicine, dentistry and wider health professions in our Educational Perspectives for the Workplace unit.
You will explore approaches to curriculum delivery, which will allow you to re-think your own approaches to teaching, learning and assessment.
The Course aims to offer transformative learning experiences which model best and creative practice in learning teaching and assessment.
The team draws upon a wide range of established and innovative approaches to learner support and development.
The learning and teaching strategy combines face-to-face contact days with supported on-line learning with students benefiting from the multi-disciplinary learning environment.
This course enhances your ability to take on more senior educational roles within your current place of employment.
The course enables you to adopt a critical stance to your own and others’ educational practice and to propose ways to enhance student and trainee learning experiences.
You may also wish to continue your academic studies.
The next steps are the University of Bedfordshire’s Master’s in Medical Education.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/medical-education-masters:
Taught by a team who bring expertise and experience from higher and professional education contexts.
This flexible, part-time Master’s offers a seamless progression from our Medical Education PgCert.
It is designed for busy medical professionals who wish to build their skills as a clinical educator but need a flexible course that can work around their other commitments.
Gain the understanding and techniques you need to support the development of clinical professionals , your teams and the wider organisation.
For students who have completed their PgCert units (total 60 credits) in Medical Education and wish to progress.
For students who have completed their PgCert and PgDip units (total 120 credits) in Medical Education and wish to progress.
Studying our Medical Education MA course will equip you with specialist knowledge and skills in clinical education and its practice.
To develop your core competencies as an educator, Clinical Education in Practice, will allow you to explore and develop strategies for teaching individuals and groups of learners across a range of settings.
You will adopt an informed and innovative approach to becoming a medical, dental or healthcare educator by examining effective strategies for teaching, supporting learning and assessment.
In Understanding Learning in the Workplace, you will continue to explore the socio-political factors that influence the design, delivery and assessment of education and training.
With a critical approach, Educational Policy and Leadership will encourage to analyse theories and policies that impact the educational landscape while also allowing you to recognise the complex environments where educational leadership is required.
At the same time, you will develop your personal skills to positively influence teaching and learning by combining a range of leadership tools to enhance the quality of your service.
In particular, you will be supported to construct a research proposal that feeds into the Research Project Dissertation where you will develop and conduct an individual research project into a topic of your own interest relevant to medical/dental education.
The course is aligned to appropriate professional standards and is suitable for educational and clinical supervisors.
It builds your ability to take on more senior educational roles within your current place of employment by enabling you to adopt a critical stance to your own and others’ educational practice and to propose ways of enhancing student and trainee learning experiences.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/mental-health-nursing:
Our mental health nursing courses rank UK 7th in their subject field overall (Guardian, 2025)
Our mental health nursing courses tied UK 1st in their subject field for satisfaction with assessment and were in the top 10 for satisfaction with teaching (Guardian GUG, 2025)
92% of our mental health nursing students were satisfied with the learning opportunities their course offered and how well it developed knowledge and skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
The relationship between a person with a mental illness and their nurse is central to helping them back to mental health.
On this course, you learn safe, effective nursing care that meets the needs of those with a mental health problem.
It also teaches you to adapt your skills to individual situations, keeping the service user and their family at the centre of your care.
Your learning is practice based, with 50% of your time in settings such as hospitals, prisons, residential centres and service users’ homes.
All our Nursing courses are regulated by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
On successful completion of your course, you can register with the NMC as a mental health nurse.
Access to the latest medical/health equipment and facilities at regional hospitals and community health settings during placements At our Luton campus, a new, fully immersive simulation floor situated in our modern STEM building, taking you from mock home and hospital for hands-on experience of a range of settings Simulation wards with a range of medical-grade, high-fidelity training mannequins to tackle real-life scenarios in a safe and supported environment For students based with Oxford Health Foundation Trust in Aylesbury, we have a three-storey building with simulation ward; classrooms; library; social learning spaces; and computer study facilities
Our strong links with regional healthcare providers mean you can secure a local practice placement anywhere where our Trust partners have services in Bedfordshire and Buckinghamshire .
Mental Health Nursing, Adult Nursing and Midwifery students gain a wider range of expertise through general units taught by tutors from all three courses.
On placement, you undertake a mix of early, late, long-day and night shifts to ensure you experience typical shift patterns for a healthcare professional.
Prior to joining the University Of Bedfordshire in June 2013, I worked at the forefront of mental health service delivery, with an Assertive Outreach Team.
As a qualified Mental Health Nurse for over 15 years, I have worked in a variety of settings within teams.
I have been a mentor and sign-off mentor to students for many years in various clinical settings and have had the privilege of working with students from other disciplines.
Studying our Mental Health Nursing BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills to support and meet the needs of people struggling with mental illness and to nurse them back to health.
To build on your foundations, you will be given an introduction to the historical and contemporary context of mental health care in our Care Across the Lifespan in Mental Health Nursing unit.
Here, you will develop your understanding of mental health, mental illness and your role as a nurse to support people’s mental wellbeing with the opportunity to engage in mental health nursing in practice learning environments.
To support you in practice, you will be given an Introduction to Nursing Interventions, and this unit will equip you with the basic nursing skills and interventions as well as develop your confidence to perform them using evidence-based and best practice approaches.
You will develop these skills further in our Assessment and Interventions in Mental Health Nursing Practice unit where you will learn and apply a range of assessment strategies and intervention techniques when working with people who access mental health services to support their recovery.
Bringing the knowledge from these two units together, you will learn to play a critical role in the planning and delivery of care according to current policies while adopting an empowering and person-centered approach to support people on their journey to recovery in our unit in Planning, Delivering and Coordinating Care Across Agencies for People with Mental Health Problems.
In more advanced areas, our Leading Complex Care in a Mental Health Nursing unit will expose you to the principles of leadership risk management and how to apply this to complex care in a mental health setting.
Your work as a nurse is also increasingly informed evidence-based practice, and this is where our unit in Exploring Evidence will equip you with the knowledge and skills to understand the importance of evidence-based nursing practice.
You will also make sure to support people to become active participants in their own care by providing them with the skills to self-manage their condition in our Supporting Learning unit.
This will also enable you to pursue a topic of your own interest that is relevant to your field of practice while also supporting you to plan, carry out and report your own project.
As a registered mental health nurse, you can go on to develop a rewarding career in the UK and overseas in acute in-patient mental healthcare; community-based mental healthcare; residential care settings; or specialisms (such as secure care, outreach, and drug and alcohol services).
In mental health nursing, we offer postgraduate study at Master's and Doctoral level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/mental-health-nursing-masters:
On successful completion of your course, you can register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a mental health nurse.
Local practice placements with healthcare providers available in Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, Hertfordshire, Milton Keynes, Oxfordshire or East London.
Mental health nursing offers a range of rewarding and exciting career opportunities within the healthcare system.
If you have a degree in a health, social care or health science-related subject and have the dedication to study while working full-time, this Master’s degree will enable you to become a registered mental health nurse in two years.
Delivered by a team of highly skilled lecturers and practitioners, taught sessions take place in our immersive suites that offer real-world, online mental health-based scenarios.
All our nursing and midwifery courses are regulated by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
Access to professional medical/health facilities and equipment at placement hospitals and community health settings New, fully immersive simulation floor in our modern STEM building which takes you from mock home and hospital, allowing hands-on experience of a range of scenarios Simulation wards with a range of medical-grade, high-fidelity training mannequins to tackle real-life scenarios in a safe and supported environment
Our academic team are research active and have published widely in their fields , in journals including British Journal of Nursing, Journal of Psychiatric Mental Health, Human Psychopharmacology, Mental Health Practice, International Journal of Mental Health Nursing and Nurse Education Today.
Our Mental Health Nursing lecturers are involved in international, national and local research projects , working collaboratively to produce impactful research in areas such as the mental health of student nurses and addictions in the community.
Studying our Mental Health Nursing MSc course will develop your knowledge and skills needed to become a resilient, caring and reflective nurse to care for adults with mental health issues professionally and compassionately.
With an Introduction to Mental Health Nursing Practice, you will work under the supervision of nursing teams to deliver care to people with mental illnesses based on their needs.
You will develop these skills and competencies further in our Developing Mental Health Nursing Practice unit where you will learn to assess, plan, deliver and evaluate care.
In addition, Preparation for Mental Health Nursing Registered Practice will enable you to meet practice requirements while addressing the role of a mental health nurse in leading and developing care.
In your second year of study, you will develop your knowledge and skills to promote optimism, recovery and inclusion to empower service users, carers and families in our Essentials of Mental Health Nursing unit.
Here, you will focus on the care given to people with complex needs while also learning to address withdrawal, isolation and debilitation.
To add to this, our unit in Assessment and Decision Making in Mental Health Nursing will equip you with the skills to assess, support and intervene when a service user is experiencing a critical event.
You will learn to critically analyse the decision-making process by reviewing and evaluating relevant theory.
Building on this, it is essential that you possess a critical awareness of the structure, function and governance of the NHS and the influence of healthcare policy on nursing practice.
Professional Values and Governance in Nursing and Healthcare will introduce you to this, while allowing you to examine how nursing and healthcare are regulated alongside the professional values and ethics of the nursing profession.
To ensure your delivery of holistic care, our unit in Health, Life and Social Sciences for Nursing will allow you to explore theory around social sciences, life and health to promote the wellbeing of individuals.
You will also implement the principles of leadership and management to lead change, work effectively in teams, manage people and promote best practice in our Improving Care: Principles of Clinical Leadership unit.
As a mental health nurse, you will also be trained to safely administer medicines according to professional standards and legislation within our unit in Medicines Management and Pharmacology in Mental Health Nursing.
Finally, you will complete a Nursing Dissertation focused on healthcare practice with the help of our unit in Research Methodologies for Healthcare that will enable you with the skills to analyse health and social care evidence and literature.
You will also be supported with the methodologies to implement a research project while accounting for ethical and regulatory considerations.
The course opens the way to a challenging and rewarding career as a registered mental health nurse in a range of healthcare environments including community hospitals and residential settings and can provide a route to specialised clinical practice management or education.
On completion, you are likely to progress into the following areas of practice:
The course is also the first step in a process of lifelong learning and professional development.
The University of Bedfordshire offers a wide range of courses for continuing professional education which will complement your chosen post-qualifying area of practice.
If you would like to continue with your studies, the University has a range of postgraduate and doctoral studies including courses to gain specialist practitioner or medical education qualifications.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/midwifery:
This course is 50% practice-based so you spend half your time on placement, supported by a registered midwife.
Our midwifery courses tied UK 1st in their subject field for career prospects and 2nd for ‘value added’ - how students’ entry qualifications compare with their degree results (Guardian, 2025)
On this practice-based course, you learn to care for women/birthing people through pregnancy, labour and the postnatal period, conducting at least 40 supervised births.
The degree spans 39 weeks each year and prepares you for professional practice through roleplay, scenario-based learning and placement experience.
Theory and practice are woven together so you apply the knowledge you learn in the classroom to the clinical skills you are developing.
On successful completion of your course, you can register with the NMC as a midwife.
Access to the latest medical/health equipment and facilities at regional hospitals and community health settings during placements A new, fully immersive simulation floor in our STEM building, preparing you to respond to and manage clinical situations and scenarios Simulation wards with a range of medical-grade, high-fidelity training mannequins, including an infant mannequin, to tackle real-life scenarios in a safe and supported environment
We work in close partnership with our local practice learning partners, who provide placement experiences for students.
Our practice learning partners are sited across Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Hertfordshire, Berkshire, Milton Keynes and Oxfordshire.
To ensure your learning meets the benchmark set for care providers, our healthcare courses have been developed in collaboration with our regional healthcare providers, health authorities, service users and students.
We also work with NHS England, East of England and Thames Valley.
Learn to recognise and respond to an expectant mother/person’s needs – physical, psychological, cultural and socio-economic – while supporting the family.
Your classroom learning is delivered by experienced registered midwifery lecturers .
We deliver 75% face-to-face teaching so your lecturers are on site to support you while you get to meet and exchange ideas with other healthcare students.
Midwifery students gain a wider range of expertise through inter-professional learning with other disciplines.
Explore the wider role of the midwife within primary- and secondary-care settings, and gain experience on non-maternity wards to learn how pregnancy affects - and is affected by - a variety of medical conditions.
Benefit from extra-curricular activities that expand your knowledge base and confidence: our annual student conference is open to all year groups; and we have an active, lively Student Union Midwifery & Apprenticeship Society .
On placement, you will undertake a mix of early, late, long days and night shifts to ensure you experience typical shift patterns for a healthcare professional.
Studying our Midwifery BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the specialist practical skills and knowledge around universal care in pregnancy, sexual health and professional midwifery practice.
To develop your understanding of the processes of childbirth, our unit in Human Development: Preconception to Birth will expose you to the anatomy and physiology of human development from conception to early childhood.
You will explore how genes influence growth, development and the functioning of the human body, particularly the reproductive system, and how to screen for genetic disorders.
This process will allow you to ensure the best start in life for a newborn infant.
In areas of practice, you will undertake a maternity placement or simulation where you will provide care and support throughout pre and post childbirth to a minimum of three women or birthing people in our Participating in Midwifery Care unit.
This will allow you to identify and develop your skills while working in a multidisciplinary team focused on antenatal, labour and postnatal care.
You will also absorb the fundamental knowledge around processes in pregnancy, labour and the postpartum period while also learning to respect the culturally diverse beliefs and values of the birthing person and their families.
This ensures that you create a safe, respectful and nurturing space for the birthing person and their family.
Our unit in Contributing to Midwifery Care closely links to this, where you will complete practice assessments and actively participate in the provision of continuity of care.
You will build on these skills even further in our Demonstrating Proficiency in Midwifery Care unit to integrate and apply core midwifery knowledge and skills required for safe and effective practice.
In doing so, you will learn to provide individualised care while also being prepared to anticipate additional needs when they occur and how to support them in our Providing Individualised Midwifery Care unit.
Similarly, you will also be equipped to act, manage and escalate care in additional and emergency situations within maternity care in our Additional and First Line Management of Midwifery Care unit by learning to anticipate situations that require urgent action and immediate response, and subsequently deliver first-line management through collaborating with various teams.
To add to this, you will be encouraged to act as an advocate for women, birthing people, their families and newborn infants.
You will also consider midwifery practice within a public health arena in our Enhancing Midwifery Practice Through Public Health unit where you will examine key psychological and physiological concepts that will help you develop a safe level of competence to promote a healthy pregnancy, maternal and neonatal wellbeing.
As a core part of your practice, you will be equipped with the skills and knowledge to examine newborn babies while also considering the needs of the woman or birthing person and their families in our Systematic Examination of the Newborn unit.
Working based on evidence, you will develop the skills to identify, analyse and interpret research evidence to make informed decisions around care and to support women and birthing people as part of our unit in Enhancing Quality and Safety Through Evidence.
To ensure your delivery of specialised care, you will identify values of midwifery practice and apply professional codes and standards of behaviour to your practice in our unit - Being an Accountable, Professional Midwife.
This closely links to our Developing as an Accountable, Professional Midwife unit where you will learn to review, evaluate and apply national and local guidance and policy to current maternity care.
To add to your professional skills, our unit in The Future Midwife as a Teacher and Leader will expose you to positive role modelling and leadership behaviours needed to become a midwife, teacher and leader while reflecting on your strengths and limitations alongside your ability to work with students and colleagues within teams.
Finally, you will be able to demonstrate your independent skills in our Promoting Excellence: Midwifery Project.
This is a great opportunity for you to focus on your personal interests in midwifery practice while demonstrating your skills in a critical study focused on a chosen topic.
The assessment strategy for this course is closely aligned to the teaching and learning strategy which centres around safe midwifery practice.
The choice of assessments is determined by their relevance to midwifery care.
To enhance your understanding and experiences of assessment practices, you will encounter a wide range of formative and summative assessment methods including those that enable you to undertake practice-focused tasks that have the potential to influence care delivery.
Many of the assessment tasks are designed so that you can tailor them to your professional interests, experience and development needs.
They are also designed so you can rehearse ways of thinking and acting that are professionally relevant.
Examples include written assignments ranging from case studies and academic essays as well as assessed practice within your placements.
You will be assessed in practice using a nationally recognised practice assessment document (the MORA - Midwifery Ongoing Record of Achievement) which outlines the skills and competencies required as a registered midwife.
These assessments are recorded and confirmed by a practice assessor alongside your own self-reflections on your progress.
Self-assessment and reflection are expected at each point of assessment - for both theory and practice assessments.
Within the MORA, learners are expected to obtain service-user feedback using the standardised feedback form supported by their practice supervisor, facilitating personal reflection during interim reviews and at the holistic assessment.
To be eligible for your award of BSc (Hons) Midwifery and to register with the NMC, you must complete and provide documentary evidence of a minimum of 4,600 hours (2,310 hours in practice and 2,310 theory hours).
Graduates can go on to work as a qualified and registered midwife within the NHS, or as an independent midwife, or progress to management, research or teaching.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/non-medical-prescribing:
98% of our Nursing graduates are in graduate-level employment (Guardian, 2024)
100% of Health graduates went into highly skilled employment or further education (HESA, 2023)
£5,000 a year available with the NHS bursary.
This course will allow eligible NMC and HCPC registrants to acquire the qualification necessary to extend their role in prescribing and make the best use of their knowledge and skills to be able to improve patient access to medications, which aligns with the Government’s policy to modernise the NHS and improve its capacity to deliver accessible quality care to patients.
This course covers a wide range of subject matter, including: consultation; decision-making and therapy; influences on and the psychology of prescribing; prescribing in a team context, clinical pharmacology, drug calculations skills; evidence-based practice and clinical governance in relation to prescribing medicines; and management of effective prescribing including professional ethics, accountability and responsibility.
The aims of this course are to:
•    Prepare you to successfully meet the standards set out by your professional, statutory, and regulatory body within the context of prescribing practice.
Allowing you to apply for registration to practice as independent prescribers upon successful completion.
•    Provide advanced, challenging, and meaningful education and develop skills, knowledge and attitude required for safe and effective prescribing practice.
•    Ensure you are prepared to practice safely and effectively to such an extent that the protection of the public is assured.
•    Develop a critical understanding of the role and management of effective prescribing within your scope of practice and practice environment.
This unit also adheres to The Multi-Professional Framework for Advanced Clinical Practice in England (HEE, 2017).
Pillar 1:  1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.7,
Pillar 2:  2.11
Pillar 3:  3.2
Pillar 4:  4.3.
a) Drug calculation numeracy exam.
A 100% pass mark is required.
b) Drug pharmacology exam.
An 80% pass mark is required.
c) Practice portfolio of evidence, including 78/90 hours of clinical practice and reflective accounts.
Your DPP will sign off on your portfolio and then it will be marked academically and graded.
A 40% pass mark is required.
d) An essay that looks as one of the competencies from the Royal Pharmaceutical Society’s (RPS) Framework for all Prescribers (2021).
This will be marked at Academic L7 and graded.
You must pass all 4 assessments to be successful.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/nursing-associate-practitioner:
The course is flexible - you attend university for the equivalent of one day a week - so it fits alongside your current employment and other commitments.
Successful completion of this Foundation degree means you will be eligible to apply for nursing associate posts or entry to Year 2 of one of our BSc (Hons) registered nursing courses.
This course is now only taking applications for 2026 entry.
Nursing associates help bridge the gap between healthcare assistant and registered nurse.
This practice-led course is aimed at healthcare assistants currently supporting registered nurses.
Through study and work-based learning in a supportive environment, it develops your skills, knowledge, attitudes and behaviours so you can play an active part in improving people’s experience of healthcare.
This course meets the requirements of the national Nursing Associate Training programme curriculum as well as the NHS Constitution.
Access to the latest medical/health equipment and facilities at regional hospitals and community health settings during placements Fully immersive simulation suites at both our Luton and Bedford campuses, preparing students to respond to and manage clinical situations and scenarios Simulation wards with a range of medical-grade, high-fidelity training mannequins to tackle real-life scenarios in a safe and supported environment
The curriculum has been developed by experienced nurses and is delivered in partnership with local employers and services.
You learn through a combination of lectures and seminars, guided study and work-based learning .
We deliver predominantly face-to-face teaching so your tutors are on site to support you while you get to meet and exchange ideas with other healthcare students Our lecturers are all experienced registered nurses and have published widely in their field.
Benefit from the support of a practice mentor and a personal academic tutor .
We deliver predominantly face-to-face teaching so your tutors are on site to support you while you get to meet and exchange ideas with other healthcare students
Studying our Nursing Associate Practitioner Foundation course will provide you with the specialist knowledge and skills to professionally practice compassionate, safe and effective care to monitor, protect and safeguard people in a range of settings.
To equip you with the core clinical skills for nursing associates, you will be given an Introduction to Nursing Associate Interventions where you will develop your confidence in performing a range of interventions and procedures for patient care.
In doing so, you will learn to use evidence-based and best practice approaches to consider both the physical and psychological wellbeing of patients.
Building on this, you will learn to identify, monitor and provide patient-centred care based on individual needs in our Nursing Associate Interventions and Person-Centred Care unit.
You will then apply these skills to meet the health needs of patients and carers in our Application of Nursing Associate Theory and Practice unit.
Here, you will have the opportunity to develop your skills for person-centred and holistic care for people from diverse backgrounds in workplace settings.
This will allow you to be adaptable and flexible to meet the needs of different people through understanding their experiences and journeys through healthcare in our Integration of Nursing Associate Theory and Practice unit.
With a focus on patient safety, you will examine the delivery and coordination of care as well as the healthcare policies and legislation that influence this.
In addition, you will also develop the ability to safely administer medicines and educate others about the pharmacological aspects of care.
Combined with other components including life sciences, psychology and sociology present in our Understanding Health for Healthcare Practitioners unit, you will examine the structure and functions of a healthy body and mind to better understand people and the determinants of health and health inequalities.
Aside from the clinical skills required of a nursing associate, it is essential that you develop the communication skills and professionalism to work in the field with colleagues and the general public.
To help you with this, our unit in Consolidating Nursing Associate Practice will develop your ability to teach, advocate and support the development of the role of the nursing associate in the workplace for patients, carers and the public.
Shifting the focus from individual healthcare, our unit in Exploring Health and Primary Care Services in the Community will introduce you to principles of community healthcare and nursing associate practice in a primary care environment and how this interacts with other care settings.
You will explore social, health and behaviour theory in out-of-hospital environments and analyse policies that influence the areas of community and primary care.
This will have implications in your study of our unit in Public Health Principles and Practice for Nursing Associates where you will explore theory and policy around public health, health promotion and the prevention of ill health.
With the community approach discussed in the unit above, you will explore the health needs of your chosen community and consider the application of public health principles in this setting.
A distinct feature of the course is the range of assessment tasks including those that allow you to undertake workplace relevant assessments that can have an immediate impact in practice.
Examples include: written assignments ranging from reflective pieces to academic essays culminating in a project at Foundation degree level assessed practice within your workplace; computer based examinations and oral presentations.
Your use of professional and theoretical literature will increase in complexity depth and breadth as you progress through the course.
In the first year you will be expected to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the evidence-based literature and apply this to practice.
In contrast the second year will demand deeper analysis and evaluation of the literature and its applications.
For example you will develop your ability to study and practice more independently.
On completion of the Foundation degree you will be eligible to apply for nursing associate posts or Year 2 entry to one of our BSc (Hons) registered nursing courses (as long as you also meet the Nursing and Midwifery Council entry requirement).

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/occupational-therapy:
Accredited by the Royal College of Occupational Therapists and the Health and Care Professions Council.
This degree includes 1,000 hours on placement over three years, with placements located in Bedfordshire, Hertfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Leicestershire and London.
This is a practice-based course where you complete over 1,000 hours in placement settings.
It gives you the skills and knowledge you need to follow a rewarding career as an occupational therapist.
You put your skills and knowledge into practice through managed roleplay and simulation as well as practical sessions where you learn about patient assessments; treatment planning; treatment interventions; and impact evaluations.
Find out if you are eligible for £5,000 a year NHS learning support funding
This course is accredited by the Royal College of Occupational Therapists and the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
On successful completion, you will be eligible to register with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and consider a broad range of roles in the NHS; local government; charity sector; government agencies; and private sector.
Fully immersive simulation unit with range of settings, to prepare students for real-life scenarios in a safe and supportive environment Occupational therapy simulated ‘flat’ that includes a bedroom, bathroom, living area and moving and handling room Simulated ward area Opportunities for placements at our Putteridge Bury Wellbeing Garden
We collaborate with a wide range of sector-relevant organisations, enabling us to offer placements across Bedfordshire, Hertfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Leicestershire and London as well as the opportunity for placement experiences abroad.
Benefit from a course that builds learner competence and confidence through theory and practice-based learning opportunities including placements in a variety of settings, spread across the three years of the degree.
Learn from an experienced academic team using modern facilities that include state-of-the-art simulation suites .
This degree includes 1,000 hours on placement over three years, 40 hours of which can be simulated practice; placements are located across our regions and we can also place students abroad.
Study alongside other health students - including physiotherapy, nursing, paramedic science, social work and midwifery – so you can explore how areas are connected and develop strong inter-professional skills.
Hear from expert guest speakers from the UK and around the world.
Showcase your skills and knowledge to local employers at our annual Graduate Therapies Conference .
Studying our Occupational Therapy BSc (Hons) course will provide you with in-depth knowledge and skills in the areas of human sciences, sociology, mental health and learning disabilities.
In your first year, our unit in Sciences Supporting Occupation will develop your knowledge of anatomy, physiology, psychology and sociology that supports occupation.
You will be able to relate this information to our unit in Holistic Factors Affecting Occupation where you will be introduced to the basis of occupational therapy practice.
In addition, you will be equipped with the key skills and theories to safely and effectively engage with patients as part of your first practice placement in our Holistic Therapy in Practice unit.
Here, you will undertake a 10-week practice placement that will allow you to apply your theoretical knowledge and practice your clinical skills in a real-world setting while receiving feedback.
To develop your practice, you will explore professional values, codes of practice and regulation related to occupational therapy in our Professional Identity unit that will inform your practice.
Another essential part of your practice is Developing Therapeutic Relationships, and this unit will allow you to develop your communication skills to build and maintain therapeutic relationships with patients.
In your second year, you will engage in more practical work in our Enabling Therapy in Practice unit that will consist of an 8-week placement where you will get to take responsibility for the assessment, planning and treatment of patients.
To add to this, you will undertake a further 10-weeks of placement in our Collaboration in Therapy Practice unit where you will focus on intervention in the assessment, planning and delivery of care.
Building on your professional skills, Collaborative Therapies will support you with the skills and experience to work within teams of other healthcare professionals to ensure seamless healthcare delivery to patients.
Drawing on theory explored in your first year, Enabling Occupation will provide you with the knowledge and skills to support individuals living with long-term health conditions experienced across childhood to adulthood.
With a holistic approach, Professional Reasoning in Occupational Therapy will allow you to examine the theories and concepts around disability and barriers to participating in everyday occupations.
You will continue to engage with additional placement work in your final year within our Complexity in Therapy Practice unit that will provide you with the increased responsibility to assess, plan, evaluate and deliver treatment across a period of 8 weeks.
Furthermore, you will also have the opportunity to explore working in a different healthcare environment in our Quality in Therapy Practice unit.
As you accumulate practical experience, you will also be taught to manage people with complex physical and mental health conditions in our Managing Complexity in Occupational Therapy unit.
These cases often have an adverse effect on health status, function, and quality of life and would require complex healthcare management, decision-making and coordination.
At the same time, you will add to your list of professional skills in our Growth and Leadership in Therapies unit that will introduce you to the strategies to promote and develop effective leadership qualities to work in diverse teams.
Finally, you will complete an Occupational Therapies Project that will allow you to integrate research, policy and practice in the field of occupational therapy.
To help you with this, Evidence Informed Therapy will equip you with the skills to conduct research using different research methods, data collection and analysis skills, as well as prompt you to consider the ethical issues involved.
The assessment strategy utilised by the School is rooted in the notions of assuring professionalism, competence and employability described within SOPs.
The assessments for these four curriculum themes seek to address your development in key knowledge and understanding, skills and abilities required for each.
All assessments will be communicated to you, via your assessment handbook, with submission dates and times, a clear explanation of the task and the standards of performance against which you will be graded when you undertake the task.
Following your assessment, you will be provided with a grade (which will have been moderated, i.e.
checked by another marker and/or an external examiner) and individualised feedback and developmental feed-forward comments.
An occupational therapist is trained to work in both health and social care settings, in the private as well as public sector and is equipped for employment globally.
As an occupational therapist, you can take on a broad range of roles in the NHS, local authorities, charities, industry, schools, private practice, voluntary sector and government agencies.
You can specialise in working with children, adults or older people across the lifespan, and pursue a career as a practitioner, researcher, manager, lecturer or consultant.
For further information on careers on occupational therapy, please visit the websites of the Royal College of Occupational Therapists (RCOT) and NHS Careers

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/operating-department-practice:
On successful course completion, you will be eligible to register with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Complete 2,420 hours on placement over three years, with regional NHS trusts and other partners including Great Ormond Street Hospital.
This degree is designed for healthcare workers with an interest in becoming registered operating department practitioners (ODPs), able to offer compassionate, safe and effective care through the perioperative period - a time when people can be at their most vulnerable.
You develop the skills to offer coordinated, patient-centred care alongside surgeons, anaesthetists and theatre nurses in a range of perioperative care settings including operating theatres, emergency departments, intensive care and recovery.
Find out if you are eligible for £5,000 a year NHS learning support funding .
This course is accredited by the Health and Care Professions Council (the registering body).
On course completion, you will be eligible to apply for registration with the HCPC as an operating department practitioner.
Fully immersive simulation suites which allow you to practise your skills in ‘real-world’ situations including: a state-of-the-art mock operating theatre anaesthetic equipment recovery room immersive suite, to practise simulation safely in different environments
Fully immersive simulation suites which allow you to practise your skills in ‘real-world’ situations including:
We currently work closely with the following practice partners: Bedfordshire Hospitals Milton Keynes Hospital Northampton General Hospital Lister Hospital Spire Harpenden Great Ormond Street Hospital Royal Papworth Hospital Harefield Hospital Keech Hospice Care Feed Up Warm Up, a homeless charity in Hertfordshire
We currently work closely with the following practice partners:
Develop the knowledge, competencies and clinical skills to provide high-quality, evidence-based care and to work confidently within a multi-professional team.
Practise your skills in high-tech simulation suites , supported by staff who are healthcare professionals .
Gain hands-on experience across a range of healthcare environments.
The University organises your placements for you within local trusts and other external partners - so you don’t have to worry about sourcing your own work experience.
Extend your knowledge with field trips to the Old Operating Theatre museum and the Royal College of Surgeons, both in London.
Take the opportunity to learn from sector-leading guest speakers at an ODP conference hosted by the University .
Benefit from a course that offers you the support of a qualified mentor .
Hone your critical thinking and decision-making skills so you can respond quickly to complex critical situations.
Gain a HCPC-approved qualification and a skill-set much sought after in the job market.
Studying our Operating Department Practice BSc (Hons) course will equip you with specialist knowledge and practical skills in anaesthetics, surgery and post-anaesthetic care to support patients in and beyond the operating theatre.
To build on the foundations of your study, Sciences for Perioperative Practice will develop the scientific knowledge around human anatomy, physiology as well as sociology to effectively meet patient needs and to take action in the operation department.
You will enhance your understanding of the role and responsibilities of a perioperative practitioner in our Fundamentals of Perioperative Practice unit.
This will give you the opportunity to work with patients undergoing a range of surgical and anaesthetic interventions while learning the processes and procedures used to keep them safe.
As a healthcare worker, it is also important that you consider concepts and issues relating to Inclusivity and Diversity in Care.
This unit will also develop your skills in communication, observation, practical application, collaboration and leadership.
Similarly, you will build on these skills to develop a range of professional values, from accountability to ethical practice, in our Professional Identities for Operating Department Practitioners (ODP) unit.
In your second year, you will develop your knowledge to handle more advanced and challenging patient care in our Advancing Perioperative Practice unit.
You will undertake a range of clinical placements in operating theatres and external care environments while working alongside a professional team to assess, plan and implement care.
More specifically, you will develop the skills for anaesthetic and post-anaesthetic care such as pain management, wound care and emergency surgery.
Some patients may also have underlying conditions or suffer from disease, which makes it important that you consider the impact of this on their individual needs.
Our unit in Pharmacology and Pathophysiology for Perioperative Practice will teach you to adapt to these specific clinical needs while also exposing you to the various medications used in the perioperative environment, its doses and how to administer them to each patient.
Aside from physical health, you will also be introduced to mental health concepts that can be used to support the mental health needs of patients, their families or carers that you may encounter in the workplace alongside dealing with their physical conditions in our Mental Health Matters unit.
To diversify your skill set, Change Management and Innovative Practice will equip you with the skills to design and carry out your own clinical audit by gathering quantitative data to measure outcomes against quality control standards.
In addition, you will develop the skills to conduct research in our Evidence Based Practice for Operating Department Practice unit, including the ability to perform data collection and analysis, research methods and consider the ethical issues involved.
You will progress to more advanced areas of study in your final year, such as with our Medicines Management and Pharmacology unit.
Here, you will learn to administer medicines correctly and calculate drug doses using a variety of techniques.
This will be useful when managing acute and chronic pain or post-operative nausea and vomiting for patients.
At the same time, you will further build on your professional skills in our Supervision and Leadership for Perioperative Practice unit that will equip you with a range of tools that will allow you to reflect on your leadership abilities and promote effective teamworking.
Finally, you will complete an Operating Department Practice Project that will allow you to integrate research, policy and practice that will define your role as an ODP.
Our unit in Emerging Care Roles for Operating Department Practitioner will also support you in developing your employability and identifying career pathways as a registered ODP.
Whether you are interested in pursuing work in operating theatres or want to branch out into areas of critical care, A&E or transplant coordination, this unit will allow you to explore this.
The course assessment strategy is closely aligned to the teaching and learning strategy which is designed to have: immediate relevance to practice; draw on expertise-by-experience; foster active learning and be learner-centred in approach.
Examples include: written assignments ranging from reflective pieces to academic essays culminating in a service improvement project assessed practice within your placements; computer based examinations and oral presentations.
The use of professional and theoretical literature will increase in complexity depth and breadth as you progress through the course.
You will be expected to identify a subject that particularly interests you based upon the NHS values and propose a service improvement project supported by appropriate literature.
Assessments of clinical skills will begin with observation of your participation in caring for patients/service users during practice placements.
Expectations of the levels of skill demonstrated by you will increase over time and by the final assessments you will be expected to manage more complex and challenging encounters in a non-judgemental empathic manner in accordance with NHS values.
On successful completion of the course, you will be eligible to apply to register with the Health and Care Professions Council as an operating department practitioner.
This opens up a career path as an operating department practitioner in a range of contexts within NHS trusts as well as the private, voluntary and independent sectors.
Postgraduate opportunities include specialising in particular clinical areas such as paediatrics, critical care and cardiovascular surgery, and include postgraduate MSc and PhD study opportunities across a wide range of perioperative and allied health professions' specialisms.
There are also education roles for graduates as hourly paid lecturers in areas such as clinical simulation.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/paramedic-science:
Our paramedic science course ranks 8th in its UK subject field for graduate prospects (CUG, 2026).
Our paramedic science courses rank UK 1st in their subject field for ‘value added’ - how students’ entry qualifications compare with their degree results (Guardian, 2025).
Each year you undertake 750 hours of placement learning, spending around 50% of your time in supervised supported practice at ambulance control, GP surgeries, charities or hospitals.
This dynamic course develops your clinical knowledge and confidence, equipping you with the skills needed for emergency and unscheduled care while ensuring you meet the requirements of the modern ambulance service and expanding paramedic role.
With a high employment rate, the course takes you from novice to expert over three years of study, using a blended approach to learning so theory clearly meets practice.
It also builds your clinical reasoning, critical thinking and leadership skills.
The course is recognised by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
On successful completion of your course, you will be eligible to register as a paramedic.
Two clinical-training ambulances Fully immersive simulation area including: assisted living space industrial space with scaffolding hoarder’s room nightclub area social deprivation room (drug den) standard lounge cluttered bedroom
The course has been developed in partnership with the East of England Ambulance Service, an NHS Trust serving six million people over 7,500 square miles.
Our Paramedic Science students are happy with their course: it ranks UK 3rd in its subject field for students continuing their studies after the first year (Guardian GUG, 2025).
Gain simulated and real-life supervised experience of the situations you will attend as a qualified paramedic Complete 750 hours of placement learning a year , spending around 50% of your time in supervised supported practice so you experience the full 24-hour working pattern and learn to work as part of the wider healthcare team.
Expand your experience through field trips to relevant locations including the Ambulance Service Hazardous Area Response Team (HART) at Melbourn, Cambridge, and an RTC (vehicle) extrication with Bedfordshire Fire & Rescue Service.
Explore service improvement with your final-year research project and present your findings at an annual conference .
Our course groups are small so you are able to b uild supportive relationships with other students and your academic team Our Bedford campus itself is a small, thriving academic community where academic staff get to know you well.
Gain simulated and real-life supervised experience of the situations you will attend as a qualified paramedic
Complete 750 hours of placement learning a year , spending around 50% of your time in supervised supported practice so you experience the full 24-hour working pattern and learn to work as part of the wider healthcare team.
Our course groups are small so you are able to b uild supportive relationships with other students and your academic team
Our Bedford campus itself is a small, thriving academic community where academic staff get to know you well.
Hear from Eleanor, first-year Paramedic Science student about studying on the course
Hear from James, first-year Paramedic Science student about studying on the course
Hear from Course Lead Domonic Morton and second-year Paramedic Science student, Jodie, about taking part in a mass casualty simulation
I have a Foundation Degree in Paramedic Science, and additionally a background as a graduate at Level 6 and above, including an Honours Degree in Applied Chemistry and Post Graduate Certificate in Education.
I am familiar with blended learning as my Foundation Degree was completed as a work based, distance learning degree with the Open University combined with work-based learning within the Private Sector and the NHS.
I have used this good effect during my time at the University of Bedfordshire.
Studying our Paramedic Science BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge, competencies and clinical skills to become an autonomous paramedic practitioner.
In introductory areas of study, you will be introduced to key aspects of paramedic practice focused on developing your assessment and diagnostic skills alongside your professional practice in our Fundamental Skills of Paramedic Science unit.
Paired with our unit in Health Science for Paramedic Practice, you will explore knowledge of anatomy, physiology and biopsychosocial theories related to health and wellbeing to understand the factors that affect patient health.
One essential skill you will need to save lives as a paramedic is through administering drugs and medication.
In an Introduction to Applied Pharmacology for Paramedic Science, you will examine the principles of pharmacology and learn to safely administer medicines according to professional standards and legislation.
Aside from the theoretical knowledge covered in your first year, you will also be supported in establishing your professional practice in our Professional Values and Relationships unit.
Here, you will be introduced to the professional values in paramedic practice and how this can influence your working relationships with patients and colleagues.
In your second year, you will move on to discover more advanced skills in the paramedic sciences such as the Assessment & Management of Urgent and Emergency Care Across the Lifespan.
This unit will train you to assess and manage urgent and emergency conditions using the emergency paramedic skills with the assessment and management of chronic disease or injury.
In more specialised areas, you will also be introduced to Obstetric and Neonatal Care for Paramedics that will build your knowledge and skills in antenatal, intrapartum and postnatal assessment to practice care for newborn babies and their mothers.
Similarly, you will be trained to conduct paediatric assessment, refer to appropriate care and treat infants and children in emergency situations in our Emergency Care of Paediatrics for Paramedics while developing the positive attitudes and professionalism towards emergency paediatric care.
Furthermore, you will also consider the mental health needs of your patients in emergency situations in our Mental Health Care for Paramedics unit.
This will allow you to provide person-centred and holistic care for people accessing mental health services while developing your ability to communicate effectively with other health and emergency services to support patients.
In addition, Trauma Management in Paramedic Practice will equip you with the knowledge and skills to assess and manage care for patients across non-critical, critical and complex situations that may escalate or involve a high degree of risk.
You will continue to develop your professional skills in Leadership and Team Working for Paramedic Practice that will introduce you to tools, strategies and scenarios to develop your leadership abilities and promote effective teamwork.
As you build on your paramedic skills in your final year, The Critically Unwell Person will teach you to assess, manage and stabilise care for patients with critical and life-threatening conditions.
On the opposite end, you will be equipped with the skills to manage people with Minor Illnesses and Injuries.
This is just as important as treating more serious conditions, as you will facilitate the early detection of symptoms to prevent worsening disease or injury.
In some cases, your reassurance to a patient with relatively mild symptoms will help to relieve their anxieties and therefore their experience of injury or illness.
With a critical approach, you will analyse and suggest improvements to practice in an effort to enhance quality through working on a project in our Quality and Safety in Paramedic Practice unit.
To prepare you for your career, Transition to Professional Practice for Paramedics will support you to make the transition from a student to a registered paramedic practitioner by preparing you for employment with a CV or practicing interview techniques.
Examples include:
In most of the units, we have appropriately revised the threshold statements and the learning outcomes to be met by the proposed assessments.
In some units, we also amended/corrected both the formative and summative assessments as needed to improve learning, performance as well as increase flexibility.
The overall approach to these assessments would create a reduction of over-assessment, combining more innovative opportunities for students to use different skills and develop wider digital literacy while maintaining the standards of research and subject enquiry, with a view to providing students with different learning needs a variety of ways to receive support through general assessment reduction, formative feedback, and time to apply feedback into their work.
Similarly, the use of professional and theoretical literature will increase in complexity, depth and breadth as you progress through the course.
You will be expected to identify a subject that particularly interests you based upon the NHS values, and propose a service improvement project supported by appropriate literature.
Assessments of clinical skills will begin with observation of your participation in caring for patients/service users during practice.
Expectations of the levels of skill demonstrated by you will increase over time and by the final assessments you will be expected to manage more complex and challenging encounters in a non-judgemental, empathic manner in accordance with NHS values.
As a graduate of this course, you will be able to work as the lead clinician in the ambulance service.
Upon gaining experience, you could diversify into areas such as Hazardous Areas Response Teams (HART); specialist urgent-care paramedics; advanced critical-care paramedics; management roles; or one of the new roles now being offered to paramedics, in other areas of the NHS and in the community, as first-contact practitioners or advanced-care practitioners, with independent prescribing.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/pharmaceutical-and-chemical-sciences:
Our biomedical sciences courses rank in the UK top 5 in their subject field for learning opportunities and learning resources, and joint 1st for academic support (NSS 2024).
This course is aligned to the current needs of industry as identified by the British Pharmacological Society.
We work with leading employers including Glaxo Smith Kline, Pharmaron, MSD Merck and Medicines & Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.
This degree integrates the design and development of drug, cosmetic and hygiene products with emerging areas such as systems biology, pharmacogenetics and translational medicine – areas that directly address the needs of the UK pharmaceutical industry.
You start by gaining a common core of chemical, biological and pharmaceutical knowledge before shifting to deeper study of areas such as medicinal chemistry; drug discovery and drug development.
You also explore sector business models, exploring how science has evolved to meet pharmaceutical industry demands.
Contemporary STEM building with high-tech labs and vibrant study spaces, providing you with a supportive and welcoming learning environment Cell culture lab and specialised analytical science suite HPLC, FTIR and GC-MS machines, alongside facilities for qPCR and protein purification, allowing you to carry out cutting-edge pharma and biotech experiments
Our Life Sciences Liaison Board works with industry professionals across the pharma-biotech, health and food sectors, including Glaxo Smith Kline, Pharmaron, NHS, Life Science Group and Medicines & Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.
Our academics are involved in real-world research , leading the way in target areas such as obesity, cancer pathways, medicines discovery and development.
You gain experience in innovative research , including drug target, discovery and synthesis.
Our academic staff’s active involvement in the field ensure you keep up to date with emerging practices and the latest pharmaceutical developments .
Our staff research and professional expertise feeds directly back into their teaching , creating a vibrant, practical-oriented learning environment.
We have s trong links within the clinical and industrial sectors , making sure our courses are aligned to industry needs and offer you the opportunity for work experience.
Take part in masterclasses by a range of experts including Rothamsted Research; MSD Merck; Medicines & Healthcare products Regulatory Agency; and the UK Health Security Agency.
Learn from field trips to leading industry settings such as MSD Merck.
I joined the School of Life Sciences (SLS) as a Senior Lecturer in Pharmaceutical and Chemical Science Programme in January 2020, having previously lectured Pharmaceutical Chemistry at the University of Hertfordshire.
Gerta obtained her MPharm degree at Tirana University and PhD in Organic/Medicinal Chemistry at the University of Bath.
Studying our BSc (Hons) Pharmaceutical and Chemical Sciences course will equip you with the knowledge and skills around biology, pharmacology and medicinal chemistry, essential preparation for careers in drug discovery.
You will also develop an understanding of the complete process of drug development from basic chemistry through to the drug being used in the clinic.
This can also be related to our unit in Human Metabolism which you will explore on a cellular level.
On a deeper level, you will be introduced to the study of microorganisms in our Microbiology and Biochemistry unit which will give you an understanding of biochemical principles using practical techniques such as spectrophotometry.
This closely links to our Cell Biology unit where you will discover various cell structures and types and understand how this is fundamental to human life.
In addition, you will gain experience in using light microscopes while establishing good laboratory practice.
You will also develop your knowledge on basic concepts in Chemistry and Molecular Genetics where you will get to explore topics such as chromosome function, genetic inheritance and cell division.
In more specialised areas, you will develop your knowledge and understanding of drugs and its role in treating human diseases in our Pharmacology unit.
This can be related to our Immunology unit where you will closely study the human immune system and how it protects us against a range of pathogens and diseases on a cellular level.
More importantly, you will gain a broad understanding of Toxicology and its applications to the pharmaceutical sector by examining clinical case reports that involve adverse drug reactions, drug misuse and toxic poisoning.
You will look more closely at human illness in our Pharmacology of Disease unit that will equip you with the skills to identify the causes of disease and how to treat them using drugs and pharmaceuticals.
In practical areas of study, you will learn how drugs are developed and subsequently brought to the market in our Drug Development unit while also discovering how drugs are designed and administered from a business perspective in our Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmaceutical Business Development unit.
In more advanced areas, you will learn how drugs can be tailored to individual patients to reduce side effects and adverse reactions in our Pharmacogenetics unit.
When producing drugs, it is also important that you consider elements such as colouring agents or preservatives to ensure that drugs can be transported, or to improve their appearance and palatability, and therefore, our Biomaterials for Drug and Cosmetic Formulation unit will cover this.
Furthermore, you will also learn to translate new technologies into clinical environments in our Translational Medicine unit while considering the ethical implications of this.
To equip you with the research and practical skills for this course, our Skills in Pharmaceutical Sciences unit will teach you to record, analyse and report data from experiments.
With such data, you will learn how this can be used to treat disease and improve drug discovery in our Systems Biology unit.
Finally, you will undertake a Pharmaceutical Science Research Project in your final year that will give you the opportunity to plan, design and execute a piece of research into a topic of your interest that is relevant to your field of study.
They are also linked to learning designed to develop key subject-specific and transferable skills for future employment.
Units with single assessments will be supported by formative development.
Students are actively supported through their assessments both directly in subject specific areas by tutors and by working with the Study Hub to provide targeted workshops to support academic skills development.
The focal areas include an introduction to academic integrity developing good academic practice scientific writing use of statistics and communication of science to diverse audiences including presentation skills also aligned to assessment requirements.
This is supported by the University Careers and Employability service throughout the course.
Graduates from this course may progress into diverse careers related to pharmaceutical and chemical sciences including in academic or commercial research and development or management and policy related roles in local and national government agencies.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/pharmacology:
Our academics are involved in real-world research, leading the way in COVID-19 testing technology, autoimmune diseases, obesity, cancer pathways, gene editing and global food security.
Tailor your studies to fit your needs with intermediate qualifications and the option for part-time learning.
The development of safe and effective new drugs is a challenging and rewarding field.
Our forward-thinking Pharmacology MSc equips you with a broad understanding of drug discovery and development, focusing on the mechanisms of drug action at the molecular level; the treatment of human disease; and the latest cell, molecular and genomic technologies used in pharmacology.
You gain an in-depth understanding of individual examples of modern drug research and development before specialising in one research area of interest through your laboratory research project.
Modern STEM building with purpose-built facilities and bespoke study spaces State-of-the-art cell culture lab and analytical science suite Industry-standard technology to emulate the professional workplace Specialised equipment for high-end pharma and biotech experiments, including HPLC, FTIR and GC-MS machines and facilities for qPCR and protein analysis
The University’s Life Sciences Liaison Board draws in industry-wide professionals such as GSK, Pharmaron and the Medicines & Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.
The Board’s close collaboration with real-world organisations ensures our course aligns with the needs of both industry and society as well as providing you with invaluable opportunities for networking and work experience.
Benefit from our student-centred, employment-based approach to learning to ensure you get the most from your degree, combining traditional lectures, workshops and tutorials with hands-on lab work and small-group teaching.
Boost your career prospects thanks to employability-based skill development and real-world experience .
Learn from academics whose research and professional expertise feeds directly back into their teaching , creating a vibrant, practical-oriented learning environment.
Our staff use their active involvement in progressive areas such as cancer pathways and medicine development to keep you up-to-date with the latest industry advancements .
Gain specialist knowledge thanks to subject-relevant field trips and talks from external experts , including a visit to MSD-Merck and a workshop run by the UK Health Security Agency.
Connect with leading employers through our annual STEM Careers Expo .
Achieve your potential with support and guidance from your own personal academic tutor .
Our MSc Pharmacology graduates are employed in pharmaceutical and biotech industries as well as in medicines regulatory agencies.
I joined the School of Life Sciences in May 2020 from the Francis Crick Institute, London.
I obtained my PhD from Erasmus University Medical Centre from the lab of Peter Verrijzer in Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
The focus of my PhD was ubiquitination and the reversal of ubiquitination (de-ubiquitination) in the context of gene regulation.
I helped discover an interesting protein complex of USP7-GMPS.
This work laid the foundation for future works on the role of metabolic enzymes in gene regulation in Verrijzer’s group.
Studying our Pharmacology MSc course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise in the field of drug research and development, the treatment of human diseases, and new technologies within pharmacology.
In core areas of study, you will examine cellular processes and current techniques in molecular biology in our Cell and Molecular Biology unit while considering their application in areas like genomics and proteomics.
Moreover, you will develop the skills for molecular biology techniques including PCR analysis, restriction digestion, and gene cloning.
Furthermore, you will gain an in-depth understanding of Molecular Pharmacology that concerns drug and receptor interaction while also learning to apply systems biology techniques in drug development.
In practical areas of study, you will be exposed to the Drug Discovery and Development process with a specialised focus on the role of toxicology in drug development.
You will gain insight into clinical trials, the high throughput screening process, and how drugs are prepared to enter the market.
You will also examine therapeutic concepts and principles relating to the causes of diseases and disorders that affect the central nervous, circulatory, endocrine and metabolic system as well as infections and cancer in our Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics unit.
More importantly, you will learn how these major diseases are managed and treated in current clinical practice.
Finally, you will have the opportunity to complete a Pharmacology Research Project where you will apply theory and practical knowledge acquired from this course to a specialised topic of your choice that is relevant to your field of study and potentially your future career path.
The assessment philosophy of the MSc Pharmacology Award conforms to the recommendations of the aspects of relevant QAA Benchmarks and Masters level descriptors.
The methods used for the assessment of students achievements will correspond with the knowledge abilities and skills that are to be developed through degree programme.
Evidence on which assessment of students' achievement is based will include: formal written examinations; summative practical assessments; laboratory and other written reports; problem-solving exercises; oral presentations; individual planning conduct and reporting of project work; and essay assignments.
Evidence on which assessment of students' achievement is based may include: literature surveys and evaluations; collaborative project work; preparation and displays of 'posters' reporting project work; personal portfolios of learning achieved; computer-based assessments; and self and peer assessment.
The course assessment strategy is compliant with the University of Bedfordshires Quality Assurance Regulations.
The commitment to practical skills and the ability to communicate and interpret data through scientific report writing is emphasised at all units of the programme.
As such practical (laboratory) activities form a significant proportion of students assessment.
Practical work will be assessed through written practical reports portfolio of varied lab experiments poster presentations and reflective laboratory diaries.
Assessment throughout the units most notably in the research project will call upon abstract writing and journal review skills to promote critical thinking and integration of knowledge across the course units.
The importance of oral communication skills is also acknowledged as some of the units require students to undertake oral presentations as part of the unit assessments.
Throughout the course formative feedback will be provided in support of various tasks that include practical work in all four units mini-projects literature reviews case studies and presentation prior to final summative assessments.
Students' capability in carrying out research will be assessed through a research proposal research project activities and presentations.
Group work including laboratory practical sessions will help students to develop transferable skills such as taking initiative communication team working and decision making.
Ability in oral communication will be assessed through presentations including a poster presentation.
All assessed work will be marked using the University's percentage based marking scheme.
The pass mark for all units will be 40% or above.
When students pass the number of other units prescribed by the regulations they will be able to undertake their research project.
Graduates progress to careers in pre-clinical research; clinical research; drug licensing and regulatory affairs; medical information; medical writing; and medical sales.
You can also continue in higher education at Doctorate level (MPhil and PhD).

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/pharmacology-and-health-science:
This course is aligned to the areas of need identified by the British Pharmacological Society including clinical pharmacology, public health science and healthcare policy.
We work with leading employers including Glaxo Smith Kline, Pharmaron and Medicines & Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.
On this degree, you develop a range of skills in pharmacology and health sciences, with laboratory work and real-world application enabling you to put those skills into practice.
You start by building a firm foundation in areas including chemistry, microbiology, anatomy and cell biology.
You then progress to subjects at the forefront of modern research such as immunology, pharmacogenetics and toxicology, giving you a complete perspective on the entire drug discovery and development process from ‘invention’, through the clinical phases, to the drug reaching patients.
Our academics are involved in real-world research , leading the way in areas such as obesity, cancer pathways, medicines development and global food security.
Our academic staff’s active involvement in the field ensure you keep up to date with emerging practices and the latest pharmacological developments .
Our staff’s research and professional expertise feeds directly back into their teaching, creating a vibrant, practical-oriented learning environment.
We have strong links within the clinical and industrial sectors , making sure our courses are aligned to industry needs and offer you the opportunity for work experience .
Studying our BSc (Hons) Pharmacology and Health Science course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills in biomedical and pharmaceutical sciences.
These skills will give you a perspective on the science of drug invention from discovering new drugs through to their use in the clinic.
To build the foundations of your study, you will be given a broad understanding of Human Anatomy and Physiology to analyse the relationship between body parts and their functions.
In practical areas of study, you will learn how drugs are developed and subsequently brought to the market in our Drug Development unit.
In more advanced areas, you will learn how drugs can be tailored to individual patients and more importantly, reduce side effects and adverse reactions in our Pharmacogenetics unit.
More importantly, our Drug Dispensing and Healthcare Policy unit will expose you to how medicines are safely handled, prescribed and administered according to legal and health and safety requirements.
This closely links to our Drug Delivery unit where you will identify ways of improved drug delivery, such as through oral or nasal routes, and how this can deliver improved therapeutic outcomes for patients.
From a societal point of view, you will learn how pharmacological principles are translated into effective treatments in a clinical setting while considering the impact of modern medicine on public health and society in our Clinical Pharmacology and Public Health unit.
Finally, you will undertake a Pharmacology in Health Science Research Project in your final year that will give you the opportunity to plan, design and execute a piece of research into a topic of your interest that is relevant to your field of study.
To help you with this, our Skills in Science unit will equip you with a range of skills you need for your research and for a career in science
After graduation, you may progress into diverse careers related to sciences including in academic or commercial research and development or management and policy-related roles in local and national government agencies.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/pharmacology-with-data-analytics:
Our MSc Pharmacology with Data Analytics graduates are employed in pharmaceutical and biotech industries as well as in medicines regulatory agencies.
Designed for graduates without a computing background, this two-year Master’s gives you the high-quality pharmacological skills you need to work in the field of drug discovery and development alongside teaching you valuable IT skills.
You explore areas such as the mechanisms of drug action at molecular level; the treatment of human disease; and the latest cell and molecular technologies.
The Data Analytics units cover programming, databases, security and computer networking, with opportunities to apply your IT knowledge to real-world problems.
Explore fundamental IT-based tools and techniques through integrated data analytics units then apply your knowledge in hands-on practice .
Gain key transferable skills in critical thinking; integration of knowledge; effective communication; and successful leadership.
Develop your specialist interest s in your laboratory research project, where you can choose from one of four core areas.
Studying our Pharmacology with Data Analytics MSc course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise in the field of drug research and development, the treatment of human diseases, and new technologies within pharmacology with a focus on data analytics.
Here, you will learn how these major diseases are managed and treated in current clinical practice.
Summative assessments will be undertaken in all units of the course to check that you have met (or are working towards meeting) the threshold standards expected of all students.
Also there will be a formative assessment in the beginning of semesters 1 and 2 to help you understand the academic writing and online submission process along with the assessment marking criterion.
Evidence on which assessment of students achievement is based will include:
The course assessment strategy is compliant with the University of Bedfordshire Quality Assurance Regulations.
The commitment to practical skills and the ability to communicate and interpret data through scientific Developing Independent Research is emphasised at all units of the programme.
Practical work will be assessed through written practical activities poster oral presentations and reflective laboratory diaries.
Students capability in carrying out research will be assessed through a research proposal research project activities and presentations.
On completion of this course you will be able to progress into careers in drug research and development across a wide range of employers including the pharmaceutical industry; biotech companies; academic institutions; the NHS; and other public organisations.
You also have the opportunity for further study at Doctoral level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/pharmacology-with-project-management:
This two-year Master’s gives you the high-quality pharmacological training and skills you need to work in the field of drug discovery and development alongside teaching you valuable skills in project management.
You acquire a broad knowledge of drug discovery and development, focusing on the mechanisms of drug action at molecular level; the treatment of human diseases; and the latest cell and molecular technologies.
The Project Management units include leading and managing organisational resources; personal professional development; and achieving change.
Develop transferable skills in areas such as critical analysis, performance appraisal, effective communication and successful leadership alongside expertise in project management.
Explore your interests in greater detail with a laboratory research project in one of four core areas.
Studying our Pharmacology with Project Management MSc course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise in the field of drug research and development, human disease treatment, and pharmacology technologies with a focus on project management.
In practical areas of study, you will gain insight into clinical trials, the high throughput screening process, and how drugs are prepared to enter the market in our Drug Discovery and Development unit.
Aside from this, you will also examine the causes of diseases and disorders that affect the central nervous, circulatory, endocrine and metabolic system in our Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics unit.
To add to this, our unit in Developing Independent Research will support you in producing a good research proposal.
The assessment philosophy of the MSc Pharmacology with Project Management Award conforms to the recommendations of the aspects of relevant QAA Benchmarks and Masters level descriptors.
Evidence on which assessment of students achievement is based will include: formal written examinations; summative practical assessments; laboratory and other written Academics; problem-solving exercises; oral presentations; individual planning conduct and Academicing of project work; and essay assignments.
Evidence on which assessment of students' achievement is based may include: literature surveys and evaluations; collaborative practicals; individual research project preparation and displays of 'posters' Academicing project work; personal portfolios of learning achieved; computer-based assessments; and self and peer assessment.
The importance of oral communication skills is also acknowledged as some of the units require students to undertake oral presentations as a part of the unit assessments.
Your project management skills are relevant across a wide range of sectors.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/photography:
96% of our cinematics and photography students were satisfied with the learning opportunities their course offered, including teaching skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
Our course tutors are practising photographers, writers and artists who publish and exhibit their work nationally and internationally.
Develop your personal practice and work on live briefs for local institutions and companies including The Culture Trust Luton, Luton Football Club and the University of Bedfordshire.
If you have a passion for photography, this course gives you the knowledge, skills and techniques you need for a successful career in the field.
You gain the practical skills and theoretical knowledge of both traditional and digital photographic formats while exploring darkroom techniques; medium- and large-format photography; studio photography; stop-motion techniques; and event and location photography.
Every day is different whether you are working on location or in our airy, open-plan studios.
Spacious studios and facilities in Alexon House, the previous home of the Alexon and Eastex fashion company Photography studio with industry-standard lighting systems Access to a digital darkroom with professional monitors, Apple computers and large-format Inkjet printers Analogue darkroom with high-quality enlargers Digital and analogue cameras
Our cinematics courses (including photography) rank in the UK top 10 in their subject field for teaching and students voice (NSS, 2024).
Explore ways a professional photographer works alongside other professions in the creative industries such as fashion designers, art directors, graphic designers and animators.
Learn from course tutors who are practising photographers, writers and artists ; they publish and exhibit their work nationally and internationally.
Learn from weekly World of Work guest talks from creative-industry professionals, who share their insight into paths to employment and establishing yourself as an independent creative.
Amass a professional-standard body of work and a network of contacts through events, exhibitions and industry-based opportunities.
Learn how to use social media and other digital platforms to promote your work .
Nicoló Giudice is a photographer, writer and lecturer.
After studying modern literature in France (BA and MA), he received his PhD from Goldsmiths, University of London.
Between 2004 and 2009 he worked for Magnum Photos and Jim Goldberg on projects such as Open See (2009), Access to Life (2009) and Documenting Disposable People (2008).
His own photographic work consists of long-term projects about contemporary forms of alienation and the process of imprinting from social, psychological and environmental points of view.
A selection of his work has been exhibited and published in England, Italy and France.
His research interests focus on the history of photography and its relationships with literature, cinema and the fine arts, in particular in the context of photobooks.
This level 4 unit will introduce you to essential skills needed to visualize and produce photographic images in responses to industry related assignments, and to provide an opportunity to explore, test and experiment using a range of skills, methods and material processes.
You will establish a focused and effective photographic studio practice using creative production methods.
You will investigate subject specific skills, methods and material processes for photography.
You will select and develop technical skills and integrate working methods to support image-making and story-telling.
This unit consolidates and develops practical and critical skills involved in photography, introduced in level 4.
This unit will give you the opportunity to pursue your personal creative interests and artistic concerns in the production of a body of photographic work for public exhibition.
The production of a self-initiated research-based project will enhance your personal development as a photographer.
You will explore the relationship between practice and theory in relation to photography and your Final Major Project.
Key skills are embedded in the teaching and learning of the course and will be considered in all assessments.
Key Skills relevant to photography and creative enterprise are embedded in the teaching and learning of the course and will be taken into account in all assessments.
The assessments will develop incrementally across the course and allow you to gain skills confidence and knowledge; receive feedback and develop as a practitioner thus allowing you to implement this knowledge and feedback into subsequent assessments.
At the end of the course completion of the assessments will demonstrate your ability to analyse current photographic practices and communicate this in both written and visual formats as well as demonstrate a range of transferable skills relevant to your professional employability.
Typical graduate destinations include various roles within the photography industry: photography studios, agencies, film and television, multimedia, fashion, advertising, magazine and book publishing, design consultancies, museum and galleries, arts education and freelance creative practice.
Further study at Master's level (Level Seven) include an MA in photography areas such as documentary or fashion, to name a few, as well as curating and publishing.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/physical-education-secondary-with-qts:
Our education rank in the UK top 15 in their subject field for career prospects and in the UK top 20 for satisfaction with teaching (Guardian, 2025).
This three-year degree is designed to support graduates to become teaching professionals who can influence change, inspire young people and progress into a successful career in physical education.
It develops student teachers who have a deep understanding of why, how and who they are teaching through a broad but deep curriculum.
An extensive range of practical learning experiences ensures you put theory into practice as a PE teacher as well as building your skill set ready for your wider professional role.
This course is accredited by the Department for Education (DfE) and successfully completing the course allows you to apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) as a PE teacher.
A wide range of sports facilities including a sports arena; multi-use games areas; sport science labs; and a range of sports pitches Mock classrooms with specialist technology so you can watch and assess your lesson Forest School where you can deepen your understanding of the long-term educational benefits of outdoor learning Specialist sensory centre for practice in teaching SEND and early years pupils Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting
You also benefit from opportunities with our official partners, Luton Town FC and Bedford Blues RFC and Foundation, as well as other sporting organisations such as MK Dons, Cricket East and Be Active.
We have a rich history and expertise in training PE teachers going back over 120 years.
Undertake a school placement every year , working closely with our trained mentors , many of whom are alumni of this course.
Learn through classroom experience and practical application , developing the skills you need to teach a range of physical activities to young people aged 11-16 (16-19 with enhancement).
Benefit from opportunities to teach personal, social, health and economic (PSHE) education as well as another curriculum subject.
Apply the scientific principles of physical education and sport to a range of practice activities including athletics, dance, games, gymnastics, swimming and outdoor, adventurous activities.
You are taught by an experienced University teaching team at the cutting edge of theory and practice.
Participate in a field trip to develop your knowledge of teaching adventure activities in an authentic outdoor context.
We have regular visits by professionals from schools and academy chains including teachers and senior leaders; schools that support pupils with special educational needs and disabilities (SEND); and local education authorities.
I have significant experience of teaching and leading Physical Education in secondary schools and prior to joining the University, coordinated the Physical Education provision for a SCITT scheme and mentored student teachers from the University.
I have a passion for supporting and developing trainee teachers and as the interim Course Coordinator, have many opportunities to ensure their learning and progression is optimal.
I enjoy meeting potential trainees in my role as Course Coordinator, listening to the aspirations and intentions of the next generation of teachers.
The following unit titles are subject to approval:
The assessment strategy is based upon the premise that critical evaluation of theoretical perspectives as they apply to your own teaching is an intrinsic element of best teaching practice.
Throughout the course, therefore, you will continually be encouraged to explore what is known about teaching and learning, and to demonstrate independence and creativity in evaluating the relevance of that knowledge in your own context.
Assessed work will be directly applicable to your future role as a PE teacher and predominantly includes essays, reflective writing, reports, presentations and portfolios.
During your placements you will be assessed directly against the Cumulative Evidence Record, a tracking document that charts your progress against the expectations of the course at different points.
At the end of the course you will be assessed against the Teachers’ Standards in order to meet the requirements for the recommendation of qualified teacher status (QTS).
In years one and two you will complete in-class tests to assess your developing knowledge and understanding.
Sound subject knowledge is a fundamental quality of an effective teacher and you will be expected to demonstrate a commitment to ongoing development of that knowledge throughout the course.
Also key to the course is a focus on the development of research informed teaching, culminating in an extended systematic study of your own practice (action research project/dissertation).
By embedding the professional requirements for Qualified Teacher Status within the academic requirements of the degree, the course supports you in developing the qualities which define the University of Bedfordshire Graduate Teacher: an independent, reflective, creative, innovative, collaborative and resilient professional who is committed to ongoing personal and professional development.
The assessment for this course seeks to support you in developing your understanding of the interplay between theoretical perspectives and practice based experience.
You will be developing your skills of research and evaluation, critical thinking, creativity and independence.
The themes for your reflective writing are developed from local and national priorities and, therefore, allow you to develop the evidence of your understanding of values and principles underpinning the Teachers’ Standards as they apply to your working context.
Formative use of assessment is embedded throughout the course and is a principle which we would expect you to adopt in your own teaching.
You will be supported to become familiar with self- and peer-assessment approaches and to make effective use of feedback on both academic and practice-based aspects of the course, to identify targets for your ongoing development and plan actions to address them.
Engagement with published research is a fundamental aspect of the course and you will be supported in developing skills of critical analysis of the literature.
Rigorous attention to referencing conventions is, therefore, essential and you will be required to adopt the Harvard system.
You will be supported in developing your understanding of plagiarism and poor academic practice to ensure that your work meets the highest standards of ethics.
Local and national demand for University of Bedfordshire graduate teachers is high.
Recent annual destinations surveys show that typically 95-100% of graduate teachers will have secured full-time teaching posts to begin in the year of graduation.
For those who wish to gain promotion within schools, evidence shows that this is highly likely with many graduates securing a variety of leadership responsibilities.
Recent graduates are now in roles such as head of department, head of year, head of house, assistant head, deputy head and even headteacher.
Other graduates who wanted to work in education internationally are now in teaching and leadership positions around the world.
If you decide that school teaching is not for you, there are opportunities for you to use the skills you have gained in other areas of training, coaching and adult education as well as more broadly in sports or education organisations.
Occasionally, other graduates use their transferable knowledge, skills and understanding in unrelated fields and industries.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/physiotherapy:
This course is accredited by the Health and Care Professions Council (the registering body), opening the way to a career in a sector where qualified professionals are in high demand.
Complete a minimum of 1,000 hours on placements, with five placement units through the course.
This course teaches you the core skills you need to assess and diagnose patients’ problems – whether caused by accident, illness or ageing - then to formulate and implement treatment plans involving exercise, physical activity and therapy.
Our academic team ensure your learning is informed by research, and you consolidate your knowledge and skills through groupwork, student-led presentations and practical workshops alongside periods on clinical practice placements.
The course is accredited by the Health and Care Professions Council (the registering body).
On successful course completion, you graduate as a professional, able to work collaboratively alongside other members of the multidisciplinary team in the NHS and other sectors.
Dedicated physiotherapy suite Simulated hospital ward with ITU Simulated living spaces Anatomical models and exercise equipment
We have partnerships with local NHS acute and community trusts and private physiotherapy providers who support and guide you on clinical placements.
Learn from an experienced multidisciplinary team with expertise across a range of fields including neurological, cardio-respiratory and musculoskeletal physiotherapy; occupational therapy; leadership; and research.
Access to specialist clinical practitioners who support with teaching and assessing on the course, to ensure you are learning from experts in practice.
Experience a range of theory and practice-based learning opportunities, completing a minimum of 1,000 hours on placement : part-time placements in Years 1 and 2; full time in Year 3.
Take up opportunities for field trips where you can practise your skills and consider the wider context of physiotherapy as a profession.
Practise your skills in a safe, supportive environment with our ‘real-life’ simulation suites and high-spec equipment .
Train alongside other health professionals preparing you to work collaboratively in health settings across public, voluntary and independent sectors.
Benefit from our annual conference , where you can showcase your knowledge and skills to local employers.
Learn in a supportive setting within a small cohort , where you have access to a personal academic tutor throughout your time at University.
Hear from James and Alex, second-year Physiotherapy students
Hear from Chirag, first-year Physiotherapy student
Hear from Jenny Catchpole, Senior Lecturer in Physiotherapy, about the various facilities used in Physiotherapy
Hear from Jourdain, first-year Physiotherapy student
Studying our Physiotherapy BSc (Hons) course will equip you with in-depth theoretical knowledge and skills for practice in contemporary physiotherapy.
Building on the foundations of your study, you will be introduced to human systems and their functions in relation to anatomy and physiology to understand how they produce movement in our Human Structure, Function and Exercise unit.
This theory will inform your study of Holistic Physiotherapy Assessment and Intervention, where you will learn to gather information for physiotherapy assessment and interpret your findings to plan and deliver interventions for patients.
You will then begin to gain exposure to practical work in our Holistic Therapy in Practice unit where you will be equipped with the key skills and theories to safely and effectively engage with patients as part of your first practice placement.
At the same time, you will build on your theoretical knowledge Neuromusculoskeletal Physiotherapy and Physiotherapeutic Acute Care and Disease Management.
These units will allow you to integrate your understanding of human physiology and neuromusculoskeletal function with disease and dysfunction to effectively deliver neuromusculoskeletal care and holistic physiotherapy in a variety of settings.
In your final year, you will continue to develop your knowledge and skills to treat and evaluate more complex cases in our Managing Complexity in Physiotherapy unit.
You will be able to apply this to practice in our Complexity in Therapy unit, that will provide you with the increased responsibility to assess, plan, evaluate and deliver treatment across a period of 8 weeks.
Finally, you will complete a Physiotherapy Project that will allow you to integrate research, policy and practice that will help define your therapy as a profession.
Assessment is on-going throughout the course and takes place towards the end of each term although assessment points may also be staggered throughout the year to spread the load.
You will be assessed in their theoretical knowledge through essays oral examinations (discussions with lecturers and mentors) presentations (individual and group presentations) unseen short and long-answer written examinations multiple choice examinations OSCEs (Observed Structured Clinical Examinations) and report writing.
You will also be assessed in practice by your clinical educators on a regular basis against learning outcomes specific to their place in the course.
Assessments will be made alongside a range of themes that test your ability to make clinical judgements act in accordance with the standards of behaviour expected of a professional communicate and work in partnership with service users and other health professionals.
Self-assessment is expected at each point of assessment - for both theory and practice assessments and formative assessments that you will also build into every practice based assessments and some theory assessments (e.g.
mock examinations; formative essay and opportunity for submission of essay plans at the beginning of the course).
Physiotherapy offers you many different and flexible employment options.
Once you have qualified and gained some clinical experience, you could go on to be employed as:
As with other Honours degrees, this qualification offers you access to other graduate employment beyond the realms of physiotherapy and also access to postgraduate training including MSc, MRes and PhD studies.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/policing-and-applied-criminal-investigations:
The course aligns to the curriculum of the National Investigators Exam (NIE) as well as with Policing and Law QAA benchmarking.
Includes a work-related unit developing your understanding of criminal justice.
The course has been developed and is taught by retired police officers with an extensive professional background in policing and investigations.
Whether working in the private security sector, as part of a legal team or within policing, many roles now require the technical skills and legal knowledge you gain from this employment-focused degree.
You develop specific skills in investigations, interviewing, managing evidence and building a case while gaining the enquiring mindset and analytical abilities you need to work across a range of areas related to policing and criminal investigations.
By the end of the course, you will have a solid grasp of the investigation process and how to use the legal framework, ensuring you can hit the ground running in a fast-paced work environment.
We also have strong links with Bedfordshire and Thames Valley police forces offering opportunities for placements within their service.
Take up opportunities for volunteering, placement and work-based learning on a course that blends practical and scenario-based learning with theory.
Develop specific skills in investigations , interviewing, managing evidence and building a case.
Build transferable skills in areas such as management and leadership, research analysis, IT/digital proficiency and being a changemaker in your field.
Specialised learning support and guidance from academic success coaches.
Year 1
Assessment policy across the Faculty is well established and provides consistency in accordance with University quality standards.
Assignment briefs are available at the start of each semester and assignment resources are published on BREO in a timely fashion across all courses.
There is also a video explaining the assignment to support the students.
The course assessment strategy will be designed so you can
This degree opens doors to various careers in law enforcement, criminal justice and related fields.
Potential career paths include roles as police officers, detectives, crime-scene investigators, and within the prison and probation services.
Graduates can also find opportunities in roles like intelligence analyst, social worker, or even pursue careers in law or academic research.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/primary-early-years:
A practice-led approach to gaining Qualified Teacher Status, with 80% of your time spent on placement.
We are consistently sector leaders for employability and our courses have excellent retention (University of Bedfordshire student data, 2024).
Our teacher training courses rank in the UK top 20 in their subject field for academic support (NSS, 2024).
Develop as a creative, innovative and reflective teacher specialising in working with the youngest children (aged 3-7).
Through specialist placements in Early Years Foundation Stage and Key Stage 1, you build a secure understanding of early years teaching and learning, supported by experienced early years and primary teachers, while your University-based sessions focus on general professional issues; the National Curriculum; and aspects of teaching such as lesson planning and assessment.
For further course information, contact Nicola Sayers at nicola.sayers@beds.ac.uk
Teacher Education Centre with realistic mock classrooms supported by specialist technology that allows you to watch and self-assess your lesson Up-to-the-minute simulation technology Forest School for training in outdoor learning Specialist sensory suite for teaching SEND and early years classes Recently refurbished science labs with facilities for wet work Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting Wide range of sports facilities including a sports arena, multiuse games areas and sports pitches
The University of Bedfordshire is one of the largest providers of teacher education in the region with a long, successful history of teacher education going back to 1882.
Gain real-world experience on a practice-led teaching course where you complete your training in the classroom at placements in our partner schools around the region.
All University-based staff teaching our QTS courses were previously employed as teachers, senior leaders and/or head teachers .
All staff are evidence informed and up to date with current practices in education through regular practice in school settings or research activities at higher education and national level.
Practice your teaching skills in the classroom with guidance from an expert or lead mentor who is a subject specialist ; your mentor is fully trained and may often be a former University of Bedfordshire student teacher so you are joining a large, life-long community of teachers.
Benefit from a PGCE course that has wellbeing embedded throughout , with specialist sessions and placement support from our placement coordinator and wellbeing coordinator.
Within the enrichment arm of the course, explore areas of your choosing , such as autism or school leadership, with some choices leading to additional qualifications .
Expand your knowledge via talks from wider curriculum specialists as well as conferences, TED-style masterclasses and cross-curricular discussions, taking place on campus as well as online.
Extend your wider understanding through regular visits by professionals from schools, local organisations, community partners and professional bodies including primary and secondary teachers, senior leaders, SEN schools and local education authorities.
University-based sessions take place at our Bedford campus, a small, thriving academic community where academic staff get to know you well and provide individual academic support.
Experience field trips to locations you would be likely to take your pupils including a Year 1 PE residential trip with outdoor adventure activities.
On graduating, you can apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a teacher in an early years or primary education setting.
I have worked in Primary Education for over 20 years as a Headteacher, Deputy Head, Phase Leader, and Leader of Mathematics and English.
During this time, I worked closely with my fellow cluster schools supporting subject leaders and completing school evaluation and monitoring.
I have taught across the whole of the Primary age range, however am specialised in Key Stage 2.
At the University of Bedfordshire, I teach on the PGCE Primary 5-11 (QTS), the Applied Maths, and the Top-up Exploring the Curriculum.
I am also the lead in Primary Recruiting.
My interests still lie in Primary Education, primarily in how children learn and the impact of cognitive load theory.
I am also interested in disadvantaged children and the impact of poverty on  the primary school child.
Currently, I am interested in the effects the current pandemic has on the social skills of our children and the impact upon families.
Studying our Primary Early Years PGCE course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills around education, teaching and curriculum.
You will start by building your understanding of teaching and learning, as well as how to apply that knowledge into practice in our Evidence Informed Primary Teacher (Level 7) unit.
Based on key literature, you will focus on developing evidence-informed teaching and subsequently be critical of your own practice in The Reflective Primary Teacher (Level 7) unit.
This will help you prepare for work within complex and unpredictable early years classroom settings that demand innovative thinking and actions.
In areas of practice, you will have the opportunity to undertake a school placement where you will build your experience to independently plan and deliver lessons based on your observations and learning in our School Experience 1 – The Primary Early Years Teacher unit.
You will learn to apply useful management strategies in a school context while aligning with behaviour management policy.
In the second part of this unit; School Experience 2 – The Primary Early Years Teacher; you will continue to develop and apply your experience from the first unit while also learning methods to adapt teaching, effective use of assessment and to promote good progress.
Throughout the course therefore you will continually be encouraged to explore what is known about teaching and learning and to demonstrate independence and creativity in evaluating the relevance of that knowledge in your own context.
Sound subject knowledge is a fundamental quality of an effective teacher and you will be expected to demonstrate a commitment to on-going development of that knowledge throughout the course.
In addition key to the course is a focus on the development of evidence informed teaching culminating in an extended systematic study of your own practice.
By embracing the professional requirements for Qualified Teacher Status within the academic requirements of a Post Graduate Certificate the course supports you in developing the qualities that define the University of Bedfordshire graduate teacher: an independent reflective creative innovative collaborative and resilient professional who is committed to on-going personal and professional development.
You will be developing your skills of reviewing and evaluation of evidence critical thinking creativity and independence.
The themes for your evidence informed writing are developed from local and national subject priorities and therefore allow you to develop the evidence of your understanding of values and principles underpinning the Teachers Standards as they apply to your working context.
By building your work around these themes you will generate rich evidence that can contribute to the assessment of your professional performance: the Profile Review Points.
Hence the assessment items are intrinsically connected and in combination allow you to demonstrate your achievement of all learning outcomes.
The Profile Review Point is the process by which the mentor reviews your progress in your teaching practice and offers this evidence to your university tutor to review against all the other evidence that they see of you on the course.
The Teachers Standards 2012 provide the framework by which this progress is judged and are supplemented with descriptors which support you in understanding the qualities which define the level at which you meet the standards.
The Teacher Standard descriptors are included in the School Experience unit assessment information.
Formative use of assessment is embedded throughout the course and is a principle that we would expect you to adopt in your own teaching.
You will be supported to become familiar with self- and peer-assessment approaches and to make effective use of feedback on both academic and practice-based aspects of the course to identify targets for your on-going development and plan actions to address them.
The passing of all four units will mean the course will recommend you to the Teaching Regulatory Agency (TRA) for QTS.
In exceptional circumstances approved by the head of school it may be possible for recommendation for QTS to be made without completion of the four units.
This option is not an automatic entitlement.
Many of our graduates go on to rewarding employment in local schools.
There are also opportunities to progress to further study at MA/MSc, MPhil, PhD and EdD levels.
The Department for Education (DFE) Bursaries and Scholarships
Bursaries and scholarships are available to trainees on tuition fee-based teacher training courses in England that lead to the award of qualified teacher status (QTS).
Receiving a bursary or scholarship depends on:

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/primary-education:
This PGCE course is designed to give you a secure understanding of primary teaching and learning (5-11 age group).
It develops the skills you need to teach core and foundation subjects using a variety of teaching approaches, with the opportunity to put theory into practice in the classroom on your placements.
For further course information, contact Julie Darmody at julie.darmody@beds.ac.uk
Teacher Education Centre with realistic mock classrooms to develop your practice in a non-threatening landscape Specialist Forest School Large outdoor spaces for developing the extended classroom Specialist sensory suite for teaching SEND and early years classes Recently refurbished science labs Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting Wide range of sports facilities including a sports arena, multiuse games areas and sports pitches
Experience field trips to locations you would be likely to take your pupils.
On graduating, you can apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a teacher in a primary education setting.
I graduated with a Chemistry degree in 1995.
During my ‘sandwich’ degree, I completed an extended 15-month placement researching the use of Ozone to remove pesticides and other organic waste matter from drinking water with a one of the largest water treatment providers in the country.
Additionally, as part of my final year dissertation, I undertook a research project exploring the potential of Bentonite Clay to absorb radionuclides leached from radioactive waste repositories.
Studying our Primary Education PGCE course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills around primary school education, teaching and curriculum.
The assessment strategy is based on the premise that critical evaluation of theoretical perspectives as they apply to your own teaching is an intrinsic element of best teaching practice.
Also key to the course is a focus on the development of research informed teaching culminating in an extended systematic study of your own practice.
By embedding the professional requirements for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) within the academic requirements of a Post Graduate Certificate the course supports you in developing the qualities which define the University of Bedfordshire graduate teacher: an independent reflective creative innovative collaborative and resilient professional who is committed to on-going personal and professional development.
You will be developing your skills of research and evaluation critical thinking creativity and independence.
The themes for your reflective writing are developed from local and national priorities and therefore allow you to develop the evidence of your understanding of values and principles underpinning the Teachers Standards (2012) as they apply to your working context.
(Superficial statements of performance against the Teachers Standards (2012) oppose the principles which underpin this course and are not accepted.) By building your reflections around these themes you will generate rich evidence which can contribute to the assessment of your professional performance: the Profile Review Points (PRPs).
The Profile Review Point (PRP) is the process by which the mentor (with university training and support) reviews your progress in your teaching practice.
The Teachers Standards (2012) provide the framework by which this progress is judged and are supplemented with descriptors which support you in understanding the qualities which define the level at which you meet the standards.
The Teachers Standards (2012) descriptors are included in Introducing the Primary School Teacher and The Primary school Teacher units assessment information.
On graduating, you can apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work in a primary education setting.
There are also opportunities to progress to further study at MA/MSc, MPhil PhD and EdD levels.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/primary-education-3-7-with-qts:
Our education courses rank in the UK top 20 in their subject field for student satisfaction (Complete University Guide, 2026).
96% of our teacher training students were satisfied with the academic support they received while studying with us (National Student Survey, 2024).
This course is designed to help you become a creative, innovative and reflective teacher, specialising in working with the youngest children in primary schools (aged 3-7), while gaining Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
Through taught sessions and supported placements, this course develops your confidence in applying theory to Early Years Foundation Stage (EYFS) and Key Stage 1 teaching practice, giving you the knowledge and skills to lead learning and initiate change in educational settings.
This course is accredited by the Department for Education (DfE) and meets the requirements for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
Mock classrooms with specialist technology so you can watch and assess your lesson Forest School where you can deepen your understanding of the long-term educational benefits of outdoor learning opportunities Specialist Early Years and Sensory Centre to support your understanding of how teachers teach and children learn, within early years and SEND contexts Multi-media space for webinars and podcasting
In the National Student Survey 2024, our education students rate us highly (over 90% positive responses) for our teaching; academic support; learning opportunities; assessment and feedback; organisation and management of studies; and learning resources.
Follow a blended learning approach incorporating scheduled taught sessions; guided learning; and independent and autonomous learning including research.
Gain research skills, knowledge and understanding of early years child development; special educational needs and disabilities (SEND); behaviour management; digital learning; and practice beyond Key Stage 1.
Learn from an experienced teaching team that includes previous early years and primary teachers as well as middle and senior leaders within schools and early years settings At the University, you benefit from the support of your own personal tutor as well as a unit and course coordinator.
On placement, mentors and University partnership liaison tutors support you in teaching individuals, small groups and classes.
Learn from an experienced teaching team that includes previous early years and primary teachers as well as middle and senior leaders within schools and early years settings
At the University, you benefit from the support of your own personal tutor as well as a unit and course coordinator.
Studying our Primary Education (3-7) (with QTS) BA (Hons) course aims to equip you with the knowledge, skills and understanding of child development, teaching and learning at primary school level.
You will be introduced to how children develop physically, cognitively, emotionally and socially in our Child Development and Theories of Learning unit while considering adapted support for children with special educational needs and/or disabilities (SEND).
Furthermore, you will study the nature of learning and development in our Leading High-Quality Teaching in The Early Years unit.
As an educator, it is also essential that you are familiar with primary literacy, and this is where our units in Early Literacy and Reading and Early Literacy and Communication will expose you to a range of theories on the teaching and learning of literacy and communication as part of the Early Years Foundation Stage (EYFS) and KS1.
Additionally, these units will develop your appreciation and understanding of poetry, dramatic texts and non-fiction.
It is also important that you are equipped to teach core subjects as part of the curriculum, and this is where our Exploring the EYFS and National Curriculum Core Subjects unit will introduce you to the effective teaching of English, mathematics and science, within the National Curriculum, and the Understanding the World aspect of the EYFS curriculum.
You will then specialise in the study of each of these subjects in our units in Mathematics and Science and Further Mathematics and Science that will develop your knowledge of these topics relevant to the primary National Curriculum.
You will also learn about practical teaching ideas for both subjects that will allow you to self-experiment with creating learning activities, including for children with SEND.
Additionally, you will also explore these subject areas and their place within the EYFS context.
In more advanced areas, you will develop your knowledge with an imaginative approach to teaching numbers, geometry, algebra and more.
In areas of teaching, you will also be prepared to plan and teach foundation subjects including physical education, art, computing and music in our Professional Studies: The Broader Curriculum in Early Years and Key Stage One unit.
The EYFS curriculum will also be examined with a focus on Expressive Arts and Design, Understanding the World and Physical Development.
You will use this subject knowledge to understand how children learn from the outdoors or through art and design.
To prepare you for the long term, our unit in Professional Studies: The 21st Century Classroom will allow you to understand the ever-changing societal needs and how to manage this in classroom practice.
Furthermore, to enhance your versatility, our unit in Professional Studies: Multidimensional Classrooms will support you in adopting a reflective, resilient and autonomous approach to teaching while allowing you to explore dynamic classroom practice.
As an educator it is also important to consider diverse needs of children and adopt an inclusive approach in your work.
This is where our unit in Meeting the Needs of Individual Children will prepare you to understand the sensitivities of inclusion in the field of socio-cultural learning theory.
You will also explore how to enhance learning of pupils who may be asylum seekers or refugees while eliminating discrimination and addressing safeguarding in your work.
Finally, you will have the opportunity to complete a research project in our Research for Teaching unit where you will analyse national and local educational contexts in a topic of your interest.
This will enhance your teaching practice by enabling you to understand your own development areas and pupils’ needs and interests.
The assessment for this course seeks to support you in developing your understanding of the connections between theoretical perspectives and practice-based experience.
The Profile Review Point (PRP) is the process by which the mentor reviews your progress in your teaching `practice'.
The CER provides the framework by which this progress is judged at two points during a school placement to show whether you are on track to meet course curriculum expectations.
You will be supported to become familiar with self and peer assessment approaches and to make effective use of feedback on academic aspects of the course to identify targets for your on-going development and plan actions to address them.
You will gain experience in a range of schools and in different settings throughout your course, enabling you to build a network of contacts.
You will also benefit from our wider University Careers and Employability Service, with structured guidance on preparing strong applications and attending interviews.
You may also consider undertaking further study such as our MA Education or a specialist qualification in areas such as literacy or behavioural difficulties once you become teacher.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/primary-education-with-qts:
In the Complete University Guide (CUG) 2026, our education courses rank in the UK top 20 in their subject field for student satisfaction.
This course with recommendation for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) equips you with the knowledge, skills and understanding you need to take on this important role and help young children make sense of the world.
You will learn through taught sessions and supported teaching practice where you apply the theory you have learnt in educational settings, developing your knowledge and skills to teach the national curriculum across Key Stages 1 and 2.
This course is accredited by the Department for Education (DfE).
Gain hands-on experience of teaching through four ‘Broadening Experience’ placements (one per year) in Early Years Foundation Stage (EYFS); Key Stage 3 (KS3); a placement related to your chosen elective; and a final placement based on your specialism/area of interest.
Work with experienced tutors with a wealth of experience in building teacher competence and confidence across all subjects.
On placement, you have mentors and University partnership liaison tutors to support you as you teach individuals, small groups and classes in the 5-11 age range.
You have the opportunity to go on relevant field trips to places you would be likely to take your pupils, such as theatres, museums and art galleries.
Broaden your understanding via regular visits by professionals from schools and academy chains; SEN schools; local education authorities; and other agencies.
Studying our Primary Education (with QTS) BA (Hons) course aims to equip you with the knowledge, skills and understanding of child development, teaching and learning at primary school level.
In core areas of study, you will be introduced to how children develop physically, cognitively, emotionally and socially in our Child Development and Theories of Learning unit while considering adapted support for children with special educational needs and/or disabilities (SEND).
As an educator, it is also essential that you are familiar with primary literacy, and this is where our units in Literacy in The Primary School and Early Literacy and Reading will expose you to a range of theories on the teaching and learning of literacy.
Here, you will develop your appreciation and understanding of poetry, dramatic texts and non-fiction.
It is also important that you are equipped to teach core subjects as part of the curriculum, and this is where our Exploring Core Subjects unit will introduce you to the effective teaching of English, mathematics and science.
Moreover, you will learn about practical teaching ideas for both subjects that will allow you to self-experiment with creating learning activities, including for children with SEND.
To enhance your knowledge, our Primary Foundation Subjects Enhancements unit will guide you on how to effectively teach, lead and manage these subjects in a primary setting.
In other areas of teaching, you will also be prepared to teach foundation subjects including physical education, art, computing and music in our Professional Studies: Planning for Learning Across Subjects unit.
In addition to this, you will learn about the nature of child learning and development with a focus on the role of adults in supporting these processes in our Leading High-Quality Teaching in the Early Years Enhancement unit.
In particular, you will consider how aspects of leadership and management can be applied in early years contexts while developing your understanding of high-quality practice in early years.
To prepare you for the long term, our unit in Professional Studies: Preparing to Work with Children in the 21st Century will allow you to understand the ever-changing societal needs and how to manage this in classroom practice.
Furthermore, to enhance your versatility, our unit in Professional Practice: Multidimensional Classrooms will support you in adopting a reflective, resilient and autonomous approach to teaching while allowing you to explore dynamic classroom practice.
This ties in closely with our Primary SEND Enhancement unit where you will look at aspects of SEND provision.
Finally, you will have the opportunity to complete a research project in our Research for Teaching unit where you will analyse national and local educational contexts in a topic of your interest that will enhance your teaching practice by enabling you to better understand pupils’ needs and interests.
Throughout the course you will continually be encouraged to explore what is known about teaching and learning and to demonstrate independence and creativity in evaluating the relevance of that knowledge in your own context.
Assessed work will be directly applicable to your future role as a primary teacher and predominantly include essays reflective writing reports presentations and portfolios.
During your placements you will be assessed directly against the Teachers Standards.
In all years you will complete in-class audits to assess your developing subject knowledge.
Also key to the course is a focus on the development of research informed teaching culminating in an extended systematic study of your own practice (dissertation).
By embedding the professional requirements for Qualified Teacher Status within the academic requirements of the degree the course supports you in developing the qualities which define the University of Bedfordshire Graduate Teacher: an independent reflective creative innovative collaborative and resilient professional who is committed to on-going personal and professional development.
The Profile Review Point is the process by which the mentor reviews your progress in your teaching `practice.
The Teachers Standards Descriptors are included in School Placement documentation.
Rigorous attention to referencing conventions is therefore essential and you will be required to adopt the Harvard system.
By the end of the course, you will be fully prepared to enter the primary classroom and have your own class.
Should you wish to work outside of the classroom, you are equipped for a variety of roles from education officers at places of interest (for example, museums, art galleries and tourist attractions) to training within organisations or tutoring.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/professional-social-work-practice:
Part of the Step Up to Social Work programme that allows you to become a qualified social worker in just 14 months.
100% of students from the last cohort of Step Up to Social Work gained employment as a qualified social worker.
The course runs once every two years; the next course will run 2026/27, opening for applications February/March 2025.
This innovative Postgraduate Diploma blends practical experience with academic study, leading to a nationally recognised professional qualification in social work.
Commissioned by two regional employer partnerships, it provides high-quality, work-based education and training for aspiring social workers, with placements in a local authority.
The course is funded by the Department for Education; students receive a bursary and are fully supported by a local authority children’s services department.
To apply, you need at least six months’ experience (work or volunteering) with children, young people or families.
Our Social Work courses are accredited by Social Work England.
Once you have completed this course, you will be a qualified social worker and can apply to Social Work England for your professional registration.
Gain access to the Faculty’s range of simulation units and the Moot Court for practising real-world scenarios you may encounter Laptops and mobile phones (where applicable) are provided by your local authority for use while on placement
Two Step Up regional partnerships: South East (Oxfordshire, Milton Keynes, Central Bedfordshire and Buckinghamshire) and the Central Eastern (Hertfordshire, Luton and Bedford).
Our social sciences courses rank 7 th overall in their subject field in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024; they rank in 1 st place for assessment , with top 10 rankings for teaching, engagement and learning community .
Benefit from intensive, hands-on experience of working in a social work role through placements in a local authority.
Earn as you learn with a tax-free bursary and payment of University fees for successful applicants.
Study the social power structures that create inequalities alongside the tools and techniques you can use to counter them.
Build the transferable skills of initiative, resourcefulness, critical reflection and emotional literacy.
On successful completion, you are guaranteed an interview for a social worker role.
After you complete the course, there is also the option to 'top up' your PgDip to a Master's, while working as a qualified social worker, by completing an optional dissertation unit.
In some circumstances, your local authority may pay your university fees for this unit.
I have been a qualified social worker for over ten years, with an MA in Social Work from Goldsmiths College, University of London.
I am also a qualified Practice Educator.
I took up my position as Senior Lecturer in Social Work at the University of Bedfordshire in 2021 and have been teaching across undergraduate and postgraduate pre-qualifying social work courses.
I currently have the role of course coordinator for Step Up to Social Work, a fast-track postgraduate social work qualifying programme which we deliver in collaboration with our Local Authority partners.
Studying our Professional Social Work Practice PgDip course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise in areas of sociology, social policy, and social work practice for social work with children and families.
As a core part of your practice, Developing Professional Social Work Practice will allow you to explore key issues, theories and advanced skills in working directly with people and in doing so, assess your readiness to go into your 70-day placement.
With a critical approach, you will develop advanced communication skills to work in complex and unpredictable social work environments.
In relation to theory, you will develop a deep understanding of current discourse around human development, consider ethical practice and learn the methods of intervention to work with people.
You will then refine your approach to practice in our Reflective Social Work Practice unit to develop your skills as a critically reflective practitioner as you engage in a 100-day placement working alongside professionally qualified practitioners in a statutory childcare setting.
One element that feeds into your social work practice is ethics, and this is where our Ethical Perspectives on Law and Society will allow you to explore legal, ethical, social policy and sociological themes in social work practice.
You will consider ethical and professional principles such as equality, empowerment, partnership and anti-discriminatory practice.
To add to this, you will develop knowledge around the models, policies and practice in Research Informed Child Care Practice.
As the unit suggests, the first part of this unit will introduce you to research skills for social workers and how to use this to inform practice.
Following this, you will develop a crucial ability to work in partnership and communicate with different agencies and disciplines based on legal requirements and policy.
This may extend into areas such as disability, addiction, mental illness, domestic violence and more.
You will also be critical of policy and practice in social work provision in the childcare sector and subsequently make recommendations to improve the delivery of these services.
Once you have completed your PgDip and have begun working as a newly qualified social worker, there is an option to complete an additional unit in our Dissertation for Social Workers.
This will allow you to undertake a practice-based research project into a topic of your interest as you develop a critical understanding of a specific area in the field and apply advanced research skills to develop informed solutions to improved practice.
The course is assessed using a range of methods including formally assessed papers, assignments, case studies, group and individual presentations, research based work and evidence drawn from learning in the work place.
All unit assessments will draw on your experiences in the work place in order to embed the integration of theory and practice.
These methods are designed to test you in all the areas necessary for professionally capable practice as qualified Social Workers as well as the academic disciplines underpinning such practice.
Through the use of a variety of assessment methods you will be able to demonstrate a wide range of key skills for both academic and practice capability.
Representatives of students’ sponsoring authorities and service users and carers will be fully involved in all relevant assessment tasks to ensure that your learning is assessed against the requirements of the profession.
Formal Practice Learning will be assessed over two periods of work-based learning in a variety of social work and related settings.
All students qualifying with the Postgraduate Diploma in Professional Social Work Practice are required to meet both the SWE Professional Standards (2020) and the Professional Capabilities Framework (PCF)(BASW 2018) In order to ensure this, the course and unit learning outcomes have been carefully designed to meet and are clearly mapped to both the Professional Standards (2020) and the PCF.
This information is contained in the course handbook as well as unit information and practice learning documents to ensure that you understand and know what you need to evidence in order to meet these professional requirements.
For the final Masters stage of the course you will be supervised to undertake a piece of original research of relevance to your practice area.
Graduates achieving the Postgraduate Diploma will be eligible to register and practice as a social worker; if your local authority has vacancies you will be guaranteed an interview for a social worker role in children and families’ statutory social work.
The starting salary for a social worker in most authorities in this region is around £30k per annum.
The qualification also opens up career paths within a wide range of statutory, private, voluntary and independent organisations providing services to vulnerable and disadvantaged individuals, children, families, groups and communities.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/project-management-masters:
Accredited by the Association for Project Management (APM) with areas of knowledge specified by the Project Management Institute, giving you the up-to-date skills and knowledge required to become a professional in the field.
Project management is a transferable skill in increasing demand across industries as well as being a professional role in itself.
Studying our Project Management MSc will equip you with the knowledge and skills you need in the combined areas of planning and resource management alongside crucial interpersonal and leadership skills.
You explore case studies and take on real projects, building your ability to evaluate, adapt and apply project management principles to address complex challenges and optimise project outcomes.
You also build on skills such as planning, communication, motivation and initiative to meet demands in the field across various business contexts.
For further course information, contact Vahideh Bamshad at vahideh.bamshad@beds.ac.uk
This course is accredited by the Association for Project Management (APM) with areas of knowledge specified by the Project Management Institute, giving you the up-to-date skills and knowledge required to become a professional in the field.
I am a lecturer in Project Management and joined the Graduate School of Business in June 2023.
Currently, I serve as the course coordinator for the MSc in Project Management, Project Management with Data Analytics, and Project Management with Placement.
Additionally, I hold the position of unit leader at the postgraduate level.
Our MSc in Project Management is designed to equip you with the essential knowledge and skills needed to excel in planning and resource management.
Through a blend of case studies and real-world project experiences, our Project Management Theory and Practice unit will empower you to critically evaluate, adapt, and apply project management principles, enabling you to tackle complex challenges and optimise project outcomes.
You will refine key skills such as planning, communication, motivation, and initiative, which are crucial for meeting the demands of various business contexts.
In today's digital landscape, managing risks effectively is paramount.
Our Digital Projects and Risk Management unit will train you to apply advanced risk management principles and techniques using industry-standard software.
You’ll learn to address a spectrum of risks, including environmental, social and governance (ESG), financial and security risks, within the context of digital projects.
The importance of supply chain and logistics management cannot be overstated in contemporary business.
Our Integrated Supply Chain and Logistics Management unit will deepen your understanding of these critical areas, allowing you to explore and address key challenges in the design and management of modern supply chains.
You will develop the ability to design, control, operate, and manage efficient supply chains effectively.
Strategic insight is vital for any successful business leader.
In our Strategy unit, you will gain a critical and informed understanding of business environments and the opportunities they present.
You will be introduced to a comprehensive set of tools and concepts for strategic analysis and business modeling, enabling you to assess the strategic positioning of organisations, formulate strategies, evaluate options, and implement strategic decisions effectively.
To cap off your learning journey, the Capstone unit will provide you with the opportunity to synthesise theory and practice by researching a topic of your choice within your field of study.
You will be guided through the process of research methods by working closely with a research supervisor, helping you to develop and refine your ideas into a meaningful research project.
By completing this MSc course, you will have the skills needed to find career opportunities in the following industries/areas: media; sport and leisure; government; financial services; construction; hospitality; engineering; electronics; IT; telecoms; and the health services.
If you wish to continue your studies, you will also be well prepared for further research study at MPhil or PhD level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/project-management-with-placement:
Course is aligned with the Principles of Responsible Management Education’s (PRME) sustainable development goals (SDG).
This practice-focused, 22-month Master’s provides you with the knowledge and skills you need to perform successfully at a senior management level.
You study the management of challenging projects on a course developed with professional bodies and leading specialists, ensuring your learning reflects current and best practice.
Your guaranteed placement offers you an academically supervised workplace experience, which also forms the basis for your dissertation project.
Study under the guidance of our industry-experienced academic team , actively involved in consultancy, research and engagement.
Tackle genuine business problems while building employment-focused skills through practice-led teaching, live assessments, case studies and industry collaboration.
Develop transferable skills including critical thinking, research analysis, leadership and self-management alongside specific subject expertise.
Apply your knowledge in an area of interest with your choice of Master’s business project .
Gain industry insights from high-profile academics and business leaders in our Global Guest Speaker series , which includes talks from TUI, Luton Borough Council and the Association of Project Management.
Extend your understanding of the workplace environment with regular field trips to prominent companies and national exhibitions .
Studying our Project Management (with Placement) MSc course will equip you with the knowledge and skills in the combined areas of planning and resource management alongside the interpersonal and leadership skills you need for placement.
Through working with case studies and real project experiences, our unit in Project Management Theory and Practice will allow you to evaluate, adapt and apply project management principles to address complex challenges and optimise project outcomes.
You will build on skills such as planning, communication, motivation, and initiative to meet demands in the field across various business contexts.
Digital projects and risk management are crucial in today’s business environment.
Our Digital Projects and Risk Management unit teaches you how to apply advanced risk management techniques using industry-standard software, addressing risks such as environmental, social and governance (ESG), financial and security risks.
Aside from this, you will develop a good understanding of supply chain and logistics concepts as you examine key issues in the design and management of contemporary supply chains in our Integrated Supply Chain and Logistics Management unit.
With this information, you will learn to implement solutions for the design, control, operation and management of supply chains.
This course culminates in the Business Dissertation Placement unit, where you will bring theory and practice together by researching a topic of your choice.
This placement provides a unique opportunity to explore a topic in-depth, emphasising the importance of a thorough literature review as part of the learning process.
You will also reflect on research methodology, selecting and implementing the most appropriate approach for your research.
Through this process, you will enhance your skills in time management, project organisation and decision-making, ensuring a successful research outcome.
Additionally, you will gain practical experience in addressing the challenges of research, including accessing sources and considering ethical implications.
The Course’s Assessment Strategy includes:
When group work is required, the marks given will be individual following the UoB's regulatory scheme.
In some cases, different kind of assessment may be used in combination, making sure however that there are no hidden tasks.
The intensive character of this Course's delivery as it is outlined in its Teaching and Learning philosophy is consistent with the needs of this process in a way that is meaningful and comprehensive.
Welcome and induction activities will be followed immediately by a week of intensive direct contact time followed by your own contribution through individual learning, which will take you to your first assessment point.
At the end of your six-week block, your final assessment will be due.
The aim is to develop both knowledge and skills to support students' entry to employment as confident project managers.
The types of assessments for this course includes:
The use of a wide range of sources, both academic and other is a requirement for a postgraduate degree.
Where collaborative tasks are assigned, an individual reflective report will be necessary to indicate your contribution to the team.
By completing this MSc course, you will have the skills needed to find career opportunities in the following industries/areas: media; sport and leisure; government; financial services; construction; hospitality; engineering; electronics; IT; telecoms; the health services.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/project-management-with-data-analytics:
Our business and management courses rank 4th overall in their subject field in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024, with top 3 rankings for teaching, student engagement, sense of community and organisation
Flexible courses designed to accommodate your work and life commitments with block delivery and different entry points through the year
Accredited by the Association for Project Management (APM) and aligned with the Principles of Responsible Management Education’s (PRME) sustainable development goals (SDG)
This APM-accredited, 22-month course provides you with the knowledge and skills to perform successfully at a senior management level.
You study the management of challenging projects – including projects for global companies over international boundaries – on a course developed with professional bodies and leading specialists, ensuring your learning reflects current and best practice.
The data analytics units prepare you to synthesise complex information to produce meaningful solutions, covering areas such as data utilisation, programming and the importance of analytics in decision making.
Cutting-edge business analytics suite tailored to essential management and data practices High-spec IT suites equipped with industry-standard hardware and software Business pods and boardroom areas designed to simulate a professional office environment
Explore IT-based tools and techniques through integrated data analytics units then apply your theoretical knowledge to hands-on practical exercises.
Gain industry insights from high-profile academics and business leaders in our Global Guest Speaker series, which includes talks from TUI, Luton Borough Council and the Association of Project Management.
Extend your understanding of the workplace environment with regular field trips to prominent companies and national exhibitions.
Solve real-life problems working with the University’s Research and Innovation Service (RIS) where you can assist local businesses and SMEs to up-skill and innovate.
Our MSc in Project Management with Data Analytics equips you with a powerful combination of skills in project management, data analytics, and network systems.
Through a blend of case studies and real-world project experiences, our Project Management Theory and Practice unit enables you to evaluate, adapt, and apply project management principles to overcome complex challenges and optimise outcomes.
You will develop critical skills in planning, communication, motivation, and initiative to excel in diverse business environments.
In today’s digital landscape, managing risks effectively is essential.
Our Digital Projects and Risk Management unit teaches you to apply risk management principles using industry-standard software, addressing a range of risks, including environmental, social and governance (ESG), financial and security risks in digital projects.
Our Integrated Supply Chain and Logistics Management unit offers you a deep understanding of modern supply chains, enabling you to design, control and manage them effectively.
In the data analytics portion of the course, the Applied Data Analytics unit introduces you to data mining principles within a business context.
You will explore text mining, data mining and analytics methods, applying them to real-world datasets to solve business challenges.
Additionally, you will gain hands-on experience with SAS Viya, a cloud-enabled analytics engine that supports advanced analytics, machine learning, and AI.
You will also study Knowledge and Information Management, focusing on the strategic role of data, knowledge, and information in business decision-making.
You will explore tools and techniques in Business Intelligence and Data Utilisation to enhance strategic decision-making and maximise company success.
This course also includes a Strategy unit, where you will gain a deep understanding of business environments and strategic opportunities.
You will learn to assess strategic positions, formulate strategies and implement decisions effectively.
Finally, the Capstone unit allows you to synthesise theory and practice by researching a topic relevant to your field of study.
You will receive guidance on research methods and work closely with a research supervisor to develop and refine your ideas.
The Course's Assessment Strategy includes:
Oral Presentation: A number of transferable skills will be developed
Reflective Report: Own work and that of peers will be evaluated
Artifacts : for applied computing and information technology
Dissertation / Professional Practice / Business Live Project: Regardless of which masters capstone experience you opt for you will have to produce an individual independent piece of work.
The three options are equivalent in weighting however offer three distinct approaches to explore a research problem.
The distinction between the three approaches is underpinned by the design of research methodology.
You will be asked to identify the research question or problem under investigation review the relevant literature and develop a sound methodology in order to explore the problem proceed with the analysis discuss your findings and make recommendations.
It will be one of the most challenging but yet enjoyable and rewarding experiences you will encounter ever!
Please refer to the unit information form (UIF) of each of the three options for details.
You are expected to make use of the journals professional bodies and the media in order to keep up-to-date with information examples debates discussions and events in project management.
Your enquiry skills will be developed through lectures and workshops.
You will be introduced to various research methods such as survey interview focus group action research and various quantitative and qualitative analytical techniques.
Through the final capstone unit in project management you will be able to apply some of these methods and techniques to carry out independent research.
Where collaborative tasks are assigned an individual reflective report or individual viva may be required to indicate your contribution to the team.
All coursework assignments will require a thorough evaluation of the sources used and referencing will be done according to the Harvard Referencing System
As mentioned in an earlier section a range of assessment methods will be used throughout the course and students will be required to undertake a variety of assessments including individual reports essays case studies oral presentations reflective report and a final course project - Business Dissertation Professional Practice or Business Live Project.
The assessments are designed to test students knowledge and understanding of the subject matter but also to demonstrate the range of skills identified in the section above.
Students will also experience some formative assessment activities designed to support the development of their knowledge and skills.
For example they will have the opportunity to discuss a report structure before completing the report to present concepts/findings through presentations and receive feedback before producing a final report or presentation.
In preparation for exams they will have opportunity to attempt revision questions with guidance on how to address these with appropriate solutions.
The successful completion of your MSc provides a strong foundation for your professional prospects.
You will be equipped to join an employer in a variety of positions and there is the potential for fast-track career progression.
This MSc opens up opportunities across a wide range of sectors including media; sport and leisure; government; financial services; hospitality; IT; telecoms; and the health services.
Your entrepreneurial project management skills will also be useful if you would like to start your own business or lead enterprising activities in existing companies or organisations.
Successful completion also provides the foundation for progression to further study and research and many graduates continue to work towards MPhil or PhD.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/psychology-and-crime:
The taught elements of this course are delivered one day per week, ideal for combining study with work and personal commitments.
A work-based unit allows you to experience real-life situations relating to the area you already work in or wish to work in the future.
This Foundation degree covers the study of psychology, criminology and law, with a specific focus on aspects of psychology relevant to understanding people’s behaviour in groups, and the development of an individual through childhood, adolescence and maturity.
It gives you a firm understanding of general and criminal psychology and how it can be applied to human behaviour, offending and society's response to offenders.
This course is delivered at Bedford College, where students have access to a library, study areas, laptop loans and SPSS software.
Students also have access to the University of Bedfordshire’s library resources, both online and at the campuses.
This course is delivered in partnership with Bedford College
Benefit from a Foundation degree assessed, moderated and ratified by the University of Bedfordshire .
The work-based unit allows you to put your new knowledge and skills into practice in your own work setting .
The course provides you with a critical overview of well-established and emerging theories, concepts and debates as well as exploring research methods and findings.
Develop your academic skills in areas such as identifying and locating key resources; analysing different sources of information; and critically evaluating your research.
Build strong writing and presentation skills through a peer-review process.
Take the opportunity to learn from guest speakers who share their experience and expertise at special events (both on campus and online) run by the University of Bedfordshire’s School of Psychology .
Psychology Subject Spotlight Take a look at our subject spotlight on Psychology!
Studying our Psychology and Crime FdA course will introduce you to the knowledge and skills in the areas of general and criminal psychology to develop your understanding of human behaviour, offending and society’s response to offenders.
To equip you with the essential skills for this course, you will be given a critical introduction to Study Skills and Social Research that will help you to connect theories and research methods so that you are able to understand literature and design your academic work.
More importantly, you will explore the relationship between psychology and criminology and apply this knowledge to a workplace setting in our Psychology and Crime Work-Based Learning 1 unit.
In the second part of this unit, you will have the opportunity to research an area of psychology and/or criminology in the context of your workplace and use this to plan a career strategy.
You will also focus your study on criminology in our Crime and Social Control unit that will introduce you to theories and ideas on the origins and causes of crime, as well as how to control and reason crime.
In areas of social psychology, you will explore key topics to understand how people change and develop biologically, cognitively and socially across their lifespan while considering cultural and social factors in our Social and Lifespan Development unit.
With a particular focus on children and young people, our Comparative Youth Justice: Ideology, Policy and Practice unit will allow you to explore youth offending, youth crime and the age of criminal responsibility.
To support you going into your career, our Professional Development and Research in Psychology unit will allow you to discover the types of employment available in the field and what qualities employers are looking for.
In the other half of this unit, you will learn the skills to collect data and conduct research using quantitative and qualitative designs and methods.
Throughout your course you will encounter a wide variety of assessment types which are collectively designed to suit the diversity of individual learning styles and preferences.
Whilst you will be expected to sit some examinations the overall assessment diet strongly favours different forms of coursework.
You will receive helpful feedback on each assignment which will help you to develop your own academic and transferable skills and inform the completion of your future assessments.
In the first year several of the written coursework assignments allow for formative assessment prior to the summative assessment.
This mean you will have the opportunity to present a first draft of your assignment with the expectation of being given feedback which will offer you guidance for how to develop and refine your assignment The process of peer reviewing is used for this purpose in both the Contemporary Youth Justice and the Foundations in Psychology units.
Importantly this peer review process in the first year will not only serve to support you in developing your written assignments but it also affords you an opportunity to practice your oral presentation skills in front of the class of your fellow students and tutors.
In these first instances your presentation is not actually assessed but again you will received feedback that will be of benefit when you come to undertake formally assessed presentations later in your course (for example on Crime and Social Control.
Employment opportunities for Foundation degree graduates include some areas of social work; youth work including in youth offender teams; prison work; working with substance abuse; counselling; teaching; or the police.
There may also be opportunities in human resources.
You may choose to 'top up' to a full Honours degree, either joining the University of Bedfordshire's BA (Hons) Psychology and Criminal Behaviour one-year top-up or going into the final year of a three-year Honours course in a related subject area.
If you wish to gain a British Psychological Society-accredited degree, you can progress on to the second year (Level 5) of the University of Bedfordshire's BSc (Hons) Psychology or BSc (Hons) Psychology, Crime and Justice.
Graduate Ellie-Jayne Myers says: "Following my graduation from the University of Bedfordshire I was offered the position of Research Assistant with the NCCR on a two-year project.
In this role, I worked alongside the police, looking at the management and risk assessment of cyberstalking and harassment.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/psychology-and-criminal-behaviour:
This top-up course allows those with a Foundation degree or other level 5 qualification to achieve an Honours degree.
Developed working with industry professionals from the NHS, mental health support and commercial organisations to ensure it aligns with employer needs.
This top-up course is for those who have already completed a Foundation-level course or have a level 5 qualification with some relevance to psychology.
It has a strong employability and ‘real-world’ focus, allowing you to examine forensic psychology in practice.
You learn key skills around occupational and organisational psychology; atypical child and adolescent development; the psychology of mental health; and forensic psychology.
You also explore the assessment and treatment of offenders including offenders with a mental illness.
You will have access to specialist, industry-standard psychology laboratories and computing environments including: Cognitive neuropsychology lab biological and cognitive psychology lab Virtual reality lab Research cubicles containing up-to-the-minute equipment and technology such as: Driving simulator Eye-tracking software Physiological data-acquisition system EEG Podcasting equipment KAT Walk Mini 5 omnidirectional VR treadmills Data-analysis software Experiment and survey-building software
You will have access to specialist, industry-standard psychology laboratories and computing environments including:
This course has been developed working with industry professionals from the NHS, mental health support and commercial organisations to ensure it aligns with employer needs.
You will be taught by a highly experienced team who are active in industry , bringing real-life practice to their teaching and research.
Take up field-trip opportunities including visits to the charity Headway UK or observing real-life court cases at Luton Crown Court.
Hear from a variety of guest speakers who share their experience and expertise at special events run by the School.
Our research addresses real-life day-to-day issues including reading development; cognitive function in long COVID; and prevention of gender-based violence.
I joined the university in 1998 as a technician.
As Lab Manager for the School of Psychology I completed my PhD, before moving on to a lecturing position.
Studying our Psychology and Criminal Behaviour (Top-up) BA (Hons) will equip you with the knowledge and expertise around specialist areas of psychology, human and criminal behaviour.
With a particular focus on children and young people, you will study the causes, symptoms, treatment and issues associated with exceptional children including examining the cognitive and psychosocial aspects of their difficulties in learning, attention and emotional and social development in our Atypical Child and Adolescent Development unit.
If you are interested in areas of mental health, our Psychology of Mental Health unit will allow you to examine the clinical symptoms of the most common psychological disorders while considering the sociocultural factors that may contribute to the causation, diagnosis and treatment of mental health problems.
To effectively rehabilitate offenders within the prison system, our Applied Forensic Psychology unit will teach you to investigate and evaluate various treatment and rehabilitation programmes for people in custody and people following release from custody to prevent relapses in behaviour.
You may also be interested in exploring areas of Occupational and Organisational Psychology and this unit will introduce you to how psychology contributes to the performance and wellbeing of organisations and employees in the workplace.
Finally, you will complete a Psychology and Criminal Behaviour Honours Project that will allow you to explore a particular topic of interest to you that is relevant to the field of contemporary psychology and criminal behaviours while also demonstrating the psychological theories, knowledge and skills you have acquired throughout the course.
The assessments are designed to test your academic knowledge oral and written skills use of literature using primary and secondary sources critical analysis of ideas connections made between theory practice real life situations and the understanding and application of professional values including ethical issues.
Throughout your course you will be required to take a variety of types of assessment to assess your progression and success.
These include self-reflection regarding your employability skills cases studies practical assignments such as developing a pack to help explain conditions such as autism to parents and children group presentations essays and exams.
Feedback is given to students for each assessment point and it is expected that you will use this feedback for your own development and to inform your completion of future assessments.
As a graduate of this course, you will be able to progress into the following areas: police work; public services (such as the Home Office Ministry of Justice or health service); market research; business and personnel; education; and charity work.
There is also a range of postgraduate study opportunities open to you for career paths in, for example, counselling; police; charity work; business and personnel; and teaching.
At the University of Bedfordshire, you can also progress to our BPS-accredited Applied Psychology (Conversion) MSc to put you on the path to becoming a chartered psychologist.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/psychology-counselling-and-coaching:
Specialist units for this course have been developed working with a panel of industry professionals from the NHS, mental health support and other relevant organisations.
This degree offers a unique approach, blending knowledge and practice from counselling and coaching psychology.
You study classic and contemporary theories of counselling and psychotherapy including psychodynamic, person-centred and cognitive behavioural approaches to gain a thorough understanding of the core areas.
You then have the opportunity to use and develop your skills in real-life, peer-coaching practice and in voluntary roles within relevant organisations.
T his course is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS).
You have access to specialist, industry-standard psychology laboratories and computing environments including: Counselling/coaching practice pods to develop counselling and coaching skills Two-way mirror observation rooms to assist with counselling/coaching skills development Virtual reality software and headsets to support counselling skills development Cognitive neuropsychology lab Research cubicles Eyetrackers Physiological data-acquisition system EEG Podcasting equipment Data-analysis software Experiment and survey-building software
Specialist units for this course have been developed working with a panel of industry professionals from the NHS, mental health support and other relevant organisations to ensure they align with employer needs.
Learn from a highly experienced academic team who are active in industry and are members of the Research Centre for Applied Psychology.
Take part in roleplay and peer-coaching practice up to pre-practitioner level to help develop your skills as an effective counsellor or therapist.
Bring your learning to life through authentic assessments in areas such as counselling and coaching; case conceptualisation; and coaching or clinical supervision.
Gain insight into psychological practice in the NHS as well as awareness of the career paths offered within the NHS.
Studying our Psychology, Counselling and Coaching BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the knowledge and expertise in counselling and psychological interventions.
In areas of social psychology, you will explore how people change and develop biologically, cognitively and socially across their lifespan in our Social Processes and Lifespan Development unit.
To equip you with the skills to practice counselling, you will explore the concepts of counselling, psychotherapy, coaching and psychological therapies in our Introduction to Counselling and Psychotherapy unit that will allow you to understand therapeutic interventions into mental illnesses such as anxiety and depression.
Building on this, our Counselling and Psychotherapy in Context unit will teach you to apply skills in counselling and psychotherapy in different contexts while evaluating current practice in the field.
Furthermore, you will develop your understanding of leading models in coaching psychology, its concepts and a range of psychological therapy models in our Psychological Coaching and Therapies unit.
If you are interested in clinical areas of mental health, our Psychology of Mental Health unit will allow you to examine the clinical symptoms of the most common psychological disorders.
Finally, you will complete a Psychology, Counselling & Therapies Research Project that will allow you to explore a particular topic of interest to you that is relevant to your field of study while also demonstrating the knowledge and skills you have acquired throughout the course.
You will have the opportunity to take part in empirical studies in the early stages of your degree and to run your own on as part of both your learning and assessment.
Graduates from this course who achieve a Graduate Basis for Chartership (GBC) with the BPS are eligible to apply to study a range of postgraduate taught and research degrees such as MSc Forensic Psychology; MSc Health Psychology; or a Degree by Research (MRes).
Our MSc degrees are BPS accredited and form stage one of the the training you need to become a chartered psychologist.
Typical employment destinations within six months of graduation include assistant psychologist; psychological wellbeing practitioner; housing and welfare officer; coaching psychologist; primary and nursery education teaching professional; special needs education teaching professional; sports coach; therapist; education advisor; and youth or community worker.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/psychology-crime-and-justice:
Specialised forensic psychology units have been developed with a panel of industry professionals, including from the probation service and police.
Take this course with a fee-free placement year where you gain valuable experience in the field.
Please note that this course has changed its name for 2025 entry; it was previously called BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology.
Our accredited course brings to life the exciting field of forensic psychology, exploring how it can help us understand the minds of offenders, criminal behaviours and why people commit crimes, with reference to specific crimes.
You also focus on crime investigation and what happens in the courtroom in areas such as eyewitness behaviour; detecting deceptive behaviours; and exploring how juries reach their verdicts.
In your final year, you develop the advanced skills needed to assess offenders and put in place interventions.
Honours or above makes you eligible for Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) of the British Psychological Society.
You have access to a range of specialist, industry-standard psychology laboratories and computing environments including: Cognitive neuropsychology lab Biological and cognitive psychology lab Virtual reality lab Research cubicles Driving simulator Eye-tracking software Physiological data-acquisition system EEG Podcasting equipment KAT Walk Mini 5 omnidirectional VR treadmills Data-analysis software Experiment and survey-building software
You have access to a range of specialist, industry-standard psychology laboratories and computing environments including:
Our specialised forensic psychology units have been developed with a panel of industry professionals including from the probation service and police.
They help to inform our authentic assessment strategy, which means your assignments reflect real-life tasks.
Benefit from friendly, approachable staff, small class sizes and easy access to academic suppor t.
Get to know your peers and academics well by taking part in the School’s many social events, which run throughout the academic year in a dedicated space for psychology students.
Learn from a highly experienced team who are active in the criminal justice sector , bringing real-life practice to their teaching and research.
Take up the opportunity to apply your knowledge and new skills on placement such as working with our local probations service.
· Benefit from membership of our Student Research Institute , providing opportunities to engage in research; work with staff as an assistant; and attend specialist research conferences.
Our research addresses real-life, day-to-day issues including the accuracy of eyewitnesses in identifying criminals; reading development; cognitive function in long COVID; and prevention of gender-based violence.
Conduct supervised research on a forensic topic of your choice, and present it to your peers and psychology professionals at our annual Student Research Conference .
Enjoy field trips to a range of organisations and locations including Luton Crown Court where you will observe real-life cases from the public gallery.
Hear from guest speakers who share their experience and expertise at special events run by the School.
I joined the School of Psychology in 2016.
Before starting at the University of Bedfordshire, I was a PhD candidate in Erasmus Mundus House of Legal Psychology programme.
My PhD research examined the consequence of withdrawing belief about the occurrence of past events.
I am interested in the application of psychology to forensic issues.
Studying our Psychology, Crime and Justice BSc (Hons) course will introduce you to the issues, techniques and debates at the forefront of practice in criminal, investigative and forensic psychology.
In other areas of study, you will deepen your understanding of criminal behaviour in our Psychology and Criminal Behaviour unit that covers a range of compelling issues, theories and research in criminal and forensic psychology.
To effectively rehabilitate offenders within the prison system, our Applied Forensic Psychology unit will teach you to investigate and evaluate various treatment and rehabilitation programmes to prevent relapses in behaviour.
Moreover, you will learn how psychology contributes to law-making processes, enforcement and prosecution in criminal justice settings in our Psychology and Criminal Justice unit.
In more specific areas, you can develop an understanding of Problem Solving behaviours in humans and the biases that arise during thinking and decision-making.
You may also choose to explore areas of Occupational and Organisational Psychology that will introduce you to how psychology contributes to the performance and wellbeing of organisations and employees in the workplace.
Finally, you will complete a Forensic Psychology Research Project where you will conduct a significant piece of supervised academic research on a topic of your interest that is relevant to the field of psychology.
As this is a science-based course you will have the opportunity to take part in empirical studies in the early stages and to run your own later on as part of both your learning and assessment.
The Virtual Learning Environment is used in a variety of ways including e-learning collaboration and communication using blogs and wikis and formative and summative assessments.
This degree will put you in an excellent position for the postgraduate training required to become a practising forensic psychologist.
Our BPS-accredited course enables you to apply for graduate membership of the British Psychological Society (with a 2:2 or higher).
This is an essential first step in progressing to the MSc Forensic Psychology course offered at the University of Bedfordshire and then on to becoming a professional forensic psychologist.
The degree can also help you start a career in sectors such as the police; prison service; social services; youth justice; education; drug alcohol and mental health services; and research.
Some of our graduates choose to seek employment in non-psychology areas.
As a psychology graduate, you will have many transferable skills which are desirable to employers including critical thinking, analytical skills, reflection, self-motivation, planning and organisation.
These are valuable skills in careers such as human resources, teaching, market research and the civil service.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/public-health:
Learning is mapped against the UK Public Health Skills and Knowledge Framework as well as other UK and global competencies.
On successful course completion, you will achieve fellowship recognition with the UK Royal Society for Public Health.
This course provides a broad base of scientific knowledge and skills that can be applied across a range of health-related careers in the UK and internationally.
You explore the differing health needs of populations; the influences on health; and how to prevent ill health and promote health and wellbeing.
Using a blended learning approach, we prepare you to work in the field of public health, with theory applied to real-life situations through volunteering and placement opportunities.
Graduates of this course achieve fellowship recognition with the UK Royal Society for Public Health, opening the way to a career in the field across public and private sectors.
Fully immersive simulation suites with settings that prepare students for real-life scenarios in a safe and supportive environment Relevant data-analysis software that develops your research skills and prepares you for careers in epidemiology and public health intelligence and statistics
We have strong links with Luton Borough Council Public Health department, Keech Hospice, other local charities, and the University of Bedfordshire’s Institute for Health Research, offering work experience and research-based internships.
Learn from a dedicated team made up of practitioners, experts and researchers in the field of public health, whose expertise, experience and world-leading research feeds back into your learning.
The course is mapped against the UK Public Health Skills and Knowledge Framework; UK Public Health Registry; ASPHER core competencies for public health professionals; and Global Health Education competencies.
Undertake work or research experience in areas such as health inequalities; homelessness; addiction and substance abuse; public health policies and planning; and public health epidemiology and data analysis.
The course’s flexible approach is designed to develop your capacity to respond quickly and confidently to emerging health challenges such as a pandemic, humanitarian needs or disruptions caused by climate change.
Benefit from the course’s strong focus on public health’s responsibility to protect and improve the health of all people , and to reduce health and social care inequalities .
Take the opportunity to learn from visiting guest speakers, researchers and experts in different public health areas.
Our courses attract students from around the world , bringing a wide range of talents and experience to your learning as well as contributing to a lively, engaging learning environment .
Our International Undergraduate subject-specific scholarships are worth up to £6000 off international tuition fees for each year of study.
To receive the award, the below criteria must be met.
Applicants must be:
For further details and to see other scholarships that are country-specific visit International fees and scholarships
UK students
For UK undergraduates with tariff points and a profile equal to or exceeding those set out below, we offer an Excellence Scholarship worth £7,500 over three academic years.
Points requirements vary depending on type of qualification.
To check if you are eligible and to see other scholarships visit scholarships and bursaries
Studying our Public Health BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the specialist knowledge and skills to prevent ill health and promote wellbeing.
In areas of theory, you will be given an introduction to public health and the key strategies for public health promotion in our Foundation of Public Health unit.
Paired with our unit in Key Concepts in Health Promotion and Behaviour Change, you will explore the concepts of health promotion and behaviour change in relation to health promotion strategies.
In an Introduction to Community Health Assessment, you will explore the methodologies and approaches for conducting health needs assessments as well as examine the key interventions used to address health inequalities.
More specifically, you will look at Primary Health Care: Theory and Practice to understand its principles, importance and how it can be applied to practice.
As a healthcare provider, it is important that you recognise your responsibility to promote health equity and social justice in areas of your work.
This is where our unit in Inclusivity and Diversity in Health will develop your understanding of equity, diversity and inclusion in public healthcare to address systemic barriers that impact health outcomes for marginalised communities.
In your second year, you will delve into more complex discussions such as in our Global Public Health unit that will allow you to analyse principles and approaches to issues in healthcare development and research.
Drawing from your own experiences and practice, you will also engage in debates around Public Health Policy and Strategy to analyse how policies are developed, how decisions are made and how resources are allocated.
Similarly, you will be introduced to the key concepts and principles of public health protection, monitoring and emergency preparedness to examine the impact of infectious diseases and environmental hazards on public health in our Public Health Monitoring, Protection and Disease Prevention unit.
In particular, you will also look at the public health issues affecting Maternal, Infant and Child Public Health such as malnutrition and breastfeeding as well as diseases such as HIV and malaria that affect the health and wellbeing of mothers, babies and children.
In your final year, you will study more advanced topics such as in our Understanding Epidemiology and Biostatistics unit to understand epidemiological methods and to learn of the statistical principles and techniques used to assess risk and disease impact.
You will also consider the social aspects of health, illness and healthcare in our Determinants of Health and Health Inequalities unit.
This may include factors such as social class, gender, ethnicity or age and you will explore concepts, methods and policies that can be used to tackle health inequalities in practice.
As an essential skill in the field of public health, Leadership and Management in Public Health will allow you to examine and develop the self-management and leadership skills you need in practice.
Finally, you will complete a Public Health Project where you will lead and manage your own health-related project into an area of your interest and create a report on your findings.
To help you with this, our unit in Research Methods will equip you with the knowledge and skills to conduct research in the fields of health protection, health improvement and health services using a range of quantitative and qualitative research designs.
To prepare you for employment, Working in Public Health: Context and Practice will equip you with the knowledge of public health roles and functions for you to consider pursuing a career in.
This unit is led by public health practitioners and experts, also successful public health researchers with global reputations.
A range of teaching and learning approaches are used to deliver a varied curriculum while supporting the development of your professional knowledge and academic skills.
Within each unit there are face-to-face taught sessions seminars and collaborative group work.
Your learning will also be underpinned by the University's Virtual Learning Environment (BREO).
This is used to provide access to additional guided learning materials and other e-learning resources.
You will be actively engaged in the learning process throughout and encouraged to take responsibility for identifying and addressing your own learning needs.
Throughout the course you are also encouraged to identify and reflect on prior-professional and personal experience in relation to the course curriculum.
The curriculum content has been chosen to be challenging and meaningful to your role as a qualified public health practitioner or manager.
You will be encouraged to reflect upon new perspectives and your previous public health or health and social care experiences in order to develop new insights and to identify scope for enhancing your future practice.
You have the opportunity to influence the content of sessions and the way in which they are taught by providing structured feedback through informal discussions.
Transferable and enterprise skills are promoted together with an emphasis on developing the skills to support lifelong learning.
The University s comprehensive student support service includes: Student Information Desk a one-stop shop for any initial enquiries; Student Support team advising and supporting those with physical or learning needs or more general student wellbeing; Study Hub team providing academic skills guidance; Personal Academic Tutoring system; a student managed Peer-Assisted Learning scheme; support from your lecturers.
This course is designed for those seeking a career in the public health and/or healthcare sectors in the UK and internationally.
Its broad focus is on public health education with an emphasis on leadership, management and global health explored from national and international perspectives.
It is relevant to a wide spectrum of roles within public health – public, private or voluntary as well as national or international.
Your skills enable you to take on roles in public health; epidemiology; policy research; and multi-disciplinary teams, to name a few.
Graduates of the course are well equipped to take on roles such as:
The course also prepares you for the more specialised education and training offered by the University of Bedfordshire’s MSc Public Health.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/public-health-masters:
An internationally successful course, offering networking opportunities with 150 global partners.
Curriculum mapped against the UK Faculty of Public Health (FPH), UK Public Health Register (UKPHR) and the QAA descriptors.
On successful completion, graduates can apply for Membership of the UK Royal Society for Public Health (RSPH).
This comprehensive MSc offers a deep dive into public health issues on a local, national and global scale, fostering specialised skills for advancing public health and disease prevention worldwide.
You develop critical research skills; gain insights into the global drivers behind health system reform; and build your understanding of policy development and implementation across both developed and developing nations.
You also learn to apply your knowledge through exploring real-life case studies from around the world.
The course addresses the key competencies from the UK Faculty of Public Health (FPH) and, on completion, you are eligible to apply for fellow membership of the UK Royal Society for Public Health (RSPH).
Access to simulation units including the University's Moot Court and simulated clinical skills suites; these provide instrumental learning opportunities while preparing you to respond to and manage a range of scenarios you may encounter in real life.
Strong links with internal and external development partners such as Luton Borough Council’s Public Health Department, Keech Hospice and the University of Bedfordshire’s Institute for Health Research.
Gain expertise and insight on a course based on the principle that medical professionals should improve health and prevent disease not just provide treatment for those who are ill.
Build your experience exploring case studies from around the world .
Benefit from a research-active academic team involved in internationally excellent and world-leading research at our Institute of Applied Social Research (REF 2021).
Our research-informed teaching highlights the importance of public health and public health practice worldwide while building your practical, critical and theoretical skills.
Opportunities for work and research experience in public health areas, such as health inequalities, homelessness, addiction and substance abuse, public health policies and planning, and public health epidemiology and data analysis.
Our course attracts students from around the world , bringing a wide range of talents and experience to your learning as well as contributing to a lively, engaging learning environment.
There are opportunities to a ttend conferences and events , where you may be encouraged to present your dissertation research .
This course prepares you for postgraduate research study (MRes/MPhil/PhD) in public health.
The minimum requirement for entry to MSc Public Health is a relevant health or social care degree qualification (grade 2.2 or higher).
It is also highly desirable that candidates have some experience working within the health (preferably public health) or social care sector.
Our International Postgraduate merit-based scholarships are worth up to £3000 off international tuition fees.
For further information and to see other scholarships that are country-specific visit International fees and scholarships
The University of Bedfordshire values its alumni and is proud to offer a scholarship worth 20% of your fees for postgraduate on-campus master’s courses to those who have successfully completed an undergraduate Honours degree from:
Find out of you are eligible for the Alumni Scholarship
Revanth Kumar Krothapalli - MSc Public Health
Divine-Eagle Afoakwa and Aisha Mustapha - MSc Public Health
I did my undergraduate degree in physiotherapy at Baba Farid University of Health Sciences Faridkot, Punjab, India.
I was keen to study for a MSc Public Health and learn about tackling inequalities.
University of Bedfordshire’s course has an international reputation for having high quality researchers teach on the programme.
Indeed, I have met Professor Gurch Randhawa who volunteers with me every Sunday at Luton Sikh Soup Kitchen, as well as having given us lectures on health inequalities.
Read the full interview
Studying our Public Health MSc course will equip you with the specialist knowledge and skills to develop, deliver and manage high-quality, public health services for children, families and communities.
To develop your foundational knowledge, you will be introduced to key concepts and principles of epidemiology, disease and epidemiological study design in our Epidemiology in Public Health unit.
You will also develop an understanding of the key Principles, Policies and Issues in Public Health and critically evaluate how this has impacted the way public health is addressed.
Furthermore, you will develop theoretical and practical knowledge around Healthcare Commissioning and its importance to public health in the UK and internationally.
As a crucial aspect of your study, Public Health Protection will allow you to explore the policies and strategies used to prevent, control and manage outbreaks of infectious diseases and threats to public health.
You will be exposed to resilience planning to mitigate a range of threats from environmental hazards and natural disasters to the release of hazardous substances and mass gatherings.
Similarly, you will also discuss the fundamental Ethical and Legal Issues in Healthcare to understand the relevant issues that may arise and how to best deal with them despite being subject to intense public debate.
Some controversial issues may include the legal right to assisted suicide or behaviour modification to combat obesity.
With an inclusive approach, you will critically consider Health and Social Care Inequalities and the social categories used to understand them.
This includes factors such as class, gender, ethnicity and age, which you will explore with an intersectional approach to understand the health and social care experiences of people with intersectional identities.
Furthermore, you will also learn to use evidence to analyse public health data in our Public Health Intelligence unit.
This will enable you to contribute to policy and decision-making processes to bring about change in public health practice.
Finally, you will complete a Dissertation to conduct an individual research project using a range of research methodologies to develop a study design.
To help you with this, our unit in Public Health Research Methods will introduce you to the basic concepts of public health research including how research questions are constructed, quantitative and qualitative research methods and data analysis.
You will also learn to construct a research proposal and consider key ethical issues in health-related research.
The assessment strategy is designed to assist you in identifying reflecting on and meeting your own learning needs in relation to your working environment.
Each unit is further designed to develop your public health skills in ways which are directly relevant to your workplace.
In order to assist in your future professional and career development each assignment will require you to identify and develop a competency from the UK Faculty of Public Health framework which forms the basis of your learning and underpins your assessment.
As you undertake the course units you are given the opportunity to develop your skills in a range of public health techniques via the assessments.
For example you will be required to develop an Action Plan; write a newspaper article summarizing a complex public health issue into layman's terms; write a public health report; develop a public health research proposal; develop a public health presentation; and design a public health poster.
Each of these assessments will enable you to demonstrate the ability to critically understand and evaluate complex public health issues and communicate these effectively to a range of audiences.
There are a range of career opportunities within public health including public health analyst; public health programme manager; and public health specialist.
The course can also act as a platform for postgraduate research (MPhil/PhD) study in public health and provides you with sufficient grounding for the UK Faculty of Public Health Part I examination.
We have MSc alumni who are employed in senior positions for organisations such as The Global Fund and World Health Organisation, or are undertaking PhD studies at universities around the world.
Upon completion of this course, all students become eligible to apply for fellow membership of the UK Royal Society for Public Health.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/renewable-and-sustainable-energy-engineering:
60% of global energy investment in 2022 went into renewable energy (International Energy Agency).
This new Master's course responds to the demand for solutions to climate change and the need for clean energy.
Study with leading academics and globally recognised researchers who are leading international research projects in energy and sustainability, and have also authored and published textbooks in the field.
State-of-the-art laboratories and resources that allow you to test out theory through practice, alongside collaborations with leading industry experts.
This course is subject to approval
With the UK aiming for Net Zero by 2050, there is a pressing demand for qualified professionals in the renewable energy sector.
This industry-led MSc will equip the next generation of experts to design, implement and manage essential renewable energy technologies and strategies.
You gain comprehensive knowledge of renewable systems, energy efficiency and sustainable practices alongside acquiring the skills to design and implement solutions that reduce carbon footprints, contributing to combating climate change.
Dedicated engineering labs in our modern, purpose-built STEM building New state-of-the-art wind tunnel facility Advanced software suites for simulation and computing including Ansys, DesignBuilder, MATLAB and LabView Specialist renewable energy modelling tools
The course has been developed in collaboration with contacts from the National Grid, Fujitsu, Babcock and Luton Borough Council.
There are industry collaborations threaded throughout from leading companies and organisations in the energy sector, providing first hand-experience or real-world projects and valuable networking opportunities for internships and job placements.
The course combines principles from engineering, technology, economics and environmental science , providing a holistic understanding of energy systems and their socio-economic impacts.
Develop the core competencies required for an engineering professional in renewable and sustainable energy systems.
Explore the opportunities for implementing sustainable change though engineering and technology in areas such as renewable energy, transport, primary production, construction and manufacturing.
Learn from research-active academics who are experts in the field and have written leading texts used to teach the subject around the world.
In addition to academics, industry professionals and policymakers will also be part of your teaching team.
Work with the latest technologies and tools in state-of-the-art facilities , ensuring you are equipped with practical skills that are highly valued in the industry.
Our block delivery course structure gives you year-round entry points so you can tailor your learning to fit around your life .
The MSc Renewable and Sustainable Energy course is divided into four taught units with 30 credit ratings per unit and a final project.
The units offer a comprehensive study of renewable energy, environment, sustainability, electrical and electronic systems and underpinning research, bridging the gap between theory and practice through topics such as energy environment and economics.
This approach combines the traditional and modern engineering to solve energy problems for the future.
Students pursuing an MSc in Renewable and Sustainable Energy come from diverse academic backgrounds, including engineering, environmental science, physics, and economics.
They typically have a strong foundation in energy systems, sustainability, and climate change mitigation.
Prior experience in renewable energy projects, research, or industry roles, working on technologies such as solar, wind, bioenergy, and hydropower is encouraged but not essential.
Their motivation is often driven by a passion for clean energy innovation, energy policy, and reducing carbon footprints.
With a commitment to addressing global energy challenges, they aim to develop sustainable solutions that balance economic growth with environmental responsibility.
Throughout the course, you will participate in practical exercises, case studies, and real-world scenarios to find energy solutions sustainably.
You will also learn the social, economic and legal aspects around energy generation, and other relevant organizations to gain insights of real-world applications through guest lectures and field visits.
In addition, you will learn Research Methodologies, which will enhance your research skills and knowledge.
You are also required to conduct a MSc Renewable and Sustainable Energy to showcase how you can develop an artefact based on the knowledge and skills they have acquired.
The units are also related to professional courses in their respective areas, enabling you to get the professional certifications along with their academic qualifications.
Graduates of this course who are passionate about advancing the global transition to clean energy will aspire to specialise in renewable energy system design, energy policy and sustainable development .
They will contribute to research and innovation in clean energy solutions, particularly in their specific interest area, for example, off-grid solar technology for rural electrification, to name just one specialism.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/secondary-art-and-design:
This largely placement-based course focuses on developing the practical teaching skills, educational theory and subject-specific knowledge necessary to become an art and design teacher in secondary education.
It aims to develop you into an artist-teacher with a comprehensive understanding of the art and design curriculum, enhancing your awareness of professional issues; current educational focuses on sustainability and the role of technology; art, craft and design pedagogy; core approaches to powerful knowledge; art history; critical thinking; and essential teaching aspects such as planning and assessment.
For further course information, contact Emma Brooks at emma.brooks@beds.ac.uk
Teacher Education Centre with realistic mock classrooms supported by specialist technology that allows you to watch and self-assess your lesson Forest School Sensory centre Up-to-the-minute simulation technology Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting Practical subject-enhancement sessions in art, craft and design classrooms
All University-based staff teaching our QTS courses were previously employed as teachers, senior leaders, and/or head teachers .
Explore artistic practices in the classroom with guidance from an expert or lead mentor who is a subject specialist ; your mentor is fully trained and may often be a former University of Bedfordshire student teacher so you are joining a large, life-long community.
Experience field trips to locations where you would be likely to take your pupils such as museums and galleries.
On graduating, you gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as an art and design teacher in a secondary education setting.
I am a former Art and Design teacher with 14 years’ experience of teaching Art & Design mainly fine art and Design Technology covering product design, graphic and textiles.
As an artist my personally specialise in Art and Design fine art, drawing, printmaking, and craft.
I teach on the PGCE Secondary Education course as a subject tutor for Art & Design and Design Technology.
In this role I enjoy sharing my knowledge and experiences in education, but also keeping up to date with new research.
Supporting trainees develop teaching practice in subject area and deliver specific elements of pedagogical knowledge.
Our Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) Secondary Art and Design with Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) is designed for those passionate about art and eager to inspire creativity in young minds.
This intensive, one-year program blends academic study with practical teaching experience, equipping you with the skills and knowledge to become an effective and confident art and design teacher in secondary schools.
Studying our PGCE Secondary Art and Design will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills to teach art and design, at the secondary level.
The Curriculum Specialist (Secondary Art and Design) unit comprehensively explores contemporary theories and recent research in art and design education.
Through engaging workshops, you will delve into various pedagogical approaches and best practices for teaching art and design, investigating a range of educational theories and current research that shape the curriculum.
This unit is designed to help you translate theory into practice by creatively integrating these insights into your teaching methods.
Working with peers and mentors, you will participate in collaborative planning sessions to develop innovative lesson plans.
Weekly progress reviews and evaluations will support you in continuously refining your teaching practice.
You'll explore contemporary practices and theories, enhancing your ability to craft and deliver innovative art and design lessons.
The university collaborates closely with local lead partnerships to enhance your learning experience, ensuring you receive comprehensive support and practical exposure.
You will also work closely with subject specialists and a lead subject specialist mentor to develop practical skills and deepen your specific subject knowledge in art and design.
This unit aims to enhance your ability to deliver an engaging and effective art and design curriculum, fostering creativity and critical thinking in your students.
By participating in this program, you will be well-equipped to inspire and nurture the next generation of artists and designers.
This unit closely integrates with our Evidence Informed Curriculum Specialist unit, allowing you to deepen your understanding of current contexts in art and design education and effectively apply that knowledge through a variety of methods of delivery including keynote lectures, conference days, and cross subject discussions.
As well as enrichment activities throughout the year to explore beyond the curriculum and promote positive physical and mental wellbeing.
A key component of this unit is the school placement, where you will gain hands-on experience.
Throughout this unit, you will have the opportunity to undertake school placements where you will build your experience to independently plan and deliver lessons based on your observations and learning in our School Experience 1 unit.
You will also explore new pedagogical ideas while also learning to align with behaviour management policy in schools.
In the second part of this unit, School Experience 2, you will continue to develop and apply your experience from the first unit while also learning methods to adapt teaching, effective use of assessment and to promote good progress.
By tying together theoretical knowledge and practical application, all units ensure you are well-prepared to inspire and educate the next generation of artists and designers.
This course is available as both a one-year full-time or a two-year part-time course.
Sound subject knowledge is a fundamental quality of an effective teacher and you will be expected to demonstrate a commitment to ongoing development of that knowledge throughout the course in preparation for the final assessment.
Also key to the course is a focus on the development of evidence informed teaching, culminating in an extended systematic study of your own practice.
By embracing the professional requirements for Qualified Teacher Status within the course it supports you in developing the qualities which define the University of Bedfordshire graduate teacher: an independent, reflective, creative, innovative, collaborative and resilient professional who is committed to ongoing personal and professional development.
The assessment for this course seeks to support you in developing your understanding of the interplay between theoretical perspectives and practice-based experience.
You will be developing your skills of reviewing and evaluation of evidence, critical thinking, creativity and independence.
The themes for your evidence informed writing are developed from local and national subject priorities and, therefore, allow you to develop the evidence of your understanding of values and principles found in the cumulative evidence record which enable you to meet the Teachers’ Standards as they apply to your working context at the end of the course.
By building your work around these themes, you will generate rich evidence which can contribute to the assessment of your professional performance: the Profile Review Points.
Hence, the assessment items are intrinsically connected and, in combination, allow you to demonstrate your achievement of all learning outcomes.
The Cumulative Evidence Record provides the framework by which this progress is judged and are supplemented with descriptors which support you in understanding how to show you have learned the curriculum of the course.
The Teachers Standards are used at the end of the course as per the statutory PSRB guidance.
The passing of all four units will mean the course will recommend you to the TRA for QTS.
In exceptional circumstances, approved by the head of school, it may be possible for recommendation for QTS to be made without completion of all four units.
You will be supported in developing your understanding of plagiarism and in the use of Turnitin as a means of ensuring that referencing requirements are satisfied.
On graduating, you can apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as an art and design teacher in a secondary education setting.
As well as Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), completing the course also offers you up to 60 Master's-level credits with opportunities for further study at MA/MSc, MPhil, PhD and EdD levels.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/secondary-computing:
This largely placement-based course focuses on developing your practical teaching skills, understanding of educational theory, and subject-specific knowledge needed to be a secondary computing teacher.
You have hands-on experience of teaching a range of units, including fundamentals of algorithms and computer systems, as well as furthering your understanding of how to create responsible, competent, confident and creative users of ICT.
In your University-based sessions, you explore professional issues such as your teacher persona, SEND education and classroom management.
Teacher Education Centre with realistic mock classrooms supported by specialist technology that allows you to watch and self-assess your lesson Forest School Sensory Centre Up-to-the-minute simulation technology Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting
The PGCE course has wellbeing embedded throughout it, with specialist sessions entitled ‘Looking after yourself as a teacher’ .
The enrichment arm of the programme enables you to gain further understanding in areas of your choosing , such as autism or school leadership, with some choices leading to additional qualifications.
Your mentor is fully trained and may often be a former University of Bedfordshire student teacher so you are joining a large, lifelong community.
Additional placement support provided by our placement coordinator and wellbeing coordinator.
Staff are evidence informed and current in their education practice through school settings or research activities at HE/national level.
We use blended-learning strategies , with conferences, TED-style masterclasses and cross-curricular discussions taking place on campus as well as online.
Regular visits by professionals from schools, local organisations, community partners and professional bodies including both primary and secondary teachers and senior leaders, SEN schools, and local education authorities.
On graduating, you will gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a computing teacher in a secondary education setting.
Studying our Secondary Computing PGCE course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills to teach computing at secondary level.
This is where our unit in The Curriculum Specialist (Secondary Computing) will allow you to explore a range of theories and recent research around the teaching and learning of computing curriculum through various workshops.
There will also be debates around computer science curriculum content and how to teach core concepts such as analysing problems in computational terms, writing computer programs, evaluating and applying information technology, and developing responsible, competent, confident and creative users of information and communication technology.
You will then be supported in applying this theory in creative ways within your own teaching practice through collaborative planning, weekly progress reviews and evaluations.
This ties in closely with our Evidence Informed Curriculum Specialist unit where you will build your understanding of current contexts in computing, as well as how to apply that knowledge into practice.
In areas of practice, you will have the opportunity to undertake a school placement where you will build your experience to independently plan and deliver lessons based on your observations and learning in our School Experience 1 unit.
In the second part of this unit; School Experience 2, you will continue to develop and apply your experience from the first unit while also learning methods to adapt teaching, effective use of assessment and to promote good progress.
On graduating, you can apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a computing teacher in a secondary education setting.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/secondary-design-and-technology:
This PGCE course develops your subject-specific knowledge and practical teaching skills in areas such as collaborative learning, design ideation and problem-solving activities.
You explore the philosophies underpinning design and technology as well as building your understanding of professional issues; the design and technology curriculum; and current educational foci including decolonising the subject, disruptive technologies and sustainability.
The course’s hands-on approach allows you to put your skills into practice in the classroom, with the guidance of an expert or lead mentor who is a subject specialist.
There is the option to take this course part-time over two years, making it easier to balance study with your other commitments.
Teacher Education Centre with realistic mock classrooms supported by specialist technology that allows you to watch and self-assess your lesson Forest School Sensory Centre Up-to-the-minute simulation technology Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting Practical subject-enhancement sessions in design classrooms
We have well-established partnerships with more than 500 schools and other associated organisations across the eastern region, a network that puts us ahead when it comes to national priorities, issues, and developments in educational practice.
The PGCE course has wellbeing embedded throughout, with specialist sessions entitled ‘Looking after yourself as a teacher’ .
The enrichment arm of the course enables you to gain further understanding in areas of your choosing , such as autism or school leadership, with some choices leading to additional qualifications.
Benefit from talks by organisations such as STEM plus opportunities to connect with local galleries/ museums .
Your mentor is fully trained and may be a former University of Bedfordshire student teacher so you are joining a large, lifelong community.
Additional placement support is provided by our placement coordinator and wellbeing coordinator.
Regular visits by professionals from schools, local organisations, community partners, and professional bodies including both primary and secondary teachers and senior leaders, SEN schools, and local education authorities.
Experience field trips to locations where you would be likely to take your pupils.
On graduating, you gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as an design and technology teacher in a secondary education setting.
Our Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) Secondary Design and Technology with Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) is designed for individuals passionate about design and technology who are eager to inspire and educate the next generation.
This intensive one-year program, or flexible two-year part-time option, blends academic study with practical teaching experience, equipping you with the skills and knowledge to become an effective and confident design and technology teacher in secondary schools.
Studying our PGCE Secondary Design and Technology will provide you with in-depth knowledge and skills to teach design and technology at the secondary level.
The Curriculum Specialist (Secondary Design and Technology) unit comprehensively explores contemporary theories and recent research in design and technology education.
Within the umbrella of design and technology, we cover a range of specialisms, textiles, product design, graphics, engineering, food and nutrition, and workshop skills.
Through engaging workshops, you will delve into various pedagogical approaches and best practices for teaching this subject.
The University of Bedfordshire collaborates closely with local lead partnerships to enhance your learning experience, ensuring you receive comprehensive support and practical exposure.
You will also work closely with subject specialists and a lead subject specialist mentor to develop practical skills and deepen your specific subject knowledge in design and technology.
This unit aims to enhance your ability to deliver an engaging and effective design and technology curriculum, fostering creativity and critical thinking in your students.
By participating in this program, you will be well-equipped to inspire and nurture the next generation of designers.
This unit closely integrates with the Evidence Informed Curriculum Specialist, allowing you to deepen your understanding of current contexts in design and technology education and effectively apply that knowledge through a variety of delivery methods, including keynote lectures, conference days, and cross-subject discussions.
Enrichment activities throughout the year will help you explore beyond the curriculum and promote positive physical and mental well-being.
Throughout the program, you will have the opportunity to undertake school placements where you will build your experience to independently plan and deliver lessons based on your observations and learning in our School Experience 1 unit.
You will also explore new pedagogical ideas and learn to align with behaviour management policies in schools.
In the second part of this unit, School Experience 2, you will continue to develop and apply your experience from the first unit while also learning methods to adapt teaching, make effective use of assessment, and promote good progress.
By integrating theoretical knowledge with practical application, all units ensure you are well-prepared to inspire educate, and create an inclusive learning environment for the next generation of designers.
On graduating, you can apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a design and technology teacher in a secondary education setting.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/secondary-drama:
This largely placement-based course gives you the practical teaching skills, understanding of educational theory and subject-specific knowledge to lead learning and teach drama in a creative and imaginative way.
You spend 80% of your time in placement schools, gaining hands-on experience of teaching ages 11-16.
In your University-based sessions, you explore areas such as professional issues, curriculum content, planning and assessment, and the role of technology in teaching drama.
Underpinned by principles of equity and inclusion, the curriculum is designed to develop drama teachers who can be agents for change, building pupils’ confidence and empowering them to be creative.
Teacher Education Centre with realistic mock classrooms supported by specialist technology that allows you to watch and self-assess your lesson Up-to-the-minute simulation technology Specialist sensory suite for teaching SEND classes Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting 80-seat black-box theatre 260-seat professional theatre Dance studios
On graduating, you gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a drama teacher in a secondary education setting.
I began my teaching career in 2014 after obtaining my BeD from the University of New Brunswick.
Prior to this, I obtained my Bachelors of Arts at St Thomas University (Canada) where I received an Honours in English with a concentration in Drama and a Major in Philosophy.
Upon completion of my degree, I worked as an EAL Teacher at Guiyang Concord College of Cino China.
In 2016 I began teaching in Luton as a Teacher of English, later becoming the Head of Drama.
Studying our Secondary Drama PGCE course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills to effectively teach drama at secondary level.
The Curriculum Specialist (Drama) is designed to develop adaptive, creative, inclusive, reflective and socially-just teachers, who view themselves as career-long learners.
You will develop your knowledge of key theatre practitioners and explore aspects of the drama curriculum, such as Foundational components of Drama Education and Introduction to Physical Theatre.
You will explore pedagogical approaches to teaching scripts and texts, and you will learn to teach a breadth of curriculum areas including teaching Shakespeare, directing, devising theatre, global theatre and critical analysis.
Throughout the drama course, you will be supported in developing your own teaching practice through collaborative planning, peer teaching, weekly progress reviews and evaluations.
The Evidence Informed Curriculum Specialist unit builds on your understanding of current contexts in drama, as well as how to apply that knowledge into practice.
You will have the opportunity to undertake a school placement where you will build your experience to independently plan and teach sequences of learning based on your observations and learning in our School Experience 1 unit.
You will also explore new pedagogical ideas while learning to align with behaviour management policy in schools.
In the second part of this unit, School Experience 2, you will continue to develop and apply your experience from the first unit while also learning strategies to adapt teaching, effective use of assessment and to promote good progress.
On graduating, you can apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a drama teacher in a secondary education setting.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/secondary-english:
This largely placement-based course focuses on building your practical teaching skills, understanding of educational theory and subject knowledge.
You explore professional issues; curriculum content; creative teaching methods; and the role of technology in English teaching.
To deliver the secondary curriculum, you should be familiar with classic works of pre-20 th century prose and a wide range of modern fiction, non-fiction and poetry.
You are expected to stay on top of new and emerging genres while demonstrating a willingness to critique ‘received wisdom’ and outdated pedagogies.
For further course information, contact Audrey Wood at audrey.wood@beds.ac.uk
Teacher Education Centre with realistic mock classrooms supported by specialist technology that allows you to watch and self-assess your lesson Forest School Sensory Centre Up-to-the-minute simulation technology Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting Access to the Hockliffe Collection, a unique collection of 18th- and 19th-century children’s books, as well as our Cinderella archive of books, scripts, designs, theatrical memorabilia and ephemera relating to the Cinderella story
On graduating, you gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as an English teacher in a secondary education setting.
The Curriculum Specialist (Secondary English) unit is a starting point in the National Curriculum for English and explores what it means to be a teacher of secondary English.
You will consider your teaching philosophy and be encouraged to think about what really matters in English education – is its purpose to empower pupils by teaching them how to critique policies and political rhetoric and prepare them to become agents for change; or is it to nurture the creative act of writing and self-expression, building confidence that each child has something to say?
In this unit you will explore seminal and contemporary theories and research in English education and will be helped to translate theory into practice by integrating these insights into your teaching methods.
Through engaging workshops, you will delve into various pedagogical approaches and best practices for teaching English.
Working with peers and mentors, you will participate in collaborative planning sessions to develop innovative lesson plans designed to engage and enthuse your pupils with the love of subject English.
This unit aims to enhance your ability to deliver an engaging and effective English curriculum, fostering creativity and critical thinking in your students.
The university collaborates closely with local lead partnership schools to enhance your learning experience, ensuring you receive comprehensive support as you develop your teaching skills.
You will work closely with subject specialists and a lead subject specialist mentor to deepen your specific subject knowledge in secondary English, enhanced by guest lectures from subject specialists in the School of English.
This unit closely integrates with our Evidence Informed Curriculum Specialist unit, allowing you to deepen your understanding of current contexts in English education and effectively apply that knowledge through a variety of methods of delivery including keynote lectures, conference days, and cross subject discussions.
In addition, there will be enrichment activities throughout the year to explore beyond the curriculum and promote positive physical and mental wellbeing.
Throughout the Evidence Informed Curriculum Specialist unit, you will undertake school placements where you will build your experience to independently plan and deliver lessons based on your observations and learning.
You will explore new pedagogical ideas whilst also learning to align your practice with behaviour management policy in schools.
In the second school placement, you will continue to develop and apply your experience from the first placement.
As your practice improves you will learn how to adapt your teaching to suit the needs of your individual pupils to promote good progress.
By tying together theoretical knowledge and practical application, the course ensures you are well-prepared to inspire and educate the pupils in your classes.
This course is available as either a one-year full-time or a two-year part-time course.
On graduating, you can apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as an English teacher in a secondary education setting.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/secondary-geography:
This largely placement-based course is designed to give you the practical skills, understanding of educational theory and subject-specific knowledge you need to be a highly proficient teacher of geography.
You spend 80% of your time in placement schools, gaining hands-on experience of teaching students aged 11-16.
In University-based sessions, you explore professional issues such as your teacher persona, SEND education and debates around geography curriculum content.
You also develop a range of approaches to classroom management, planning and assessment, and the role of ICT in teaching geography.
For further course information, contact Mohammed Amin at mohammed.amin1@beds.ac.uk
Teacher Education Centre with realistic mock classrooms supported by specialist technology that allows you to watch and self-assess your lesson Up-to-the-minute simulation technology Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting
In University-based sessions, explore core geography concepts such as globes, data interpretation and map skills using geographic information systems, case studies and fieldwork.
On graduating, you gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a geography teacher in a secondary education setting.
I am an experienced teacher educator, having worked in a range of educational settings.
My 12 years experience as a secondary Humanities teacher, specialising in History have been within a range of different schools; urban settings in idyllic Hertfordshire, Bedfordshire, and the Royal Borough of Greenwich.
I have also worked in majority EAL, inner city schools in socially deprived areas in Leicester.
Studying our Secondary Geography PGCE course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills to teach geography at secondary level.
This is where our unit in The Curriculum Specialist (Secondary Geography) will allow you to explore a range of theories and recent research around the teaching and learning of the geography curriculum through various workshops.
The units taught may include Tourism, Climate Change, Development, Urbanisation, Farming and Fairtrade as well as Poverty, Wealth and Population, Rivers, Natural Hazards and many more.
There will also be debates around school geography curriculum content and how to teach core geography concepts such as Globes, Data interpretation, Map skills, GIS, Case Studies, and Fieldwork.
You will be supported in applying this theory in creative ways within your own teaching practice through collaborative planning, weekly progress reviews and evaluations.
This ties in closely with our Evidence Informed Curriculum Specialist unit where you will build your understanding of current contexts in geography, as well as how to apply that knowledge in practice.
On graduating, you can apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a geography teacher in a secondary education setting.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/secondary-history:
This largely placement-based course focuses on developing your practical teaching skills, understanding of educational theory, and subject-specific knowledge needed to be a secondary history teacher.
You develop hands-on experience of teaching a range of units, which could include the Crusades and African kingdoms, as well as core concepts such as interpretations, significance, continuity and change, cause and consequence.
On graduating, you gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a history teacher in a secondary education setting.
Studying our Secondary History PGCE course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills to teach history at secondary level.
This is where our unit in The Curriculum Specialist (Secondary History) will allow you to explore a range of theories and recent research around the teaching and learning of history curriculum through various workshops.
The units taught may include The Normans, Crusades, Tudors, British Empire, African Kingdoms, Holocaust and World Wars.
There will also be debates around history curriculum content and how to teach core history concepts such as interpretations, significance, continuity and change, as well as cause and consequence.
This ties in closely with our Evidence Informed Curriculum Specialist unit where you will build your understanding of current contexts in history, as well as learn to apply that knowledge into practice.
In the second part of this unit - School Experience 2 - you will continue to develop and apply your experience from the first unit while also learning methods to adapt teaching, effective use of assessment and to promote good progress.
On graduating, you can apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a history teacher in a secondary education setting.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/secondary-maths:
This largely placement-based course focuses on developing your practical teaching skills, understanding of educational theory and subject-specific knowledge needed to be a secondary maths teacher.
The course explores creative pedagogical strategies such as complex instruction; considers the impact of maths anxiety; and identifies strategies that promote engagement including problem solving, real-world connections and learning outside the classroom.
For further course information, contact Mieka Harris at mieka.harris@beds.ac.uk
Teacher Education Centre with realistic mock classrooms supported by specialist technology that allows you to watch and self-assess your lesson Forest School Sensory centre Up-to-the-minute simulation technology Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting
For elements of the PGCE Secondary Maths course, we work with the regional arms of both the National Centre for Excellence in the Teaching of Mathematics (NCETM) and Mathematics in Education and Industry (MEI).
We also have well-established partnerships with more than 500 schools and other associated organisations across the eastern region, a network that puts us ahead when it comes to national priorities, issues and developments in educational practice.
On graduating, you gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a maths teacher in a secondary education setting.
My area of interest lies in contextualised learning, guiding learners to appreciate the purpose of a session or class, and making links across their knowledge base.
I am also a huge advocate of teaching strategies that promote confidence in pupils, and so teach through the lenses of inclusivity and promoting opportunities for success.
I have taught on a variety of courses, largely with a mathematics focus.
How can you use spaghetti to teach trigonometric graphs?
What maths can we get from analysing a basketball court?
How many ways are there to find the area of a hexagon?
Does the answer depend on whether it’s regular or not?
Studying our Secondary Maths PGCE course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills to teach mathematics at secondary level.
The Curriculum Specialist (Secondary Mathematics) focuses on developing inclusive and dynamic mathematics teaching that helps overcome mathematics anxiety in students and promotes engagement in mathematics.
We will explore a wide variety of teaching strategies, theories and recent research and analyse the rationale behind using them.
The university works closely with the The National Centre for Excellence in the Teaching of Mathematics (NCETM) and the Mathematics Education Innovation (MEI), with colleagues from both institutions leading training and development sessions on the course.
These include introduction to teaching for mastery and the post 16 core maths qualification.
Throughout the course, a number of sessions take place in alternative learning environments to help consider the role of mathematics in the real world and how these applications can be brought back to a classroom setting.
The locations vary year to year and range from the forest school to a zoo.
The Evidence Informed Curriculum Specialist unit builds on your understanding of current contexts in mathematics, as well as how to apply that knowledge into practice.
On graduating, you can apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a maths teacher in a secondary education setting.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/secondary-physical-education:
This largely placement-based course focuses on developing your practical teaching skills, understanding of research-informed educational theory and the subject-specific knowledge needed to be an excellent teacher of physical education.
You explore professional issues, such as the purpose of physical education and its place within the school curriculum.
You also develop the skills to employ a range of pedagogical models effectively and support students’ progress as unique individuals through physical education.
For further course information, contact Dr Paul Sammon at paul.sammon@beds.ac.uk
International-standard sports arena Strength and conditioning suite AstroTurf, grass pitches, outdoor basketball, tennis and netball courts Dance studio Teacher Education Centre, with realistic mock classrooms supported by specialist technology that allows you to watch and self-assess your teaching Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting
We have excellent links with national organisations including the Association for Physical Education, Football Association, Rugby Football Union, Lawn Tennis Association and Cricket East.
On graduating, you gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a physical education teacher in a secondary education setting.
I am a highly ambitious, dynamic and experienced educator, passionate about supporting the next generation of teachers with the knowledge and skills to provide all children and young people with a positive physical education experience.
My current role as a teacher educator primarily involves leading the PGCE Secondary Physical Education course and coordinating a number of units on the BA/MPhysEd (Hons) Physical Education (secondary) (with QTS) course.
Studying our Secondary Physical Education PGCE course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills to effectively teach physical education at secondary level.
The Curriculum Specialist (Secondary Physical Education) is designed to develop adaptive, creative, inclusive, reflective and socially-just teachers, who view themselves as career-long learners.
We will explore curriculum design and you will develop your knowledge of physical literacy and pedagogical models, such as Health-based Physical Education, Cooperative Learning, Teaching Games for Understanding and Sport Education.
You will also learn to teach a breadth of curriculum areas including athletics, dance, games, gymnastics, outdoor and adventurous activities and swimming.
During the physical education course, you will be supported in developing your own teaching practice through collaborative planning, peer teaching, weekly progress reviews and evaluations.
The Evidence Informed Curriculum Specialist unit builds on your understanding of current contexts in physical education, as well as how to apply that knowledge into practice.
In the second part of this unit; School Experience 2, you will continue to develop and apply your experience from the first unit while also learning strategies to adapt teaching, effective use of assessment and to promote good progress.
On graduating, you can apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a PE teacher in a secondary education setting.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/secondary-science-with-biology:
This largely placement-based course focuses on developing your practical teaching skills, understanding of educational theory, and subject-specific knowledge needed to be a biology teacher at secondary level.
The course explores investigational, collaborative and problem-solving activities while giving you the skills to teach a broad spectrum of biological concepts.
You build your awareness and understanding of professional issues; the biology curriculum; the role of technology; and aspects of teaching such as planning and assessment.
For further course information, contact Stephen Cox at stephen.cox@beds.ac.uk
Teacher Education Centre with realistic mock classrooms supported by specialist technology that allows you to watch and self-assess your lesson Recently refurbished science labs with facilities for wet work Forest School Sensory Centre Up-to-the-minute simulation technology Multimedia space for webinars and podcasting
We also work with several professional bodies such as the local science learning partnership, Royal Society of Chemistry, Royal Society of Biology and Institute of Physics.
On graduating, you gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a science teacher with a biology specialism, in a secondary education setting.
How can you extract DNA from a Pea?
What could you measure to tell you how biodiverse your local playing field is?
How does our body fight off disease?
And how have medicines been developed to help?
Studying our Secondary Science with Biology PGCE course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills to teach science, specialising in biology, at secondary level.
The Curriculum Specialist (Secondary Science with Biology) focuses on developing inclusive and dynamic science teaching that helps develop practical skills in students and promotes engagement in biology.
The university works closely with various partners including the local SLP, with colleagues leading training and development sessions on the course, such as teaching biological practical skills and developing specific subject knowledge.
This course is taught alongside the Secondary Science (Chemistry) and (Physics) courses allowing a unique opportunity to develop as a science teacher across all three specialisms with a focus in biology.
The course is predominately taught in a bespoke teaching lab as well as several sessions taking place in alternative learning environments to help consider the role of biology in the real world and how these applications can be brought back to a classroom setting.
The locations vary each year and range from our purpose-built forest school to a zoo.
The Evidence Informed Curriculum Specialist unit builds on your understanding of current contexts in biology, as well as how to apply that knowledge into practice through a variety of methods of delivery including keynote lectures, conference day and cross subject discussion groups.
In addition, you can participate in enrichment activities throughout the year to explore beyond the curriculum and promote positive physical and mental wellbeing.
On graduating, you can apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a science teacher with a biology specialism in a secondary education setting.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/secondary-science-with-chemistry:
This largely placement-based course focuses on developing your practical teaching skills, understanding of educational theory, and subject-specific knowledge needed to be a chemistry teacher at secondary level.
The course explores investigational, collaborative and problem-solving activities while giving you the skills to teach a broad spectrum of chemistry-based concepts.
You build your awareness and understanding of professional issues; the chemistry curriculum; the role of technology; and aspects of teaching such as planning and assessment.
On graduating, you gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a science teacher with a chemistry specialism, in a secondary education setting.
Why does sugar dissolve into your morning coffee?
How big is an atom?
And what is it made of?
What is a nanoparticle?
And how is it being used to make new materials?
Studying our Secondary Science with Chemistry PGCE course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills to teach science, specialising in chemistry, at secondary level.
The Curriculum Specialist (Secondary Science with Chemistry) focuses on developing inclusive and dynamic science teaching that helps develop practical skills in students and promotes engagement in chemistry.
The university works closely with various partners including the local Science Learning Partnerships (SLP) and the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) with colleagues from both leading training and development sessions on the course, such as teaching chemistry practical skills and developing subject specific knowledge.
This course is taught alongside the Secondary Science (Biology) and (Physics) courses allowing a unique opportunity to develop as a science teacher across all three specialisms with a focus in chemistry.
The course is predominately taught in a bespoke teaching lab as well as several sessions taking place in alternative learning environments to help consider the role of chemistry in the real world and how these applications can be brought back to a classroom setting.
The Evidence Informed Curriculum Specialist unit builds on your understanding of current contexts in chemistry, as well as how to apply that knowledge into practice through a variety of methods of delivery including keynote lectures, conference day and cross subject discussion groups.
On graduating, you can apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a science teacher with a chemistry specialism in a secondary education setting.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/secondary-science-with-physics:
This largely placement-based course focuses on developing your practical teaching skills, understanding of educational theory and subject-specific knowledge needed to be a physics teacher at secondary level.
The course explores investigational, collaborative and problem-solving activities while giving you the skills to teach a broad spectrum of physics-based concepts.
In your University-based sessions, you build your awareness and understanding of professional issues; the physics curriculum; the role of technology; and aspects of teaching such as planning and assessment.
On graduating, you gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a science teacher with a physics specialism, in a secondary education setting.
Why does a ball bounce?
How far away is the sun?
And how long does it take for its light to reach Earth?
Studying our Secondary Science with Physics PGCE course will equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills to teach science, specialising in physics, at secondary level.
The Curriculum Specialist (Secondary Science with Physics) focuses on developing inclusive and dynamic science teaching that helps develop practical skills in students and promotes engagement in physics.
The university works closely with various partners including the local Science Learning Partnerships (SLP), the Institute of Physics (IOP) and the Bedford Physic Partnership (BPP) with colleagues from all three leading training and development sessions on the course, such as teaching physic practical skills and developing subject specific knowledge, such as maths in physics.
This course is taught alongside the Secondary Science (Biology) and (Chemistry) courses allowing a unique opportunity to develop as a science teacher across all three specialisms with a focus in physics.
The course is predominately taught in a bespoke teaching lab as well as several sessions taking place in alternative learning environments to help consider the role of physics in the real world and how these applications can be brought back to a classroom setting.
On graduating, you can apply for Qualified Teacher Status (QTS), enabling you to work as a science teacher with a physics specialism in a secondary education setting.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/short-course-in-history-taking-and-physical-assess:
This course will help you, as a healthcare practitioner with full (not associate) professional registration involved in practice to be equipped with the knowledge and skills to undertake a clear and concise physical assessment of the adult patient appropriate to your area of practice.
You will be shown how to use a range of structured and semi structured tools to assess the client’s physical, mental and social health status and to develop an appropriate care plan including appropriate referrals.
This unit aims to equip you with the knowledge and skills to undertake a clear and concise physical and psychosocial history appropriate to your area of practice.
You will be shown how to use a range of structured and semi structured tools to assess the client’s physical, mental and social health status and make an appropriate referral.
You will be encouraged to foster inter-professional working practices and to communicate effectively with colleagues and the patient to prevent repetition of data and to facilitate the creation of a single assessment process.
This unit aims to help you to develop the ability to engage patients and carers in the assessment process, empowering them to make key decisions, at the point of assessment.
As practitioners you will be expected to appreciate the implications of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 for the assessment process.
This course requires you to demonstrate the skills, attitudes and practices of a clinician competent in physical assessment skills, and this will be done through the production of a poster and an OSCE (both summative).
The skills, knowledge and experience that you gain on this course will equip you to understand the concepts of ethics of care, legal aspects of professional code of conduct, advocacy, accountability, confidentiality.
The practical learning enables you to develop a range of assessment methods and diagnostic tools to aid clinical decision making.
You will develop the ability to conduct a thorough patient assessment.
This is a fundamental skill in clinical practice.
This course enables you not only to develop core assessment skills but also to understand the evidence base for these, assisting you in developing your advanced role.
You will have the opportunity to network and to share examples of good practice with other professionals.
Gaining this qualification means that you are seen as taking a lead in developing a learning culture within your area of practice, ensuring evidence based, safe and effective practice amongst students and the wider team.
For more information email - nhs-business-unit@beds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/acute-and-early-management-of-spinal-cord-injury:
This short course provides you with the opportunity to develop and enhance your knowledge and skills in managing individuals with Spinal Cord Injury, providing evidence based practices to ensure successful and safe rehabilitation pathway for SCI individuals and management approaches at the acute and early phases.
This course is designed in collaboration with experts in the National Spinal Injury Center at Stoke Mandeville Hospital.
This course aims to provide you with the opportunity to:
Aylesbury campus, 10:00 to 4:00 - Room TBC
The assessment strategy for the course combines formative and summative elements i.e.
assessment for learning and assessment of learning.
It is designed to foster strong links between learning on the course and the lived realities of practitioners working in a range of clinical contexts.
to evidence achievement of unit/course learning outcomes at masters level (Level 7).
The assessment allow learners the flexibility to select relevant cases as the basis for their writing with an opportunity to submit draft plans to receive formative feedback.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/short-course-in-intensive-and-high-dependency-care:
This course explores the provision of evidence-base and innovative holistic care of the newborn, and relates these elements to the provision of high-quality care for their families within the neonatal high dependency and intensive care environment.
It is designed to be a stand-alone unit for anyone having previously completed the Special of the Newborn unit or equivalent, or as the second phase of the qualified in speciality (QIS) program.
During the process of transition to extrauterine life, a newborn will experience the most complex and dynamic physiological adaptation.
For most newborns babies the transition is uneventful yet about 10% of all babies born will experience a degree of significant physiological compromise.
This unit is designed to ensure that health care professionals develop the skills required to care for premature and sick newborns within the critically acute setting.
This unit explores the provision of evidence-based innovative holistic care, including Therapeutic Hypothermia, Nitric Oxide and ventilation strategies for these newborns and relates these elements to the provision of high-quality care for their families within the High Dependency and Intensive Care environment.
The content of the unit is aligned with the British Association of Perinatal Medicines’ (BAPM) Knowledge and Skills Framework descriptors for Qualified in Speciality.
Completion of both this unit and the Special Care of the Newborn unit will result in being Qualified in Speciality as set out by BAPM
There are a combination of assessments, both formative and summative.
The summative assessments include an OSCE and a portfolio of evidence of learning.
There is also a practice skills log that is completed in the workplace.
This course will result in the title qualified in speciality which is a recognised title across the UK in any Neonatal Care setting.
Following this course, alumni will be eligible to explore promotion opportunities within this setting.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/short-course-in-leadership-and-supervision-in-heal:
This course will provide you with the knowledge and skills to provide effective leadership and management of others in your role within the healthcare team and the wider health and social care sector through a critical reflective account of yourself.
This course will appropriately challenge and develop your current leadership and management practice.
Course contents are based upon the current challenges in healthcare delivery in the 21st century.
The course primarily seeks to address a key question: what are the strategies to enable healthcare leaders balance the requirements of an increasingly complex and evolving healthcare environment with the challenges of meeting patient expectations?
The aim of this unit is to provide you with the knowledge and skills to provide effective leadership, management and supervision of others within the healthcare team and the wider health and social care sector through a critical reflective account of yourself
This unit will challenge and develop your current leadership and management practice.
This syllabus is based upon the current challenges   in healthcare delivery in the 21st century.
The unit seeks to address a key question: what are the strategies to enable healthcare leaders balance the requirements of an increasingly complex and evolving healthcare environment with the challenges of meeting patient expectations?
This unit adheres to The Multi-Professional Framework for Advanced Clinical Practice in England (HEE, 2017).
Pillar 1:  1.9 and 1.10
Pillar 2:   2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.5, 2.7  2.8, 2.9, 2.10 and 2.11
Pillar 4:  4.4, 4.5 and 4.6.
This unit has both formative and summative assessments as follows:
Formative
Summative
The skills, knowledge and experience that you gain on this course will equip you to understand how to be an effective leader and how to manage your team.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/short-course-in-mental-health-skills-for-healthcar:
This course will cover a wide range of topics including risk assessment: monitoring for self-harm, suicide, relapse and deterioration in mental health, impact of mental health on families, friends and social network.
Inter-professional working and collaboration with mental health and social services, use of screening tools such as Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) and trauma screening questionnaire as well as how to manage your own anxieties.
In addition, we also explore some elements of mental capacity and decision making as common medications used and their side effects.
The NHS Long Term Plan (2019) and the NHS: People Plan for 20/21 highlight the need for healthcare professionals to advance their skills and knowledge surrounding mental health.
Mental health conditions and psychological distress often co-exist with physical illness and impact negatively upon quality of life/work and health outcomes.
This unit will equip practitioners with the core mental health skills to support themselves, staff/colleagues and patients or their carers with their mental health needs.
No prior knowledge of mental health is required.
Pillar 1:  1.1, 1.2, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6,1.8 and 1.9
Pillar 2:  2.6, 2.7 and 2.9.
This course requires you to demonstrate the clinical Leadership and Management skills, attitudes and practices utilising two assessment methods:
Formative Assessment:
Summative Assessment:

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/short-course-in-neonatal-care:
This course explores a critical understanding of the evidence base underpinning care of the newborn within the Neonatal Special, High Dependency and Intensive Care environments.
During the process of transition to extra–uterine life, a newborn will experience the most complex and dynamic physiological adaptation.
For most newborns babies the transition is uneventful yet about 10% of all babies born will experience a degree of physiological compromise.
This unit is designed to ensure that health care professionals develop the skills required to care for sick newborns with the acute setting.
This unit explores the provision of evidence based and Holistic care for the newborn and their families within the Special Care environment.
Completion of both this unit and the High Dependency and Intensive Care of the Newborn will result in being Qualified in Speciality (QIS) as set out by BAPM.
The summative assessments include an literature critique an OSCE and a portfolio of evidence of learning.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/short-course-in-special-care-of-the-newborn:
This course explores the provision of evidence base and holistic care for the newborn and their families within the Special Care environment.
It is designed as either a stand-alone unit or to be the first phase of the qualified in speciality (QIS) program whereby the Intensive and High Dependency Care unit must be completed subsequently.
The summative assessments include a literature critique and a portfolio of evidence of learning.
This course will be evidence of continuing professional development for those working in the neonatal care setting if done as a stand-alone unit or lead to achieving qualified in speciality title if the student progresses to the intensive and high dependency care of the newborn course.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/social-work:
In the Complete University Guide (CUG) 2025, our social work courses rank 10th overall in their subject field and tied 1st for student satisfaction.
95% of our social work students were satisfied with how well the course developed knowledge and skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
Our social work courses rank in the UK top 10 in their subject field for graduate prospects (CUG, 2026).
This degree prepares you to work in a rapidly changing, complex and unpredictable sector, offering the most up-to-the-minute knowledge, skills and practice.
With a focus on applying theory to practice, it combines work-placement experience, practical skills development and academic study.
You explore every aspect of the professional social work role; how it relates to other areas; and the ethical challenges of balancing initiative with accountability.
This course is approved by Social Work England.
Upon graduation, you are eligible to register as a qualified social worker, able to work in the sector across the UK.
Four-storey library with an extensive range of physical and digital resources Specialist labs, lecture theatres and bespoke group study spaces State-of-the-art simulation suites, mirroring real-life settings you may experience Access to the University's moot court to practise for court appearances; also there are sessions alongside allied professions such as policing and criminal investigations, using the mock custody suite and police interview room
Benefit from the University of Bedfordshire’s partnerships with councils and NHS trusts across our region, working together to train the next generation of health and social care workers.
Progress with the support of academic staff who have all been practising social workers , some of whom continue to practise alongside their academic work.
Learn from academics involved in current research and practice , ensuring their teaching includes the latest developments while preparing you for the realities of the field.
Put your theoretical knowledge into action with our work-based approach to learning , from hands-on simulations and real-world case studies to industry placements and a research project of your choosing.
Work alongside service users, social workers and students from related degrees , learning from their broad range of backgrounds and knowledge bases.
Develop key transferable skills that will boost your career prospects.
Fulfil your potential with teaching in small cohorts and guidance from your personal academic tutor .
In 2007 I obtained my dual qualification in social work and nursing (learning disability).
I have worked in various teams across Children's services - Family Support, Assessment teams, the Emergency Duty Team and MASH (Multi-agency safeguarding hub).
Studying our Social Work BSc (Hons) course will equip you with knowledge, skills and resilience needed to improve the lives of vulnerable adults, children and families.
In core areas of study, you will build an understanding of human development that will help to inform your professional practice in the assessment, planning and intervention of infants, children, young people, families and adults in our Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan unit.
This is closely linked to our unit in Working with People, where you will be introduced to theories, techniques and approaches to respond to needs, communicate effectively and develop relationships with the people you work with.
As an essential guideline to your practice, The Legislative Framework for Professional Practice will provide you with the foundational knowledge around the legal system in relation to social work.
This will help you understand the role of law and legal intervention in ordering in the social lives of people and the ethical implications of this.
With a sociological approach, you will also consider how the welfare system responds to social issues, such as poverty, with a commitment to social justice by challenging inequality and oppression in our Sociology and Social Policy in Practice unit.
To prepare you for practical work in Year 2 and 3, Readiness for Social Work Practice will allow you to develop and apply your knowledge through a series of skills workshops and a shadowing day with professional social workers.
This will be useful for your First (70-Day) Placement opportunity in your second year to demonstrate your understanding of theory through direct practice.
It is also important that you learn the complexities of working across different social care contexts with colleagues and service users, and you will develop the skills to do this in our Social Work in Multi-Agency and Inter-Professional Teams unit.
You will continue to develop your knowledge of social work such as in our Issues and Contexts: Engagement and Partnership unit to examine the issues faced by adults and children in need of social work intervention.
Building on this, our unit in Issues and Contexts: Authority and Control will allow you to examine the legislative and policy aspects of intervention to ensure that adults, young people and children are safeguarded.
At the same time, you will learn to analyse and apply different sources of knowledge that will feed into your Evidence-Based Social Work Practice.
In your final year, you will undertake your Final (100-Day) Placement where you will integrate and apply the theory, research, policy and legislative frameworks taught in your first year.
Drawing on your knowledge from previous units in Working with People and Issues and Contexts, you will learn to work with individuals, families and groups from culturally diverse backgrounds and circumstances, including in complex situations in our Social Work Issues and Interventions unit.
This will equip you with the skills to work effectively with a range of people and devise specialist intervention strategies for vulnerable patients.
You will also learn to adopt Critical Ethical Reflective Practice to make complex and professional decisions in your work.
Finally, you will complete a Research Project for Professional Social Work Practice into a chosen topic that is also relevant to your professional practice.
This will be an opportunity to explore your own interests while developing your academic skills and understanding in your area of research.
To prepare you for your career, our unit in Consolidation for Social Work Practice will support your transition into a qualified practitioner.
Your academic learning will be assessed using a range of methods including reflective assignments case studies presentations research tasks examinations and evidence drawn from learning in the work place.
Assessments are designed to integrate theory and practice throughout the course and the variety of assessment methods used develops academic and professional skills in writing concisely and drawing on your knowledge with confidence for different purposes and audiences.
A summative assignment towards the beginning of the course complements input on expectations of study at M level and personal and unit tutors provide a range of assessment support including tutorials seminars and workshops.
Your practice learning will be supported by practice educators and on-site supervisors and assessed at each stage by the submission of a portfolio at the applicable level of the Professional Capabilities Framework (BASW 2018).
Your personal tutor will support your learning in each of your placements and facilitate learning needs identified at the end of the first placement being incorporated in planning your learning in the next.
As you progress through the course the assessments will become incrementally more challenging reflecting your increasing knowledge and skills of professional practice culminating with a viva which is designed to evidence your ability to critically reflect and make practice decisions informed by knowledge and best practice under pressure.
This reflects tasks given at interview and therefore gives you the opportunity to rehearse your employability skills.
Overall assessments throughout the course are designed to provide a range of varied opportunities for you to develop increasing confidence and autonomy and ultimately demonstrate your knowledge and skills in all areas necessary for competent practice as a newly qualified social worker.
You will be assessed on practice by a suitably experienced Practice Educator who is a qualified Social worker.
You will be undertaking a professional qualification that will enable you to practise as a qualified and registered social worker in England.
Most social workers are employed by local authority children's or adult social services.
Opportunities are available in other settings such as primary care trusts, local education authorities, prisons, private fostering agencies, voluntary organisations or charities.
You could be working in the following areas: child safeguarding, education, welfare, healthcare, mental health, addiction, youth justice, asylum and refugees.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/social-work-masters:
Accredited by Social Work England; this accreditation is needed to work as a professional social worker.
Designed for those with a first degree and evidence of relevant experience in social work/care.
Supervised by experienced practitioners, this practice-based Social Work MSc offers induction, protected workload and weekly study days during placement.
It equips you with the skills, ethical principles, deep knowledge, critical awareness and reflexivity needed to pursue a career in this challenging and rewarding field.
It also includes an opportunity to develop your research skills via the dissertation project.
Find out if you are eligible for a Social Work Bursary administered by the NHS Business Services Authority.
Registration with SWE is needed to work in the sector.
Access to the Faculty’s range of fully immersive simulation units, moot court, police custody suite and police interview room, preparing you to respond to and manage a range of scenarios Close associations with the University’s research schools - such as the Safe Young Lives research centre and the Tilda Goldberg Centre – opening up access to cutting-edge research in the field
Strong links with local authorities including Luton, Bedford, Milton Keynes and Hertfordshire, giving a wide choice of placement opportunities.
Current practising social workers and subject specialists from local authority social care teams and other relevant organisations contribute regularly to teaching on the course.
Learn the knowledge, skills and attributes needed to be a qualified social worker, working adults and children in the private, voluntary and independent sectors.
Benefit from two placement opportunities of 70 days and 100 days where you can put your knowledge and skills into practice.
All placements are under constant development with our employer partners.
Explore the role of social work ; its inter-relationship with other disciplines; and the ethical base for practice where initiative must be balanced with accountability.
Develop a deep and systematic understanding of current theoretical and methodological approaches and acquire the skills necessary for analytical, research-informed practice Gain the skills in critical reflexivity and emotional literacy that underpin collaborative social work practice and proactive professional development.
Benefit from classroom and placement activities that develop your collaborative and communication abilities , showing you how they can be applied to complex tasks.
Develop a deep and systematic understanding of current theoretical and methodological approaches and acquire the skills necessary for analytical, research-informed practice
Gain the skills in critical reflexivity and emotional literacy that underpin collaborative social work practice and proactive professional development.
Studying our Social Work MSc course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills for qualified social work practice.
This course offers significant opportunities to engage in hands-on, practical work such as in our Skills Development and First 70-Day Placement unit.
It will equip you with the essential skills and knowledge needed for this placement, and once on placement you will demonstrate through direct practice the core skills needed to support individuals, families and communities.
Our unit Working with People: Theories and Methods for Social Work Practice is where you will learn both the theory and practical communication and interpersonal skills to build effective relationships with service users, families and professionals.
Our Human Development for Social Work Practice unit will help to enhance your understanding of anti-discriminatory practice and apply this to human growth and development to better understand the varied contexts and characters of social work practice.
At the same time, you will build a critical understanding of structural inequality and discrimination in the field, how this can affect the way service users engage with social work professionals, and the techniques to deal with the conflict or reluctance that may arise from this.
This will be particularly relevant in our Social Work Law, Ethics and Values unit where you will also explore the legal and ethical themes in social work practice among diverse service user groups.
Here, you will examine legislation that impacts the lives of a diverse range of people who access social work services and critically analyse your role as a social work practitioner in making ethical and legal decisions while challenging inequality and oppression in the field.
To add to this, you will explore how society is structured and how the welfare system responds to different social issues such as poverty in our Sociology and Social Policy Perspectives unit.
You will then move on to complete your Last Placement (100-Days) where you will learn to integrate and apply your knowledge of theory, methodologies, research, policy and legal frameworks discussed in the first year.
Our unit in Knowledge for Social Work: Critically Reflective and Research-Informed Practice will develop your skills for evidence-based social work practice including equipping you with the reflexivity and ability to draw knowledge from service users.
You will also apply this learning to the preparation of a research project relevant to social work.
In addition, our unit in Critical Issues in Specialist and Inter-Professional Practice will allow you to examine the legislative, policy, theoretical and practice contexts in which social work operates, and this knowledge will be crucial in supporting your practice.
You will be taught to implement best practice by considering elements such as safeguarding and risk assessment in intersecting fields of social work practice.
Approved by Social Work England (SWE) this course opens up a rewarding career path.
In addition to gaining a postgraduate qualification successful students are eligible to apply to the social work regulator Social Work England for professional registration.
Once registered you can pursue a professional social work career across a range of settings including within local authorities and many private and voluntary agencies throughout the UK.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/social-work-practice:
Our Public Health courses rank 1st in their subject table for graduation prospects – outcomes (CUG, 2024)
The majority of our students graduate with an additional professional qualification that will gain them entry to an allied health or social services profession
Gain an accredited qualification in a sector where qualified professionals are in high demand
The Master of Professional Social Work Practice (Step Up to Social Work) course allows graduates holding the Postgraduate Diploma in Professional Social Work Practice to progress to a full Master's award by undertaking a work-based research project.
This work-based course enables you to gain the systematic and independent ability to critically evaluate current theoretical understanding and practice.
You develop the skills needed to apply knowledge-informed and evidence-based practice in the workplace while undertaking a piece of supervised research.
At the end of your studies you will have achieved a nationally recognised professional qualification in social work together with a postgraduate academic award.
The aims of this unit are:
To create a learning environment in which you will be able to develop critical understanding of the processes of social scientific investigation including developing confidence in the critical application of advanced research skills and analysis of complex and/or contradictory data.
To offer you the opportunity to develop the ability to undertake a systematic piece of individual practice-based research into a or relevant topic by conducting either primary or secondary (literature based) research, or a combination of the two.
To identify and articulate the links between research issues and professional or organisational practice including developing critical responses to research findings and generating empirically informed solutions to improve practice.
Given the complex nature of social work practice and the vulnerability of many service users, primary research will normally be limited to studies which draw solely on professionals, rather than service users.
Before beginning any research, you must obtain ethical approval via the Institute of Applied Social Research (IASR) ethics committee.
The course is assessed using a range of methods including formally assessed papers assignments case studies group and individual presentations research based work and evidence drawn from learning in the work place.
Representatives of students' sponsoring authorities and service users and carers will be fully involved in all relevant assessment tasks to ensure that your learning is assessed against the requirements of the profession.
All students qualifying with the Postgraduate Diploma in Professional Social Work Practice are required to meet both the HCPC Standards of Proficiency (SOPs) and the Professional Capabilities Framework (PCF) (BASW 2018) In order to ensure this the course and unit learning outcomes have been carefully designed to meet and are clearly mapped to both the SOPs and the PCF.
By completing the Master of Professional Social Work Practice you will be well placed to progress on to one of the School of Applied Social Studies’ Professional Doctorate (DProf) awards.
This will enhance your own knowledge and career development as well as making a distinctive contribution to your profession.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/software-engineering-and-applications:
Accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS), the Chartered Institute for IT.
This Master’s is designed for graduates and experienced programmers who want to solve real-world problems; evaluate advanced software engineering environments; and build complex software applications based on emerging technologies.
The course aims to provide you with a critical understanding of software engineering techniques.
You explore a range of topics from databases, advanced programming, design patterns and data modelling to popular development platforms, cloud computing and the Big Data eco-system.
This course is accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS) , the Chartered Institute for IT.
This recognition enhances the credibility and quality assurance of academic programmes, allowing students to have their qualifications recognised globally.
It can open up international education and employment opportunities, and increase professional mobility.
Modern STEM building with purpose-built facilities, including a high-tech CCNA Academy computer networking suite and dedicated computing rooms Cutting-edge technologies such as agile development; front-end and back-end applications; containerisation; cloud native orchestration; and the provision of high-performance infrastructure using GPU clusters, so you become familiar with the tools used in industry right from the start Access to virtual private cloud, downloadable Microsoft developer tools and VMware Workstation Bespoke lecture theatres, presentation rooms and group study spaces
Learn to solve real-world problems with hands-on projects involving state-of-the-art technologies.
Expand your horizons with subject-relevant field trips and interactive workshops held by external speakers.
Personalise your learning experience with block teaching , flexible entry points and your choice of MSc research project .
Develop key transferable skills , from critical evaluation and advanced problem solving to effective communication and the ability to assess aspects of legislation, ethics and risk.
Renxi's research has been focused on semi-autonomous robot systems with adaptive autonomy.
In recent years, the emphasis is placed on AI powered robotics supported by 5G/6G technologies and cloud computing.
By sharing knowledge among robots, edge and cloud resources, the connected intelligence enhances the robot autonomy and improves the robustness of the robots in deployment.
Studying our Software Engineering and Applications MSc course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills in software development, programming and data modelling.
You will have the opportunity to explore the area of Cloud Computing through our Distributed and Parallel Computing Technologies unit, where you will gain an understanding of the fundamental concepts of parallel and distributed computer systems.
This unit will also allow you to develop your analytical skills to identify and evaluate modern computing platforms while considering current and emerging trends in the field.
In practical areas of study, you will be introduced to the fundamental concepts of Software Design Patterns and Data Architectures while also developing your analytical and practical skills to evaluate technologies and its real-world applications.
Furthermore, you will explore and evaluate Applied Software Development Techniques and Applications of Open Source Frameworks to build on your theoretical understanding and practical skills in the area.
Finally, you will complete an MSc Project in Software Engineering and Applications that will allow you to bring your acquired skills and knowledge together in practice.
The assessment strategy used is a balance of coursework group and individual reports portfolios presentations or exams.
Constant feedback and advice from a supervisory or unit team will be provided to support you in your work so that you can gain an insight into whether your work is meeting the necessary targets.
On successfully completing this course, you will have built the skills and expertise needed to follow a career as a professional software developer creating applications for the latest emerging technologies.
Other potential roles include software engineer; programmer; data or system analyst; software consultant; and project manager.
You could also progress to further study at MSc by Research, MPhil or PhD level.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/software-engineering-and-applications-with-project-management:
Gain workplace-ready skills with our practical, hands-on approach; project management units; and progressive syllabus.
This two-year Master’s is designed for graduates and experienced programmers who want to solve real-world problems; evaluate advanced software engineering environments; and build complex software applications based on emerging technologies.
Alongside developing your project management skills, the course aims to provide you with a critical understanding of software engineering techniques.
Develop sought-after project management skills with integrated course units, improving core competencies such as critical analysis; self-evaluation; advanced problem solving; and effective communication.
Studying our Software Engineering and Applications with Project Management MSc course will equip you with the in-depth knowledge and skills in areas including advanced programming, popular development platforms and open-source frameworks.
Based on contemporary research, you will also evaluate the role of Project Management in a software engineering setting as well as analyse key project management approaches and methodologies that will enable you to approach new projects and successfully complete them.
You will also have the opportunity to explore the area of Cloud Computing through our unit in Distributed and Parallel Computing Technologies, where you will gain an understanding of the fundamental concepts of parallel and distributed computer systems.
Your additional skills in project management put you in a good position to take on extra responsibilities and team-leading roles.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/solicitors-practice-sqe-1-and-2:
This LLM Solicitors’ Practice includes integrated preparation for the Solicitors’ Qualification Examination (SQE) 1 and 2, offering LLB law graduates and aspiring legal professionals the opportunity to gain the legal skills and knowledge required to practise as a solicitor in England and Wales.
You also apply your higher-level skills to a range of real-life situations, gaining the qualifying work experience you need at our three community law clinics.
Intermediate awards: PGCert Law PGDip Law
This LLM equips you with the legal knowledge and skills required to pass the Solicitors Regulatory Authority’s SQE 1 and 2.
Develop essential transferable skills such professional problem-solving involving the ability to review information quickly, identify what is relevant and justify a chosen chourse of action.
This course prepares you to become a registered solicitor in England and Wales.
It gives you an advanced level of legal knowledge; integrated preparation for SQE 1 and 2; enhanced professional problem-solving skills; and the required work experience to consider a range of career options including private practice in law firms; roles in the public sector (in court or government departments); or as part of an in-house organisational legal team.
You can also specialise in family law, corporate and commercial law, and criminal law.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/special-educational-needs-and-disability:
Our education students rate us highly (over 90% positive responses) for our teaching; academic support; learning opportunities; assessment and feedback; and learning resources (NSS, 2024).
This degree provides a thorough grounding in research, theory and practice across the broad field of SEND, and includes opportunities to engage with professionals in the real world of work.
Through a powerful mix of theory and its practical application, you explore concepts such as needs, inclusion and disability, relating them to policy, everyday practices and decision making.
This in-depth course has been designed and is taught by specialists with a reputation for integrating theory, research and practice in SEND.
Specialist Early Years and Sensory Centre to support your understanding of how teachers teach and children learn, within SEND contexts Forest School where you can deepen your understanding of the long-term educational benefits of outdoor learning opportunities and learning in SEND Classrooms with specialist technology so you can watch and assess different teaching approaches within SEND teaching Multi-media space for webinars and podcasting Wide range of sports facilities
Deepen your knowledge, experience and understanding through placements and visits to relevant, professional organisations.
Gain the ability to reflect sensitively on the issues and barriers young people with SEND face in education while exploring ways to address them.
Benefit from the support of your own personal tutor as well as unit and course coordinators.
Broaden your understanding through regular visits by professionals from schools and academy chains; SEN schools; local education authorities; and other involved agencies.
Our Bedford campus is a small, thriving academic community where academic staff get to know you well and provide personalised, highly student-centred learning .
Studying our Special Educational Needs and Disability (SEND) BA (Hons) course will equip you with the specialist knowledge and skills in the combined fields of educational needs and disability studies.
In SEND studies, you will learn to identify the ‘Need’ in Special Educational Needs and Disability by questioning what makes a special need ‘special’ and what the legal definition of ‘needs’ is in the UK.
You will explore this in more depth in our Historical Development and Current Legal Context for SEND unit where you will examine the history of SEND provision, how it informs current policy, and what can be done for children who have not progressed.
Aside from this, you will engage in Understanding Human Learning to help you develop your knowledge on what informs learning and behaviour difficulty in educational institutions.
To deepen your understanding, our unit in Understanding and Meeting Social, Emotional and Mental Health Difficulties and Sensory and/or Physical Difficulties aims to develop your awareness of these needs and how to address them in classroom settings.
Alongside this, you will also look at Approaches to Understanding and Addressing Communication, Interaction, Cognition and Learning Needs while debating ways to meet these needs in an inclusive society.
You will then learn to assess these needs in our Assessment and Planning unit that will help inform meaningful and sensitive provision.
As a SEND educator, you will also learn to support pupils with specific needs, such as those with Difficulties in Literary Acquisition, including dyslexia, and Difficulties in Numeracy Acquisition by exploring models of literacy learning and how educational institutions can facilitate this.
Moreover, you will adapt your teaching and pedagogy to meet these needs while keeping their wellbeing, progress and achievements in mind in our Differentiation in Classrooms unit.
To help with this, you will be introduced to the Uses of ICT to Support Young People’s Special Learning Needs so that you can facilitate greater participation among SEND individuals in education.
In other areas of study, you will discover how Children’s Literature provides insight into their lives and their transition to adulthood by examining material such as illustration, drama and popular fiction, as well as how to engage them with this material.
In more practical work, you will partake in a SEND Placement that will allow you to understand how children and young people with a range of needs learn, as well as put SEND theory into practice.
To help you with this, our unit in Investigating the Social World will equip you with an understanding of quantitative and qualitative research methods, data collection, analysis and reporting.
As an additional unit, you can also undertake a Professional Practice Year (Education and English) as an opportunity to develop your employability skills and gain formally recognised work-based learning.
This course will provide a range of assessment methods that include both individual and group submissions to evaluate the extent to which you have met the learning outcomes of each unit.
These include essays reports posters case studies examinations learning journals and presentations.
Substantial guidance is provided on the university's web pages and in detailed assessment briefs.
You will be prepared for a broad range of employment that requires skills and knowledge of the law; theories of learning; assessment of difficulties; and practical interventions to support children and young people with diverse needs.
Careers include teaching and teaching assistance in schools; inclusion support; child and family advocacy; mentoring; adult education; local authority support; charity roles; and entry to courses related to a variety of therapies.
If you complete this course and meet the entry requirements for our PGCE Primary Education, you will be in a good position to begin your training as a primary teacher.
An in-depth and comprehensive understanding of SEND will take you a long way.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/sport-and-exercise-science:
Our sport science courses rank 17th in their subject field for graduate prospects (CUG 2026).
If you are fascinated by the science behind sport and exercise performance, this course gives you the opportunity to learn from and be part of a world-leading research team, using state-of-the-art equipment and facilities in a high-performance environment.
The course combines scientific knowledge and sports performance with lab work, and offers specialist units in biomechanics, exercise physiology and social psychology, to name a few.
This course is endorsed by the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES) and the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA), allowing you to work towards CIMSPA professional standards in gym instruction, personal training and working with people with long-term conditions.
Six CASES-accredited laboratories Environmental chamber Biochemical analysis laboratory Mechanical treadmill Expired gas analysis Hydrostatic weighing tank Biomechanics labs with 3D camera system Echocardiogram machine Purpose-built strength and conditioning facility with Olympic weight room State-of-the-art gym with free membership for students A fully supervised, on-site sports therapy and rehabilitation centre with a sports injury clinic, open to staff, students and external athletes/clients
We are an Educational Partner of the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA).
Learn in a high-performance environment with a leading research team offering research opportunities and skills development rare to the UK.
Gain valuable work experience at our Community Exercise Clinic and Human Performance Centre , which offers testing to sports people, teams and the general public for fitness, flexibility and body composition assessments.
Be part of a team working on prestigious projects for elite sports teams, governing bodies and government initiatives.
Enhance your learning and build your experience through field trips to destinations such as St George’s Park, Burton-upon-Trent, the home of England Football; Northampton Saints physio centre; and King’s College, London's anatomy rooms.
Hear from guest speakers who attend our ISPAR seminar series .
Previous speakers have included Tom Bromley (MK Dons); Jack Wells (PGA); Akash Modhwadia (Strength and conditioning coach at MK Dons); Marsha Brierley (Behaviour Change Practitioner at Buckinghamshire Public Health).
In 2011, I graduated from my undergraduate degree in Sport and Exercise Science BSc (Hons) from the University of Bedfordshire.
I then completed a Ph.D in Environmental and Exercise Physiology titled “ Environmental stressors and cooling interventions on simulated soccer performance ”, which was funded by the João Havelange Research Scholarship on behalf of the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA).
After completing my PhD I worked as a Research Associate for six months at the University of Bedfordshire on a funded project by the European Hydration Institute investigating the effects of fluid replacement strategies on simulated military-based exercise in the heat.
I was then employed as a Visiting Lecturer in Research Methods at the University of Bedfordshire.
I became a Lecturer in Exercise Physiology in January 2017.
Since 2019, I have been course co-ordinator for BSc Football Science.
Studying our Sport and Exercise Science BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the skills and knowledge in physiology, biomechanics and psychology to best prepare you for a career in sport, exercise and health.
In year one, via a blend of both theoretical and practical sessions you will learn the principles of human movement and anatomy in both the Anatomy and Biomechanics and Biomechanics for Sport and Exercise Science units.
Our Principles of Nutrition and Human Physiology units will provide you with an understanding of metabolism, energy balance and energy conversion alongside the key physiological systems used at both rest and exercise within the human body.
You will be given an Introduction to Sport and Exercise Psychology and how it contributes to performance enhancement and athlete wellbeing.
You will also be introduced to reading and understanding sport and exercise science research in our Introduction to Research Methods unit.
Furthermore, there will be an opportunity to gain the Level 2 Gym Instructor Qualification endorsed by CIMPSA in Fundamentals of Strength and Conditioning.
You will also gain a coach's perspective into the field of sport and exercise science in our Developing the Coaching Environment and Practice unit.
During year two, our Exercise Physiology Measurement and Assessment unit will develop your laboratory skills by allowing you to experience testing external athletes with the University of Bedfordshire’s Human Performance Centre.
Using both theory and practice, you will also examine the current factors that influence sport and exercise performance, how the human body adapts to different types of exercise and various training methods in Physiology of Exercise and Adaptation.
You will also enhance your understanding of nutrition for sport, health and exercise in our Nutrient Metabolism unit.
Through examining human behaviour, you will look at the Social Psychology of Sport by analysing theories, principles and concepts to understand behaviour and its effects on performance and participation in sport and physical activity.
The Biomechanics unit will focus on acquiring the skills for measurement and assessment techniques in sports science practice while considering sports performance and injury prevention.
You also have the opportunity in Advanced Applied Exercise Practice to gain the Level 3 Personal Trainer qualification endorsed by CIMPSA.
You may wish to gain a further insight into the technical, tactical and physical components underpinning sport in our Performance Analysis: Individual unit.
Finally, both Dissertation Preparation and Research Methods for Sport and Exercise and Physical Activity will provide you with a further opportunity to enhance your understanding of sport and exercise science research to prepare you for your final year project.
Finally, you can also undertake a Professional Practice Year (Sport Science and Physical Activity) that will allow you to gain work experience while developing your professional skills.
In year three, you will consider the current measures of exercise performance and issues within sport and exercise science during Applied Exercise Physiology.
You will also consider the role of Physical Activity, Sedentary Behaviour and Health in the prevention, management and treatment of disease.
This course also gives you the flexibility to choose from a range of optional units to tailor to your interests.
You may complete a Dissertation for Sport Science and Physical Activity designing and auctioning a relevant study within your field of interest, using the skills and knowledge gained from your academic study.
Alternatively, you may complete the Work Placement Project or Work Experience in Sport Science and Physical Activity units that will allow you to undertake work experience in the field that can be used to develop reflective practice, critical evaluation and work-based skills.
You can explore a variety of techniques in Applied Sport and Exercise Psychology, discover the ergogenic aids used by athletes to enhance performance in the Performance Nutrition unit, or analyse the Psychology of Physical Activity and how it affects participation and psychological wellbeing.
Furthermore, our Applied Biomechanics unit will teach you the techniques for biomechanical analyses of performers and how to make recommendations based on this.
Separately, if you wish to learn more about how to safely prescribe exercise, particularly for individuals with diseases, our Exercise and Fitness Testing for Clinical Populations unit will give you the opportunity to do this.
Furthermore, this unit will also allow you to obtain the CIMPSA endorsed Working with People with Long Term Conditions qualifications.
Assessment on the course is both formative and summative in nature and occurs at various points throughout the academic year.
A wide variety of strategies and activities are employed to assess the specific unit learning outcomes and to permit all students opportunities to utilise their personal strengths across different assessment types.
Modes of assessment include examinations (seen and unseen) essays practical tests laboratory reports research projects case studies presentations and data-analysis exercises.
These assessment methods will develop and assess core knowledge and skills relevant to your future employment and/or further education.
At level 4 you will be assessed primarily on your breadth of knowledge pertaining to core relevant topics.
At level 5 you will be assessed on your level of knowledge and ability to critically evaluate specific key topics.
At level 6 your assessments will evaluate your ability to critically analyse core topics synthesis literature and theories and apply this in various situations through a process of problem solving.
Formative assessment points provide feedback regarding your progress and diagnostic assessment will be used to assess your knowledge understanding
BSc Sport and Exercise Science, with its strong emphasis on performance and health, equips graduates for diverse careers in the sports and health sectors.
Recent graduates have become sport scientists, strength and conditioning coaches, and technical coaches in professional sports such as football, rugby and cricket.
Those with a passion for health have pursued careers in public health and exercise referral, supporting various populations with long-term health conditions.
The course also serves as an excellent foundation for postgraduate studies, including a PGCE in Physical Education or an MSc in Clinical Exercise Physiology, Strength and Conditioning, and Behaviour Change and Health.
Additionally, the course’s research focus has inspired some graduates to advance into PhD studies.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/sport-business-management:
Our sport science courses rank in the UK top 20 in their subject field for graduate prospects in both the Complete University Guide (2026) and The Guardian (2025).
Our courses rank in the UK top 15 overall in their subject field (Daily Mail university rankings, 2024).
Take up placement opportunities with our official Education Partners Luton Town FC and Bedford Blues RFC as well as other sports organisations and clubs.
Please note that this course is running from September 2026 .
For a September 2025 start, you can apply for BA (Hons) Football Business
The sports sector’s continued growth has created opportunities to become a business professional in an expanding, borderless industry.
Offering a wide perspective of the sports sector, this business-focused course explores areas such as economic impact, investment in facilities, community programmes, sport event management, sport marketing and sport management.
You learn the academic theory related to sport and leisure, and apply your knowledge to industry-related scenarios and real-world simulations, with opportunities for placements including with our official Education Partners.
External sports pitches Sports arena Purpose-built strength and conditioning facility Free gym and Olympic weight room Multi-use games areas Sports therapy and rehabilitation centre with a sports injury clinic, open to staff, students and external athletes/clients Sports massage rooms
Learn from top-class professionals within the field as well as experts from professional sports organisations.
Course assessments are based around real-world industry issues and scenarios.
Take part in behind-the-scenes tours and match-day experiences to various sport clubs such as Luton Town FC and Bedford Blues RFC as well as other local sports organisations and clubs.
Career paths for graduates of this course include sport management, sport development and specialised posts in the leisure, sport and recreation industries, including going on to pursue careers with companies like FIFA and Sport England.
Possible roles include broadcast executive, sport technology specialist, sport/sports technology business owner, commercial development manager, global strategic partnership manager, and academic roles in universities in the UK and abroad.
Graduates can also progress to a Master’s degree in a related subject.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/sport-leadership-and-management-pgcert:
Merging the expertise of our Sport Science and Business schools, this PGCert is one of the first of its kind in the UK
Our Sports teaching staff are industry experienced, with many actively involved in sports teams; our Business academic team are industry experts engaged in consultancy, business involvement and social impact
Our business and management courses rank 4th overall in their subject field in the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024, with top 3 rankings for teaching, engagement, learning community and course organisation
This 60-credit postgraduate qualification is designed to develop your knowledge, key competencies and skills in your subject field; support you to fit study around your other commitments; and boost your career prospects.
Course structure: one four-hour timetabled session per week, for 22 weeks.
This course is one of the first of its kind in the UK.
It equips you with an advanced practical knowledge of strategic management and the skills you need for impactful leadership in this thriving field.
You will develop a critical understanding of the issues facing sport and physical activity in the UK and around the world, and uncover a range of approaches to widen participation in physical activity.
Situated at our friendly, collegiate Bedford campus with its excellent sport science facilities including sports laboratories accredited by the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES) and a national-standard sports arena Access to our state-of-the-art data lab, equipped with top-tier business analytics software and platforms, including Vensim simulation software, allowing hands-on learning and exploration Benefit from a range of learning resources, such as Oracle OPERA, to support you on your learning journey
Industry links We are official partners of Luton Town FC and Bedford Blues RFC as well as other sporting organisations in the region such as Bedford Tigers RLFC, MK Dons, Cricket East and Be Active, giving you opportunities to build your employability through work placements.
Sport organisations operate nationally and internationally while sports programmes are often designed for export to developing countries.
Likewise, international events are often used as a tool for development.
You will discover how sport is developed and delivered across the globe in our Sport in The Global Context unit.
It explores the competing demands on sport in terms of it being both a commodified entity and an activity that is seen as relevant in providing wider social good.
You will then explore the role of strategic leadership and management in sport in our Strategy Analysis in The Global Environment unit.
Here, you will unpack strategic management principles by critically analysing data sources and industry information.
You will then use this data and information to create and implement effective strategies that address new and on-going challenges within sports leadership and management.
The skills, knowledge, theoretical concepts and practical experience you gain from this PG Certificate will support you in progressing within the sport and physical activity sector, offering career opportunities at a local, national and global level.
You may also like to continue your studies to full Master's level with our MBA Sport Leadership and Management.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/sports-coaching-and-development:
This course aims to give you the knowledge and skills you need to pursue a wide range of career pathways within the sports, health and physical activity employment sectors.
You will develop your coaching, management and leadership skills, putting you in a position to transform lives and communities through sport and physical activity.
Sports Coaching and Development students gain valuable work-based experiences within coaching, project management, and community sport through their involvement with Bedford Blues Foundation and the University's Aspire outreach programmes.
State-of-the-art sports therapy and rehabilitation centre with a sports injury clinic, open to staff, students and external athletes/clients Up-to-the-minute sports analysis equipment, such as the Catapult GPS tracking and Nacsport camera systems, allows you to measure and evaluate the performances of players and teams Human Performance Centre On-site community exercise clinic Sports massage rooms Purpose-built strength and conditioning facility Free gym and Olympic weight room Sports arena; Alexander Sport Centre; multi-use games areas and other external sports pitches.
Enhance your learning and build your experience through field trips to destinations such as St George’s Park, Burton-upon-Trent, the home of England Football; Northampton Saints physio centre; and Club La Santa in Lanzarote.
Learn through a variety of methods including outdoor and adventure education Hear from guest speakers who attend our ISPAR seminar series .
Having conducted a five-year 'insider' ethnographic study of amateur and professional boxing in England, my central research interests now lie in the examination of cultural and social aspects of the sporting experience.
Reciprocally my academic interests and teaching competences take in the following related areas: the socialisation process into and through sport; sport violence,  embodiment and identity formation; sporting subcultures; and sport for change in relation to youth development; crime reduction and education.
In a previous life I spent my time split between boxing competitively as an amateur and briefly a professional boxer and backpacking and working my way around the globe.
Studying our Sports Coaching and Development BA (Hons) course aims to equip you with in-depth knowledge and skills around coaching, development and management of sport and physical activity.
By combining sport coaching and development practice, cultural studies and social psychology, you will explore a range of Contemporary Issues and Social Practices in Sports and Physical Activity.
Furthermore, you will critically examine contemporary issues in sport coaching in our Critical Pedagogies for Sports Coaching unit to improve the wellbeing and performance of a wide range of participants through empowerment.
Our unit in the Foundations in Sport Coaching Pedagogy will support you with this by introducing you to coaching pedagogy in a range of contexts, from examining UK policy of sport provision and how to develop positive learning environments for people.
You will then have the opportunity to actively participate in a community sport project or activity in our Sport and Development: Working in Communities unit.
To develop your understanding of the role of sport and physical activity in diverse communities, you will examine current approaches in sport development delivery and realise the opportunities available in community sport settings.
You will learn to further support individuals by studying how physical literacy can be used to develop health and wellbeing in a range of sports contexts as part of our Coaching to Promote Health and Wellbeing in Sport and Physical Activity.
To support you with this, our unit in Critical Insight into Sport and Development will broaden your understanding of the significance of sport in society.
Similarly, you will examine key theories and concepts in Sport, Physical Activity and Social Inclusion centred around gender, sexuality, race, ethnicity and disability.
The course also offers a range of optional units such as exploring how sport culture is connected to various forms of inequality in our Sport and Social Justice: Leadership for Change; learn to establish a sport and physical activity enterprises in our Running a Business unit; or examine physical culture in our Narratives of Body and Health unit.
To help you with this, our units in Dissertation Preparation, Research Methods for Sport, and Physical Activity, and an Introduction to Research Methods will support you in reading and understanding research, and to complete a proposal with ethical documentation.
Moreover, you may complete a Work Placement Project that will allow you to undertake work experience in the field that can be used to develop reflective practice, critical evaluation and work-based skills.
To prepare you for your career, our Introduction to Academic Study and Personal Development Planning in Sports Coaching and Development unit will support your academic growth and develop your skills and personal competencies for the professional demands of the sports coaching and development employment sector.
Similarly, the Working in Sport unit will introduce you to multiple career pathways available within the sport & physical activity industry.
Furthermore, you will be provided with skills for the job application and interview process in our Professional Development and Employability unit.
In addition, you will engage in project management to design a school or community-based intervention based on your knowledge of government policy, partnership and grant applications in our Professional Development (Sport Policy and Enactment) unit.
Furthermore, you can undertake our Work Experience for Sport Science and Coaching unit that will allow you to enhance your academic and professional skills in a sport science and/or coaching environment.
You will be required to undertake a variety of assessment approaches that vary depending upon the learning outcomes of the unit delivered.
The range of assessment styles includes: practical demonstrations essay narrative and report writing written reviews of relevant literature oral presentations phase-tests portfolios poster-presentations reflective blogs case study analysis project management evaluations media content analysis auto-ethnographies fieldwork and qualitative and quantitative data-analysis.
This comprehensive approach to assessment aims to develop your subject knowledge practical competencies reflective and critical thinking communication and collaborative skills digital and information skills problem solving and time management which are all needed in professions related to the sports coaching and development sector.
As you progress through the levels of study the marking criteria for all assessment styles undertaken will be that much more rigorous with the expectation you progressively demonstrate a more theory driven understanding of sports coaching and development issues and practices and the sport sector agenda for achieving desired development outcomes.
Our graduates have been successful in gaining employment within a wide range of sport-sector areas including community, local authority and sport governing-body sport-development teams; professional sport clubs; coaching enterprises; international sport development; project and event management; health and fitness management; teaching in schools, further education colleges and universities; and social and community leadership roles.
Students have also developed their own sport-sector businesses or gained employment within a range of non-sport-sector fields including the youth development and social services; the Forestry Commission; retail; and the uniformed services.
Students on this course have gone on to study a variety of postgraduate courses with us including PGCE in Secondary Physical Education or Primary Education and our MBA in Sport Leadership and Management.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/sports-therapy-and-rehabilitation:
Our sport science courses rank in the UK top 15 overall in their subject field (Daily Mail university rankings, 2024).
Complete at least 400 hours of practice placement in settings ranging from elite sports teams to private clinics and independent practitioners.
This course trains you to be an exercise-based rehabilitation and fitness specialist, able to apply clinical reasoning to sport- and fitness-related injuries while you develop practical skills in rehabilitation.
You put learning into practice via real-life opportunities at our on-site Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation Clinic , Community Exercise Clinics and work-based placement with industry experts.
This course is accredited by the British Association of Sport and Rehabilitation and Trainers (BASRaT).
Once you have successfully completed the course, you can apply for graduate membership and use the professional title of graduate sport rehabilitator (GSR).
You also have the option to take a further subsidised Pre-Hospital Immediate Care in Sport (PHICIS) Level 2 qualification.
A fully supervised, state-of-the-art sports therapy and rehabilitation centre with a sports injury clinic , open to staff, students and external athletes/clients Sport massage rooms Put learning into practice via real-life opportunities in our Community Exercise Clinic Six CASES-accredited laboratories Human Performance Centre Purpose-built strength and conditioning facility Free gym and Olympic weight room Sports arena; Alexander Sport Centre; multi-use games areas and external sports pitches Industry-standard equipment and techniques
We are a Higher Education Partner of the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA).
Benefit from on-campus opportunities to extend your knowledge and put your learnt skills into practice through our fully supervised, on-site Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation Clinic and Community Exercise Clinic Benefit from the support of your own personal academic tutor who will guide and support you throughout your student journey.
Enhance your learning and build your experience through field trips to destinations such as Northampton Saints physio centre and King’s College London's anatomy rooms.
Gain free, additional fitness qualifications endorsed by the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA) in gym instruction, group exercise and working with people with long-term conditions.
Take further additional qualifications in sports massage and subsidised Pre-Hospital Immediate Care in Sport (PHICIS) Level 2 qualification.
Undertake a minimum of 400 hours of supervised placement , with opportunities including our official partners and other sporting organisations such as Bedford Tigers RLFC, MK Dons, Cricket East, Be Active and many others.
Benefit from industry links that include schools and colleges; borough councils; Bedfordshire Police; Luton Town FC; MK Dons; Bedford Tigers RLFC; Bedford Blues; Northampton Saints; and Bedfordshire County Cricket.
Guest speakers have included Jack Wells (PGA); Tom Bromley (MK Dons); Jack Wells (PGA); Akash Modhwadia (Strength and conditioning coach at MK Dons); Mark Finney (former head of S&C at Northampton Saints; Phil Pask (former head of physio for England Rugby).
I have been in the health and fitness industry for 20 years.
Originally inspired by a passion for enhancing health through fitness and understanding theoretical principles behind it, I have taught group exercise classes and coached personal training sessions throughout this time.
I have had varied industry experience from working on cruise liners to teaching at local leisure centres and health clubs.
Studying our BASRaT accredited (British Association of Sports Rehabilitators and Trainers) Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the specialised knowledge and skills in the combined areas of sports rehabilitation, health and therapeutic treatment.
Beginning with the basics, our unit in Normal Anatomical Structure and Function will introduce you to human anatomy and kinesiology.
This is then explored in the context of sport science in our Anatomy and Biomechanics unit, which aims to introduce you to the principles of human movement, biomechanics and the role of anatomy in sport and exercise science.
This will be useful in areas of sports therapy & rehabilitation practice, it will also include possible pathways into strength and conditioning, personal training for both athletic and clinical populations.
In addition to Anatomy, our Human Physiology unit will help you understand human physiological systems and how the human body adapts to exercise and injury recovery.
This knowledge is built on in your second year, with the Physiology for Training unit where you will identify physiological factors that influence sport and exercise performance and how training methods can influence these.
In more practical areas of learning, the course begins in year 1 with Gym Instruction where you will learn the fundamentals of exercise prescription and coaching in a gym setting, with a range of applied exercises.
You will learn a range of exercises, progressing onto Clinical Exercise and Corrective Exercise in your final year that will allow you to safely and effectively design exercise programs and skills for sport rehabilitation.
Progressing to our Manual Therapies unit, this will provide you with an understanding of how to safely apply a range of peripheral joint mobilisations and advanced manual therapy in practice, and at an advanced level, our Advanced Manual Therapies unit will involve techniques for accessory joint mobilisation and manipulations.
Another important area of study includes rehabilitation and injury management, and this is where our units in the Management of Lower Extremity Injuries and Management of Upper Extremity Injuries will teach provide you with the skills and knowledge to ensure safe assessment skills for injured athletes, identify and manage causes of pain and discomfort.
This is explored further in our Sport Injury Prevention and Rehabilitation unit where you will learn to evaluate dysfunction, injury and rehabilitation needs to reduce the risk of injury and to rehabilitate an athlete back to performance.
Finally, you will complete a Dissertation for Sport Science and Physical Activity where you will investigate a focused and relevant research topic of interest to you and work under the guidance of a supervisor.
Similarly, our Planning and Conducting Research unit will allow you to take a critical understanding of research processes and enquiry in sports therapy & rehabilitation.
To prepare you for your career, our unit in Structural Assessment and Professional Practice will support you in implementing your practical skills in a work-based environment with a reflective approach to practice.
Similarly, our Professional Practice unit aims to prepare you for your placement experience in Sports Therapy & Rehabilitation, with a requirement of completing a minimum of 400-hours of supervised placement over the three years of study.
Furthermore, you will be equipped with the business skills to successfully build a career as a Graduate Sport Rehabilitator in our Clinical Practice and Business unit.
More importantly, you have the option to be able to undertake a Professional Practice Year (Sports Science and Physical Activity) as an opportunity to develop your employability skills and gain formally recognised work-based learning for a year.
Lectures seek to provide students with underpinning theoretical research informed knowledge to allow them to critically justify their clinically reasoned injury treatment and rehabilitation strategies.
Sports rehabilitation graduates will be trained to take on a rewarding career in environments that diagnose, treat and rehabilitate injury and clinical conditions.
Sport rehabilitators will be capable of working within multi-disciplinary health-care teams, both private and public (NHS), as well as taking up careers in sport clinics.
The course also embeds wider transferable skills and qualifications, including those to facilitate working pitch side or in the health and fitness industry.
Finally, you develop the skills and knowledge to start and run a business, which many of our students go on to do, or continue with postgraduate study in areas such as strength and conditioning, clinical exercise physiology or physiotherapy.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/sports-rehabilitation-and-therapy-masters:
The University of Bedfordshire ranks 3rd in the UK for overall taught-postgraduate student satisfaction; 1st for student engagement and learning community (Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey, 2024).
Work with professional athletes, members of the public, University staff and fellow students at our sports rehabilitation centre with MSK clinic, improving quality of life and return to normal physical function.
Complete 400 hours of practice placement, provided by the University, in a range of settings from elite sports teams and private clinics to our own sports rehabilitation centre and community exercise clinic.
This industry-accredited course is designed to give you the high-quality, profession-specific training needed to prevent, assess, diagnose and treat sport and physical activity-related injuries.
The qualification focuses on developing practical skills while teaching how to use theory to underpin clinical reasoning.
Putting theory into practice is a key focus so you develop your skills via case scenarios; at our on-site Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation Clinic and Community Exercise Clinics .
You will also undertake work-based placement with industry experts working with professional athletes, members of the public and clinical populations.
The course is accredited by the British Association of Sport Rehabilitators and Trainers (BASRaT), allowing you to apply for graduate membership and use the professional title of Graduate Sport Rehabilitator (GSR).
The course is endorsed by the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA), allowing you to gain additional qualifications as a Strength & Conditioning trainer.
Gain experience through our fully supervised, on-site sports therapy and rehabilitation centre with a MSK (musculoskeletal) clinic , open to staff, students and external athletes/clients Sport massage rooms/Clinic therapy rooms Six laboratories accredited by the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES) which include molecular and cellular labs, and biomechanics labs with 3D camera system Human Performance Centre New strength and conditioning facility Put learning into practice via real-life opportunities in our Community Exercise Clinic
Benefit from supervised placement opportunities including Luton Town FC, MK Dons FC, Ampthill & District RUFC, Bedford Blues RUFC, Bedfordshire County Cricket, Oaklands College Sports Academies, Samuel Whitbread School and many others.
In the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2024, our sport sciences and biosciences courses rank 6 th in their subject field for sense of community.
This course is taught over four semesters , allowing you to study the theory and practical skills required to be a sports rehabilitation specialist, before you apply them through our integrated work placement and dissertation units.
While you study, take up the opportunity to undertake an additional qualification: the Pre-Hospital Immediate Care in Sport (PHICIS) Level 2 course.
Gain experience through our fully supervised, on-site Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation Centre , which has industry-standard equipment and is open to staff, students and external athletes/clients.
Benefit from industry links that include schools and colleges; Bedfordshire Police; Bedfordshire Fire & Rescue; Luton Town FC; MK Dons; Bedford Blues Rugby Club; Bedford Borough Council; Bedford Tigers RLFC; MK Dons; Cricket East; and Be Active.
Attend our ISPAR seminar series and gain work-related insights from visiting industry speakers .
Past speakers include Jack Wells (PGA); Akash Modhwadia (Strength and conditioning coach at MK Dons); Marsha Brierley (behaviour change practitioner at Buckinghamshire Public Health); Mark Finney (former head of S&C at Northampton Saints); and Phil Pask (former head of physio for England Rugby).
Field trips include St George’s Park, Burton-on-Trent, the home of England Football; King’s College, London; Luton Town FC; and Northampton Saints physio centre, National Rehabilitation Centre, MoD Rehabilitation Centre.
Every Wednesday, students from across our School of Sport Science and Physical Activity come together to work with the local community, offering free, high-quality, physical therapy to clients with a range of sport injuries, musculoskeletal issues as well as working on performance enhancement.
Hear from our student sport rehabilitation therapist, Ruby, on her experience working in the clinics and how it has helped build her confidence.
While the clinics provide real-life work experience to our students, it also benefits our clients from the University and surrounding community.
To find out more about what you can expect from a session at our clinics, hear from our regular client Barry, who contracted a knee and ankle injury, the latter from being thrown off a horse!
I am Bethanie Ridout, Interim Course Leader for the Postgraduate Taught Sports Rehabilitation and Therapy (MSc) at the University of Bedfordshire, where I also lecture in Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation at Undergraduate level.
I hold an MSc in Sport and Exercise Medicine from the University of Exeter and am an Associate Member of BASRaT, as well as a Clinical Exercise Physiologist (AHCS).
With a background in both clinical practice and academia, I am dedicated to supporting students in developing the skills and knowledge needed for successful careers in sports therapy and rehabilitation.
In the first semester you will study the founding principles of Sports Rehabilitation with units such as Principles of Exercise & Rehabilitation and Sport Injuries, as well as Research Methods (fundamental to your ability to critically look at injury related research).
In semester 2 you will be able to start to apply your knowledge in units such as Injury Treatment Modalities, Manual Therapy and Musculoskeletal Assessment, as well as studying the Principles of Strength and Conditioning (vital for return to play protocols for sports performers).
Throughout the course you will have work experience embedded, with you becoming a more independent practitioner in the latter work experience units in the last 2 semesters of the course.
Finally you will integrate much of this knowledge in a Dissertation unit studied in the later part of the course.
For MSc Sports Rehabilitation & Therapy students, a diverse range of assessment formats will be utilised throughout the course, including laboratory reports, case studies, portfolios, practical exams, and presentations.
The assessments will progress from foundational scientific principles to a more independent, hands-on application of research, directly informing the practical skills necessary for careers in sport rehabilitation.
This will be supported by original research and athlete assessments, generating data for analysis in reports and research dissertations.
High-level practical competencies, including problem-solving, will be evaluated according to BASRaT & governing body standards, preparing students for BASRaT accreditation and enhance future employment opportunities.
Upon graduation, you will be prepared to take on a rewarding and challenging role in sports therapy and rehabilitation as an injury and exercise-based rehabilitation and fitness specialist.
You will be capable of working in multi-disciplinary healthcare teams in both the public (NHS) and private sectors within the sport, exercise and physical activity industry.
You may also look into opportunities within the armed services or work as athletic trainers in the Republic of Ireland, USA and Canada due to BASRaT’s international arrangement with the Athletic Training & Therapy Profession.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/strength-and-conditioning:
One of the only courses in the UK to offer around £10,000-worth of additional qualifications at no extra cost.
This innovative course is designed for those who want to train athletes to maximise their physical potential and improve their performance.
You learn from leading professionals who teach you the skills you need to be a confident and well-informed strength and conditioning coach, while covering a wide range of sports science disciplines including anatomy, physiology, biomechanics, sport psychology and nutrition.
The course is endorsed by the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA), allowing you to gain additional qualifications in gym instructor; personal trainer; working with people with long-term conditions; S&C trainer; and graduate S&C coach.
Once you complete your degree, you can apply for professional accreditation with the UK Strength and Conditioning Association (UKSCA).
New purpose-built strength and conditioning facility with Olympic weight room A fully supervised sports therapy and rehabilitation centre with sports injury clinic, open to staff, students and external athletes/clients Six CASES-accredited laboratories including physiology and biomechanics laboratories with cutting-edge equipment such as an environmental chamber, Vald Performance light gates, force plates and a 3D motion-analysis system Human Performance Centre , allowing students experience of working with athletes State-of-the-art gym with membership for students Sports arena; multi-use games areas; and sports pitches
We are also a Higher Education Partner of the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA).
Learn from leading professionals in the field who have worked with elite sports people , including GB Olympians, national organisations (such as the RFU and the FA) and professional sports teams.
Enhance your learning and build your experience through field trips to destinations such as St George’s Park, the home of England Football; Northampton Saints Rugby Club; and the dissection rooms at King’s College London.
As well as placements with our official partners, you will have opportunities to gain experience with other sporting organisations such as Bedford Tigers RLFC, Northampton Town Football Club, MK Dons Football Club and Girls Academy, and Oundle School.
Hear from guest speakers (who also teach on the course) and attend our ISPAR seminar series .
Previous speakers have included Jack Wells (PGA); Tom Bromley (MK Dons); Akash Modhwadia (S&C coach at MK Dons); Mark Finney (former head of S&C at Northampton Saints); and Phil Pask (consultant physiotherapist for England Rugby).
I joined the University of Bedfordshire as a Biomechanics Lecturer in September 2013.
I currently lead the undergraduate Biomechanics units.
I am Course Coordinator of our MSc Strength and Conditioning.
I supervise a number of postgraduate research students.
I am a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (2015) and I hold the role of Chair of the Ethics Committee for the ISPAR Research Institute.
Studying our Strength and Conditioning BSc (Hons) course will equip you with the specialised knowledge and skills in the combined areas of strength and conditioning and sports science.
To build your understanding in core areas of study, our unit in the Fundamentals of Strength and Conditioning will introduce you to the principles of strength and conditioning in relation to optimising sports performance.
To apply this knowledge, you will learn to coach effective strength and conditioning programmes through high-volume, low-intensity exercise testing and coaching during our units in Applied Strength and Conditioning and Advanced Strength and Conditioning.
Focusing on Biomechanics, you will acquire the skills for biomechanical measurement and assessment techniques in sports science practice while considering sports performance and injury prevention.
Similarly, you will learn of the principles of human movement, anatomy and the application of sports biomechanics in our units in Anatomy and Biomechanics and Biomechanics for Sport and Exercise Science.
This links closely with our Human Physiology unit where you will question how the human body adapts to exercise alongside studying physiological systems, major organs of the body and how they respond at rest.
You will look at this further in our Applied Exercise Physiology unit where you will consider the current measures of exercise performance and issues within applied physiology.
Using both theory and practice, you will then examine the current factors that influence sport and exercise performance, how the human body adapts to different types of exercise and various training methods in our Physiology of Exercise and Adaptation unit.
Moreover, this course also gives you the flexibility to choose from a range of optional units.
You can explore a variety of techniques in Applied Sport and Exercise Psychology, develop techniques for biomechanical analyses in our Applied Biomechanics unit, or learn how to safely prescribe exercise, particularly for individuals with low-risk diseases in our Exercise and Fitness Testing for Clinical Populations unit.
Additionally, based on the latest research and trends in the fitness industry, our unit Advanced Applied Exercise Practice will allow you to build on practical and procedural elements of work.
Finally, you may complete a Dissertation for Sport Science and Physical Activity on a key issue relevant to your study and examine it using the skills and knowledge gained from your academic study.
To help you with this, our units in Dissertation Preparation and an Introduction to Research Methods will support you in reading and understanding research, and to complete a proposal with ethical documentation.
Alternatively, you may complete a Work Placement Project that will allow you to undertake work experience in the field that can be used to develop reflective practice, critical evaluation and work-based skills.
To prepare you for your career, you will be provided with skills for the job application and interview process in our Professional Development and Employability unit.
A wide range of assessment formats will be used within this course including Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ) tests open and closed book exams laboratory reports case studies portfolios practical exams and presentations.
Level 4 will consist of more knowledge based assessments including exams essays and simple practical competencies.
Level 5 will have a more critical approach with an increase in the use of case studies reports and reviews of information while more advanced methods of practical competence will be assessed.
At level 6 practical application of skills and knowledge gained at level 4 and 5 will be looked at through original research and athlete assessment creating data to be explored and analysed through reports and research dissertations while high order practical competency (with problem solving) will be examined in line with governing body competencies preparing students for potential accreditation and work opportunities.
Teaching learning and assessment are supported by the research and accreditation held by members of the course team.
All team members are either Fellows or Senior Fellows of the HEA while all Strength and Conditioning specific units are taught by UKSCA accredited coaches.
This helps to keep general teaching and assessment methods up to date and inclusive and Strength and Conditioning practices in line with professional accrediting bodies.
Unit specific knowledge is enhanced by the research profiles of unit co-coordinators.
Peer reviewed journal publications in the area of Strength & Conditioning including the effects of different preparation strategy's on performance the relationships of physical capacities to performance and the effects of specific training interventions on performance have kept the unit content current and externally validated.
The focus on performance enhancement in the course will qualify you for many careers in the exercise industry including sports coaching; strength and conditioning; sport science support; and sports development.
This course also opens up the route to our postgraduate courses, including our Strength and Conditioning MSc.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/supply-chain-management:
Accredited by The Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT), offering a globally recognised benchmark for logistics and transport training.
This MSc Supply Chain Management is vocational in nature, with a focus on current practices in purchasing, logistics and supply chain management.
You explore contemporary concepts, theories and practices in purchasing, logistics and supply chain strategies and operations while taking up opportunities to visit local companies and observe their logistics and supply chain management activities in action.
We also organise external guest presentations from industry to keep you informed of current company practices, and you can develop your industry networks by engaging with the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT) events (including their annual conference); attending guest lectures; and analysing client requirements.
For further course information, contact Ioannis Dermitzakis at at ioannis.dermitzakis@beds.ac.uk
Modern business analytics suite with over £300K of industry-standard hardware and software Advanced simulations and learning resources from Harvard Business Publishing London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) trading room offering live ‘stock-market’ data for a realistic investment experience Business pods, boardroom areas and IT suites designed to simulate a professional office environment
I am a Senior Tutor in the Department of Strategy and Management with over 12 years’ experience of teaching in Higher Education.
I have over 20 years of industry and management experience having worked in a range of organisations in the UK, Middle East, Greece, and South Africa.
I teach various management and supply chain related subjects at postgraduate level.
I also supervise MBA and MSc dissertation students.
I am the Programme Leader for both the MSc in Supply Chain Management and Supply Chain Management with Data Analytics, having previously been the Programme Leader for the MBA with Data Analytics.
Studying our Supply Chain Management MSc course will equip you with the knowledge and skills you need for the integrative management of organisations and their supply chain networks.
You will be exposed to the developments and dimensions involved in designing a modern supply chain and examine key issues in its management within our Designing and Managing the Supply Chain unit.
To do so, you will be taught to assess state of the art models and solutions used in the design, control, operation and management of supply chain systems.
At the same time, this unit incorporates elements of Information Technology while considering customer value and international issues in supply chain management.
Similarly, you will develop a solid understanding of supply chain and logistics concepts in our Integrated Supply Chain and Logistics Management unit.
Here, you will consider key components in supply chain management such as demand estimation, dealing with uncertainty, packaging issues in transportation and managing inventory.
This will allow you to understand the key challenges of integrating areas such as procurement, processing and distribution with proper management and control in supply chain operations.
In addition, you will consider an increasingly important element to supply chain management in a contemporary business environment – sustainability.
To help you with this, our Strategy unit will provide you with a critical and informed understanding of business environments and the business opportunities within them.
The successful completion of your MSc provides a strong foundation to seek career opportunities in a variety of positions and can open up the potential for fast-track career progression.
You will have the skills to work in logistics and distribution; supply-chain management; purchasing; forecasting and planning; or warehousing.
You will also be well prepared for further research study and many students continue to work towards the MPhil or PhD.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/supply-chain-management-with-data-analytics:
Our 22-month MSc Supply Chain Management with Data Analytics prepares you for a range of management careers in logistics, procurement, supply chain, inventory and transportation.
You develop the attributes and skills expected of postgraduates, as recognised by professional industry bodies such as the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT), while gaining practical knowledge of important concepts, tools and methodologies including JIT and Lean.
The data analytics units enable you to synthesise complex information, with topics including big data, programming and the importance of analytics in decision making.
For further course information, contact Ioannis Dermitzakis at ioannis.dermitzakis@beds.ac.uk
This course is accredited by The Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
Learn from academics who use their active industry engagement to shape course delivery and ensure you keep up to date with the latest advancements in the field.
Study with staff from our Operations and Project Management Group, benefitting from their direct involvement in cutting-edge research as well as collaborative, international learning opportunities.
Our practice-based approach develops your understanding of financial analysis; contract and procurement; and digital business management.
Alongside specific subject expertise , develop transferable skills including team working; negotiation skills; leadership; confidence; and the ability to apply critical and creative thinking to complex and unclear problems, developing innovative solutions.
Gain additional qualifications through PRINCE2 professional exams.
Learn to evaluate and interpret complex data , research sources and methodologies with practical exercises grounded in everyday scenarios.
Unlock invaluable insights in our Global Guest Speaker series of talks, which features representatives and business leaders from prominent industry organisations.
Take part in subject-specific field trips to sites such as PW Gates Logistics and the Volvo distribution centre as well as attending the annual CILT conference .
Study the essential techniques and methodologies used in today’s workplace, from JIT and TQM to Six Sigma and lean principles .
Apply your learning to real-world challenges through authentic assessments ; case studies; and your choice of Master’s capstone dissertation, live project or professional practice.
Studying our Supply Chain Management with Data Analytics MSc course will equip you with the knowledge and skills around supply chain networks, applied computing and information technology.
A number of different assessment methods will be used to help enhance your learning outcomes of this course.
You will receive detailed briefings of the assessment and the marking criteria for each unit.
In preparing your work/assignment for each assessment your unit tutor will provide you with support and help you to enhance your learning outcome and assessment performance.
Typical types of assessment for this course includes:
Individual Written Report - Your knowledge and skills are developed when you undertake the task of writing an individual report and the whole process contributes to your improvement when it comes to conducting postgraduate level research and developing your enterprise.
The ability to carry out literature-informed research to review and evaluate the relevant sources and to use an appropriate methodology in order to analyse and evaluate the relevant concepts is being assessed.
Case Study Analysis - You will apply relevant theoretical concepts or models covered in the course to analyse given case studies.
Oral Presentation - A number of transferable skills will be developed including the ability to present your findings in a professional clear and concise manner.
Reflective Report: Evaluating your own contribution to a team project is essential in the context of this course but in the workplace as well.
Artifacts : to support applied computing and information technology units
You are expected to make use of the journals professional bodies and the media in order to keep up-to-date with information examples debates discussions and events in procurement logistics and supply chain management practices.
Through the final capstone unit in purchasing logistics and/or supply chain management you will be able to apply some of these methods and techniques to carry out independent research.
The assessments are designed to test students' knowledge and understanding of the subject matter but also to demonstrate the range of skills identified in the section above.
The assessment strategy underlines the course's concern with research and independent thinking the ability to make informed decisions and communicate these under time pressure and finally the all-important skills of teamwork and oral communication of ideas.
Written assessments will contribute to the learning outcomes focusing on your ability to research and critically evaluate elements of the curriculum in depth.
The assessments will allow you to use a variety of named sources to support their viewpoints.
At the end of four blocks you will progress to the master's capstone experience stage where you will opt to complete either a dissertation a professional practice an internship or a live project unit.
Details of each capstone option will be given in corresponding handbook.
The knowledge and concepts acquired during the four taught periods of block teaching along with a number of highly important transferable skills will be combined and evaluated during the writing of the final piece of work the masters capstone experience unit.
Whether the students opt for a traditional research dissertation or an experiential learning option (Professional Practice or Business Live Project) an appropriate research methods element will introduce the students to the idea of postgraduate and/or action-based research.
This final unit will enhance your ability to produce an independent piece of work and it will provide them with an opportunity to show the creativity and independence required in the workplace by holders of postgraduate degrees.
As a graduate of this course you will be equipped with the knowledge and skills to take up a career in business and management generally and specifically in procurement and the management of any aspects of logistics and supply-chain business.
Your specialist skills in data analysis give you the option to focus on more IT-related roles in the field.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/sustainable-management:
The course is approved by the Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment, providing you with professionally recognised accreditation upon graduation.
Flexible courses designed to accommodate your work and life commitments with block delivery, different entry points through the year and 24/7 access to learning resources.
Sustainability plays a pivotal role in modern corporate policy and strategy.
This contemporary course recognises its centrality and equips you with an advanced understanding of the complex interplay between sustainability, management, regulation and economic ambition.
Thanks to our practice-led approach, industry involvement and employability-based skills development, you apply your learning to real-world challenges through immersive projects.
For further course information, contact Dr Andrew Grantham at andrew.grantham@beds.ac.uk
Our course is approved by the Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment (IEMA), which entitles you to free IEMA student membership throughout your studies, with access to toolkits, webinars and international events.
IEMA membership also enables you to network internationally in building a career and achieving further qualifications.
State-of-the-art business suite complete with £300K of industry-standard hardware and software Access to immersive simulations from Harvard Business Publishing London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) trading room offering live ‘stock-market’ data for a realistic investment experience Business pods, boardroom areas and IT suites designed to simulate a professional office environment
There are opportunities for regional and cross-cultural industry collaboration through networks such as regional Green Business Networks (GBNs) and their wider partners; Luton 2040; Principles for Responsible Management (PRME); and Chambers of Commerce.
These collaborations provide access to networking, knowledge-transfer partnerships, and other specialist skills acquisition and development.
I am senior lecturer in strategy and sustainability at the Graduate School of Business (University of Bedfordshire Business School).
I am the author of a book entitled Sustainable Business Strategy: Analysis, Choice and Implementation (De Gruyter, 2022).
My expertise is in adapting business and corporate strategy to enable firms to meet internal and external sustainability objectives.
The United Nations 17 Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) are the template for businesses pursuing a sustainability policies.
My focus is particularly on climate change and strategies for firms to mitigate (become net zero carbon emitters) and adapt (the climate is changing, what do firms need to do to thrive in a warmer and more unpredictable world?).
Studying our Sustainable Management MSc course will equip you with the knowledge and skills in the combined areas of business and sustainability.
Our unit in Corporate Governance and Sustainability will allow you to gain a comprehensive understanding of global modern and progressive corporate governance in relation to company law.
Here, you will critically evaluate governance structures by reviewing case studies, news and events that feature the failure of governance.
You will evaluate this against good practice and UK/International company law to achieve corporate sustainability for global stakeholders.
Business Sustainability in Practice will then expose you to business impacts on the natural environment while allowing you to consider how these impacts can be managed to improve the environmental sustainability of large and small businesses to meet its obligations – such as transition to net or zero greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants.
With this knowledge, you will learn to implement solutions for the design, control, operation and management of supply chains.
Also, there is group work where an individual’s contribution to group work is evaluated via various methods, i.e.
For MSc students, the final unit demonstrates s student’s ability independently to conduct academic enquiry, bring together knowledge and action, relate theory to practice, thereby to solve problems; or undertake dissertation or live projects.
Sustainability has a wide employment reach encompassing as it does environmental, social, educational and economic fields as well as business.
On successful completion of this course, you will have the skills to find employment opportunities as a sustainability specialist across the private, public and charity sectors in areas such as financial services; management services; consulting; marketing; or advertising – to name a few.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/travel-aviation-and-tourism-management:
In the Complete University Guide (CUG) 2025, our tourism, transport and travel courses tied 7th in their subject field for graduate prospects
We are conveniently located close to relevant employment opportunities, with London Luton Airport on the doorstep as well as TUI, Easyjet, and leading international hotel brands such as Hilton, Ibis and Marriott.
Combining theory and practice of tourism and aviation management, this course builds your understanding of the global issues affecting international tourism and aviation.
It explores the industry’s challenges of rapid growth; the emergence of new destinations; climate change; and the ethics of managing a business in areas such as the environment and people leadership.
Our teaching reacts quickly to industry updates, ensuring you are ready to hit the ground running when you start your career in the sector.
Excellent Learning Resources Centre with an extensive library, giving you access to a wide range of academic and industry knowledge including e-journals, e-books and information databases as well as traditional printed books Our simulation software ‘Simulate’ allows you to take control of your own airline and gain key insights into airline management
Our tourism, transport and travel (includes aviation) courses are in the UK top 20 for student satisfaction (CUG, 2025).
Our aviation teaching team includes experienced industry professionals in the fields of airlines, airport operators and other aviation roles worldwide; one of the team is a panel representative on the Gatwick Airport Consultative Committee and another is engaged with airport security at Birmingham Airport.
Our aviation industry links include London Luton Airport; the Civil Aviation Authority; and Highlands and Islands Airports.
Attend talks from international aviation and tourism professionals , broadening your understanding of what is possible in the field.
Recent speakers have had influential positions at Highlands and Islands Airports Ltd, London Luton Airport, Enterprise Rent-a-car and Wizz Air.
Studying our Travel, Aviation and Tourism Management BSc (Hons) course will provide you with the knowledge and skills in the combined areas tourism, aviation management and business.
In core areas of study, our unit in Structure and Development of the Air Transport Industry will discuss the historical development of the industry, how it operates in business contexts, as well as introduce you to aircrafts and its manufacturers.
Building on the economic and finance principles of this unit, you will examine airline performance and pricing in our Airline Revenue Management unit and identify how to maximise seat revenue.
These units will support you in your study of Global Airline, Airport and Cargo Operations Management where you will explore commercial, legal and operational areas of the airline industry.
In areas of tourism study, you will explore the relationship between tourism and sociology in our Tourism and Society unit while also critically evaluating how tourism contributes to the development of tourist areas in our Tourism Destination Development unit.
With a focus on sustainability, you will learn how this interacts with development and tourist destinations in our Managing Sustainable Destination unit.
In line with the Business School's commitment to practice-based education a large part of the assessment will relate to your demonstration of your ability to synthesise class room learning with real life scenarios within the international tourism and aviation industry.
To assess this range of integration of theory and skills into sound practice we use a range of methods for example: written exams written assignments portfolios reports individual or group oral presentations and practical skills assessment.
This course provides a pathway into the tourism and hospitality industry in roles such as tourism officer tour operator customer service manager ground service manager tourism information centre manager or travel agency manager.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/courses/youth-justice-practitioner:
In the Complete University Guide (CUG) 2025, our childhood and youth studies courses tied 6th in their subject field for graduate prospects (on track).
This practice-focused Higher Technical Qualification (HTQ) has been specially developed by the University of Bedfordshire to give you the skills you need to take on the role of youth justice practitioner, working with young people in the criminal justice system to stop them from offending or reoffending.
If you are already working in the social care or youth justice sectors, it is an ideal way to upskill or change direction to fill skills shortages and workforce gaps.
This Level 5 HTQ is approved by the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education, meaning that it meets the occupational standards for the sector and delivers the specific training you need to work as a youth justice practitioner.
Seven-storey library with an extensive range of physical and digital resources Bespoke lecture theatres, presentation rooms and group study spaces Relevant simulation suites where you can practise your skills across a range of scenarios and settings
This course is designed and delivered in partnership with local employers, who provide additional specialist knowledge and ensure our progressive curriculum reflects real-world practices and policy.
Develop the skills and behaviours needed to work with young people , often from disadvantaged backgrounds and with complex needs, perhaps involving mental health problems; safeguarding issues; and/or substance misuse.
Learn to work with families and build positive relationships with them as well as with other professionals including social workers, probation officers, schools and staff at ‘secure estates’ such as young offender institutions and children’s homes.
Put theory into action in real and simulated environments including placement units and work projects .
Benefit from guest talks and subject-relevant field trips .
Draw from our academic team’s professional involvement in areas such as youth work; contextual safeguarding; criminal justice; and sexual offending.
This Foundation degree opens the way to degree-level study in a related field, such as our Childhood and Youth Studies BA (Hons) or Criminology BSc (Hons).
Studying our Youth Justice Practitioner Foundation (HTQ) course will equip you with the knowledge and skills to work with and support young people in the youth justice system to stop them offending and to encourage their positive development.
In our unit called Effective, Ethical and Inclusive Practice Skills in Supporting Children, Young People and Families, you will learn to build relationships and engage with children, young people and their families within social care, youth work, health, criminal justice and educational settings.
As a result of using theories, models and methods of intervention to develop these effective relationships, you will be able to identify, analyse and apply skills to build a rapport with children, young people and their families and to meet their diverse needs.
Building on this, you will develop your professional skills, behaviours and ethics to be able to work with children, young people and their families in both formal and informal settings in our unit called Understanding and Applying Key Foundational Knowledge, Legislative, Policy and Practice Frameworks.
Here, you will be exposed to the requirements of legislation, safeguarding, confidentiality, health and safety and more.
To support this knowledge, you will also examine theories on child and adolescent development as well as the factors that affect childhood, adolescence and family life such as difference, diversity and inclusion.
A large part of your practice accounts for the legal and administrative framework of the contemporary youth justice system, and this is where our unit in Youth Justice in the UK: Contextual Considerations in Practice will introduce you to the mechanisms and delivery of youth justice services, its policy and practice.
You will discover how youth justice is developing and debate what is currently working while considering how adverse childhood experiences impact the criminal careers of children and young people.
Through direct practice, virtual placements and assessed work, you will gain valuable work-based experience while being able to demonstrate your acquired skills in various practical contexts as you work towards your HTQ pathway as a youth justice practitioner in our Virtual Placement 1 – Working with Children, Young People and Families unit.
You will further apply these skills in our Virtual Placement 2 – Working in Youth Justice unit to practice your ability to apply and evaluate the occupational standards of a youth justice practitioner.
Building on this, you will be supported in planning your career in our Skills for Employment unit, that will help you identify your personal values, strengths and transferrable skills and subsequently articulate this in a confident way to help you secure your desired career pathway, including as a youth justice practitioner.
A variety of teaching methods are employed across the FdA in order to encourage the acquisition of subject knowledge and foster the subject specific and transferable employability skills associated with the course learning outcomes.
These teaching methods include lectures, discussion-based seminars, presentations by class members, group-work, tutorial activities, problem solving, computer-based activities, problem based learning, and online interactive activities using
The curriculum is designed to meet the growing demand for qualified people trained to take up a career within youth justice in the statutory voluntary and growing private sectors.
It also opens the way to further study at degree level in a related field such as Child and Youth Studies BA (Hons) or Criminology BSc (Hons).

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/foundationyear:
Why you should consider a Foundation Year If you're not sure about going to university or you're a mature student considering a return to education, a Foundation Year (FY) gives you the chance to experience studying a university course and gaining a degree.
Going to university is a big step.
If you've been out of education for a few years, it can be a daunting prospect.
For mature students in particular, there may be the added worry of whether university is really for you - will you have anything in common with your fellow students?
The development of the Foundation Year has opened doors for those who may have previously thought university wasn't an option, whether for academic or personal reasons, from school leavers to busy working parents.
It can be seen as a stepping stone into the world of higher education (HE), particularly if you don't have the right qualifications to go straight onto your chosen degree programme.
A Foundation Year gives you the opportunity to get an understanding of your field of interest before progressing to the full three-year degree.
As well as subject knowledge, you'll get used to the HE environment and gain the skills needed for higher-level study.
For example, at the University of Bedfordshire, initial sessions focus on career aspirations and opportunities; existing transferable skills; an introduction to your chosen subject; and developing your essay writing skills.
A variety of subjects can be studied with a Foundation Year and many degrees now offer this as an option.
At the University of Bedfordshire, a large number of our courses provide an FY pathway.
These include subjects areas such as:
If you successfully complete the Foundation Year, you can progress immediately into the first year of a degree.
A Foundation Year offers a supportive environment if you've been out of education for a few years and are nervous about embarking on a university degree.
For example, as a mature student you may be worried you'll be the only person over 25 in a room full of teenagers but this isn't the case.
More mature students are going to university than ever before.
In fact, at the University of Bedfordshire, more than half of the student population is aged 21 or over.
This presents you with a fantastic opportunity to mix with people with a shared interest.
Hear from student Tim Wright about how accessing the Foundation Year as a mature student helped build upon his previous experience and the way in which his social sciences team supported him to find his career direction.
If you're considering doing a Foundation Year, you shouldn't be put off because of a lack of formal qualifications.
Universities will look at your profile if you have work experience and a passion for your subject area, and advise you on whether they can accept you or let you know what else you need to do to start the course.
In terms of finance, students are currently eligible to take out student loans for the full four years of their degree with a Foundation Year.
When applying to a university, be sure to ask about their available bursaries.
There are a number of different avenues that you can follow once you’ve completed a Foundation Year.
If you have chosen to remain on the course you selected, and have successfully completed the Foundation Year, you will be automatically receive an invitation to enrol on the full degree programme.
Alternatively, you may start on a course but, during the Foundation Year, find yourself gravitating towards a different degree entirely.
In this case, you need to discuss this with the course coordinator for the course you are interested in and, if they are happy for you to make the change, complete a course transfer form.
However, in some circumstances, a course transfer will not be sufficient.
Anyone looking to move on to a professional course, especially within health care, will need to apply through UCAS once they have completed their Foundation Year.
Hear from Lynne Reynolds, Course Coordinator for Foundation Year in the School of Applied Social Sciences, about the different avenues you can follow once completing your Foundation Year.
The Foundation Year is usually linked to the degree you'll progress on to.
It allows you to meet with your peers in the year above so you'll know what to expect when you move onto a degree.
You're typically taught by tutors who will be with you throughout your degree.
You also complete the type of assessments you'll be taking in subsequent years, preparing you for what's to come.
You get plenty of support in understanding how the Foundation Year works and what's needed to reach the required standard.
What's more, you're a university student from the day you register, benefiting fully from the facilities and opportunities available to all students.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/part-time-study:
Part-time Study at Bedfordshire
Whatever you are interested in studying as a part-time student, you will find quality teaching, good facilities and easy access from home or work, to the online library and learning resources.
You will also find a friendly atmosphere and lots of support for your studies.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/mba:
Master of Business Administration
Our flexible part-time programme will enhance prospects of an experienced professional by developing your entrepreneurial and creativity skills
Get in touch and connect with us on our social networking channels, including the MBA Insights blog!
"The financial knowledge I gained during the MBA helped me in understanding financial drives and triggers" - Jan Lucas

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/block-courses:
All postgraduate courses within the University of Bedfordshire Business School (UBBS), and some courses within our Computing, Science and Technology, benefit from our block delivery approach to learning.
Block delivery is a new and convenient way to study, offering flexibility in course-entry times and compressed, single-focus modules.
Typically, our block course delivery gives you:
Find out more about our block-delivery Business courses
Find out more about our block-delivery Computer Science and Technology courses

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/stem:
Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics at Bedfordshire
Our STEM Students
Take a look
Our Facilities
Find details here
Why STEM?
As a STEM graduate you will be in high demand The government continues to invest in STEM education resulting in some amazing employment opportunities Being a STEM graduate you have the opportunity to shape the future and save lives through advances in technology, engineering and science
At the University of Bedfordshire we’re continuously investing and developing social and learning spaces to ensure that we’re providing the best facilities to support you throughout your studies.
That’s why we’ve invested £180 million in our campus over the last five years, including our purpose-built, four storey STEM building, opened in 2019
Professional accreditations Many of our courses are accredited by professional bodies, which gives you a career advantage from day one.
Just a few of the professional bodies that accredit our degrees include: Association for Nutrition, British Computer Society, British Psychological Society, Institute of Biomedical Science and the Institution of Engineering and Technology.
Many of our courses are accredited by professional bodies, which gives you a career advantage from day one.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/higher-technical-qualifications:
We pride ourselves on offering up-to-the-minute, industry-relevant courses, helping employers and employees prepare for the future.
We also believe in widening students’ choices when it comes to higher education.
Higher Technical Qualifications join our Apprenticeship and Foundation Degree courses in extending student choice by providing a more practical, skills-based path to a rewarding career.
Higher Technical Qualifications (HTQs) are either new or existing Level 4 and 5 qualifications (such as HNDs, Foundation Degrees or Diploma HE) that have been approved by the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education as meeting occupational standards for the relevant sector such as IT, construction or healthcare.
These qualifications have been developed by awarding bodies in collaboration with employers and businesses to make sure students get the training, knowledge and skills they need for their chosen career.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/guide-to-applying-to-uob/how-to-apply-for-your-course:
We're so pleased you’d like to join us at Beds and become part of our vibrant, diverse student community.
We have an excellent reputation for preparing students for employment so your bright future starts here.
We want you to have a smooth application journey so we've made it as straightforward as possible – and our Admissions team are on hand if you have any queries.
If you know what course/s you wish to apply for, it's a good idea to refer to the individual course description for any specific application guidance as well as reading the information in this section.
Whether you apply via UCAS, the Department for Education or directly, you will have to provide references.
Find out more about providing your references
If you are an international student, find out more here
For UK students, the normal application route for full-time study is online via the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
Find out more about providing your reference
Every course has its own UCAS course code; if your chosen course doesn’t have one yet, it is likely to be because it is a new course still awaiting its code.
In these cases, please contact our Admissions team at admission@beds.ac.uk
The UCAS application form allows you to choose up to five courses; to add University of Bedfordshire courses, it’s useful to have to hand the UCAS code for your course and our UCAS codes – you’ll find these at the base of the page.
The form will also need relevant personal details, education and employment history, and a personal statement, written by you - all of which can take some time to gather together.
UCAS offers information about completing your application ; our tips on writing your personal statement and jargon buster [PDF] will also build your confidence.
The final section to fill in is payment.
If you are applying through a school that has an alternative payment arrangement with UCAS, you will not see the payment screen.
Otherwise, you pay the application fee online using a credit or debit card.
For the 2024 applicant cycle, there is a flat fee of £27.50 for up to five course choices; for 2025 entry, the fee is £28.50 for up to five choices.
For the 2025 cycle, the fee may be waived if you have been in receipt of free school meals at some point during your secondary education.
After applying, it’s possible you will be invited for an interview.
If you have any dates you already know of when you won’t be available for interview, it’s an idea to include them on your UCAS application.
Once your application is completed, either you or your school will send it electronically to UCAS, who process it and send a copy to your chosen universities and colleges.
We expect to receive most UCAS applications from early/mid September to mid/late January for courses starting in the following academic year.
Applications received after the January deadline are considered late applications but you can still contact Admissions at admission@beds.ac.uk to see if we have places available for your preferred course.
Deadlines change slightly every year.
Please check out the application timetable for your year of entry at ucas.com .
Download our Key Dates calendar [PDF] and personalise it with your entry-year deadlines.
If you have problems applying online to UCAS, please contact the UCAS Customer Service team on 0371 468 0468 (Mon-Fri, 8.30am-6pm).
You can also reach them via a direct message on Facebook (ucasonline) or X (@ucas_online).
Clearing starts at the beginning of July and normally continues to the end of September.
There are a number of reasons why you might ‘go into Clearing’.
For college leavers, it might be that results’ day didn’t bring the grades needed.
You may have changed your mind about the subject you want to study.
Or you could have only just decided that you’d like to go to uni.
Whatever led you there, you can find the perfect course through Clearing.
If you are applying to the University of Bedfordshire during Clearing, check out our applicants’ guide to Clearing , which takes you step by step through the process.
Most part-time courses do not have specific application deadlines.
Once you have chosen your part-time course, you apply directly to the University of Bedfordshire via our online admissions portal, accessed from the relevant course page on our website.
This also applies if you are looking for a part-time place during Clearing.
However, for main cycle (non-Clearing) applications, we advise you to apply at least 30 days before the course starts to allow us time to process your application.
We offer around 130 Master’s (MA/MSc/LLM) and professional courses (MProf) at the University of Bedfordshire as well as research degrees (MA/MSc by Research/MPhil/PhD) affiliated to one of our 10 research institutes.
Many courses offer part-time options and multiple start times to make studying easier to fit around life and work.
Once you have chosen your course, you should apply via our online application portal, accessed directly from our website course pages .
Most postgraduate courses do not have specific application deadlines but we advise you to apply at least 30 days before the course starts to allow us time to process your application.
There are some courses that require students to apply via UCAS or the Department for Education; in these cases, it is flagged up on both the prospectus and website course descriptions.
All applications for a PGCE course should be made online through the Department for Education Teaching Training portal .
You can make up to four choices from late October.
Our Admissions team will assess your application as quickly as possible, your DfE record will be updated and you will also receive an email detailing the decision.
Research degree applications are managed by the Research Graduate School .
You should email the Research Graduate School and you will then be advised on the application process relevant to your subject area.
Once your application is received, it will be considered by the relevant research institute.
E: research@beds.ac.uk
Full-time undergraduate and postgraduate courses : apply through UCAS, following the guidance given under Applying for full-time undergraduate courses .
Part-time undergraduate and postgraduate courses : once you have chosen your part-time course, you can apply directly to the University of Bedfordshire via our online admissions portal, accessed from the course page on our website.
Continuing professional development for registered healthcare practitioners : apply for degree- and Master’s-level top-up studies or a range of short courses through our NHS Business Unit at nhs-business-unit@beds.ac.uk or via the switchboard on (0)1234 400 400.
“I was motivated to apply by a friend who had completed the course and was doing really well.
I’m able to manage doing a part-time degree alongside working and family, and still have my weekends.” Jean Douglas, Applied Education Studies BA (Hons)
If you have any queries or just want someone to talk to, contact the Admissions team online or via phone on 01582 743500
University of Bedfordshire UCAS codes When applying for a University of Bedfordshire course through UCAS, you need the following Bedfordshire information: Our UCAS institution code name: BED Our UCAS institution code: B22 The Learning Provider Registration Number: 8229 The TOEFL institution code number: 0500 Our UCAS campus codes: D Luton campus H Bedford campus X Aylesbury campus UCAS campus codes for partner and associate colleges: B09 Barnfield College B23 Bedford College Group A55 Buckinghamshire College Group C27 Central Bedfordshire College
When applying for a University of Bedfordshire course through UCAS, you need the following Bedfordshire information:
Our UCAS institution code name: BED Our UCAS institution code: B22 The Learning Provider Registration Number: 8229 The TOEFL institution code number: 0500
Our UCAS campus codes:
D Luton campus H Bedford campus X Aylesbury campus
UCAS campus codes for partner and associate colleges:
B09 Barnfield College B23 Bedford College Group A55 Buckinghamshire College Group C27 Central Bedfordshire College

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy/accounting:
Our Accounting, Finance and Economics courses have an international focus and offer opportunities to gain relevant work experience.
Work in our state-of-the-art facilities, including the Financial Trading Room which simulates a real trading environment to get you
        ready for your professional career once you graduate.
Benefit from ACCA course accreditation with maximum exemption from exams to 
        support your career development and future earnings.
Work in our state-of-the-art facilities, including the Financial Trading Room which simulates a real trading environment to get you
          ready for your professional career once you graduate.
Benefit from ACCA course accreditation with maximum exemption from exams to 
          support your career development and future earnings.
Apply Now
Why study in the Bedfordshire Business School?
We are proud of our state-of-the-art learning facilities including a business analytics suite; Harvard Business Publishing providing access to advanced business and aviation simulations; and a trading room with live ‘stock market’ data.
We use a range of immersive simulation software to aid your learning including Sage, Eikon and the econometrics software STATA.
Our courses are designed to provide authentic assessment opportunities, focused on real-world problems and issues.
Working with the University’s Research and Innovation Service (RIS), you can get involved in solving real-life problems for businesses through our business development packages.
For 2025 entry, we are offering a number of generous scholarships to help you achieve the career of your dreams.
Our Excellence Scholarships are worth £2,500 per year of study over three years when you score a defined number of UCAS tariff points from specified qualifications.
If you don’t qualify for an Excellence Scholarship but have 120 UCAS tariff points, you have enough points for our High Achievement Scholarship offering £500 per year of study.
In addition, we offer other scholarships, bursaries and financial support packages you may be eligible for.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy/art:
Gain hands-on experience of industry-standard technologies and software with our practice-based teaching and learning.
Working on live projects provides you with the experience of working in industry.
Our excellent links with industry bring you regular guest speakers as well as opportunities to enhance your employability with work placements.
You also have the chance to exhibit your work at our Art and Design degree show.
Why study in the School of Arts and Creative Industries?
In the 'computer games and animation' subject field, our courses rank in the UK top 20 for teaching; learning opportunities; assessment and feedback; and student voice (NSS, 2024).
Our teaching team are experienced professionals who use their industry links to offer students live briefs and work experience as well as access to guest speakers and field trips.
Our specially equipped Art and Design building offers a spacious studio environment, replicating the commercial world.
We have the latest digital technologies including a 3D workshop; fully equipped print room; 3D-modelling and avatar software for fashion; CAD software for interior architecture and design; and a stop-motion suite for animation and graphic design.
At the University of Bedfordshire, the Art and Design courses take creativity to the next level with WOW Wednesdays.
This unique feature brings industry leaders, practicing artists, and designers directly into your learning environment.
You'll gain real-world insights and invaluable knowledge straight from professionals shaping the future of art and design.
With hands-on guidance and live demonstrations, you'll build the skills and network needed to thrive in today's creative industries.
WOW Wednesdays aren’t just classes – they’re immersive experiences designed to inspire and propel your career forward.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy/business:
Work in our fantastic facilities including, to get you work-ready, business pods which mimic a modern office environment.
Prepare for your career through our professional placements, live projects and networking opportunities with guest speakers.
Work on real projects for real businesses as part of our practice weeks, and learn the essential, sought-after skills needed to succeed in industry.
Reasons to study in the Bedfordshire Business School Over 95% of our full-time UK business and management graduates are in employment or further study, 15 months after graduating (HESA Graduate Outcomes for 2020/21, pub 2023).
We are proud of our state-of-the-art learning facilities including a business analytics suite; Harvard Business Publishing providing access to advanced business simulations; and a trading room with live ‘stock market’ data.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy/computing:
Our practice-led courses and Luton-based campus mean our students learn relevant skills and take on work-based projects in close collaboration with local and national organisations and companies.
Many of our computing and AI courses are accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS) so students qualify for chartered IT professional status when they graduate.
With teaching led by world-class research and driven by business projects, you’ll have exceptional career prospects when you leave us.
Reasons to study in the School of Computer Science and Technology Our computer games and animation courses rank in the UK top 20 in their subject field for teaching and learning opportunities (NSS, 2024).
Our software engineering course ranks in the UK top 20 in its subject field for learning opportunities (NSS, 2024).
83% of our full-time UK computing and engineering graduates are in highly skilled employment or graduate further study, 15 months after graduating (HESA Graduate Outcomes for 2020/21, pub 2023).
Our computing and AI courses are accredited to the British Computer Society (BCS) so you qualify for chartered IT professional status once you graduate.
Our Cybersecurity courses include a Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) programme that prepares you for industry examinations to gain networking certification.
Specialist facilities include a CCNA Academy computer networking suite; games, animation and graphics studios; forensics and IT security laboratory, all with industry-standard equipment and technology.
At the University of Bedfordshire’s School of Computer Science and Technology, we equip you to produce industry-standard, innovative work, as you can see in our Computer Animation Student Showreel here.
We want to ensure your future success so our academic teams keep at the leading edge of their fields through accredited continuous professional development, live industry projects, real-world research and consultancy.
Their research expertise feeds directly back into their teaching, creating a vibrant, supportive learning environment and practice-based training.
Join a School where your creativity and skills thrive, with top-tier guidance and career prospects!

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy/education:
Engage with prospective employers through placements across our 500 partnership schools as well as in children’s centres, nurseries, youth clubs and other relevant organisations.
Our Education and teacher training courses have an excellent reputation, with academic roots in teaching education that date back to 1882.
Prepare for your professional career with courses that respond to the changing national priorities and issues in education and teaching.
Why study in the School of Education and Teacher Education?
We are a Department for Education accredited provider of Initial Teacher Training.
80% of time on our Primary and Secondary PGCE courses is spent in placement schools.
Our Early Childhood Education course offers a DfE-recognised Graduate Practitioner qualification alongside the degree.
Our work-based Education degrees enable teaching assistants and support staff working in education to progress their careers while continuing to work.
Over 95% of our full-time UK graduates in education and teaching are in employment and/or further study, 15 months after graduating (HESA Graduate Outcomes for 2020/21, pub 2023).

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy/engineering:
Studying engineering or construction at Bedfordshire, you benefit from expert teaching underpinned by technological innovation, sound engineering practice and, most importantly, real-world application.
Many of our courses are accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) or the Chartered Association of Building Engineers (CABE).
Why study in the School of Computer Science and Technology?
100% of our full-time UK graduates in engineering are in employment and/or further study, 15 months after graduating (HESA Graduate Outcomes for 2020/21, pub 2023).
You benefit from our dedicated engineering environments, equipment and technology in our £40m STEM building.
Our courses look to the future with use of artificial intelligence, simulation software and a range of robotics equipment.
Our academics are involved in real-world research, leading the way in areas such as enhanced robot technology; nano-robotics in cancer cell exploration; food waste reduction; carbon emission reduction; and a range of digital health initiatives.
Our Mechanical Engineering course has been designed to meet the requirements of the Institution of Mechanical Engineering (IMechE).
Our Mechanical Engineering course ranks in the UK top 5 in its subject field for learning opportunities; organisation and management of studies; and student voice (NSS, 2024).
At Bedfordshire's School of Computer Science and Technology, we offer cutting-edge, hands-on learning experiences that truly set you apart.
For example, our automotive students gain real-world expertise from Rex Keen, our automotive specialist, who has an impressive career in professional motorsport as a race engineer and technical director.
From working on real engines to building and testing cars in an industry-standard wind tunnel, our facilities equip you for success.
You also have the chance to join Formula Student, where you can apply your skills in a competitive, professional setting.
Prepare for an exciting future in automotive technology with the tools and experience to excel!

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy/english:
We are an established centre of high-quality teaching and research, with a strong record for student satisfaction and a focus on developing your employability.
We have strong links with professional bodies, providing opportunities for you to build your network and gain placements.
Our Centre for Research in Language Learning and Assessment (CRELLA) is internationally recognised as a leading centre for research (REF 2021).
Why study English in the School of Education?
Benefit from being taught by research-active academics who are experts in their field, many of whom have published widely in their respective areas The academic team teaching our TESOL course hold TEFLQ status.
Our English courses tied 1 st in the UK in their subject field for ‘continuation’ (students continuing their course after the first year), an indicator of student satisfaction (CUG, 2025).
Our BA (Hons) English gives you the opportunity to gain TEFLi status, helping you start a career in language schools in the UK and worldwide.
Working in partnership with local councils, schools and colleges, our BA (Hons) English with TESOL student teachers support refugees, asylum seekers and parents/guardians with free English classes.
Access to the Hockliffe Collection of 18 th - and 19 th -century children’s books as well as our Cinderella archive of books, scripts, designs, theatrical memorabilia and ephemera relating to the Cinderella story.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy/law:
Gaining practical experience is key when thinking of life beyond university.
Here at Bedfordshire we offer ample opportunities to put your new found skills to the test.
Our Law students are able to work in our Law Moot Court, and also within our Law Clinic, alongside academics, qualified lawyers and local advisors, on live cases to enhance your experience of legal practice.
You can also gain an additional National Association of Licensed Paralegals (NALP) qualification on top of your Law degree.
Reasons to study in the Bedfordshire Business School In the Complete University Guide 2025, our law courses tied 9 th in the UK in their subject field for student satisfaction.
They rank in the UK top 10 in their subject field for learning opportunities (NSS, 2024).
96% of our law students were satisfied with how well their course developed knowledge and skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
Over 90% of our full-time UK law graduates are in employment or further study, 15 months after graduating (Source: HESA Graduate Outcomes for 2020/21, pub 2023).
Take up the opportunity of six months’ qualifying work experience at local law firms as well as at Luton County Court and the Crown Prosecution Service.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy/life:
With courses accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) and the Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences (CSFS), we smooth your path to a career in your chosen professional field once you graduate.
We educate tomorrow's scientists and engineers while actively engaging in real-world research that keeps you at the leading edge in your learning.
You work in our modern, purpose-built laboratories, using specialised, industry-standard equipment for high-end pharma/biotech experiences.
Why study in the School of Life Sciences?
Our biological sciences courses tied 4 th in the UK in their subject field for graduate prospects - on track (CUG, 2025).
Over 90% of our biomedical sciences students were satisfied with the learning opportunities their course offered, including how well it developed knowledge and skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
Our forensic sciences courses rank 1 st in their subject field for teaching; learning opportunities; and the organisation and management of their studies (NSS, 2024).
Our Pharmacology and Health Science course is aligned to the areas of need identified by the British Pharmacological Society, giving you an up-to-the-minute edge when you graduate.
We work with leading employers including Glaxo Smith Kline, Medicines & Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, Nelson’s Natural Healthcare and Cellmark Forensics to make sure our forward-thinking courses are aligned to both the needs of industry and society.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy/marketing:
Our Marketing, Tourism and Aviation courses provide a stimulating learning environment combined with practice to give you the skills you need to succeed in industry.
Students secure placements in a range of high-profile companies, including the Hilton London and TUI Travel PLC, to name but a few.
Work in our fantastic facilities such as the business pods; take part in field trips and live projects for real business clients; and benefit from our professional course accreditations including CIM and IDM.
Reasons to study in the Bedfordshire Business School Our tourism, transport and travel courses tied 7 th in the UK in their subject field for graduate prospects - on track (CUG, 2025).
We use immersive simulation software to aid your learning including airline-management software Simulate, Semrush for digital marketing and the OPERA hospitality-management program.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy/media:
Develop skills within media, film and television in a vibrant and supportive environment.
On any day, you might be making, performing or producing new work under the guidance of visiting directors; creating live and recorded performances, documentaries, feature films and TV shows in our professionally equipped theatres and TV studio; or gathering up equipment for an outside broadcast from a match-side press box.
You learn your craft from an experienced team of industry professionals and can put your skills into practice with real-life broadcasting on our own stations, BedsTV and Radio LaB.
In the 'cinematics' subject field, our film and TV production courses rank 2nd in the UK for learning opportunities, including teaching skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
Our high-spec facilities and equipment include HD multi-camera television studios; industry-standard radio facilities; broadcast TV studio; Mac-equipped newsroom; 3D green-screen room; digital video-editing suites; and Adobe Creative Cloud software.
Taught by an experienced team of industry professionals who use their industry links to bring the creative industries to you via guest speakers, media masterclasses and field trips.
Our graduates have gone on to work for the BBC and ITV as well as on top TV shows, films and stage productions.
University of Bedfordshire TV and Film Production alumnus Tom Wall recently returned to inspire aspiring producers and directors, sharing his journey from working at the BBC to now producing shows for Netflix.
With industry expertise and global reach, our graduates shape the creative world – just like Tom.
Your future in production starts here.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy/nursing:
Spread across our campuses in Luton, Bedford and Aylesbury, our healthcare courses are developed in collaboration with local healthcare providers and health authorities, to ensure the learning you receive meets the benchmark set for care providers.
You spend 50% of your time in practice, and our strong links with healthcare providers mean you can secure a local placement in Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, Hertfordshire, Milton Keynes, Oxfordshire or East London.
We also have on-campus simulation centres to further enhance your clinical skills.
All our Nursing and Midwifery courses lead to professional registration and are approved in partnership with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
Our Operating Department Practice and Paramedic Science courses are approved in collaboration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Why study in the School of Nursing and Health Education?
100% of our full-time UK health graduates are in highly skilled employment or graduate further study, 15 months after graduating (HESA Graduate Outcomes for 2020/21, pub 2023).
Our Paramedic Science course tied 1 st in the UK in its subject field for graduate prospects - outcomes (CUG, 2025).
Our Adult Nursing courses rank in the UK top 15 in their subject field for learning opportunities; academic support; and assessment and feedback (NSS, 2024).
Our Mental Health Nursing courses rank in the UK top 10 in its subject field for learning opportunities (NSS, 2024).
Our simulation facilities take you from mock home to hospital, with ‘wards’ offering medical-grade mannequins so you can tackle real-life scenarios in a safe and supported environment.
Nursing, midwifery and allied healthcare students are eligible for additional funding support of at least £5,000 from the NHS.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy/psychology:
Our science-focused psychology courses are accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) and completing your course with a 2nd-class Honours degree or above confers eligibility for Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership, giving you a qualification that employers understand and value.
We help you apply theory to real-life situations, ensuring that you receive an ideal balance of theory and practice.
Our specialist facilities include first-class labs and computing environments, and you’ll be encouraged to work with staff on research projects, as well as conducting your own supervised research with the opportunity to present to your peers and psychology professionals at our annual Student Research Conference.
Reasons to study in the School of Psychology 91% of our applied psychology students were satisfied with the academic support they received as well as how well the course developed knowledge and skills for the future (NSS, 2024).
Our BSc and MSc courses are accredited by the British Psychological Society.
Our courses are reviewed and developed in conjunction with a panel of industry professionals from the NHS, mental health support and commercial organisations to ensure they align with employers' needs.
Our up-to-the minute technology includes a driving simulator to test hazard perception; eye-tracking software; a physiological data-acquisition system; EEG recording equipment; and KAT Walk omnidirectional VR slide mills.
Our links with organisations across a range of sectors ensure you have the opportunity to take up a placement where you can apply your knowledge and skills while gaining valuable workplace experience.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy/social:
Our courses in social sciences give you the knowledge and skills needed for a career in areas such as police, probation, youth and community services, health and social care, health promotion, social policy and – for those studying social work – qualified social work status.
Teaching and research combine to create a rich, supportive learning environment where you develop the skills to work successfully and contribute positively in global and diverse settings.
We offer practice-led courses, ensuring you can apply your degree in your chosen career upon graduation.
Our #SASS Changemaker programme is designed so that you see yourself as something other than a student working towards a degree.
We ask you to take an active role in bringing about change and working towards social justice.
Why study in the Schools of Applied Social Sciences and Society, Community and Health?
Our social sciences courses rank in the UK top 5 in their subject field for teaching; learning opportunities including developing skills for the future; assessment and feedback; and academic support (NSS, 2024).
Our Social Work courses rank 10 th overall in their UK subject field, tying 1 st for student satisfaction (CUG, 2025).
Over 95% of our Childhood and Youth Studies students were satisfied with their teaching and learning opportunities, putting it in the UK top 10 in its subject field in these areas (NSS, 2024).
Childhood and youth studies tied 6 th in its UK subject field for graduate prospects - outcomes (CUG, 2025).
Our sociology courses rank in the UK top 10 in their subject field for student satisfaction (CUG, 2025).
You are taught by an industry-experienced academic team, many of whom maintain relevant registrations via practice or CPD, or are research active across multiple areas.
As part of the #SASS Changemaker initiative, you engage with local community groups, policy makers, researchers and experts in areas including criminology; youth justice; and women's health.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduatestudy/sport:
Access state-of-the-art facilities, such as the human performance laboratory and sport and science labs, for an engaging hands-on learning experience.
Enhance your employability through research projects, additional sporting qualifications, and industry-related work experience opportunities with local and national organisations.
Reasons to study in the School of Sport Science and Physical Activity Our Sports Science courses rank 8th in the UK in their subject field for graduate/career prospects ( The Times Good University Guide, 2024).
Over 95% of our full-time UK graduates in sport and exercise sciences are in employment and/or further study, 15 months after graduating (Source: HESA Graduate Outcomes for 2020/21, pub 2023).
Our courses are accredited or endorsed by the British Association of Sport Rehabilitators and Trainers (BASRaT); the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (BASES); and the UK Strength and Conditioning Association (UKSCA).
We have five possible sport scholarships on offer for you to apply for.
They are designed to support and develop you in your chosen sports.
For 2025 entry, we are also offering a number of generous scholarships to help you achieve the career of your dreams.
In addition, there are other scholarships, bursaries and financial support packages you may be eligible for.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/morethanadegree:
More than a degree
Going to university isn’t just about gaining a great degree; it’s also about helping you develop skills to improve your employability and give you every opportunity to practise them, preparing you for your future career.
Equally important is having fun, broadening your horizons and making lasting friendships.
For all these reasons, we offer a range of initiatives, responsibility roles, events, clubs and activities to help you get the most from your student experience and graduate with far more than a degree.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/guide-to-applying-to-uob/applying-as-a-mature-student:
Mature students commonly achieve outstanding success at university because they are passionate about what they want to achieve; demonstrate invaluable enthusiasm and eagerness to learn; and bring a wealth of skills and experience from their work or personal life.
"Coming back to education as a mature student was daunting but within a couple of weeks, with the lecturers' help, it was easy to see I'd fit in." Blair, BSc (Hons) Business Studies
If you are returning to learning (rather than progressing straight from school or college, or moving from an undergraduate course to a postgraduate course), universities understand it may call for some adjustments to what they offer so that you can combine studying with your family and work commitments.
For example, at Bedfordshire, we offer flexibility through:
Mature students have the same rights and benefits as students joining straight from school or college, and the application journey is the same, whether you are undergraduate or postgraduate.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/guide-to-applying-to-uob/before-you-apply:
You’ve found the course at Bedfordshire that you’d like to study.
Now you want to find out as much as you can about that course, the School and Faculty it’s part of, the University and its location.
Make good use of our website as it has the most up-to-date information on all aspects of applying to Bedfordshire, from our range of courses and qualifications, through entry requirements and application routes, to accommodation and bursaries.
Remember, too, that you can contact the Admissions team directly on 01582 743500 or at admission@beds.ac.uk if you have any unanswered questions after doing your research.
"My undergraduate degree was in general science and I realised then that I really like the biology side.
My Master’s course incorporates both public health and microbiology so I get two-for-one study." Kashifa Sarumi, MSc Microbiology in Public Health
Read again the course information on the individual course pages and check you meet the entry requirements as well as any additional selection criteria for the course you wish to apply for.
Look at the range of different qualifications we offer – a standard three-year Honours degree isn’t the only option.
For example, if you are a mature student, you get more flexibility with part-time , block delivery or online distance-learning courses
If you have completed previous study that has provided you with relevant credits , you may qualify for advanced entry
Over the past few years, we have invested heavily in our facilities, equipment and technology.
Our buildings include a dedicated STEM building, a range of simulated environments for health and social care; new business analytics suite; and a seven-storey library at our Luton campus; a bespoke teacher-training centre, Forest School and healthcare simulation unit at our Bedford Campus; and a three-storey specialist nursing teaching centre at our Aylesbury campus, which is situated on the same site as Stoke Mandeville Hospital.
Find out more about our industry-inspired facilities
Your time at Bedfordshire is about more than getting a degree – there's lots of other aspects of University life that go into your higher education experience, building your confidence, adding to your skills and widening your horizons.
The University has inspiring credentials to its name, too – not something they publish in the league tables.
Did you know we are one of the top three universities in the UK for 'green' thinking and initiatives?
Or that we are a leading institution when it comes to ‘widening participation’, opening up higher education to students who wouldn’t previously have considered it?
If you're worried about cost of living, Bedfordshire offers great value for money, close to London.
In a recent survey of 133 UK universities, we rank in the top 20 for affordability (Solar Tuition, 2025).
Our student accommodation has been voted most cost effective in our region three years running (Student Crowd, 2024).
You should also check out our generous scholarships and bursaries !
Before making your application to the University, it's a good idea to visit us and see the campus and facilities for yourself.
Attending an open day will give you a realistic picture of student life and help you make the best choice.
Come along with friends or family to meet our staff, discuss your course options with academics, and talk to current students already enjoying life at Bedfordshire.
We offer a number of open days throughout the year.
The day usually includes the following activities:
If you are a student with a disability, the open day is an opportunity to see for yourself how the course and facilities will suit you, and talk to academics and our support services team about any specific accessibility needs you have.
Find out more about applying as a student with disabilities
Find our next open day
If you are unable to attend an open day, you might want to book a campus tour instead.
Campus tours are led by our student ambassadors who walk you through all the facilities and tell you what life is like studying at the University of Bedfordshire.
The tours also include a visit from the accommodation team, who will show you around our student accommodation, and a trip to Admissions, who will be on hand to answer any queries you have about applying to Bedfordshire.
Campus tours usually take place on Wednesday and start promptly at 2pm or 3pm, typically lasting about 30-45 minutes.
Occasionally, due to mid-week teaching commitments, some areas of the University will be unavailable for viewing.
Where possible, we will inform you of this before the day of your tour.
If you can’t take an actual tour, check out our 360° VR tours of our Bedford or Luton campuses.
Book a tour
Explore the county of Bedfordshire before you arrive.
You really get the best of all worlds with our campus locations in Luton, Bedford and Aylesbury.
If there’s one thing that concerns most students, it’s paying for a university education, particularly with the rise in cost of living.
Here at the University of Bedfordshire, we offer a wide range of scholarships, bursaries and other funding to support your studies - and that’s cash you don’t need to pay back.
For example, for entry 2025, we are offering our Excellence Scholarships, worth £2,500 per year of study over three years when you score a defined number of UCAS tariff points from specified qualifications.
We also have sport scholarships and bursaries aimed at helping care-experienced students and those living independent from family to benefit from higher education without worrying about funding.
Find out more about our scholarships and bursaries
The Admissions team is available to talk to applicants on weekdays from 9am–5pm, Monday to Thursday, and 9am-4.30pm on Friday.
We can be found on Level One of the Luton Campus Centre, next to the Student Information Desk (SiD).
You can also contact us online
We can help you with any queries you have about the application process, qualifications, entry requirements and fees.
Occasionally, due to team training and meetings, a member of the team may not be available so, before you come and see us, it’s best to call on 01582 743500 or email admission@beds.ac.uk to check.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/guide-to-applying-to-uob/after-you-have-applied:
Waiting to find out if you have a place at your chosen University is always a nail-biting time, which is why we work hard to get our decision out to you as quickly as possible.
Here, we go through the process step by step so you know what’s going on behind the scenes and are ready to take action as soon as your offer letter arrives.
Why do our current students recommend the University of Bedfordshire?
If you applied through UCAS, you will also get their welcome email allowing you to sign into your UCAS Hub and follow your application’s progress.
Watch out that our emails don't go into your junk mail; add us to your safe list so you always receive our updates.
We consider your application in full including your qualifications, personal statement, references and even the effort you’ve put into completing it.
So it’s important that the information you supply is accurate and written with care.
We are usually able to make a decision using the information you have given.
However, we may have to contact you to request supporting information to help us make a decision.
Reasons to contact you include:
Our preferred method of communication is email so please check your email account regularly (including your junk mail folder) to make sure you are not missing any important messages from us.
If we ask you for further information, please provide it within the deadline given in our email so we can keep moving on your application – no-one wants there to be a delay.
For some of our courses, an interview is part of the application process.
In other cases, we may need to interview all course applicants before confirming our decisions – for instance, if there is only a limited number of places on a popular course.
If this is the case, it will be mentioned in your interview invitation.
Interview invitations are sent via email from Admissions but – if you applied through UCAS - you will be able to see if you have been shortlisted to interview on your UCAS Hub; you can also respond to your interview invitation via UCAS.
Your interview invitation will let you know what to bring with you and advise if you need to do anything to prepare.
Make sure you check the date, location and address of your interview carefully.
We have several campuses so don’t go to the wrong one!
It has happened…
Please email admission@beds.ac.uk if you have special support needs, requests for your interview or queries.
Check out our tips to get you ready for your interview
Our Admissions team aim to make decisions as soon as possible and work within the deadline set by UCAS.
If you’ve been successful , Admissions will send you a letter via post to confirm that an offer has been made, outlining the offer details.
If you attended an interview, we aim to confirm its outcome as soon as possible after the selection event has taken place.
If you applied via UCAS, you can also check your UCAS Hub for the offer details.
For those who attended an interview, we will notify UCAS of the decision in the first instance so check your UCAS Hub
Your offer letter will also ask you to read and agree to our terms and conditions of admittance .
Please familiarise yourself with these before accepting our offer.
There are two types of offer:
Conditional , which means you still have conditions to meet to have your place with us confirmed – most usually, getting the tariff points you need on A-level results' day.
For those who applied through UCAS, UCAS will send the results to us; those who applied direct to the University for part-time undergraduate courses, you should send us your results promptly via email, with copies following in the post.
If you have a conditional offer, you need to meet the conditions of your offer by 31 August.
Unconditional - the place is yours to accept as you have met all the entry criteria.
If we are not able to offer you a place on this course, we may have a similar course that would suit you.
Check out our courses and, if you are postgraduate or applying for a part-time course, get in touch with admission@beds.ac.uk to talk through your options.
If you applied through UCAS and have not received any offers (or any offers you wish to accept), you can add another (sixth) choice through UCAS Extra .
Simply find a Bedfordshire course you are interested in, contact us to find out if we have vacancies then add it as your ‘Extra’ choice.
If you applied through UCAS and want to accept your offer of a place at Bedfordshire, you must do it via UCAS.
You can make the following replies to the offer/s you’ve received:
Firm acceptance This makes Bedfordshire your first choice.
Depending on the conditions in your offer, it may be an unconditional firm (which means the place is yours) or a conditional firm (which means you have conditions to meet before the place is yours).
Insurance acceptance This makes Bedfordshire your back-up place if you don’t go on to meet the conditions for your firm acceptance.
Your insurance choice can be conditional or unconditional; if it is an unconditional insurance choice, you have an assured place if you fail to qualify for your conditional firm choice.
Decline If you have more than two offers, you need to decline those you don’t choose.
After you have accepted an offer – particularly an unconditional offer - at the University of Bedfordshire, you should:
In most cases, for undergraduates, this will happen in mid-August, when A-level results come out.
If you applied through UCAS, they will send your results to us; if you applied directly, you need to send them to us.
Once the Admissions team has received your results, we should be able to make a final decision on your application.
If you have met or exceeded the conditions of your offer , we will be able to accept you onto your course.
If you have just missed the conditions of your offer , we may still be able to confirm your place but there may be a delay.
If you have not achieved at least two A-level passes (or equivalent) , we will not be able to offer you a place.
In this case, you have the option to try and find another place through Clearing : your first step should be to check your status on UCAS Hub
You must meet all the conditions of your offer by 31 August of your year of entry.
Once you have had your place on your course confirmed, you will receive details from the University regarding registering for your course, usually a few weeks before the course is due to start.
You complete part of your registration online and also have access to your induction timetable via the University of Bedfordshire website.
Confirm your booking or apply for accommodation if you haven’t already done so.
Once you have accepted an offer, you can then fully complete an application for undergraduate student finance or a postgraduate loan .
Try to update your details as early as you can to ensure your money is in the bank for the start of your course.
If you have any special needs, physical disabilities, learning or mental health issues, contact our Support Services team in advance of starting your course so they can start to put in place measures to ensure your first weeks go smoothly.
If you think you may have cashflow issues in the early days or weeks, talk to our Student Money Advice team.
We don’t want money worries to stop you enjoying your time at the University of Bedfordshire so we offer a wide range of scholarships and bursaries
Once you've ticked all the above boxes, it's time to relax and get ready for your big Welcome Week with lots of Freshers’ activities, welcome events and settling-in support.
We can’t wait to meet you!
Take a closer look at our accommodation at Luton
If, at any time during the application process, you need to contact us, our friendly and expert Admissions teams are available to answer your queries and offer support .
As a first step, go to Contact us to find the best admissions expert to respond to your query; if you’re not sure, fill out a contact form and we will get back to you.
You can also visit us in person at the Luton or Bedford campus.
Contact us before visiting so we can ensure there is someone available to show you around and answer your questions.
T: 01582 743500 E: admission@beds.ac.uk
If you are invited to an interview but cannot make the date, please contact us to request an alternative at admission@beds.ac.uk .
We will do our best to accommodate your request but this cannot always be guaranteed.
If you have applied through UCAS and are not confirmed at your firm or insurance institutions, you go into Clearing , with a change to your status on UCAS Hub
Find out more about applying through Clearing
In some cases, we make the decision not to offer a place to an applicant.
We will explain in our correspondence the reason/s for an unsuccessful decision and, if you would like further feedback, you are welcome to contact Admissions at admission@beds.ac.uk .
We will respond to your request in writing within 15 working days.
It is sometimes possible to reconsider an application but this is not guaranteed and may not change our original decision.
If you are unsuccessful at interview, we can provide you with feedback on your performance and the reasons for our decision.
We may also be able to offer you a place on a different course in a related subject area; we will give you details of any alternative course availability when we let you know the decision.
If you would like feedback or wish to appeal against the offer decision, please read our Feedback procedure and appeals process
It may mean, though, that for professional courses such as Nursing, Midwifery, Social Work and Teaching, you may be asked to attend a safeguarding panel to discuss the conviction.
This will enable us to assess your fitness to practice or to go out on placement.
If you want to defer your place for a year (often called a gap year) or change your course, please email our Admissions team directly at admission@beds.ac.uk .
Remember to include your full name and UCAS personal ID number or student reference number in your email.
We cannot guarantee you will be able to change courses and, for some courses, you may be asked to attend an interview.
Applicants who apply for deferred entry still need to meet the conditions of their offer in the academic year they apply.
When applying for deferred entry through UCAS , you will need to change the year of entry to the following academic year.
The deadline for deferred entry UCAS applications is usually mid/late January.
If you accept a deferred place on a course, you cannot reapply through UCAS in the same academic cycle unless your original application is withdrawn.
Please note we do not accept deferred entry for the following courses: Nursing; Midwifery; Operating Department Practice; Social Work; or Teaching.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/postgraduatestudy/postgraduate-students:
“My course mostly focuses on the practical application of what we’re learning, which I really like.
The facilities are really good, we have some great computer labs and machinery that we can use.”
““I studied my undergraduate degree at the University of Bedfordshire so decided to continue my studies here.
My favourite aspect of my course has been learning how to deal with cultural differences in the business world.”
“The facilities at Alexon can’t be faulted.
I would also recommend the University because of the amazing opportunities it has to offer outside of your course such as travelling, career and job opportunities, workshops in new technologies and opportunities to experience and engage in other areas of study.”
“I choose this course because of the amount of time spent in school.
I spend one day a week in university, and four days at school where I’m able to get involved and gain hands-on experience.”
“For my Masters I used the library the most – it is open 24 hours which is really useful.
Most postgraduate students have part-time jobs which means they can use the library around their schedule.
It’s a modern, quiet space that is really colourful, it gives you the feeling that you want to study and make the best out of your degree.”
“As my course is a conversion course, the way it’s taught it so important.
All the lecturers have extremely sound knowledge on the subject matter, and teach it in a very accessible way.”
“Bedfordshire has an amazing International Research Centre, which really helps me in my subject area of children that have suffered trauma, as they have a wealth of knowledge about the area.
Plus the lecturers are always doing new research, so it’s nice to know the University is making a difference in society.”
“My course has been very interesting and has significantly developed and enhanced my subject knowledge, pedagogical knowledge and understanding of being a secondary teacher.
Throughout my experience on the PGCE secondary biology course I have been highly supported by my subject mentors, school mentors and all information that they have provided me with has guided me to becoming an effective and reflective science teacher.”
“The lecturers are fantastic, and the course content is amazing.
I studied mu undergraduate degree here too, and these four years have been the best years of my life.”
“The block delivery option on this course means you can start at a time that’s best for you.
I wasn’t ready to start until November, and they had an option for me to do that which was amazing.”

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/postgraduatestudy/choosing-your-pg-course:
Whatever your reasons for continuing your higher education journey, it’s vital to find the right fit when it comes to the course, university and research community.
Here, we fill you in on the different choices you have at postgraduate level, with guidance on why one path might suit you more than another.
What are your choices when it comes to course ‘types’?
We offer a range of Master’s courses that are ‘taught’ – that is, they are delivered by an experienced faculty team through a programme of lectures, seminars, tutorials and lab-based work (if relevant).
Read more about taught courses
A research degree – or Master's by Research - is an independent, advanced study programme, administered by our Research Graduate School (RGS) , supervised by academic staff at our 10 research institutes and lasting between one and seven years.
Read more about research degrees
You gain a Postgraduate Certificate (PgCert) once you’ve completed 60 credits of a Master’s degree whereas a Postgraduate Diploma (PgDip) is awarded after completing 120 credits.
A full Master’s requires 180 credits in total.
We offer some courses where you study up to PgDip level then have the option to ‘top up’ your credits by completing your Master’s.
This flexible pathway allows you to tailor your educational journey, advancing your qualifications at a pace that suits you.
Find out about credits
The Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) prepares graduates for a successful career in teaching with all graduates eligible for Qualified Teaching Status (QTS) on completion.
Our course combines academic study and practical teaching experience, with 80% of your time spent in placement schools.
Read more about PGCE
The University offers accredited courses for UK professionals in a range of subject areas, providing you with opportunities to undertake continuing professional development, progress your career and enhance your skills.
Our business-oriented short courses include project management and Lean Six Sigma training.
We also offer CPD for healthcare professionals who wish to develop their clinical skills in areas such as intensive and high-dependency care; mental health; neonatal care; and our 25-week non-medical prescribing
For those moving from full-time, first-degree (Honours) study directly into postgraduate study, a one-year, full-time course is more or less business as usual.
But, for those with work and childcare commitments, it’s crucial to consider ways of studying that will fit around your life – such as part-time, block delivery or blended learning.
Part-time courses typically last two to three years, with at least 20 hours a week dedicated to study.
At the University of Bedfordshire, we offer both daytime and evening courses; whichever option suits you best depends on your circumstances.
If you are in employment and your choice of Master’s is relevant to your work role, it may be worth approaching your employer about leave to attend part-time day sessions.
Block delivery gives you more flexibility in when you start your course.
At Bedfordshire, we offer six modules spread across a year to 15 months, and you can jump in at any time.
Blended learning offers a mix of online distance learning and face-to-face sessions so you undertake more guided independent study at home with less need to attend the campus.
Increasingly, hop-in hop-out modular courses – such as our Advanced Social Work Practice MA for qualified social workers – allow you to work towards a Master’s as and when you feel ready.
If you are interested in pursuing a Master’s by research, we have impressive research credentials, with the majority of our research rated ‘world leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ by the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF, 2021).
Learn more about our research
Over the past few years, we have also invested heavily in our facilities, equipment and technology.
Our buildings include a dedicated Postgraduate and CPD centre, STEM building and a seven-storey library at our Luton campus; a bespoke teacher-training centre, Forest School and healthcare simulation unit at our Bedford Campus; and a three-storey specialist nursing teaching centre at our Aylesbury campus, which is situated on the same site as Stoke Mandeville Hospital.
Your time at Bedfordshire is about more than getting a degree – there's lots of other aspects of University life that go into your higher education experience, all building your confidence, adding to your skills and widening your horizons.
Learn more about its ethos, courses, facilities, academics, research specialisms and more.
University of Bedfordshire Business School – for business and law
School of Applied Social Sciences – for childhood, youth and family studies; healthcare practice; and internal social welfare and development
School of Arts and Creative Industries – for art, design, communication, media, film and television
School of Computer Science and Technology – for computer science, IT, cybersecurity and engineering
School of Education – for specialist education and PGCE as well as linguistics with TESOL
School of Life Sciences – for bio-sciences, food and nutrition, pharmacology and environmental management
School of Nursing, Midwifery and Health Education – for adult and mental health nursing, midwifery and dental/medical upskilling for professionals
School of Psychology – for forensic, health and a applied psychology conversion course
School of Society, Community and Health – for social work and public health
School of Sport Science and Physical Activity – for sport leadership and management, health/mental wellbeing and physical activity, rehabilitation therapy, and strength and conditioning
If you are a student with a disability, the open day is an opportunity to see for yourself how the course and facilities will suit you, and to talk to academics and our support services team about any specific accessibility needs you have.
If there’s one thing that concerns most postgraduate students, it’s paying for their Master’s, particularly with the rise in cost of living.
So it’s good planning to start looking into funding your course at an early stage.
You may be able to apply for the government’s Master’s loan; if you are a Bedfordshire alumnus, you could be eligible for our alumni tuition-fee discount .
There is also cost-of-living support in place for those who need it.
The University of Bedfordshire offers great value for money, close to London.
Find out more about your funding options
Why our students decide to study at Bedfordshire

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/postgraduatestudy/how-to-apply-pg:
We want you to have a smooth application journey so we’ve made it as straightforward as possible, and our Admissions team ( admission@beds.ac.uk) are always on hand if you have any queries.
Unlike the process for undergraduate courses, you don’t apply through UCAS for most postgraduate courses; you apply directly to the University.
The exceptions are our PGCE courses, where you apply via the Department for Education, and Nursing and Midwifery, where you still apply via UCAS.
Where this is the case, it is flagged up in both the prospectus and website course descriptions
To use our guide, find the postgraduate pathway you have chosen and we’ll take you step by step through the application process.
You should apply directly to us via our online application portal, accessed from the relevant website course page .
Normal entry requirements for a postgraduate taught degree are at least a 2:2 Honours degree in an appropriate subject from a recognised university.
We may also consider candidates with other relevant qualifications and those with substantial, related work experience (otherwise known as recognition of prior learning).
Applicants who do not have English as a first language must demonstrate they have the correct level of English for their course: an overall IELTS score of 6.0 or more, with a score of no less than 5.5 in each of the individual IELTS tests.
For start times, see the website course page .
You can submit your application before you receive your final results.
Research degree applications are managed by our Research Graduate School
Here is a checklist of documents and information you will need to submit through the application portal so please ensure you have these ready for uploading.
Entry requirements for a Master’s by Research are generally an Honours degree of 2:2 or above; applicants for other research-degree awards should have a good Honours degree (2:1 or above), or Master’s degree or equivalent, in a relevant subject area.
But check the entry requirements on the individual course description as there may be some flexibility on this.
We may also consider candidates with other relevant qualifications and those with substantial, related work experience (known as recognition of prior learning).
There are two registration points in the course of an academic year – October and March.
All applications for a PGCE course should be made online through the Department for Education Teacher Training portal .
You can make four course choices from October, to start the following September.
It’s a good idea to apply early as places fill up quickly and you may have to meet certain conditions of offer before you can start your training; for example, you may be required to complete a subject-knowledge enhancement (SKE) course.
Your application includes a personal statement of no more than 1,000 words, and two references from people who know you well and will be able to give a detailed 500-word response.
Our Admissions team ( admission@beds.ac.uk ) will assess your application within 30 days, after which your DfE record will be updated and you will also receive an email detailing our decision.
Make sure the email address you give is one you regularly use and check as you don’t want to miss any important communications regarding your application.
If your application is successful, we will invite you for an interview.
If it is unsuccessful, we will provide you with feedback and you can apply for a different PGCE course.
Find more information at Get into Teaching
Unlike other postgraduate courses, you apply for a Master’s Nursing or Midwifery course via the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) ; you can apply for up to five courses.
Every course has its own UCAS course code, which you can find on the relevant course page ; if your chosen course doesn’t have one yet, it is likely to be because it is a new course still awaiting its code.
In these cases, please contact our Admissions team via email on admission@beds.ac.uk or phone on 01582 743500.
You also need the codes for the universities offering your five chosen courses.
The University of Bedfordshire’s UCAS codes are:
UCAS institution code name: BED UCAS institution code: B22 Learning provider registration number: 8229 TOEFL institution code number: 0500 UCAS campus codes: D Luton campus H Bedford campus X Aylesbury campus
*Deadlines change slightly every year.
Please check out the application timetable for your year of entry with UCAS
If you are a registered healthcare practitioner in nursing, midwifery and allied health professions, you can apply for one of our health professionals’ CPD courses.
Visit our Healthcare short courses page to find links to individual courses where you can find out more about the course and apply.
If you have a question about a short course, please contact our NHS Business Unit on nhs-business-unit@beds.ac.uk or via the switchboard on (0)1234 400400.
The University offers accredited courses for UK professionals, providing you with opportunities to undertake continuing professional development, progress your career and enhance your skills.
Find out more about all the short courses we run
You can also download our Developing Professionals booklet [PDF]
If you would like to apply for a course, contact cpd@beds.ac.uk or call 0800 328 5334.
For both healthcare and business short courses, if you are in employment, you may be able to apply for funding through your employer’s education or training lead.
Find out more about employer sponsorship
Hear from Keely Smith, PGCE Primary Education, on her smooth transition from Honours graduate to teacher training

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/postgraduatestudy/after-applying-pg:
Waiting to find out if you have a postgraduate place at your chosen University is always a nail-biting time, which is why we work hard to get our decision to you as quickly as possible.
Hear from Kashifa Sarumi, MSc Microbiology in Public Health, about her decision to take a combined taught Master’s
Find out more from our students about life at Bedfordshire
If you applied through UCAS (nursing students only), you will also get a welcome email from them allowing you to sign into your UCAS Hub and follow your application’s progress.
If you are applying for a research degree, we will send an email letting you know we have received your application before passing it on for consideration by the relevant research institute.
If you applied for a teacher training position via the Department for Education, our Admissions team has a maximum of 30 days to assess your application and get back to you; once we’ve made our decision, your DfE record will be updated and you will also receive an email with further details.
If we need any further information, we’ll request it via email so remember to check your emails regularly.
Watch out, too, that our emails don't go into your junk or spam folder; add us to your safe list so you always receive our updates.
Also, let us know on admission@beds.ac.uk quickly if you change either your email address or your postal address.
We consider your application in full including your qualifications, experience, references and even the effort you’ve put into completing it.
So it’s important the information you supply is accurate and written with care.
We are usually able to make a decision using the information you have given in the application form.
For some of our courses, an interview is part of the application process; for example, for teacher training, you will be invited for interview at the point of being offered a place on the course.
In other cases, we may need to interview all course applicants before confirming our decisions – for instance, if there is only a limited number of places on a popular course or research topic area.
If this is the case, we will mention it in your interview invitation.
Interview invitations are sent via email from Admissions but – if you applied through UCAS –you will be able to see if you have been shortlisted to interview on your UCAS Hub; you can also respond to your interview invitation via UCAS.
Your interview invitation will let you know what to bring with you and if you need to do anything to prepare.
Check out our tips to get yourself ready for your interview
Our Admissions team aims to make decisions as soon as possible; if you applied via UCAS, we work to the UCAS deadline; if you applied via DfE, you should get a reply within 30 days.
If you’ve been successful, Admissions will send you an offer letter by post, confirming an offer has been made and outlining the offer details.
The letter will also ask you to read and agree to our terms and conditions of admittance .
If you applied via UCAS or the Department for Education, our formal offer and any conditions will be sent to your UCAS Hub or DfE account.
If we are not able to offer you a place, we will let you know why and offer any useful additional feedback we can.
We may also be able to suggest a similar course or research topic that would suit you.
Check out our taught courses or research topics and get in touch with admission@beds.ac.uk to talk through your options.
If you applied for a nursing or midwifery course through UCAS and have not received any offers (or any offers you wish to accept), you can add another (sixth) choice through UCAS Extra .
For those applying directly to the University, you should let us know your decision yourself: follow the instructions in your offer letter which will also give you a deadline to respond to the offer; a timeframe for meeting any conditions attached to the offer; and information on any tuition-fee deposit required.
If you applied through UCAS or the DfE and want to accept your offer of a place at Bedfordshire, you must do it via your UCAS Hub or DfE account.
Any conditions of your offer have to be met by 31 August.
Once you accept your offer, whatever route you took to apply, you have 14 days to cancel your acceptance if you change your mind.
Although tuition-fee and maintenance loans aren’t available to postgraduate students, you may be eligible for the government’s Master’s loan or the University of Bedfordshire’s alumni fee discount .
Some courses also come with bursaries or other funding, and there are educational trusts and charities you can also approach.
Find out more about postgraduate fees and funding
This only applies if you had conditions to meet as outlined in your offer letter - for example, you are waiting on examination or academic award results.
If you applied through UCAS or the Department for Education, they send any out-standing results to us.
If you applied directly, you need to send your results to us; you will find information regarding this in your offer letter.
Once the Admissions team receives your results or other evidence of meeting offer conditions, we make a final decision on your application and let you know.
We understand you’re waiting on our response so we will get our decision to you as soon as possible.
If you are new to the University of Bedfordshire, book up for an open event or campus tour .
You may have already visited us but you’ll be surprised how much extra you notice now you know it’s going to be your postgraduate home from home.
Take a closer look at our accommodation
Once you've ticked all the above boxes, it's time to relax and get ready for your big Welcome Week with lots of Freshers’ activities, events and settling-in support.
Our academic welcome and induction events on campus to give you the best possible start to your postgraduate University journey and life at Bedfordshire.
Hear from Jake Scott, who undertook a PhD in environmental physiology at the University of Bedfordshire.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/postgraduatestudy/why-get-a-pg-qualification:
A higher-level qualification can make a huge difference to your opportunities, experience and earning power.
Here’s some strong reasons to take your learning further.
Many postgraduate courses allow you to develop your knowledge and skills in a way that prepares you to take on more responsibilities in your present role or gives you the expertise to apply for management and leadership roles.
At Bedfordshire, for example, our business courses – including a suite of MBAs – can build your management skills in specific employment fields such as aviation, finance, health, logistics and data analytics.
We also offer short CPD courses in leadership and management; project management; marketing; and Lean Six Sigma process- and productivity-improvement methods.
In healthcare, qualified nurses can retrain as a midwife with our MSc Midwifery or registered healthcare practitioners can take a short course in areas such as non-medical prescribing, special care of the newborn and leadership.
It may be that you want to change your career path completely and postgraduate training can support you to do this.
An example is teacher training: our PGCE initial teacher training courses allow you to move sectors to start a new rewarding career in education.
Postgraduate study – a Master’s by Research particularly - provides you with the perfect opportunity to develop expertise in your specialist field, working alongside expert academics and other researchers, in a professional environment.
You will gain high-level, up-to-the-minute knowledge as well as desirable transferable skills much sought after by prospective employers.
Many university postgraduate courses include practical industry experience and work placements, giving you the chance to make professional contacts and build your CV.
Many of our graduates find permanent jobs within their work-placement organisations.
Postgraduate courses – especially for research degrees - are usually developed and taught by leading experts from around the world.
So you benefit from their insight, knowledge and expertise while gaining the opportunity to tap into their extensive networks, helping you to graduate with a wealth of industry contacts.
Find out more about our Graduate Research School
University allows you to meet people from many different countries and backgrounds – for example, our 275 research students span the globe as do our research academics.
It is a melting pot of cultures, points of view and ideas, all of which broaden your mind, perspective and understanding.
Why choose Bedfordshire?
The advantages of studying at postgraduate level at the University of Bedfordshire have never been greater.
You may be eligible for our alumni discount , where past students of the University benefit from a 20% discount on postgraduate study with us.
This includes University of Luton and DMU graduates.
We offer first-class facilities , equipment and resources, including our libraries at all our campuses.
Once you graduate, our Careers and Employability Service actively assists in finding you employment, and continues to assist you as an alumni through our lifetime guarantee.
Our teaching is informed by research, with our research rated as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ across multiple areas by the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021.
Courses are taught by leading experts in their fields, with many lecturers presenting their work at international and national conferences.
If you are considering teacher training , we have a long, successful history of initial teacher education (ITE) going back to 1882; we are one of the largest providers of ITE in the region, able to offer placements across 500 partnership schools and associated organisations.
We have ten research institutes producing cutting-edge research that shapes policy and practice; their research helps solve global as well as local challenges.
We understand that, as a mature student, you may need study to fit around your work and family commitments.
So we structure our courses to be flexible through part-time options; multiple entry points through the year; and blended learning, with its mix of face-to-face sessions and online independent study.
We also have a range of short courses in business and healthcare offering continuing professional development to those wishing to build their knowledge and skills in order to progress in their current role.
When assessing your application, we recognise that many postgraduate students will have a vast range of expertise, skills and knowledge beyond tariff points so we take into consideration prior learning (RPCL) and/or work experience (RPEL) The University of Bedfordshire also has a lot to offer when it comes to location, green credentials and career-powered education.
Find out what we have to offer
The University of Bedfordshire also has a lot to offer when it comes to location, green credentials and career-powered education.
We don’t want anything limiting your postgraduate success so we make sure support is there should you require a helping hand.
We believe your postgraduate University experience shouldn’t only power up your prospects.
It should also supercharge your confidence in yourself and your future.
Find out more about our support

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/postgraduatestudy/industry-inspired-facilities:
We continually invest in our facilities so our students learn in a modern, vibrant environment suited to today’s real-world approach to teaching with state-of-the-art simulation suites, high-spec technology and laboratories, industry-standard equipment and sector-relevant software.
Find out more about the School of Arts and Creative Industries
Find out more about the University of Bedfordshire Business School
Find out more about our School of Computer Science and Technology
Find out more about our School of Education
We have fully immersive simulation suites at both our Luton and Bedford campuses.
These environments prepare students from all healthcare courses to respond to and manage clinical situations.
Our simulation facilities are close enough to real life to be used by local providers, including Bedfordshire NHS Hospitals Trust, for training purposes.
Nursing and midwifery
Allied health
Find out more about our School of Society, Community and Health and School of Nursing, Midwifery and Health Education
Find out more about our School of Life Sciences
Hear why Megan, MA Creative Digital Film Production, was bowled over by the facilities and equipment that supported her course.
Specialist, industry-standard psychology laboratories and computing environments including:
A suite of research cubicles with specialist equipment including:
Find out more about our School of Psychology
Find out more about our School of Society, Community and Health and our School of Applied Social Sciences
Find out about our School of Sport Science and Physical Activity
Our students have outstanding multimedia study resources at their fingertips in our cutting-edge, fully equipped libraries.
To help with study needs, we offer induction loops, height-adjustable tables, flat-screen monitors, keyboards for visually impaired users, and Keyboard Pro software for developing typing skills.
Find out more about our library resources
Explore other facilities across our campuses , including our wide range of social spaces and our bespoke Postgraduate and CPD Centre at the Luton campus.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/international/fees-and-scholarships:
You can find all our Undergraduate scholarships listed below.
Our A level and IB scholarship is worth £3000 off international tuition fees for each year of study.
Our AP Merit Scholarship is worth £3000 off international tuition fees for each year of study.
Our HKDSE Merit Scholarship is worth £3000 off international tuition fees for each year of study.
Our Undergraduate EU Qualifications Scholarship is worth £4500 off international tuition fees for each year of study.
Our International Foundation Year Scholarship is worth £6000 off international tuition fees for the first year of study.
Our High Achievers Undergraduate Scholarship for Bangladesh is worth £3000 off international tuition fees for each year of study.
Our High Achievers Undergraduate Scholarship for India is worth £3000 off international tuition fees for each year of study.
Our High Achievers Undergraduate Scholarship for Nepal is worth £3000 off international tuition fees for each year of study.
Our High Achievers Undergraduate Scholarship for Pakistan is worth £3000 off international tuition fees for each year of study.
You can find all of our Postgraduate scholarships listed below.
Our Postgraduate Global Subject-specific Merit scholarships are worth up to £5000 off international tuition fees for the course.
Applicants must:
Our Postgraduate Global Merit Scholarship is worth £3000 off the total international tuition fees for the course.
On all Master’s postgraduate degree courses, including MBA, international students not receiving any of our other scholarships will receive the Vice Chancellor’s Scholarship, which is a reduction of £1,000 off their first year’s fees.
Students progressing from one of our undergraduate degrees to Master’s programmes will also be eligible for this award (see Alumni Discount below).
Chevening is the UK Government’s global scholarship programme, offering future leaders from around the world a unique opportunity to study a postgraduate qualification in the UK.
The University of Bedfordshire also work in partnership with Chevening to offer three additional awards, offering further opportunities to those student who choose the University on their application.
More information can be found on our Chevening page
This scholarship applies to full-time Master’s courses and is valid for the 2025/26 academic year.
View the Terms and Conditions
You can find all our universal (available to all) scholarships listed below.
A discount of £500 is available for prompt payment of each year’s fees in full, before or at the point of registration, for both undergraduate and taught postgraduate programmes.
Postgraduate research students who pay their full tuition fee before or at registration, will receive a £1,000 discount on that year’s fees.
The tuition fee pre-payment of 65% will be calculated on the full, published tuition fees and will not take into account any scholarships, bursaries or awards.
These will be applied to the remaining balance of your fees.
Our sports scholarships are designed to develop and support talented students at the University of Bedfordshire.
Our sport scholarships on offer provide financial and performance support services that utilise the University’s outstanding facilities.
The University of Bedfordshire has a specific fee structure for international students depending on the level of study being undertaken.
+44 (0)1582 489319 +44 (0)1582 489326 international@beds.ac.uk
International contacts
Mon-Thur: 09:00 to 16:30 (UK time) Fri: 09:00 to 16:00 (UK time)
How to apply
Your Country

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply:
We recommend that you take a look at our entry requirements and country pages before making an application.
Once you have the information you need, to make a direct application to the University, please use our online portal.
Alternatively, you can find out more about applying via an agent
If you would like to apply direct, please find the course you are interested in, go through the course options (where you are applying from, when you want to start etc.) and then click on the 'Apply now' button.
Find a course and apply You can also make an application to the University via UCAS (for Undergraduate courses only).
Our dedicated admissions teams work to ensure your application process is as smooth as possible.
The following steps outline the steps you will go through once you have chosen your course and are ready to make an application.
We look forward to receiving your application.
To give you an idea of when best to submit your application, we have listed our upcoming intakes and application deadlines.
Please read this section carefully before submitting an application
The list below constitutes the ‘essential elements’ of an application and the minimum requirements for the University of Bedfordshire to consider and process applications.
Any application which doesn’t contain documents 1 - 4 will be automatically rejected and applicants will be required to start the process again.
Supporting or additional requirements which the University of Bedfordshire will require at a later stage of the application process.
A fully completed application should consist of the following:
Applications should be made as per requirements listed on www.ucas.com including contact information, academic history, qualifications taken or currently being studied, a personal statement and usually an academic reference from a school or college teacher.
Our UCAS institution code is B22 and the institution name is BED .
Students who apply via school counsellor departments and/or educational agents-representatives should ensure their third party details are provided in the 'Correspondence address' section of the UCAS form.
The applicant name should be in the first line of the address, and the agency's name (and office if they have more than one office) in the second line.
If your third party has their own UCAS 'buzzword' we would highly recommend that you submit applications using this buzzword.
We also recommend that the third party(s) are included as the 'Nominated contact' on the UCAS form.
Please use the agency name rather than the name of the individual counsellor.
Some programmes have particular application procedures, so always check the relevant programme page first.
Course details can be found on our course pages
Research degree applications are managed by our Research Graduate School and have their own application process.
Please see our Research pages for full details.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/international/countries:
We work in partnership with our representatives across the world to help you with your application to the University of Bedfordshire.
Select your country to find out more about entry and English language requirements specific to your country, fees, scholarships, and who to contact.
We accept applications from all over the world, so please visit our generic entry pages if you cannot find your country on the list below.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/international/events:
At the University of Bedfordshire, we want you to have all the knowledge you need to make an informed decision on where you would like to study.
We can offer advise via email, however, we know that one to one conversations are usually better.
Therefore, we aim to attend as many events as possible, both in-person and online.
For more information on events, email international@beds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/languagecentre/pre-sessional:
Students who do not meet the English language entry requirements can take a pre-sessional course to develop their language skills before starting a degree.
These courses improve your English level to prepare for your undergraduate or post graduate degree.
The Pre-sessional English Course is delivered at Luton campus.
The following fees apply for Pre-sessional Courses which start on or after 1st August 2024, up until 31st July 2025.
The following fees apply for Pre-sessional Courses which start on or after 1st August 2025, up until 31st July 2026.
16 weeks
5.0 overall, 2 bands at 5.0 and 2 bands at 4.5
£6,400
12 weeks
5.0 overall, all bands at minimum 5.0
£5,000
8 weeks
5.5 overall, bands 5.0 x 2, and 5.5 x 2
£3,200
4 weeks
5.5 overall, all bands at minimum 5.5
£1,800
2 weeks
5.5 overall, bands 5.5 x3, and 1 band minimum 6.0
£900
Applicants from most countries on our Pre-sessional English courses must pay their fees in full (as well as meeting all other offer letter conditions) in order to receive a CAS.
There are however, some countries that are exempt, these are:
Students who reach the required level of English can start their degree.
Those who are not successful are offered a short programme of remedial study focussing on the skills they need to improve
Students who reach the required level of English after the remedial course can start their degree.
Those who are not successful after the remedial will be deferred to the next academic programme intake and will need to apply for a different visa.
The University offers support throughout this process.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/courses/undergraduate/next-year/bedfordshire-international-and-eu-foundation-year:
The Bedfordshire Foundation Year is designed for applicants who are applying with a qualification that is not accepted for direct entry to the UK.
It aims to help you improve your English language level and increase your subject knowledge.
The course will help you progress to over 75 bachelor’s degree programmes, via eight different pathways:
Our teaching staff has a varied and wide experience of teaching in the UK and overseas, and we understand our international students and how you feel.
We use the foundation year as a year- long induction programme, and we keep revisiting key themes during the year, for example effective use of our online learning platform, accessing the library resources, as well as developing important study skills in the UK We also understand the many differences in studying at a British Higher Education Institution, and guide you through our regulations, which may be very different to your home countries.
We only accept students studying for a qualification that is not accepted for entry at level 4 on to our International Foundation Year courses.
Students who have taken a qualification that we do accept but who have not reached the appropriate grade will not be issued an offer.
This also includes applicants who only need IFY for language purposes.
Our offering is distinctive in the level of support offered, both inside and outside the classroom.
We offer wide ranging social and sporting activities, Get Active and Student Union activities, as well as parties and sports competitions and quizzes in our department.
Being accredited by the British Council offers an assurance of quality to international students who are taking, or are planning to take, an English language course in the UK.
Inspections are conducted every 4 years, to ensure the centre is delivering quality language teaching, and is constant in performing to the standards set out by the British Council.
The British Council runs in partnership with English UK, the national association of accredited English language centres in the UK.
Classes will have no more than 25 students.
You may be required to buy a course book or e-book which costs around £25-30.
The University of Bedfordshire Libraries are excellent places for independent academic skills development.
Independent learning materials include academic skills, EFL reading books, vocabulary, grammar and pronunciation.
Your tutor will recommend relevant online resources for you to practise listening, reading, writing and speaking outside the classroom.
You can also access the dedicated Computer Lab, to improve your IT, academic and language skills.
Minimum enrolment age: The University is committed to equal opportunities in its admissions.
All applications are considered on individual academic merit, occasionally the University admits students who are under the age of 18.
In addition to the English Language elements, academic skills sessions will support and familiarise you with the conventions of studying at a British university.
For more information on the subjects and other details, see the relevant Course Information Form (CIF) by following the link of the programme you wish to study.
The Language Centre University of Bedfordshire Business School Vicarage Street University Square Luton, LU1 3JU UK
Office hours GMT
T: +44 (0)1582 489032
languagecentre@beds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/international/contact-us:
Should you have any inquiries prior to enrolling at the University, we have a variety of specialised teams ready to provide assistance.
Feel free to reach out to the teams listed below for any support you may need.
Department
Email
Phone
Once you have enrolled at the University, there is a wide range of support available to you.
Should you have any inquiries, please feel free to reach out to the following teams, as they will be more than willing to assist you.
More information
Our Support and Report service is strictly confidential and is designed for you to bring to our attention the issues below that may be concerning you directly or indirectly,
More information on our Support and Report service
Please be assured that contacting the service should not impact on your academic studies or your visa status.
All communications will be treated as confidential and the University of Bedfordshire will be with you every step of the way.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/international/international-entry-requirements:
We apply standard admissions criteria but, more than this, we are looking for students who will contribute to and benefit from a programme of study with us.
We will consider you as an individual and take into account all aspects of your application, not just your qualifications.
We are looking for both breadth and depth in your current studies as well as enthusiasm for the subject you wish to study.
This information is provided as a general guide only.
Entry requirements will vary for particular courses, and some have additional requirements - such as portfolios for art courses - so please check the specific course descriptions before applying.
You can check individual country pages to confirm that your local qualifications are suitable.
To apply for a place on an undergraduate course (BA/BSc) you need to have completed your high school education (12 years) and have a pass equivalent to two UK A level passes, and have the required English language qualification.
The normal entry requirements for postgraduate degrees (MA/MSc/MBA/LLM) are a UK Bachelor's degree with Honours (2:2 minimum), or equivalent (normally we will consider 50% or above in a Bachelor’s degree with Honours), in an appropriate subject from a recognised university or HE institution.
We also consider candidates with other relevant qualifications and individuals with appropriate work experience.
Some courses may require the submission of a portfolio.
If this is the case, it will be outlined in your offer letter.
The portfolio is your opportunity to show us your creative skills and why you would like to join our art and design department.
Carefully select and edit a small selection of work to produce an exciting, creative and representative portfolio of your work, which informs us about your skills, interest and ambitions.
It should include a statement (max 300 words) introducing the work in your portfolio.
Your statement should explain why you have chosen your discipline and where you might like to develop in your time with us.
The portfolio should contain a maximum of 15 samples of work.
This must include:
We are unable to give individual feedback on your portfolio.
The University accepts the following qualification as satisfying the English Language requirements for entry to a Bachelor or Master's degree:
Please note: some courses may require higher levels of English – the exact criteria will be specified in the course descriptions
If you do not meet our standard entry requirements for English, we offer a variety of Pre-sessional English courses , as well as an International and EU Foundation Year to help you attain stronger qualifications for entry.
Students may be exempt from the University's requirement to have a formal English language qualification if they have studied for a first degree in the English language medium in a majority English-speaking country, or they have passed one of the following:
For courses requiring IELTS 6.0 - 110 overall with no sub score less than 100 For courses requiring IELTS 6.5 - 120 overall with no sub score less than 105
These additional conditions must be met:

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/international/new-international-students:
Studying in a foreign country is as exciting as it is challenging - to help you prepare to leave for the UK and get yourself organised in the first few days here we have put together some useful information for you.
You’ll find everything you need to know and more about what happens in the first few weeks in our welcome guide!
It’s easy to get to our campus from the three major airports that serve London.
We recommend flying into Gatwick as it’s a very easy journey to both Luton and Bedford from there.
However, Stanstead and Heathrow also have good transport links.
Take a Thameslink and Great Northern train from the North Terminal.
Trains for Luton leave every 30 minutes.
Get off at Luton (not at Luton Airport Parkway).
The journey takes about 1 hour and 20 minutes and a single ticket costs up to 30 GBP (the price varies depending on what time of day you are travelling).
Take a Jetlink Coach to Luton.
A single ticket costs around 20 GBP.
For more information about travelling to and from Gatwick check Gatwick Travel information
Trains for Bedford leave every 30 minutes.
Get off at Bedford, which will be the last stop on the line.
Take a train to Tottenham Hale, London; then take the Underground to Kings Cross.
Thameslink and Great Northern trains for Luton leave from St Pancras International station every 15 - 20 minutes.
You should take a Northbound train.
Take the Flightlink Airport Service from Stansted Airport Coach Station to Luton.
The journey takes about 2 hours and a single ticket costs about 10 GBP.
Advanced reservation is strongly advised.
Also available is a Jetlink Service from Stansted Airport Coach Station via Cambridge to Luton.
The journey takes about 3 hours and a single ticket costs about 10 GBP.
The ticket can be bought at the airport or from the bus driver.
Thameslink and Great Northern trains for Bedford leave from St Pancras International station every 15 - 20 minutes.
Get off at Bedford which is the last stop on the line.
At Heathrow the London Underground train station (Piccadilly Line) is located directly under the central bus station for terminals 1, 2 and 3, and is clearly signposted from all Terminals.
Terminals 4 and 5 have their own, separate station.
Underground services run from around 05:30 to 23:30.
Take the London Underground train, Piccadilly Line, from Heathrow to London.
Change at King's Cross St Pancras station onto the Thameslink and Great Northern train to Luton.
Take the National Express public coach service direct to Luton – this coach leaves from the Central Bus Station for Terminals 1,2 and 3, and from directly outside the terminal building for Terminals 4 and 5.
You can buy a ticket (cost around 20 GBP) at the National Express ticket office in the Central Bus Station or directly from the driver.
This is a high frequency service – there is a bus to Luton every hour 7 days a week from 06:00 to 23:00.
Get a cab from the official taxi rank or book in advance Heathrow Taxis
Take the London Underground train from Heathrow into London.
Change at King's Cross St Pancras station onto the Thameslink and Great Northern train to Bedford.
The train terminates in Bedford.
Take a taxi or the regular airport bus to Luton Town Centre.
The journey takes about 10 minutes.
A taxi costs around 5 - 6 GBP.
Take the regular airport bus to Luton Airport Parkway railway station.
Then take the Thameslink and Great Northern train (northbound) to Bedford.
Your first few weeks can be a busy time.
Not only are you getting used to being in a different country, but you need to ensure that you complete all your registration and welcome tasks.
Here's a helpful list of things to do during your first weeks:
You may receive a lot of emails from us, but it is important to read them all very carefully and follow any instructions within them.
We will not contact you unnecessarily, so please treat all emails from an @beds.ac.uk email address as urgent.
Orientation is your chance to get to know the University and meet the support teams that we have.
It includes really important information on how to register, get your student ID card, how to access support and also information on how to ensure you follow all your visa conditions – do make sure you attend!
You will receive an email with details of your international orientation session about a week before your Orientation date.
Remember to also check BREO for details of your course induction!
Once you have sent evidence you have arrived in the UK, we will invite you to book an on campus Document Check.
Attendance is mandatory and if you fail to attend, you may be terminated from your course and have visa sponsorship withdrawn.
We will need to see your:
Registration is fully online.
You will receive a series of emails advising you how to go about this once you have completed your Document Check.
Look out for emails from noreply@beds.ac.uk and/or donotreply@beds.ac.uk
It is very important to open a UK bank account as soon as you arrive.
Making payments from a UK bank account is both faster and cheaper, as you will not have to wait days or weeks for the funds to arrive and you will not incur bank charges for exchanging from one currency to another.
Before you travel to the UK it is vital to ensure that you have enough money to cover living expenses and fees.
You should not expect that a part-time job will cover these costs.
You may get sick from time to time and may need to visit a Doctor.
Please do this as soon as you arrive in the UK.
Do not wait until you get sick to register with a Doctor as you may not be able to get an appointment.
Maps of our campuses are available in the 'Contact/Find us' section.
+44 (0)1582 489319 +44 (0)1582 489326
We are here to help!
If you have any questions before you register, please contact PreArrival@beds.ac.uk
You can contact one of the international teams via email any time, you can find their details on our International contacts page.
Or you can visit us at the International Office, 1 st Floor, F Block, Luton Campus Opening hours: Mon-Fri: 10:00 to 16:00 (UK time)

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/apprenticeship-enquiry:
Are you looking to hire an apprentice or upskill your existing staff?
Or, perhaps your employer has agreed to fund your training.
Whatever your requirement is we are with you every step of the way.
Please fill in your details below and a member of our team will be in touch.
Apprentice Information: Apprenticeships are jobs with training.
If you’re currently not working for a company that can fund or support your higher or degree apprenticeship and need help with your employment search, please visit our Apprentice: Application Information page for more details

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/why-beds:
Elevate your workforce with the University of Bedfordshire, your local beacon of support and excellence.
Our commitment to nurturing talent and fostering partnerships between employers and apprentices sets us apart.
At the University of Bedfordshire, we believe in more than just providing education; we believe in empowering individuals to reach their full potential.
Our apprenticeships are carefully designed to not only impart knowledge but also to cultivate essential skills that are invaluable in today's dynamic workplace.
With a strong emphasis on practical learning and real-world application, our apprenticeships go beyond the traditional classroom setting.
Through hands-on experience and industry-relevant projects, apprentices gain the skills and confidence needed to excel in their chosen field.
Our dedicated team of Apprenticeship Coordinators work closely with both employers and apprentices to ensure that learning objectives are met and progress is continually monitored.
Furthermore, our partnerships with leading employers enable us to offer apprenticeships that are tailored to meet the evolving needs of industries.
By staying abreast of industry trends and developments, we ensure that our apprenticeships remain relevant and up-to-date, equipping apprentices with the knowledge and skills needed to thrive in today's competitive job market.
At the University of Bedfordshire, we take pride in our diverse and inclusive learning environment.
We celebrate the unique talents and backgrounds of our apprentices, fostering a culture of collaboration and mutual respect.
Through networking events, workshops, and guest lectures, apprentices have the opportunity to engage with industry professionals and expand their professional networks.
Join us at the University of Bedfordshire and embark on a transformative journey towards a successful and fulfilling career.
With our unwavering commitment to excellence and innovation, we are dedicated to helping you achieve your goals and aspirations.
At the heart of our approach are dedicated Apprenticeship Coordinators who offer personalised guidance, conducting regular reviews and workplace visits.
Seamlessly bridging communication between the University, employers, and apprentices, they ensure a smooth learning journey for all.
With a Good Ofsted rating and a robust widening participation policy, our commitment to educational excellence is unwavering.
Our Apprenticeships are meticulously crafted with employer needs in mind, blending practical skills with top-tier education.
Recognising the uniqueness of each employer, our apprenticeship programs are highly adaptable.
Tailored to suit specific needs, we ensure a customised learning experience that aligns seamlessly with organisational goals.
From Project Management and Digital Marketing to Nursing, Healthcare, and Social Work, our expansive range of apprenticeships cater to diverse career paths.
Whether at our campuses in Bedford, Luton, Milton Keynes, or Aylesbury, expect unparalleled learning opportunities.
We take pride in our accolades, including recognition as one of the Top 250 Universities under 50 years old.
Additionally, our commitment to fostering entrepreneurship and sustainability shines through awards such as the Eco Campus Platinum.
Our dedication extends beyond accolades to tangible investments.
We unveiled a state-of-the-art £40m STEM building at our Luton campus, symbolising our commitment to providing cutting-edge facilities for our students.
Join forces with the University of Bedfordshire and embark on an enriching journey of transformative learning.
At our institution, we pride ourselves on fostering an environment where innovation harmoniously coexists with tradition, paving the way for unparalleled success.
Here, you'll find a vibrant community of learners and educators dedicated to pushing boundaries, challenging norms, and striving for excellence in all endeavors.
Whether you're pursuing academic studies, professional development, or personal growth, our diverse range of programs and resources are designed to empower you to reach your fullest potential.
Come, be a part of our dynamic community, where the possibilities for achievement are limitless.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/fees-and-funding:
The Apprenticeship Levy, a cornerstone of the UK government's initiatives, aims to democratise access to apprenticeship funding across all sectors and business sizes.
Businesses contribute to this levy based on their annual wage bill, facilitating an equitable distribution of resources.
It's important to note that while all employers are included in the framework, not all are mandated to contribute, ensuring flexibility in funding structures.
Understanding the landscape of apprenticeship funding is essential for unlocking growth opportunities for employers.
Levy-paying employers, whose annual wage bill exceeds £3 million, play a pivotal role in sustaining the apprenticeship ecosystem.
Mandated to contribute 0.5% of their annual payroll to the Apprenticeship Levy, these funds are collected monthly and pooled into the employer's dedicated Apprenticeship Service account.
This account acts as a reservoir for apprenticeship training investments within the organisation.
Additionally, Levy payments offer tax-deductible benefits, enhancing the financial attractiveness of participation.
However, it's imperative to manage these funds efficiently, as they come with a 24-month expiration window, after which any unspent funds revert to the government.
Recognising the diverse needs of businesses, the government permits Levy-paying organisations to transfer up to 50% of their unspent levy funds to other entities.
Termed "Levy transfer," this initiative fosters collaboration and resource-sharing across industries.
Employers can initiate transfers through their Apprenticeship Service account, tailoring support based on location, sector, job role, or qualification level.
This mechanism not only supports smaller organisations in funding apprenticeships but also fosters a culture of upskilling and collaboration across diverse sectors.
Non-Levy employers, typically Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) with an annual wage bill under £3 million, can leverage the co-investment model.
Under this scheme, the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) extends substantial funding support for apprentice training costs.
The funding percentages vary based on business size:
*The government's decision to fully fund apprenticeships in small businesses from 1st April 2024 is aimed at reducing costs for businesses and providing more opportunities for young people to begin their careers.
This initiative will cover the full cost of training for individuals up to the age of 21, thereby easing the financial burden on small businesses and encouraging them to take on apprentices.
Employers can receive £1,000 to support apprentices in the workplace if they fall into one of the following categories:
This funding aims to alleviate financial burdens associated with apprenticeships and promote inclusivity within the workforce.
Apprenticeships ensure individuals secure meaningful employment, whilst salaries vary by employer, apprentices must meet minimum wage requirements.
Existing employees generally retain their current salaries while undertaking higher or degree apprenticeships.
While Government funding typically covers most expenses, there might be incidental costs associated with specific degree apprenticeship programs.
We will provide clarity on any potential expenses before initiating any higher or degree apprenticeship programs with us.
The Digital Apprenticeship Service (DAS) is used by companies to manage their apprenticeship funds.
This online platform allows employers to access their dedicated Apprenticeship Service account, where they can allocate funds, select training providers, and monitor the progress of their apprenticeship programs.
The DAS streamlines the administration of apprenticeship funding, providing employers with greater control and visibility over their investments.
Find out more about creating your own Digital Apprenticeship Service (DAS) account
Whilst the information provided on this page is correct at the time of publication, for the most up-to-date facts and figures we recommend visiting the following websites:
GOV.UK : The official UK government website offers comprehensive information on apprenticeships, including details on funding, how to hire an apprentice, and apprenticeship standards.
National Apprenticeship Service : This website, managed by the UK government, provides guidance and support for both employers and individuals interested in apprenticeships.
This service offers guidance on how to use the Digital Apprenticeship Service (DAS), including managing funds, information about the various apprenticeship standards, finding training providers, and recruiting apprentices.
Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education : This organisation provides employers with information on apprenticeship standards, assessment plans, and the development of new apprenticeship standards.
Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) : The ESFA oversees apprenticeships and provides information on funding rules, eligibility criteria, and funding rates for employers.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/faqs:
Welcome to our FAQs page.
Here, we've compiled answers to commonly asked questions to provide both apprentices and employers with all the information they need to navigate the apprenticeship journey smoothly.
Whether you're an employer wondering about the Apprenticeship Service or an individual curious about the time commitments involved in completing an apprenticeship, we've got you covered.
Dive into the respective sections for apprentices and employers to find the answers you're looking for.
In the first instance discuss it with your line manager during your Continuing Professional Development (CPD) discussions.
If they are supportive, they can seek approval from your Department Head.
Additionally, you can reach out to the apprenticeship course coordinator, whose contact information is available on the university's website, to learn further details about the specific courses offered.
Once your employer has established a contract with the University of Bedfordshire, apprentices can proceed to apply through the Admissions process.
No, the programme is completely free to individual Apprentices.
The course is fully funded by your employer and the government, ensuring that apprentices can participate without any financial burden.
The duration of each apprenticeship programme varies.
Please consult the specific course details for accurate information.
Generally, the minimum duration of an apprenticeship is 13 months, with additional time allocated for preparation for the End Point Assessment.
However, degree apprenticeships may entail a longer taught programme lasting up to 48 months, with extra time allocated for the End Point Assessment.
The amount of time needed per week for apprenticeship study varies depending on the specific programme, Course coordinators will be able to provide precise details.
However, as per apprenticeship regulations, employers are required to allocate a minimum of 6 hours per week for apprentices to engage in study activities, separate from their regular duties.
The location of apprenticeship training is determined through agreement between the training provider and the employer.
In most instances, training occurs both at the university campus and online.
Upon acceptance into an Apprenticeship programme, a Training Plan is established and signed by the training provider, the apprentice, and the employer.
This plan outlines that the apprentice will be released for a minimum of 6 hours per week throughout the programme's duration to dedicate to study.
Typically, this allocated study time often takes the form of day release.
For further details visit our benefits for apprentices webpage
Similar to those of the employer outlined in the section below, with the added advantage of direct input from motivated staff who can apply their learning and new ideas directly to the department, enhancing its efficiency and innovation.
For more details visit our benefits for employers webpage
No, there will be no changes made to your employment contract as a result of studying for an apprenticeship.
No, there will be no impact on your pay.
While individual circumstances may vary, generally, there is no post-apprenticeship contract obligation.
We encourage you to strive for completion once you've commenced training.
However, if challenges arise, please communicate with your course tutors and your line manager.
It might be possible to take a break from learning and resume the programme at a later date.
However, this arrangement would need approval from both your line manager and the apprenticeship coordinator for your programme.
The Advanced clinical practitioner course has now been accredited by the NHSE.
For all those students who attended the course prior to this accreditation, there is an opportunity to be accredited with NHSE via a portfolio route.
Please review the video presentation by Kathy Cooper (NHSE) about the process, requirements and application route.
An apprenticeship is a work-based programme that combines full-time work with an industry-designed degree.
An apprenticeship offers the best of both worlds, it provides a unique blend of practical work experience, a regular salary, and the attainment of a recognised qualification.
Apprentices work for an employer while dedicating 20% of their time to off-the-job training, typically conducted at a university.
Apprenticeships have equivalent educational levels.
Some apprenticeships may also give you an additional qualification, such as a diploma.
To apply for an apprenticeship, we require a learner to:
Learners must provide evidence of their eligibility to be an apprentice and meet the University’s entry criteria before they begin their programme.
If any evidence is missing, the learner will not be able to start their apprenticeship.
Absolutely.
Apprenticeships can be used to upskill or retrain existing staff, as long as the apprenticeship is giving the employee new skills to progress in their chosen occupation.
Employers often leverage apprenticeships to address critical skills gaps, enhance employee motivation and engagement by investing in their growth, and ultimately, to bolster retention rates.
Find out why you should choose the University of Bedfordshire
The apprenticeship service is an online platform provided by the government, designed to facilitate the setup and management of apprenticeships.
It is mandatory for all apprenticeships in England to be administered through this service.
To access the service, you must create an account, which enables you to effectively manage your apprenticeship programmes.
Please follow these steps:
If you need further assistance, please refer to the provided links or contact the apprenticeship service support team.
The Apprenticeship Levy is a system wherein large employers with a pay bill exceeding £3 million contribute to a fund.
This contribution is made monthly as part of the employer's PAYE bill.
The funds accrued through the levy must be utilised for training employees within the organisation and for end-point assessments conducted by approved training providers.
On the other hand, smaller employers, with a salary bill less than £3 million, are required to pay only 5% towards the cost of apprenticeship training, with the remaining 95% covered by the government.
Employers can access the 95% funding reserved for them through their employer account on the Apprenticeship Service .
For detailed instructions on registering and utilising the apprenticeship service as an employer, please visit GOV.UK
Additionally, businesses of any size can use the Apprenticeship Service to apply for funding from larger businesses willing to cover 100% of apprenticeship training and assessment costs.
A Levy transfer is the process through which levy-paying employers can transfer their unused apprenticeship funds to other employers or apprenticeship training agencies.
The transfer allowance percentage is currently set at 50%.
This allowance is calculated based on the total amount of levy declared during the previous tax year, incorporating the English percentage along with the 10% government top-up payment.
It's important to note that this allowance is recalculated annually, and any unused allowance does not carry forward to subsequent years.
Employers who receive transferred funds can utilise them to cover the costs of training and assessment for apprenticeship standards, facilitating the initiation of new apprenticeships.
However, it's crucial to establish and agree upon a transfer arrangement before the apprentice begins their training.
There is no limit to how many apprentices a non-levy employer can have at once.
However, you must ensure that you can provide a rich learning environment for all your apprentices and afford any costs not covered by government funding.
As an employer not subject to paying the apprenticeship levy, you can reserve the 95% funding allocation using your employer account on the Apprenticeship Service
If you would like the university to reserve funding on your behalf, you'll need to grant us permission through the apprenticeship service.
Our UK Provider Reference Number (UKPRN) is 10007152.
For detailed instructions, please refer to the following guidance: Managing Cohorts
Alternatively, you can utilise the Apprenticeship Service to apply for funding from large businesses willing to cover 100% of your apprenticeship training and assessment costs.
For additional assistance and resources, please visit: Apprenticeship Service Support.
All apprenticeship standards are required to include an End-Point Assessment (EPA).
The EPA is designed to provide an objective and impartial evaluation of a learner's knowledge, skills, and behaviours.
Successful completion of the EPA is mandatory for achieving the apprenticeship qualification.
Assessments need to be conducted by an approved independent end-point assessment organisation (EPAO).
Employers must select an EPAO that has been approved by the organisation providing the External Quality Assurance (EQA) for that standard.
Find an end-point assessment organisation for your apprentice
A best practice guide for employers can assist employers on how to support your apprentice through end-point assessment.
The difference between 'on-the-job' and 'off-the-job' training lies in where and how the training is conducted:
On-the-job training
Off-the-job training
Apprentices are provided with comprehensive support to aid their studies, including:
As an employer, your responsibilities include:
Providing a genuine job opportunity and offering an employment contract with a duration sufficient for the apprentice to successfully complete their apprenticeship.
This should be outlined in the contract with the apprentice, including the Apprenticeship Agreement.
Actively supporting the apprentice in both on-the-job and off-the-job training, ensuring they receive 20% of their working time for off-the-job training activities.
Regularly reviewing the apprentice's progress in their learning and off-the-job training hours, ensuring they are accorded the same employment rights as all other employees, including paid holidays.
Ensuring timely payment of the apprentice's wages.
Attending the induction session and termly mandatory tri-partite review meetings, each lasting for an hour, to assess and confirm the apprentice's progress.
Signing an Apprenticeship Training Services Agreement and Call-off Contract with the learning provider.
Collaborating with the learner and learning provider to complete a Commitment Statement outlining the planned content, support, and training schedule for the duration of the apprenticeship.
We hope this FAQs section has been helpful in addressing your concerns and queries.
Apprenticeships offer a valuable pathway for individuals to gain practical skills and qualifications while providing businesses with a skilled workforce.
Whether you're an employer seeking to invest in talent development or an individual eager to kickstart your career journey, apprenticeships at the University of Bedfordshire offer a rewarding opportunity for growth and success.
If you have any further questions or inquiries, don't hesitate to reach out to our dedicated apprenticeship team for assistance.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/success-stories:
"The apprenticeship has genuinely changed my life by expanding my knowledge, boosting my confidence, and providing me with the opportunity for progression." Adam Thapar, Senior Leader Apprentice
At the University of Bedfordshire, we take immense pride in witnessing the transformative impact of our apprenticeship programmes.
Each success story reflects the dedication, hard work, and determination of our apprentices, supported by our commitment to providing quality training and mentorship.
Whether it's breaking into new industries, achieving professional milestones, or making meaningful contributions to their organisations, our apprentices embody the spirit of growth and opportunity.
From aspiring professionals to industry leaders, our apprenticeships have empowered individuals to realise their full potential and thrive in their chosen fields.
Join us in celebrating the accomplishments of our apprentices and explore these inspiring narratives to discover how our programmes have transformed lives, cultivated talent, and contributed to the success of both individuals and organisations.
Name: Trudi Dunn
Job Role: Business Transformation Manager
Organisation: Warrington Fire
Apprenticeship: Senior Leader (Executive MBA - CMI Level 7 Certificate in Strategic Management and Leadership)
Trudi, a dedicated Business Transformation Manager at Warrington Fire, nurtured aspirations to elevate her career to the position of Program Director within the company.
Despite initially planning to pursue university education at 18, personal circumstances redirected her path towards her first job locally, setting the stage for her extraordinary professional journey.
Driven by a desire for continuous growth and learning, Trudi seized the opportunity to enroll in the University MBA & Senior Leadership Apprentice programme.
This decision marked a pivotal moment in her career trajectory.
Trudi's commitment and dedication reflected in her academic accomplishments.
Not only did she complete the course, but she also achieved a University 'Distinction' for her Level 7 PG Diploma and obtained the CMI Level 7 Certificate in Strategic Management and Leadership.
Subsequently, she excelled in her Senior Leader Apprenticeship and received an overall 'Distinction' grade for her Executive MBA and MBA Research Project.
Throughout the course, Trudi's perspectives expanded, and her confidence soared.
Initially drawn to the Strategy unit, Trudi was pleasantly surprised by the course's breadth, she discovered value in every module, gaining both validated methodologies for her work and fresh insights into diverse business practices.
"The course surprised me in every unit, introducing new frameworks or perspectives.
This has two key impacts, firstly, the confidence to know when I apply parts at work that these are tried and tested methods - validating my lead.
And secondly, the new perspectives this has brought to my attention".
Trudi's journey was not without its challenges.
Starting the course brought a blend of excitement and nerves, compounded by the unfamiliarity of academic writing.
After an initial learning curve, Trudi found it very enjoyable to read, write and research for the assignments.
After the first two had been completed & feedback received, she was set on the format and had gained such confidence in her abilities that she was excited to start the next piece of coursework.
Trudi’s determination to excel drove her to overcome various obstacles, resulting in improved articulation and writing skills with direct positive impacts on her work performance, empowering her to articulate business cases and reports with greater ease and clarity.
“I was (and still am) very proud that I joined this course and quickly realised how much not attending university as a young adult had knocked my confidence when talking about myself.
The feeling of joy when telling anyone about the course was a key motivator for continuing and striving for top results.
The nerves I first felt quickly morphed into the need to prove I belonged and could pass the assignments - a common feeling I had experienced when taking on new roles at work - some call this imposter syndrome.
Like with new roles, this faded as I started to get results back.
What this taught me was that I strive for a constant sense of achievement - in my grades, my professional achievements and in my personal life”.
Now, Trudi actively promotes learning and development opportunities within her company, collaborating with HR to encourage colleagues to pursue various certificates and apprenticeships.
She emphasizes the value of continuous professional growth and encourages others to seize similar opportunities.
Trudi adds, "There may never be the 'right time' to start a course like this but the value in my personal and professional growth has made every study effort worth it.
I want to encourage others looking for professional development at a higher level to use courses such as this as it had a great blend of academic and practical aspects".
A significant highlight for Trudi was receiving her postgraduate diploma with her daughters in attendance.
This experience not only filled her with pride but also inspired her daughters to pursue higher education, a testament to the transformative power of her journey.
"I was unbelievably proud to show them what is possible at any point in your life.
Both girls now want to go to university.
I absolutely credit this experience in helping inspire them".
Trudi's academic prowess was further validated by the University JE Cule Memorial Prize for her Executive MBA Dissertation Project, highlighting her exceptional achievements and academic writing skills.
With newfound confidence and skills, Trudi is poised to transition into a Director role, serving as a role model for her peers and demonstrating leadership excellence in every aspect of her work.
Trudi's journey exemplifies the transformative power of apprenticeship programmes in fostering personal and professional growth.
Her story inspires others to embrace opportunities for advancement, embodying resilience, dedication, and a commitment to lifelong learning.
Trudi exemplified excellence as a mature student, offering unwavering support to her classmates, readily sharing information, and mentoring peers, all while balancing a full-time job and parenthood - a true embodiment of a role model.
With her newfound confidence and expertise, the sky is truly the limit for Trudi's career trajectory.
Name: Ivonne Fombe Willias
Job Role: Senior Leader
Organisation: West Northamptonshire Council
Ivonne is a Certified Manager dedicated to orchestrating strategic discharges from hospitals and fostering a higher quality of life for residents in West Northamptonshire.
Ivonne's relentless pursuit of excellence propelled her through the Level 7 Senior Leader Apprenticeship, culminating in an exceptional 'Distinction' grade, a testament to her unwavering commitment and leadership acumen.
Reflecting on her transformative journey, Ivonne shares that she cultivated self-awareness of her personal brand and was determined to communicate it clearly to those around her.
Ivonne went on to expresses, "I have learned and emphasised the fact that the most valuable quality is the ability to choose my attitude in situations over which I have no control.
As a leader, I am responsible for bringing about changes that will benefit others."
Driven by an intrinsic desire for progress, Ivonne remarks, “I now possess intrapreneurial and innovative skills that can contribute to the welfare of both staff and other stakeholders.
I work collaboratively with them to maximise our potential, effectiveness, and efficiency in my role.
The Kolb Learning Cycle introduced a new way of thinking for me.
The diverse projects covered in the apprenticeship bolstered my confidence to critically assess win-win situations and utilise my skills effectively.
Through the knowledge and behaviours acquired in this apprenticeship, I understand and effortlessly demonstrate my duty to lead people development, including talent management, succession planning, workforce design, coaching, and mentoring arrangements for individuals within their area of responsibility.
I have successfully identified the goals and aspirations of my organisation and determined the requirements for effective leadership.
The knowledge I have gained and applied enables me to understand the calibre of employees sought by my employer, both in recruitment and in the development of existing staff.
As a leader in today's workforce, I recognise the importance of continuous self-improvement and am conscientious of the programmes that support the well-being and welfare of my team.
My enhanced performance, knowledge, and behaviours serve the needs, goals, aspirations, and values of my organisation, as well as the welfare of those involved in the strategy.
Through inter-organisational strategy analysis, we aim to achieve identified strategic leadership ambitions and analyse the relationship between existing and future skills required.
Strategic leadership necessitates my responsibility for both my personal development and that of my team, including the implementation of these development plans”.
Charting the course for her team's success, Ivonne says, "I am responsible for setting the overall strategic direction of the area of responsibility in partnership with the Senior Leadership Team, encouraging employees to buy into the organisation's vision.
During my studies I learned how to understand organisational structures and business models.
To apply this knowledge in my workplace l needed to understand the structures of the organisation.
Working for a local authority with its bureaucratic structures and values, it was challenging to shape and develop the vision, culture, and values of the organisation.
Despite these challenges I developed confidence in myself that I could as a leader influence the culture of my department”.
Grateful for her transformative experience, Ivonne reflects, "I am grateful to have been on this programme as I’m definitely not the same person that started this journey 18 months ago." Her daughter's poignant note underscores the profound impact of her apprenticeship, reinforcing that she made the right decision to join the programme; "Mummy you make me more and more proud every day.
It is an honour and a blessing to have you as my mum."
Name: Alex Mortimer
Job Role: Commercial Director
Organisation: Supply Chain Academy Group
With over two decades of experience spanning the public and private sectors, Alex Mortimer currently serves as the Commercial Director of the Supply Chain Academy Group.
Alongside the Senior Leadership team, he has propelled the business from its inception to becoming the UK's foremost provider of business-led supply chain training and degree apprenticeships.
Despite not being perceived as exceptionally bright during his school years, Alex channels his past experiences as motivation to excel in every endeavor he undertakes.
Alex achieved remarkable success in his Senior Leader Apprenticeship, earning a 'Distinction' grade.
Additionally, he received a 'Commendation' for the Level 7 academic qualification associated with the apprenticeship.
Throughout the University-led programme, Alex's enthusiasm and articulate contributions stood out.
His exceptional attendance, coupled with adept management of both workplace responsibilities and academic demands, distinguished him as a standout Student Ambassador, shaping future programme development and supporting fellow Apprentices.
Renowned for his deep-thinking and entrepreneurial traits, Alex seamlessly integrates the apprenticeship's topics into his diverse roles and responsibilities.
His outstanding performance has garnered praise from his employer, who acknowledges the tangible improvements in his leadership and workplace presence.
In his own words, Alex emphasises the importance of organisational learning in today's dynamic business landscape.
“I am now confident leading on adapting to business change in today’s fast changing business environment, where knowing more and knowing it faster than the competition is often the difference between surviving and not surviving, organisational learning is more and more being recognised as a crucial organisational function and this I want to share with others to drive performance”.
Beyond his professional endeavors, Alex actively contributes to the business community.
His tenure as a Councillor on the CBI Board for the East of England and his current roles as a board member of the Global Chamber for Commerce and an Institute of Directors (IoD) Board Ambassador underscore his dedication to addressing supply chain and global trade challenges.
Alex’s journey exemplifies the transformative power of determination, continuous learning, and leadership excellence.
His unwavering commitment to personal and professional growth serves as an inspiration to aspiring leaders and highlights the profound impact of lifelong learning and community engagement.
Name: Adam Thapar
Job Role: Head of Community, EDI and Dementia Services
Organisation: Age UK Hertfordshire
This MBA has genuinely changed my life by expanding my knowledge, boosting my confidence, and providing me with the opportunity for progression within my current role.
Looking back I can draw on lessons and experiences from all six modules and projects.
I have experienced a wide range of emotions in completing this course – self-doubt, uncertainty, stress – but also elation, glee, enthusiasm; I have shown myself that I have a strong drive to succeed.
My grades were good throughout the span of the course - which stimulated me and to want to keep getting better and improving.
I established a very high standard for myself when I started working on the final MBA project, which became challenging to keep and uphold.
The final assignment stretched my knowledge and abilities once more and was a genuine culmination of all the reading, studying, and hard work and dedication that I put into the course.
Now that this is completed, I am excited to see where my future career will take me.
After discussing the level of commitment an MBA would require with my employer and partner, I approached it with all of my eagerness and excitement.
After considering a number of courses, I finally opted on this one as it would allow me to attend university for learning sessions onsite with fellow classmates (mixing this in with remote sessions) and the topics covered within the course seemed to be the best locally.
I was primarily drawn to the MBA's Creative Leadership module when I first started (which was the first module/initiation into the MBA when I started), but the whole MBA course ended up covering a lot more subjects than simply creativity due to the brilliant class discussions that helped me develop and grow in terms of my confidence and self-awareness.
When I started the MBA project, I was eager to learn more about my current organisation and how I might apply the different MBA modules and learnings to explore whether the organisation was in the best position that it could be to be successful in a new dementia contract (with dementia being a disease and disability that is very close to my heart).
This required me to design a project that addressed a number of topics, such as Strategy and Partnership Working, Entrepreneurial Architecture, New Public Management and Change to see if Age UK Hertfordshire could overcome any organisational barriers to ensure its success.
Since these topics were covered in the Creative Leadership, Innovating in a Strategic Environment and Entrepreneurialism modules - selecting them for my project was simple, as these modules made connections between a lot of business theory and actual workplace problems - and most significantly, the person-centered component of leadership and Voluntary Sector support.
It was the topic that challenged me the most but was also the most fulfilling, as I assumed I understood a great deal about the subject - but I soon discovered there was far more literature and theory than I had imagined.
On a personal level, completing the project work and MBA as a whole has been immensely helpful.
It has built my confidence and reinforced my professional credibility amongst the teams by allowing me to reflect on my role as a senior manager and my leadership skills by usefully following my learning and development as part of the course.
It has also helped me cope positively with changes (both enforced by my learning and by changes in the environment) and supports the constant need to update my skills and competencies to inform and address future professional goals and the strategic ambitions of myself and that of my organisation.
Completing my MBA has also given me a more in depth of knowledge of leading - which will undoubtedly assist me in providing clear solutions whilst also adding value to the quality of my work for my organisation.
Having an MBA qualification will also help me build credibility and experience as a leader and work towards becoming a future Chief Executive of an organisation.
Name: Michelle Everitt
Job Role: Assistant Director of Student Experience
Organisation: University of Bedfordshire
The units on the apprenticeship focus on real life aspects of the work I do.
I am responsible for the strategic direction in which Careers & Employability supports students, graduates and the wider university.
The course work really supports my knowledge and ability to move the agenda forward.
The apprenticeship has enabled me to plan in a more creative way when priorities change, or existing projects require redeveloping.
I feel I can approach problem solving differently in a more innovative way ensuring all resource is used efficiently which is so important in the modern world.
I have learnt a lot about myself such as the way I approach a challenge , collaborate with stakeholders, and understand why leaders lead the way they do from studying the theory of mindsets.
I feel that this continues to have a positive impact on not just my work but also that of my team and the wider organisations strategic direction.
This fits in perfectly with my role, as I am able to study part time.
The apprenticeship units are relevant and enable me to use my new skills to consider and impact on real life work challenges
It has enabled me to undertake study.
I would not have been able to undertake this apprenticeship if it didn't fit into my work schedule.
I am given a day a week to undertake my study.
This hasn't affected my work priorities as I am organised which is really important when studying and working.
It's perfect especially as the study links well with my role as Assistant Director of Student experience and Head of Careers & Employability and the assignments I have completed directly relate to my real-life working practice .
I am really enjoying all that I am learning.
Name: Don Tapfumaneyi
Job Role: Deputy Borough Lead Nurse
Organisation: East London Foundation NHS Trust
It encourages me to adopt an enhanced level of strategic thinking which gives the opportunity to directly contribute to and influence the development of services that I am aligned to.
It provides me with a forum/platform to network with other leaders outside the organisation and hold meaningful conversations about experiences of leading teams and driving change that I can use to reflect on when thinking about individual and group leadership in my own workplace.
By learning more about leadership theory and understanding my own leadership style, I am able to Inspire a shared purpose within the teams I lead.
It has highlighted the similarities within organisations, regardless of the type of business, and helped me to have a more rounded understanding of budgets, funding streams and finance.
It has encouraged me to undertake wider reading of management and leadership literature and supported me to put concepts into practice.
I’ve been able to shadow Executive members of the Organisation in order to observe their management style.
I’ve been able to understand the relationship between my leadership performance and how it impacts on the teams.
I've learnt about the challenges and opportunities associated with the concept of creativity, innovation and change management.
I'm able to identify and reflect on the use of a range of theoretical perspectives to recognise and develop my own personal leadership style.
Understanding the true value of peer support outside the 'classroom' environment has been one of my biggest lessons so far.
Engaging in open and honest discussions and having a safe and respectful forum to do so has certainly enriched my learning experience and helped me to reflect, self-appraise and appreciate the value of diverse thinking and action.
What attracted me was the opportunity to gain some nationally recognised qualifications while earning.
By equipping me with essential skills and qualifications needed to progress it's clear that doors are opened to a wealth of career opportunities.
An Apprenticeship is a route available that is immensely supportive to the achievement of your 'next step' by allowing you to maintain comfortable home-work balance.
Ultimately, it contributes towards getting you where you want to be in the future in a way that causes minimal disruption to your everyday life.
It's exciting to be part of a professional forum external to the workplace and be able to take ideas and learning from one group and implement them directly into another.
It's an invaluable opportunity to meet people from different working environments and personal backgrounds as it gives such a rich depth of exposure to alternative thinking and concepts which really encourages a broader scope of learning, discussion, and debate which I enjoy.
It's also been a great way to get back into education and meet new people.
Name: Rosie Lay
Job Role: Project Manager
Organisation: UK Atomic Energy Authority
Apprenticeship: Level 6 Project Management Degree Apprenticeship
The ability to learn best practices that I can adapt and apply to my job role has supported my career in project management.
I can utilise the learnt theory to help problem solve and maintain strong management of my teams.
I have been able to implement processes, voice recommendations and have had an increased level of understanding that would have taken me many years more to develop without this apprenticeship.
It has also impacted me in terms of the professional relationships I have developed and the links to other workplaces.
Learning about my fellow classmate’s experiences and how they apply the same teachings is a very valuable insight that I can compare with my company.
I have learnt all about project management in depth and the best practices I can use to help manage my projects more efficiently.
I have especially been able to develop my leadership skills and have learnt the theory behind some techniques.
I wasn’t entirely sure which direction I wanted to pursue my career in, so I had a look around and found degree apprenticeships.
This seemed like a brilliant option for me as I could learn new skills whilst also learning about the workplace.
The main benefit is the application of skills as mentioned above.
The other benefit is the increase in organisation skills I have learnt over the past years.
Balancing study and work has pushed me to become more organised and develop better time management skills.
I can thoroughly plan out assignments and manage them alongside project work in a way that is most beneficial for all my priorities.
The best thing I found was the communication amongst peers.
I learnt all about how project management is applied in different organisations and have benefited from sharing experiences.
I have also made some great friends after working with them over the last 4 years.
Name: Georgia Jeycock
Organisation: Luton Borough Council
Apprenticeship: Project Management
I started my Project Management role with Luton Borough Council 6 months after starting my Apprenticeship, meaning that I was able to put in to practice what I had learnt in order to make me feel more settled and confident in my new role.
I have since been able to gain valuable experience of applying theories and project management tools that I have learnt throughout my Apprenticeship to help me be a more successful Project Manager.
This Apprenticeship has helped me learn how to be an effective Project Manager to deliver positive outcomes that can deliver a change.
All of the modules within this Apprenticeship are very informative and allow you to learn various tools and theories that you can apply within the workplace.
This Apprenticeship has had a very positive impact on my career within Luton Borough Council and will help me to continue to grow.
I have learnt various tools, techniques and theories throughout this Apprenticeship and also financial equations that help me to budget my projects effectively.
I have also learnt how to manage my time more effectively, as I have had to manage a full time job whilst also completing this Apprenticeship part time.
I decided on an Apprenticeship study, as I have previously completed an Apprenticeship with Luton Borough Council where I had such a positive experience, I was excited to apply for this Apprenticeship as well.
I also knew that I always wanted to become a Project Manager, so when I saw this Apprenticeship come up I knew I had to apply in order to help me achieve the next stage within my career.
Apprenticeships are a great way of learning on the job and receiving the support in order to help you achieve this.
Although this can be difficult at times to juggle the two, there are benefits in that you are not alone!
Some of my colleagues on the Apprenticeship are also from the Council and are in the same position, so you can work together and support each other to ensure that you do not fall behind.
It also allows you to put into practice what you learn during your lectures and to gain first hand experience that you can apply once the Apprenticeship is complete.
The best thing about my Apprenticeship is that I am always learning new things that I am able to apply directly into my current job role!
I really feel that Apprenticeships are a great way of learning whilst in the workplace and my Manager has been fantastic in supporting me to complete this!
Name: Ben Torreggiani
Job Role: Digital Learning Development Officer
Organisation: Luton Council
Apprenticeship: Project Management Apprenticeship Level 4
The apprenticeship study has supported my job role by giving me the tools to assist me to successfully manage and deliver e-learning projects within the Council.
I find myself using the techniques and information learnt during my apprenticeship on a daily basis throughout all my projects.
The apprenticeship has taught me the foundations of good project management practice.
The comprehensive study program has taught me things such as how to manage risk on a project, how to manage stakeholders, how to prepare a project business case and how to manage teams successfully.
I decided on an apprenticeship as a really wanted to develop my project managements skills.
The program was offered via my workplace and seemed like a good fit.
Also the industry recognised APM project management qualification that you aim to achieve really sold it to me.
Although working and studying at the same time can be challenging I have felt that the apprenticeship has really assisted me in the workplace.
Putting into practice what you have learnt via the apprenticeship is really rewarding.
Apart from the fact I have found the knowledge gained really useful I have also really enjoyed lectures again as a mature student!
Name: Claire Ellis
Job Role: Cisco Operations Product Manager
Organisation: Ingram Micro UK
As I work for Ingram Micro, the largest distributor of I.T products in the U.K, the way in which we work and deliver services to our customers is constantly changing with new technological advancements.
I am therefore regularly involved in global strategic projects.
The course that the University of Bedfordshire provides supports both the academic and practical elements of project management.
My confidence has grown due to the knowledge I have obtained during the course.
I have a better understanding of how successful project management processes and planning can assist with project management delivery.
This has and will continue to impact projects I work on.
I have had the opportunity to learn project management theory and how it can be applied to a “real-life” situation.
I also have learnt about aspects of project management which I would not normally have direct involvement with.
I felt in order to execute a project well, I would need to obtain a better understanding of a project life-cycle and processes end-to-end.
I therefore felt an immersive apprenticeship would be the best way to do this.
The benefits of working and studying at the same time are that you can apply theory and learning into a real, working environment.
It also means that you have the potential to bring new ideas and implement new processes to the workplace.
The apprenticeship has been great!
It has given me the opportunity to have discussions with like-minded individuals from different backgrounds and learn from their experiences.
We have been able to draw from experience and enhance existing knowledge and processes.
Name: Chloe Barnes
Job Role: Associate Project Manager
Apprenticeship: Level 4 Associate Project Manager
Chloe Barnes began her journey with Luton Borough Council in September 2021, enrolling in our Level 4 Associate Project Manager Apprenticeship course provided in partnership with her employer.
With an NVQ background but no prior experience in higher education, Chloe was eager to leverage work-based evidence and practical learning.
Initially focused on administrative tasks within the IT department, she soon took on various projects, applying her coursework to real-world scenarios.
During her apprenticeship, Chloe advanced to the role of FM and Compliance Project Support Assistant at Luton Borough Council.
Working alongside a Senior Project Manager, she fully immersed herself in the dynamic world of project management.
As a local student and single mother, Chloe expertly balanced her new job responsibilities with the academic demands of university assignments, preparation for the APM PMQ exam, and the development of a comprehensive portfolio for her end-point assessment.
Chloe's strong skills in English, maths, and IT, combined with her excellent communication abilities, enabled her to effectively engage with her fellow online learners.
She actively participated in regular meetings with her Coordinator and Line Manager, forming a supportive tripartite team dedicated to her progress.
Chloe's future looks bright, with promising aspirations and promotion prospects as she looked forward to completing her apprenticeship and stepping into the role of a fully qualified Project Manager.
Despite occasional feelings of being overwhelmed, Chloe found steadfast support from her tutors, coordinators, and Line Manager.
Her Individual Learning Plan (ILP) meticulously recorded meetings and goals, outlining a strategic and balanced approach to ensure steady progress toward her end-point assessment (EPA).
Chloe successfully passed the APM PMQ exam and focused on selecting 25 exemplary documents from her portfolio to present at Gateway.
She completed her apprenticeship with a commendable Merit grade and reached out to the University to discuss the possibility of advancing onto the Project Management Degree Apprenticeship (PMDA).
Chloe's story is one of dedication, resilience, and the pursuit of excellence, and it's sure to inspire others on similar paths.
We've partnered with numerous large private and public sector organisations to advance the apprenticeship agenda.
Our focus is on supporting apprentices and employers alike to benefit from experiential learning and contemporary knowledge across various business disciplines.
This collaboration aids employers in achieving their apprenticeship goals, in fields such as Project Management , Operations or Departmental Management, Senior Leader and Chartered Manager
Our apprenticeship suite is flexible and adaptable, tailored to meet the specific needs of each organisation, ensuring apprentices derive maximum value from their university experience while thriving in their workplace environments.
Explore our full range of apprenticeships to see how we can support your journey.
On Thursday 29 th June, the University of Bedfordshire organised its first-ever Apprenticeships Showcase event, showcasing the remarkable accomplishments of its external apprentices.
With more than 55 delegates in attendance, the event served as a significant milestone, not only celebrating the achievements of the University's apprentices but also informing its employees about the available professional development pathway.
The showcase provided a platform to gain insights into available courses and qualifications.
Dr Rhidian Lewis, the University's Apprenticeships Lead, delivered an inspiring presentation on the personal growth opportunities and professional advancement at the University - from an employer’s perspective, as well as that of a regional education provider.
The subsequent panel discussion, led by David Williams, Senior Lecturer in Business, then offered a spotlight to four exceptional apprentices who shared their personal experiences - revealing their motivations for embarking on their respective apprenticeship journeys.
They highlighted the positive impact that these programmes had on their career objectives and how they contributed to the growth of their organisations.
Their stories served as a shining example of the success that can be achieved through dedication and hard work on this on-the-job training programme.
Delegates also had the opportunity to take part in an Awards Ceremony, a moment of triumph and recognition for the external apprentices who demonstrated exceptional commitment to their studies.
These outstanding individuals received certificates, proudly acknowledging their scholastic achievements, with some even graduating with Distinctions.
Looking ahead, the University of Bedfordshire encourages our staff, as well as external organisations seeking to recruit or upskill their employees, to consider the transformative power of apprenticeships – taking advantage of this subsidised training initiative.
With a wide range of courses tailored to suit diverse needs, including the exciting new courses starting from September 2023, our apprenticeships programme presents an opportunity for personal career growth whilst tackling organisational skill shortages.
For further information and to get in touch, please visit Apprenticeships

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/associate-project-manager:
The future of work is in projects!
Organisations are realising the benefits of Professional Project Management in achieving goals and objectives in a structured and timely manner.
The role of the Project Manager has, therefore, never been more in demand, and that demand will only grow as we progress into the digital age and beyond.
There are countless opportunities for consultancy work within Project Management or working for Project Management companies, as well as there being more and more organisations employing specifically for the role of Project Manager.
Within possibly the fastest growing discipline in business, the opportunities are endless!
Our programme is part-time, consisting of one day per week dedicated to off-the-job learning.
Typically, this involves 3-4 hours of class contact each week, although we can accommodate a block delivery approach if preferred.
Classes are usually held once a week, alternating between on-campus sessions and synchronous online teaching.
This flexible approach ensures accessibility and accommodates various learning preferences.
Additional off-the-job learning is facilitated through our University's virtual learning environment, BREO, and online library resources.
For larger groups of 12 or more, we also offer the option of delivering the programme directly at the employer's workplace.
Throughout the course, apprentices will engage in various work-related tasks to demonstrate their fulfillment of criteria outlined in the Associate Project Manager Apprenticeship Standard.
Formative assessment, both online and in-class, will offer apprentices feedback opportunities, allowing them to review and enhance their work.
After a minimum of 12 months (typically spanning between 12 and 18 months), apprentices become eligible for the end-point assessment, provided they have completed the on-programme assessment as described earlier.
The gateway for this assessment involves an evaluation discussion led by the employer, involving the training provider and mentor where applicable, to review the portfolio of evidence.
During the apprenticeship, apprentices must pass an examination leading to a qualification recognised at Level D by the International Project Management Association (IPMA).
For details on the Associate Project Manager Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
It is expected that most apprentices will complete the apprenticeship in 2 years.
The intakes are available in September, January, and June at our Luton campus.
The classes take place once a week, with a hybrid delivery (in-person & online).
Our Associate Project Manager Apprenticeship is designed to empower apprentices with the essential knowledge and skills to grasp project management principles, utilise tools, and employ techniques vital for ensuring successful project outcomes.
As apprentices, you'll have the exclusive opportunity to join the esteemed Chartered Association for Project Management (APM) as Student Members at no cost, providing access to invaluable resources and networking within the industry.
Our comprehensive curriculum includes the renowned Chartered APM Project Management Qualification (PMQ), enriching your expertise and credentials.
Throughout the course, topics such as project stakeholder engagement, communication, budgeting, and risk management will be thoroughly covered, ensuring you're equipped with the tools to excel in your project management journey.
The course also provides you with a comprehensive understanding of how to effectively allocate and utilise resources, as well as navigate the intricacies of contract and procurement processes.
By delving into these critical areas, you'll be equipped not only to manage projects successfully but also to optimise resources, mitigate risks, and drive efficiency throughout every stage of your project management journey.
Qualifications attained upon completion include:
Upon successful completion of the course, apprentices become eligible for progression to associate membership of the Chartered Association for Project Management.
This unit will help you to identify and examine key skills and behaviours that will support you in realising your professional development ambitions and support you to begin to set and own the goals and shape your development on the course.
We will support you in developing key communication skills, academic study skills, reflective practice and team building skills aligned with professional competence.
The unit will also provide you with an introduction and understanding of the fundamental professional and personal skills necessary to support the goals of an organisation within the role of a project manager.
Project Management is a practice oriented subject area and requires the use of models and techniques to achieve specific outcomes.
The unit aims to develop your understanding of project management and its diverse application in a number of contexts, which will enable you to understand available methodologies, tools and methodologies for managing projects, understanding the advantages and disadvantages of each.
The unit learning will also enable you to approach new projects equipped with the necessary skills to bring projects to successful conclusion.
Project Management Practice will give you the needed introduction and practice of project management techniques, models, and tools.
This will equip you with the skill of applying them at the workplace.
The unit explores key concepts and theory that underpins decision making in the areas of project procurement, resource management, budgeting and finance.
Processes in organisations have evolved beyond a single site, integrated activities to internationally distributed operations.
The emphasis will be on managing the issues and problems encountered within contract and procurement management, and the difficulties of delivering projects and programmes within the agreed objectives.
This unit will enable you to recognise the issues involved in managing resources within organisation, including those procured from outside the organisation, as well as issues impacting the preparation, recording, and summation of financial information.
The unit enables you to develop an understanding and appreciation for a range of behavioural science models, choosing from among them in a flexible way to fit organisational demands in any given, practical situation.
Management and Leadership involves a deliberate and reflective assumption of roles, and you will be encouraged to reflect on your own performance as managers and leaders within a variety of projects or environments.
You will gain an understanding of the use of HRM, teams and motivational techniques to ensure selection of approaches that are appropriate to a variety of stages and situations.
You will also learn how to manage stakeholder relationships and issues around communication by building relationships and managing change in ever increasingly fast moving industries.
The ability to develop management behaviours that are creative, professional, inclusive, collaborative and able to take responsibility for situations is also covered within the unit.
Fees: The fee for the Associate Project Manager apprenticeship is £7000.
If your annual wage bill is less than £3 million, you'll only need to pay a maximum of 5% of the training costs, with the Government covering the remaining 95% if applicable.
This results in a payment of just £350 for the apprenticeship.
If you pay the levy, you'll receive funds to allocate towards the training and assessment of your apprentices.
Meet your Course Coordinator Get to know Lee, your supportive mentor and Course Coordinator for the Associate Project Manager Apprenticeship.
Delve into his background to understand his experience and areas of expertise.
Uncover the individual behind the position, eager to support you with a smile throughout your apprenticeship journey.
Get to know Lee, your supportive mentor and Course Coordinator for the Associate Project Manager Apprenticeship.
Lee Smith-Dennis is your Course Coordinator for the Associate Project Manager Apprenticeship.
Lee is an experienced lecturer who has been at the University for 10 years.
His academic field of study is Human Resource Management with a particular focus upon public-sector employee wellbeing and the implementation of public policy.
Specialising in teaching Professional Development and Business Strategy, Lee has a wealth of industry experience in construction, logistics and retail, an invaluable resource that he can draw upon to support the application of theory into real-world practice.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/project-manager:
This apprenticeship is specifically crafted for:
Project managers occupy a pivotal position within the project profession, essential for ensuring successful project delivery.
Graduates may begin their career journey as assistant project managers or step directly into project manager roles.
Additionally, avenues such as Project Management Offices (PMOs), change management positions, programme management, directorial roles, portfolio management, risk analysis, and leadership positions such as heads of transformation are also viable career pathways.
This is a level 6 degree apprenticeship.
The part-time course is structured to accommodate one day per week of off-the-job training, typically involving 4 hours of class contact.
Additional off-the-job learning is facilitated through the University's virtual learning environment, BREO, and online library resources.
Alternatively, a block delivery approach may be considered.
For larger groups of 12 or more, there is the flexibility of delivering the course directly at the employer's workplace, offering convenience and tailored support.
Our programme is meticulously designed to promote relevance, practicality, and challenge, fostering the development of key competencies including:
Throughout the course, assessment will occur twice within each of the units, depending on your entry point.
Various assessment methods will be utilised, including written reports, presentations, and professional discussions.
Additionally, you will receive formative feedback as you prepare for assessments.
As you progress, you will compile evidence for your portfolio, which must be completed before advancing to the gateway stage, demonstrating mastery of the course's knowledge, skills, and behaviours (KSBs).
Prior to reaching the gateway, you will also sit for the APM PMQ Exam.
Following the gateway, apprentices will proceed to undertake their Endpoint Assessment (EPA), marking the culmination of their journey through the course.
For details on the Project Manager Degree Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
It is expected that most apprentices will complete the apprenticeship in 4 years.
The intakes occur in September, January, and June at our Luton campus.
The classes take place once a week.
The Project Manager Degree Apprenticeship is meticulously crafted to equip individuals with contemporary project management methodologies and practices.
This innovative programme aims to cultivate essential skills and instill a deep-rooted knowledge base crucial for navigating modern project environments
Apprentices tackle real-world project challenges, honing their problem-solving skills while gaining invaluable hands-on experience.
By engaging in assignments that reflect project-related issues encountered in today's dynamic work settings, apprentices not only enhance their theoretical understanding but also develop the practical skills necessary for success in their future careers.
This apprenticeship recognises the diverse nature of project management across different organisational contexts.
Whether in large corporations, non-profits, or startups, the skills acquired through this apprenticeship are universally applicable.
Participants learn to adapt their project management strategies to suit the unique needs and constraints of various organisational structures, ensuring success regardless of the setting.
In addition to technical competencies, the apprenticeship fosters the development of critical soft skills essential for effective project leadership.
Communication, collaboration, and conflict resolution are just a few examples of the interpersonal abilities cultivated throughout the program.
By emphasising both technical expertise and interpersonal skills, the apprenticeship ensures that participants emerge as proficient project managers and adept leaders capable of inspiring teams to achieve extraordinary results in the ever-evolving landscape of project management.
Upon successful completion of the apprenticeship, candidates will attain the following qualifications:
This programme incorporates the Chartered Association for Project Management (APM) Project Management Qualification (PMQ), with apprentices having the opportunity to enroll as Student Members of the Chartered APM at no cost.
Upon fulfilling the requirements of the course, apprentices will be eligible to progress to Associate Membership of the Chartered APM.
Leading and managing people within the business landscape has always held significance, but recent shifts in enterprise structure, employment dynamics, and organisational paradigms have ushered in fresh expectations and pressures, evolving faster than ever before.
This leads to an escalating demand for managers embodying essential leadership qualities.
In this dynamic environment, leaders and managers are tasked with supporting their teams and colleagues to ensure that requisite skills, knowledge, and behaviours align with evolving demands, facilitating organisational adaptation.
Understanding team dynamics and recognising the traits of high-performing teams is crucial, as leveraging these insights can enhance team, business, and project outcomes within the organisation.
Project Management Practice is a subject area rooted in practical application, requiring the utilisation of models and techniques to attain defined objectives.
This unit seeks to:
By introducing and practicing project management techniques, models, and tools, this unit aims to prepare you with the ability to apply them effectively in workplace settings.
Practical Professional Development is designed to:
Project Finance and Resource Management aims to equip students with fundamental knowledge and skills in project resource management and finance.
The objective of this unit is to ensure that students acquire:
Project Planning and Control aims to enhance understanding of project planning and control components by fostering a systematic comprehension of project management approaches, methodologies, and associated tools and techniques.
This enables effective application across various business contexts.
This unit will equip you with the requisite knowledge and skills to formulate and execute project plans, ensuring successful project completion.
It will also provide you with the necessary knowledge and skills for effective project risk and issue management, as well as the ability to monitor and control projects proficiently, thereby facilitating the achievement of stated project delivery objectives.
Professional Development and Digital Age Working aims to identify and examine key skills and behaviours that will support you in achieving your professional development ambitions.
It will assist you in setting and taking ownership of goals, shaping your development throughout the course.
Additionally, the unit aims to enhance your critical perspective and analytical skills.
The objective of this unit is to provide you with an introduction to and understanding of virtual and digital-age environments, highlighting how effective leadership can aid your developmental goals.
Project Leadership and Stakeholder Engagement aims to delve into theoretical concepts of project leadership and foster the development of leadership and stakeholder engagement skills.
The unit emphasises the investigation and cultivation of a comprehensive understanding of contextual relevance, behaviours, and cultural patterns within the realm of project leadership and stakeholder engagement.
The unit on Project Governance and Quality aims to help you understand the importance of effectively managing projects within an organisation to ensure they align with its objectives.
You'll learn how to develop and execute a project governance plan and how to assess its effectiveness.
Additionally, this unit provides the knowledge and skills necessary to establish strong project quality policies and procedures.
You'll learn how to manage and oversee project quality processes to ensure that projects meet their intended requirements.
The unit aims to develop an understanding of how programmes and projects enable organisations to achieve short, medium and long-term strategies to achieve the overall goals.
The unit aims to enable you to prepare a well thought out plan for change by working with the project sponsor, and justify and evaluate a range of actions for promoting an effective plan for change in managing projects.
This unit should enable you to understand the broader context of the organisational environment and the structural choices to implement strategy and change.
That should enable you to make informed decisions in more senior roles.
Furthermore it will consider how concepts of strategy and change management overlap, and how project managers prepare organisation, team and individuals for organisational change.
The unit on Digital Business and New Technologies in Management is designed to emphasise and investigate the latest advancements and upcoming trends in the business world.
Its goal is to empower students to anticipate and adjust to these trends by comprehending their potential effects on teams, clients, and the organisation as a whole.
Moreover, this unit fosters an understanding of ethics and integrity and their significance in today's digital era trends.
It enables you to assess, differentiate, and apply advanced skills relevant to the business context, regardless of the specific department.
This unit aims to develop literature review and critical thinking skills to provide the basis upon which to develop a project proposal for your End Point Assessment (EPA).
This unit introduces the processes and techniques associated with research within a business context.
It provides a coherent and structured syllabus that develops insight into the elements required to undertake secondary research as well as a range of philosophical perspectives on the nature and scope of what constitutes research and how to conduct literature reviews.
This unit is designed for you to prepare for your EPA project utilising subject experience from prior learning and from your role within your organisation in preparing for the Change Project, demonstrating the application of skills, knowledge and behaviours.
This includes preparing for a Professional Review of your portfolio evidence of meeting the Knowledge, Skills and Behaviours (KSBs) of the Apprenticeship Standard.
Additionally, you'll undertake a structured work-based project that also demonstrates the required Project Manager Apprenticeship Standard’s KSBs.
While specific entry requirements may vary depending on individual employers, apprentices are generally expected to meet the following criteria:
Fees: Companies with an annual wage bill below £3m will only pay £1,100 for this apprenticeship, as the government funds 95% of the full fee.
If you are a Levy-paying organisation then this apprenticeship will cost £22,000 from your Levy fund.
As a business of any size, you may also use your Apprenticeship Service Account to apply for funding from large businesses that want to transfer their unspent Levy to fund 100% of your apprenticeship training and assessment costs.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/business-analyst:
The Business Analyst Apprenticeship offers skills to understand and address the needs of businesses and stakeholders through innovative digital solutions and impactful business changes.
Through hands-on experience, an apprentice will learn to model business processes, gather critical requirements, and analyse potential changes in business and IT environments.
They will also develop:
This is a level 4 apprenticeship.
The teaching will usually take place on one day a week and alternates between teaching on campus and synchronous teaching online.
You will study a total of four 30-credit units, as follows:
For details on the Business Analyst Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
The apprenticeship takes 20 months and is through day release from your workplace.
The intakes are in September, January and June in our Luton campus.
The classes take place once a week, with a hybrid delivery - alternating in-person and online sessions.
It is tough running a successful business.
There is a lot of competition and a constant stream of new technologies available to organisations and their competitors to chart and navigate the ever-changing business environment.
For a business to succeed, it must leverage every possible advantage it can find.
While this is not a new concept, technology is changing in new ways — and at increasing speed; this is why business analysis is essential for organisational success, and why professional’s adept at analysing a business strategy and business plans are in high demand.
This course explores the concepts of business analysis and aims to develop the required skillset for apprentices to deliver competitor advantage within their organisations, particularly, the course seeks to develop your:
The course will develop your knowledge and skills to document business problems and user needs, and create solution requirements that align to best practice, and present them in a meaningful and logical way appropriate to the audience.
Having this skillset allows you to focus on benefits and outcomes to ensure the right problems are solved and the right products are developed.
Business analysis exists in almost every sector, from not-for-profit organisations through to retail and the financial services.
It is dynamic and collaborative and provides a recognised career with professionals taking lead roles in successful change delivery.
Apprentices will be able to attend a graduation ceremony and the gained credit opens opportunities for further progression to other courses at Level 5 and potentially Level 6 - such as the Project Manager Degree Apprenticeship.
Entry requirements will be determined by individual employers in conjunction with the University.
Fees: Companies with a wage bill less than £3m will just pay £900 over two years, this is because the government funds 95% of the full fee.
If you are a levy-payer then this apprenticeship will be £18,000 from your levy.
As a business of any size, you can also use the Manage Apprenticeship service to apply for funding from large businesses that want to fund 100% of your apprenticeship training and assessment costs.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/chartered-manager:
This programme offers an opportunity to learn how to take responsibility for long-term organisational success, managing people, projects, operations or services.
The apprentice will gain professional recognition of the ability to deliver impact, behave ethically and demonstrate their commitment to continual learning and development - shaping the future of management and leadership.
The programme combines classroom and practical work-based learning.
Apprentices extend their classroom learning through their workplace practice, collecting evidence of learning applied, for example through project work, business enquiry and a portfolio.
Delivery can be configured to suit employer needs.
There is also the option of delivery at the employer’s workplace for groups of 10 or more.
Designed to be relevant, practical and challenging, to develop:
For details on the Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education .
The intakes are available in September, January and June in our Luton campus.
The Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship meets the education and training needs of professional managers in private, public or third sector organisations of all sizes.
It develops the knowledge, skills and behaviours needed to manage complexity and deliver impact at a strategic and/ or operational level, and to take management and leadership responsibility for setting and delivering organisational objectives through a wide range of functions.
The programme combines the BSc Business Management honours degree with CMI Chartered Manager status, incorporating vocational and academic elements.
The University of Bedfordshire’s Chartered Manager degree apprenticeship provides the knowledge, skills and understanding needed for effective management of large and small organisations.
Successful apprentices will achieve:
Entry requirements are Level 3 qualification or relevant work experience for applicants aged 21 or over.
Fees: Companies with a wage bill less than £3m will just pay £1,100, this is because the government funds 95% of the full fee.
If you are a levy-payer then this apprenticeship will be £22,000 from your levy.
As a business of any size, you can also use the Manage apprenticeship service to apply for funding from large businesses that want to fund 100% of your apprenticeship training and assessment costs.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/senior-leader:
Our Senior Leader Apprenticeship programme caters to professionals occupying key leadership positions across various industries.
Designed to enhance leadership capabilities and strategic thinking, this programme attracts individuals holding significant roles such as Associate Directors, Business Unit Heads, Chief Executive Officers, Chief Financial Officers, Chief Information Officers, Chief Operating Officers, Divisional Heads, Executive Directors, HE Registrars, Heads of Departments, and Senior Managers.
These diverse job roles contribute to a rich learning environment, fostering collaboration and insights from a wide range of experiences and perspectives.
Our apprentices typically hold mid to high-level positions with significant workplace responsibilities upon joining the programme.
They are afforded the opportunity to 'top-up' to the Executive MBA (with applicable fees) and aspire to advance to senior-level executive roles within their current organisation or pursue senior-level career transitions.
We take pride in the success achieved by these graduates, both during their studies and in their subsequent professional endeavors.
Our level 7 Senior Leader Apprenticeship programme offers three entry points throughout the year, providing flexibility for enrollment.
Tailored to meet the needs of employers, the program typically follows a day-release format, allowing professionals to balance comprehensive learning with their schedules.
However, workplace delivery for groups is also available.
With a blended delivery approach, participants alternate between online and on-campus weeks, ensuring a dynamic learning experience.
Flexible Learning: Pursue a prestigious PG Diploma, balancing part-time study alongside your existing job commitments.
Practical Focus: Dive into industry best practices and real-world projects supported by cutting-edge research.
Further Advancement: 'Top-up' to a full Executive MBA.
Global Perspective: Challenge your assumptions and gain a critical, reflexive approach to strategic leadership and management.
Develop a strategic global outlook to drive impactful change within your organisation.
You can download a leaflet for the Senior Leader Apprenticeship [PDF]
The assessment strategy is designed to be forward-looking and deliberately innovative, aiming to effectively test both learning outcomes and Knowledge, Skills and Behaviors (KSBs), while also mirroring the tasks encountered in practice.
Apprentices are exposed to a variety of assessment types, with individual assessments clearly linked to specific units, thus providing a reliable measure of performance.
This approach ensures that the workload remains both manageable and balanced, contributing to an effective learning experience.
For details on the Senior Leader Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education website
The programme spans 20 months, followed by the End Point Assessment.
Upon completion, there's an opportunity to undertake an additional Level 7 Project to obtain the Executive MBA, with a small additional cost for this unit.
There are 3 intakes a year, available in September, January and June and based at Luton Campus.
Our Level 7 Senior Leader Apprenticeship shapes innovative leaders who excel in creativity and strategic thinking.
Participants acquire the practical knowledge and skills highly valued by today’s employers.
In addition to the support provided by academic faculty from the University, apprentices also benefit from guidance by industry professionals in the workplace, refining their practical abilities and skills, and reaching their full potential on the job.
This programme seamlessly integrates the Postgraduate Diploma in Business Administration with the L7 Senior Leader Apprenticeship, providing tangible advantages for both individuals and organisations.
Tailored to meet the demands of the contemporary economy, the curriculum features dynamic units addressing current challenges, empowering students to succeed.
The curriculum integrates work-based learning and assessments, providing practical insights into real-world challenges.
Immersive organisational visits enrich the learning journey, offering firsthand exposure to diverse business environments and practices.
With the backing of our experienced academic team, this qualification nurtures innovation, fosters creativity, and hones essential meta-skills, evident in the innovative assessment methods employed across the programme.
Upon completion of the programme, all successful graduates are awarded the following prestigious qualifications:
Upon finishing the Senior Leader Apprenticeship, individuals who successfully complete their end-point assessment will attain either Chartered Manager or Chartered Fellow status.
This programme also grants apprentices the opportunity to seek continuous professional membership with the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), a globally recognised professional organisation.
This stimulating unit enhances the strategic capabilities of multi-disciplinary leaders by providing them with the knowledge and skills necessary to effectively lead and manage integrated innovation at both operational and strategic levels.
In addition to exploring topics such as corporate social responsibility (CSR), ethics, and sustainability, the unit clarifies the distinction between strategy and mere planning.
While planning focuses on short-term actions, strategy encompasses the long-term scope and direction of an organisation.
Guided by an understanding of their external environment, as well as their internal resources and capabilities, organisations make critical decisions that shape their future.
This unit delves into strategic issues that are common across various sectors, as well as those that are unique to specific industries.
This inspiring unit supports aspirations to finance and launch an enterprise.
It reflects upon your entrepreneurial potential and assists you in finding a business idea, as well as developing a business model and business plan.
We will explore how the process of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial leadership needs to evolve as the organisation grows and develops.
This challenging and stimulating unit offers a comprehensive critical and integrated exploration of core business functions and the necessary interactions for achieving commercial success.
It directly engages in the debates organisations face across these functions, arising from strategic pressures.
Throughout the unit, you will develop a deep understanding of the business, its functions, and their interrelationships, enabling you to make well-informed decisions.
With a focus on organisational planning and adopting a holistic perspective, including sustainability and individual liberty, it incorporates viewpoints from various organisational roles.
Drawing from contemporary research insights, its bold approach lays the groundwork for critical problem-solving and cultivates the confidence to engage in debates and deliver creatively and commercially successful projects while appreciating performance objectives.
These are both exciting and daunting times for leaders, HR professionals, and talent managers.
Organisations are facing dynamic challenges due to shifting demographic trends, evolving societal norms regarding freedom, rights, and responsibilities, and the rapid advancement of AI and other technologies.
Over the next twenty to thirty years, many existing jobs will disappear while numerous new, unimaginable roles emerge.
In light of these developments, two crucial questions arise:
These questions form the cornerstone of this unit, guiding our exploration of strategies to navigate the complexities of the evolving workforce landscape.
High-performing leaders demonstrate self-awareness and excel in problem-solving and decision-making processes, leveraging their understanding of both their own and others' capabilities.
In the 21st-century VUCA (Volatility, Uncertainty, Complexity, Ambiguity) world, organisational complexity underscores the need for creativity and a deep comprehension of how to unlock untapped potential.
This engaging unit offers you the opportunity to explore and expand your capacity for creative leadership.
Effective promotion of creativity requires an understanding of internal environmental factors to ensure that creative ideas are nurtured into successful innovations, rather than hindered by conflicting expectations, strategies, or institutionalised routines.
This unit aims to empower you with the ability to comprehend and critically evaluate various behavioral science models, enabling you to flexibly select and apply them to meet organisational demands in diverse situations.
This approach aims to inspire high performance, creativity, and innovation, underpinned by influential contemporary research.
These sessions, led by an Executive Coach, serve as the cornerstone for ongoing personal, professional, and organisational leadership development, encouraging participants to push their boundaries and strive for growth.
They equip you with essential tools for research and learning, focusing on skills and behaviors such as self-awareness, respect, tolerance, reflective practice, collaborative teamwork, enhanced problem-solving, and personal branding.
Furthermore, these sessions serve to integrate the learning from the entire course, facilitating portfolio building as we progress towards our goals.
Fees: Companies with an annual wage bill below £3m will only pay £700 over two years (£350 per annum) for this apprenticeship, as the government funds 95% of the full fee.
If you are a Levy-paying organisation then this apprenticeship will cost £14,000 from your Levy fund.
Meet David Williams Get to know David, your supportive mentor and Course Coordinator for the Senior Leader Apprenticeship.
Explore his rich background, learn about his three decades of experience, areas of expertise, and personal interests.
Discover the person behind the role, ready to assist you with a smile on your apprenticeship journey!
Get to know David, your supportive mentor and Course Coordinator for the Senior Leader Apprenticeship.
Bio
With over three decades of experience spanning Higher Education and the Private Sector, I bring a proven track record in organisational and business development, relationship management, membership, events, and marketing.
Passionate about fostering Life Long Learning, I thrive on challenging individuals and organisations to exceed their potential.
As an advocate for apprenticeships and social mobility, I am deeply committed to equality and diversity, serving as Chair of the University staff LGBTQ+ network.
Areas of Expertise
As a seasoned mentor, I specialise in guiding both apprentices and disadvantaged youth towards meaningful personal and professional development.
I excel in customising learning solutions for businesses, leveraging my expertise in coaching and market research to drive success in contract negotiations and business development.
With a knack for identifying and resolving complex issues, I am adept at leading teams to achieve goals within set timelines while adapting to dynamic change.
I hold an MSc in Life Long Learning and an MA in Business Development (Work-based learning), complemented by fellowships from the Chartered Management Institute and the Institute for Learning.
About Me
In addition to cherishing time with my family and friends, I am also an avid sports enthusiast, particularly cricket and football.
I'm equally passionate about music, and enjoy attending gigs across a diverse range of genres.
Additionally, I co-host a monthly radio show, offering listeners a dynamic blend of entertainment and discussion.
You can tune in here
Get in Touch
For any questions regarding the Senior Leader Apprenticeship, please don't hesitate to contact me:
David.Williams@beds.ac.uk
LinkedIn

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/marketing-executive:
The Marketing Executive Apprenticeship is for anyone who is looking to understand the marketing business at entry level.
The benefits to employers of investing in the Marketing Executive Apprenticeship include:
This is a Level 4 apprenticeship leading to the Certificate in Higher Education in addition to the Marketing Executive Apprenticeship.
Apprentices study one unit per 13 week semester on day release, with 11 weeks of teaching and support that are delivered alternatively on campus and on-line.
In addition to their day release studies, apprentices are expected to spend time in their workplace undertaking agreed learning activities outside of their usual job role in order to complete work-based assignments that are agreed between the employer, the University’s Apprentice Coordinator and the employee.
Applications must be submitted at least 8 weeks before the start date of the programme.
A total of four units are studied, followed by the execution of a final work-based project, on which the apprentice then presents findings and takes part in a final Professional Discussion.
The whole process would normally take around 18 months.
For details on the Marketing Executive Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
It is expected that most apprentices will complete their apprenticeship in around 18 months.
There are currently 3 intakes a year, available in September, January and June.
Occupations in marketing span most industries and sectors.
The Level 4 Marketing Executive Apprenticeship will enable you to:
This apprenticeship is also designed to meet the requirements for registration as an Affiliate Member with the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM).
Entry requirements will be determined by individual employers
Fees: Companies with a wage bill less than £3m will just pay £300, this is because the government funds 95% of the full fee.
If you are a levy-payer then this apprenticeship will be £6,000 from your levy.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/digital-marketer:
This programme is for anyone who is passionate about marketing and looking to become a professional digital marketer.
Apprentices are expected to work in a digital marketing role and have opportunities to apply the knowledge they learn at the university in their workplace.
As an employer you can upskill an existing employee or recruit someone new.
On completion, the apprentice will be eligible to apply for professional registration at associate grade for the Chartered Institute of Marketing, Institute of Direct & Digital Marketing, and BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT, who will also recognise this apprenticeship for entry onto the register of IT technicians confirming SFIA level 3 professional competence.
This is a level 6 Apprenticeship.
Apprentices will study one unit per 13 week semester on day release, with 11 weeks of teaching and support that are delivered alternatively on campus and on-line.
For details on the Digital Marketer (Integrated Degree) Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
It is expected that most apprentices will complete their apprenticeship in around 48 months.
Marketing is dynamic, exciting and vitally important to all businesses, and digital marketing is at the forefront of driving businesses forward.
Occupations in digital marketing span most industries and sectors.
A successful Digital Marketer will understand the disruptive digital environment and lead on the creation and execution of digital marketing strategy.
They recognise and respond to business opportunities and customer requirements through a range of digital channels.
They actively employ content marketing and campaign management principles along with financial and analytical tools, to deliver successful initiatives that meet the needs and aspirations of every organisation.
This is a Level 6 apprenticeship leading to the BSc (Hons) Digital Marketing degree in addition to the Digital Marketer Apprenticeship.
Fees: Companies with a wage bill less than £3m will just pay £1,050 over three years, this is because the government funds 95% of the full fee.
If you are a levy-payer then this apprenticeship will be £21,000 from your levy.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/digital-and-technology-solutions:
This occupation is found in organisations where digital technologies can be used to solve problems that exist across a range of functions.
Whether looking for ways to reduce waste, increase productivity, ensure resilient and responsive customer service, or create a secure transactional environment, organisations turn to digital and technological solutions to achieve these aims.
Wherever these activities take place Digital and Technology Solutions Professionals (DTSPs) are influencing outcomes and making things happen.
DTSPs are influencers in their organisations with a clear focus on delivering business improvements through digital and technological solutions.
They have a passion for digital technology; keeping in touch with emerging trends and developments.
This level 6 degree apprenticeship can be configured to suit employer needs and is usually delivered one day per week off-the-job.
There is the option of delivery at the workplace for groups of twenty five or more.
Apprentices extend their classroom learning through their workplace practice, collecting evidence of their learning applied.
For details on the Digital and Technology Solutions Professional (Integrated Degree) Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
There is currently 1 intake a year, in September.
Our Level 6 Digital and Technology Solutions Professional integrated degree (Software Engineer specialism) apprenticeship provides deep, practical understanding of the latest digital technologies, applications and issues.
Our Teaching staff draw on industry experience as researchers or consultants and studies are aligned to BCS and IET accreditation.
Classes take place in state- of-the-art computing laboratories and the apprenticeship co-ordinator links employer and apprentice to University.
Successful apprentices will achieve the BSc (Hons) Digital and Technology Solutions.
Individual employers will set the selection criteria, but this is likely to include three ‘A’ levels, including maths, although some employers will accept other relevant qualifications or experience.
Fees: Companies with a wage bill less than £3m will just pay £1,350 over four years, this is because the government funds 95% of the full fee.
If you are a levy-payer then this apprenticeship will be £27,000 from your levy.
As a business of any size, you can also use Manage Apprenticeship service to apply for funding from large businesses that want to fund 100% of your apprenticeship training and assessment costs.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/improvement-practitioner:
This course is meticulously tailored to individuals occupying pivotal roles in change management or improvement functions, actively engaged in the intricacies of day-to-day operations.
Whether navigating the complexities of organisational transformation or refining processes for heightened efficiency, this programme empowers participants with the knowledge, skills, and recognition essential for success in their field.
This course provides a pathway for people to boost their careers by offering a dual opportunity to attain academic credentials alongside an esteemed Apprenticeship endorsement.
In today's dynamic and competitive business landscape, organisations across industries are increasingly recognising the importance of continuous improvement to drive operational excellence and maintain a competitive edge.
Improvement practitioners play a pivotal role in this process, utilising their expertise to identify inefficiencies, streamline processes, and enhance overall performance.
Within this realm, a diverse array of career opportunities awaits professionals seeking to make a tangible impact on organisational success.
Whether you're passionate about optimising workflows, enhancing product quality, or driving strategic change, there's a role suited to your skills and aspirations.
From hands-on roles focused on process engineering to leadership positions driving organisational transformation, the field of improvement offers a breadth of opportunities for growth and development.
Some of the rewarding career paths available to improvement practitioners include:
This is a level 4 Apprenticeship.
The programme is delivered over four terms of 13 weeks.
The course is designed as one day a week off the job and runs every Friday during term time with alternate weeks being on campus and on-line and is designed to be complementary to the work activities carried out in the day to day employment of the Apprentice.
Apprentices extend their classroom learning through their workplace practice, collecting evidence of learning applied, for example, through project work and business enquiry, building a portfolio of evidence.
Further off-the-job learning is facilitated through the University’s virtual learning environment, BREO, and our online library resources.
Key units include Practical Professional Development, Data Analysis for Business Improvement, Project Management Practice, and Problem Solving and Improvement Methods.
Practical applications include streamlining processes in manufacturing, improving customer service protocols, and optimising supply chain logistics, etc.
The course emphasises respect, tolerance, democracy, and individual liberty, ensuring a comprehensive understanding of citizenship in a modern, diverse society.
Each Improvement courses has 1 unit per semester (4 units in total) to be completed before progressing to gateway, where they are expected to gather their portfolio of evidence of satisfying the course knowledge, skills, behaviours (KSBs) through series of assessments/projects completed within the units.
After gateway, the Apprentice goes on to complete their EndPoint Assessment (EPA) in the format below:
For details on the Improvement Practitioner Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
It is expected that most apprentices will complete the apprenticeship 18 months.
The intakes are currently available in September, January and June at our Luton campus.
Improvement Practitioners utilise a blend of Lean and Six Sigma methodologies, along with project and change management principles, to identify and lead the delivery of change across organisational functions and processes.
Their role is essential in enhancing efficiency, productivity, and overall performance by systematically eliminating waste and reducing variability in processes.
These professionals can be found in a variety of sectors, including automotive, banking, engineering, food products, IT, property, retail, telecoms, local and county councils, the NHS, voluntary/charity organisations, utilities, pharmaceuticals, insurance, and hospitality.
Their expertise is applicable in any setting where process improvement and operational excellence are needed.
The course develops a portfolio of Improvement Projects, providing practical examples and applications of the methodologies taught.
This portfolio serves as source material for submission to the End Point Assessment (EPA) of the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education (IFATE) Improvement Practitioner Apprenticeship, following the completion of the academic course.
Successfully passing the EPA demonstrates that the practitioner is well-prepared to drive meaningful improvements within their organisation.
Upon completion of the programme, all successful graduates are awarded the following qualifications:
This unit (30 credits) is designed to develop apprentices' skills in undertaking improvement projects within a business context.
The unit emphasises project management, team working, continuous improvement, and adaptability to new challenges.
The syllabus starts with an overview of unit requirements, project selection, and understanding the voice of the customer.
It then covers root cause analysis, problem definition, and drafting an improvement project outline.
Further topics include experimentation, data analysis, continuous development, project and change management techniques, failure mode analysis, and team building.
The unit concludes with a focus on safe working practices, British values, and independent study.
Apprentices completing this unit should understand project management, data analysis, and change management tools applicable to business improvement projects.
They should also be able to communicate and apply different improvement approaches across functional areas to achieve business benefits.
This unit (30 credits) aims to equip apprentices with fundamental statistical methods and tools essential for data analysis and business improvement.
The focus is on understanding measures of central tendency, spread, root cause analysis, and planning designed experiments.
Additionally, apprentices will enhance their skills in using spreadsheets for data analysis.
The syllabus covers a range of topics beginning with an introduction to unit requirements, basic data types, and sampling methods.
It progresses through measures of central tendency and spread, graphical data representation, Six Sigma principles, and probability.
Further topics include probability distributions, hypothesis testing, confidence intervals, and the application of statistics to quality improvement and control charts.
By the end of the unit, apprentices should understand descriptive statistics and probability concepts and their use in monitoring and controlling processes.
They should also be able to apply structured methods and improvement tools to deliver business benefits.
The assessment consists of an individual report (20%) focusing on sample selection and statistical measures and a problem-based report (80%) on work-based improvement projects.
The learning approach includes lectures and hands-on exercises using Excel, with an emphasis on applying classroom learning to workplace projects.
Collaborative discussions and continuous learning are integral to the unit.
This unit (30 credits) focuses on developing essential professional and personal skills required for project management roles.
Over 12 weeks, apprentices engage in topics like communication skills, time management, teamwork, leadership styles, ethical issues, and emotional intelligence.
The unit encourages reflective practice and personal development planning, helping apprentices set and achieve professional goals.
Through experiential learning, including class activities and group discussions, apprentices enhance their ability to apply theoretical knowledge in practical contexts.
This unit (30 credits) introduces apprentices to the diverse applications of project management.
It aims to develop their understanding of various methodologies, tools, and techniques, emphasising practical application in the workplace.
The syllabus includes an introduction to project management and methodologies like waterfall and agile, and hybrid; project feasibility, requirements, business case, project scoping, detailed project planning (including the Project Initiation Document, Work Breakdown Structure, Network Analysis, and Critical Path Analysis), risk and quality management, benefits management, project closure, and sustainability.
Apprentices will learn to apply these techniques to specific projects, incorporating sustainability practices to enhance project outcomes.
The unit's practical approach involves experiential learning through class activities, case studies, and group interactions, fostering collaboration and contextual understanding.
Individual employers will set their own entry requirements but all applicants need to remain employed within the workplace for the duration of the course, ideally for a minimum of 30hrs a week.
Meet your Course Coordinator Get to know Omamode Orieno, your supportive mentor and Course Coordinator for the Improvement Practitioner Apprenticeship.
Delve into his background, understand his experience and areas of expertise, along with his personal interests.
Get to know Omamode Orieno, your supportive mentor and Course Coordinator for the Improvement Practitioner Apprenticeship.
Omamode Orieno
Lecturer in Management & Apprenticeship Co-Ordinator for the Improvement Suite courses
With over eight years of diverse professional experience in management consulting, project & operations management, and academia, I am a dynamic leader dedicated to fostering operational excellence and business growth.
As the Course Lead and Apprenticeship Coordinator for the Improvement Suite at the University of Bedfordshire, I am committed to developing innovative solutions and delivering impactful educational and research experiences, ensuring our courses meet the evolving demands of the industry.
I love improving people and processes.
If something or someone is not working or utilising its full potential, I investigate the reason for the shortfall in performance and I recommend optimisation.
This is my dogma as an experienced operations manager, and I have endeavoured to bring this modus operandi to my classroom and imbibe it on my apprentices and students.
I believe “Excellence” is not a result but a process of continuous improvement according to the sigma level employed.
Master of Business Administration, University of Northampton, United Kingdom, 2021
Professional Certifications
Professional Affiliations
Beyond my professional life, I value time spent with family and friends.
I am an avid football fan.
Music is another passion especially classical and jazz, although I listen to all genres, as my aunt would always say “the head always nod to a beautiful music”.
My dedication to lifelong learning extends to my contributions to academic research, with multiple publications in leading journals focusing on strategic and operational excellence.
For any questions regarding the Improvement Suite Apprenticeship course, please don't hesitate to contact me:
Omamode.Orieno@beds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/improvement-specialist:
This programme is ideal for those with 3-4 years of supervisory experience looking to advance into leadership roles.
The Improvement Specialist Apprenticeship focuses on developing analytical and practical skills with an emphasis on increasing managerial responsibility.
This manifests itself as a requirement to coach and teach colleagues in the ability to use the analytical methods taught in the course – typically in a team leadership role.
The course is designed for people leading change management/ improvement functions who are involved in day to day operations and who wish to enhance their professionalism by gaining both an academic qualification and an officially approved apprenticeship.
Upon successful completion of the Improvement Specialist apprenticeship, individuals are presented with a diverse array of Career Opportunities awaiting their exploration.
These encompass roles such as Business Improvement Consultant, tasked with enhancing operational efficiencies and optimising business processes.
There are also opportunities in roles such as Process Excellence Consultant, specialising in the streamlining of workflows and the implementation of best practices.
Additionally, individuals may find avenues in positions like Continuous Improvement Consultant, dedicated to fostering a culture of ongoing enhancement and innovation within organisational frameworks.
This is a level 5 Apprenticeship.
Further off-the-job learning is facilitated through the University’s virtual learning environment, BREO, and online library resource
Practical applications include leading quality improvement initiatives in healthcare, implementing efficiency projects in manufacturing, and optimising processes in service industries.
Apprentices must demonstrate their skills through practical applications in their workplace, culminating in an End Point Assessment (EPA) to receive their qualification.
The course fosters a strong understanding of the commercial environment, emphasising the importance of leading advanced improvement projects and ensuring the integration of academic learning with practical experience.
For details on the Improvement Specialist Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
It is expected that most apprentices will complete the apprenticeship in 18 months.
Improvement Specialists are responsible for leading the deployment of improvement strategies, training others, and providing broad and deep technical expertise in advanced and complex Lean and Six Sigma methodologies, as well as Project and Change Management principles and tools.
Their role is crucial in identifying and delivering improvement opportunities that align with key business goals.
Improvement Specialists manage (directly and/or through a matrix structure) Improvement Practitioners who lead smaller improvement projects aligned with the overall improvement strategy.
Improvement Specialists draw on their advanced knowledge and skills in applying improvement principles and tools across a range of programmes, projects, and areas to build the capability of others.
They excel in quickly visualising processes, identifying problems and opportunities, and using both graphical and statistical analysis to deliver substantial improvements.
This unit focuses on developing awareness of the commercial environment and the use of relevant tools to identify and prioritise improvement projects across various functions.
It emphasises continuous development and improvement, fostering team working skills, and guiding improvement practitioners.
The unit covers benchmarking, process thinking, root cause analysis, and change management.
Students will engage in coaching and team-building exercises, reflecting on performance and adapting to new challenges.
This unit aims to deepen students' understanding of project planning and control, covering systematic project management approaches, tools, and techniques applicable across various business contexts.
Delivered over 12 weeks, it includes essential topics such as PRINCE2 and Agile methodologies, stakeholder management, resource and budget management, project estimating and scheduling, risk and issue management, and project monitoring and control.
Through interactive teaching and practical focus, students learn to formulate and execute effective project plans, manage risks, and achieve successful project outcomes.
The Statistics and Measurement for Change Management unit aims to equip students with the ability to guide and apply improvement principles and tools in various programs.
It includes graphical and statistical analysis to deliver improvement opportunities aligned with business goals.
The syllabus covers probability distributions, confidence intervals, measurement system analysis, root cause analysis, and experimentation.
Students will engage in classroom exercises, linking learning to work-based projects, and collaborate with peers and employers.
This unit explores theoretical concepts of project leadership and stakeholder engagement, emphasising the development of leadership skills through experiential learning.
The syllabus includes leadership theories, social and cultural contexts, team development, stakeholder management, negotiation, and strategic implementation.
Students will engage in class activities, case studies, and group interactions, applying concepts to their workplaces.
Individual employers will set their own entry requirements; typically Improvement qualification level 4, or equivalent.
Applicants need to remain employed within the workplace for the duration of the course, ideally for a minimum of 30hrs a week.
Fees: Companies with a wage bill less than £3m will just pay £450, this is because the government funds 95% of the full fee.
If you are a levy-payer then this apprenticeship will be £9,000 from your levy.
Meet your Course Coordinator Get to know Omamode Orieno, your supportive mentor and Course Coordinator for the Improvement Specialist Apprenticeship.
Get to know Omamode Orieno, your supportive mentor and Course Coordinator for the Improvement Specialist Apprenticeship.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/improvement-leader:
The Improvement Leader focus is on developing analytical and practical skills with an emphasis on enhanced leadership at the organisational level with an emphasis of strategic development of Improvement projects across the organisation and with a significant general business perspective.
The course is designed for senior managerial people leading change management/ improvement/direction functions who wish to enhance their professionalism by gaining both an academic qualification and an officially approved apprenticeship.
Career opportunities for an Improvement Leader include roles such as Senior Consultant, Senior Lean Leader, and Transformational Leader.
As a Senior Consultant, you will work with various organisations to identify inefficiencies and implement solutions to drive productivity and profitability.
The Senior Lean Leader role focuses on applying Lean principles to streamline processes and reduce waste, often leading cross-functional teams and training staff.
A Transformational Leader spearheads large-scale organisational changes, requiring strategic vision and strong leadership to inspire and drive significant improvements.
These positions allow Improvement Leaders to enhance operational efficiency and contribute to their organisations' long-term success.
Further off-the-job learning is facilitated through the University’s virtual learning environment, BREO, and online library resource.
Apprentices are trained to develop and deploy sustainable improvement strategies, coach, and mentor others, and ensure the achievement of business goals.
Practical applications include driving organisational change in large corporations, leading enterprise-wide quality improvement initiatives, and developing strategic plans to enhance operational efficiency.
The course integrates the IFATE standard and emphasises respect, tolerance, democracy, and individual liberty.
Improvement Leaders play a vital role in driving organisational excellence by developing improvement strategies, providing leadership in improvement initiatives, and supporting Improvement Specialists in conducting advanced analyses.
They typically report to Board members or Heads of Department and oversee a team of Improvement Specialists responsible for deploying strategies and leading improvement projects.
Working closely with all business functions, Improvement Leaders ensure alignment between improvement efforts and overall business goals.
They often focus on the largest-scale and highest-priority programmes, driving accountability and facilitating collaboration across teams to achieve desired outcomes.
In addition to their strategic responsibilities, Improvement Leaders foster a culture of continuous improvement throughout the organisation.
They invest in developing the skills and capabilities of their teams, ensuring that everyone is equipped to contribute effectively to ongoing improvement efforts.
Through their guidance and expertise, Improvement Leaders drive meaningful change and facilitate long-term success.
This unit explores the interplay between strategy and change management, focusing on how projects and programs support organisational goals.
It covers strategic management paradigms, change management models, and the relationship between project management and strategic implementation.
Apprentices learn to develop strategic options, analyse resources, and evaluate the impact of projects on strategic outcomes.
The coursework includes evaluating organisational project strategies and planning change initiatives.
Key learning outcomes include the ability to prepare and justify change plans, evaluate strategic approaches, and manage change through program and project management, ensuring alignment with organisational goals and successful implementation.
This unit aims to develop the ability to critically evaluate the benefits of improvement strategies and to lead data analysis using statistical methods to achieve these improvements.
Apprentices will explore various quantitative techniques and their applications in real-world business contexts, focusing on methods such as multiple regression, binary logistic regression, forecasting, queuing theory, and simulation (Monte Carlo and discrete event).
The coursework emphasises practical application, requiring apprentices to design and implement data-driven improvement strategies and assess their financial and non-financial benefits within their organisations.
Key learning outcomes include mastering statistical process control and leading improvement projects.
This unit focuses on developing leadership, change management, and coaching skills essential for leading business improvement initiatives.
It covers team formation, leadership styles, emotional intelligence, and strategic deployment of continuous improvement.
Apprentices are required to identify training needs within their organisation, develop a training plan, and deliver a training session to Level 5 apprentices.
Key outcomes include the ability to assess learning needs, plan and deliver training, and enhance organisational capabilities through effective leadership and coaching.
This capstone unit synthesizes all knowledge, skills, and behaviours learned throughout the Improvement Leader Apprenticeship course.
Apprentices develop a dissertation focused on improvement strategies within their employer's business, integrating project management, data analysis, and change management.
They must identify a significant improvement project, develop a detailed plan, and deliver a training session to Level 5 apprentices.
The focus is on creating a continuous improvement culture and evaluating the impact of these strategies.
Individual employers will set their own entry requirements; typically Improvement level 5 qualification or equivalent.
Fees: Companies with a wage bill less than £3m will just pay £750, this is because the government funds 95% of the full fee.
If you are a levy-payer then this apprenticeship will be £15,000 from your levy.
Meet your Course Coordinator Get to know Omamode Orieno, your supportive mentor and Course Coordinator for the Improvement Leader Apprenticeship.
Get to know Omamode Orieno, your supportive mentor and Course Coordinator for the Improvement Leader Apprenticeship.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/nursing-associate:
The Nursing Associate Apprenticeship is for healthcare workers currently employed in a healthcare setting, usually working as a healthcare assistant.
It is for those who are motivated to expand their role and who want to enhance the delivery of care to patients and the public.
Nursing Associate apprentices need to be open to learning new skills and knowledge.
Nursing associates should be emotionally intelligent and resilient individuals, able to manage their own personal health and well-being, recognise boundaries of their practice and know when and how to access support.
The benefits to employers of investing in the Nursing Associate Apprenticeship include:
It’s intended that the Nursing Associate (NMC 2018) role will enable registered nurses to focus on more complex clinical duties.
Nursing associates work in the public, independent and voluntary sectors and it is a statutorily regulated profession.
After qualifying there are great opportunities to develop within the role of Nursing Associate, as well as using the qualification as a stepping stone towards becoming a registered nurse.
The programme is structured over three 12-week semesters, commencing in October, February and June, where apprentices complete 11 weeks of teaching and allocated assessment time.
We offer two patterns of placement delivery, a weekly release of 1 day per week throughout the whole academic year, or block placements of 5 weeks over 2 periods.
Alongside university teaching and placement, apprentices are also expected to spend time within their workplaces undertaking learning activities outside of their usual job role.
The delivery of this can be adapted to individual employers in accordance with the Nursing and Midwifery Council requirements for qualification as a Nursing Associate.
Apprentices have the opportunity to experience the role of the Nursing Associate in a variety of practice learning environments within acute NHS hospital environments, community services and within primary care to ensure learning within all four fields of nursing – adult, child, mental health and learning disability.
Off the job learning: Apprentices undertake off the job learning each week in University and also in external clinical placements, either on the day release or block placement model.
On the job learning: Apprentices will be working within their usual workplaces under the requirements of Protected Learning Time which requires participation in activities outside of the normal remits of their substantive role.
Examples of this could include observing and participating in clinical tasks, shadowing other professionals or undertaking varied duties under the supervision of a registered professional.
For details on the Nursing Associate (NMC 2018) Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
It is expected that most apprentices will complete the qualification in the minimum time of 2 years.
There are currently 3 intakes a year for the Nursing Associate Apprenticeship:
February – This is usually based at the Luton Campus.
Combined employer/university interviews usually take place between August and the end of September.
June – This is usually based at the Bedford Campus.
Combined employer/university interviews usually take place between Feb and the end of March.
September – This is usually based at the Luton Campus.
Combined employer/university interviews usually take place between May and the end of July.
Support is available to both employers and applicants to ensure the apprenticeship onboarding process is as smooth as possible.
Nursing Associates have a really important role to play within the healthcare team.
It bridges the gap between healthcare assistants and registered nurses.
Nursing Associates provide hands on care within a wide variety of healthcare settings including hospitals, community settings, general practice and care homes.
It is a level 5 course and usually takes two years to complete.
It is fully accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
The learning is a mixture of hands on experience in the workplace, placements outside the workplace, and learning activities supported by the University.
At the end of the training apprentices will have a foundation degree and become eligible to register with the NMC, when they will then become a fully registered nursing associate.
Upon successful completion of the programme, graduates are awarded the following qualifications:
Fees: Health and care organisations with a wage bill less than £3m will just pay £750 over two years (or £375 per annum), this is because the government funds 95% of the full fee.
If you are a levy-payer then this apprenticeship will be £15,000 from your levy.As a business of any size, you can also use Manage apprenticeship service to apply for funding from large businesses that want to fund 100% of your apprenticeship training and assessment costs.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/healthcare-assistant-practitioner:
This apprenticeship is designed for employers wishing to upskill healthcare workers currently working in an assistant capacity in a range of healthcare settings, for example in adult, mental health or children’s nursing, midwifery, or operating department practice.
The apprenticeship is also open to:
Assistant Practitioners typically work in a wide range of health and care services for example diagnostic services, rehabilitation, orthopaedics, oncology, end of life care, mental health and learning disabilities.
Assistant Practitioners are often hybrid roles aligned to local population and service needs and cross traditional occupational boundaries.
The apprenticeship values practice based learning and recognises the value of life experiences as a learning resource.
Training will build upon practice experiences by offering a range of learning opportunities where practice can be further developed.
Apprenticeship will embark on a journey of active, independent learning with appropriate support from academic and clinical staff.
The knowledge and skills acquired will equip staff to promote health in a diverse and changing society, through a range of caring interactions.
For details on the Assistant Practitioner (Health) Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
It is expected that most apprentices will typically complete the apprenticeship in 24 months.
The intakes are currently available in September and January in our Luton campus.
Available from September 2025 , our Level 5 Assistant Practitioner (Health) apprenticeship is designed to be relevant, practical and challenging.
This apprenticeship addresses the knowledge, skills and professional behaviours needed for a range of healthcare roles.
Assistant Practitioners work as part of the wider health and social care team and have direct contact with patients, service users or clients providing high quality and compassionate care.
Assistant Practitioners work at a level above that of Healthcare Support Workers and have a more in-depth understanding about factors that influence health and ill-health (e.g.
anatomy and physiology).
Assistant Practitioner is a job title applied to a very wide variety of roles that have been developed locally by employers to meet individual service need.
Upon successful completion of this standard, individuals will have obtained the core skills, knowledge and values/behaviours to become an Assistant Practitioner.
The programme will foster development of reflective, compassionate healthcare practitioners, able to promote safe and effective care within a multi-disciplinary context.
The experiences gained on the programme will help staff to provide and maintain healthcare of the highest quality.
The programme is designed in partnership with local employers and service users to offer practice-led and competency-based training.
The course integrates the theory of healthcare practice with work-based learning, using your staff who are trained as practice educators and assessors to support the apprentices.
Entry requirements will be determined by individual employers.
Fees: Companies with a wage bill less than £3m will just pay £700 over the two years, this is because the government funds 95% of the full fee.
If you are a levy-payer then this apprenticeship will be £14,000.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/registered-nurse:
The Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeship (RNDA) is for healthcare workers currently employed in a healthcare setting or for those appointed specifically to undertake a registered nursing degree apprenticeship.
OR For nurses already registered with the NMC who wish to obtain a second registration in another field of nursing, who are currently employed in a healthcare setting or for those appointed specifically to undertake a second registration nursing degree apprenticeship.
The flexibility of the RNDA at the University of Bedfordshire means that apprentices can start the course at various points depending upon their previous level of qualification.
These include:
Registered nurses play a vital role in providing, leading and coordinating care that is compassionate, evidence-based, and person-centred.
They are accountable for their own actions and must be able to work autonomously, or as an equal partner with a range of other professionals, and in interdisciplinary teams.
In order to respond to the impact and demands of professional nursing practice, they must be emotionally intelligent and resilient individuals, who are able to manage their own personal health and wellbeing, and know when and how to access support.
For further information on this please see - Standards of proficiency for registered nurses
Off-the-job learning: All nursing apprentices at the University of Bedfordshire participate in full time off-the-job training for the duration of the programme, except during the university summer break when they return to their 'home base'.
Supporting learning: Employers work with the university and the apprentice to provide support throughout the programme.
This includes regular attendance at tripartite meetings, monitoring progress and highlighting concerns early, and the provision of supervision, assessment and mentorship in the workplace.
For details on the Registered Nurse Degree (NMC 2018) Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
Depending on the apprenticeship route taken, it is expected that most apprentices will complete the qualification within either 2 or 3 years.
Regardless of which apprenticeship, the programme of study must be completed within a maximum of 5 years.
The intake dates vary depending on the length of the apprenticeship.
The 3-year apprenticeship starts in September .
However, there is an opportunity to RPL.
The classes will take place once a week.
Registered Nurses work in the NHS, the independent and voluntary sector in a variety of healthcare settings including a hospital, someone’s home, in the community, social care or in public health.
A registered nurse interacts with a variety of service users, families and carers, and with an extensive range of health and care professionals and other agencies including social services, police, probation, prisons, housing, education, language interpreters and third sector agencies.
They work with, support and facilitate the learning of a range of individuals from other health and care professions.
Nurses usually work various shift patterns which enable care to be provided 24 hours per day, seven days per week, 365 days of the year.
Registered nurses are a key part of the multidisciplinary teams that meet the integrated health and care needs of patients and service users.
The course is approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and is designed to ensure apprentices leave the programme as skilled, effective, safe nurses who deliver high quality care.
At the University of Bedfordshire there are three fields of registered nurse degree apprenticeships available.
These are:
Each Apprentice will be supported by a named apprenticeship coordinator.
These are members of the course academic team who provide personal support specifically for apprentices, in a similar role to a personal tutor.
In addition to their personal tutor role, apprenticeship coordinators facilitate the 12 weekly tripartite meetings.
They are also the apprentices’ first port of call if they have any queries.
Apprenticeship coordinators help apprentices to establish specific learning outcomes and support them to link theory to practice.
Apprenticeship coordinators work closely with the clinical staff who are undertaking clinical support and assessment of apprentice.
OR
Five GCSEs at grade 4 (or grade C if taken before 2016) including English language or English literature and mathematics (or equivalent), plus one of the following:
Additional entry requirements for all Registered Nurse Degree Apprenticeships:
Please note: NVQ Level 3 is not accepted for any of our professional healthcare courses.
Fees: Levy-paying organisations will pay £26,000 through apprenticeship levy.
Individual price may be reduced as a result of the initial assessment and recognised prior learning, and adjusted price is subject to a confirmation.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/midwife:
Midwife apprenticeships are for healthcare workers currently employed in a maternity healthcare setting or for those appointed specifically to undertake this training.
Applicants who demonstrate a commitment to maternity services and who are motivated to develop their knowledge and skills to become a registered Midwife.
Midwifery is a highly skilled role, no matter which apprenticeship route is taken, that requires someone with good communications skills, resilience and the motivation to learn.
All women, birthing people and their families need their Midwife to understand the emotional, physical and psychological processes of pregnancy and birth.
Sometimes pregnancies do not go to plan and Midwives need to be able to have the skills to offer support and advice on stillbirth, miscarriage, termination, neonatal death and neonatal abnormalities.
Midwives work with women, birthing people and their families from a variety of backgrounds.
Some might be homeless, socially excluded, have disabilities or be very young.
Other clients may be from certain cultural or religious backgrounds.
Midwives need to be confident enough to communicate effectively with individuals from diverse backgrounds.
The benefits to employers of investing the Midwife Apprenticeships at the University of Bedfordshire are:
Combining practical training with academic learning, the training offers aspiring healthcare professionals a hands-on pathway to a fulfilling career in maternal and newborn care.
Career opportunities for midwives are abundant, spanning hospitals, birthing centers, and community health organisations.
This career path is ideal for those passionate about supporting families and promoting women’s health.
Overall, the apprenticeship lays the foundations for lifelong learning through the development of research, scholarship, entrepreneurialism, and professional practice developing the ability to lead, innovate, evaluate, implement and enhance the care of women, birthing people and their families.
The learning, teaching and assessment strategy aims to transform learners into independent thinkers who take responsibility for their learning in a way that is reasonable for them and promotes public safety.
This apprenticeship has been designed and developed with practice partners, apprentices, service users and carers.
The apprenticeship focuses on issues of direct relevance to the achievement of registered midwifery status, whilst pursuing an undergraduate course of study in a supported learning environment, where the safety of people is of primary consideration.
The proficiencies reflect what the public can expect midwives to know and deliver, safe, effective, respectful, kind, compassionate, person-centred midwifery care.
They are also aligned to the International Confederation of Midwives definition of the midwife.
On both the BSc route and the MSc route, all of the modules are compulsory.
All midwifery apprentices at the University of Bedfordshire participate in full time off-the-job training for the duration of the programme, except during the university summer break when they return to their 'home base'.
It is a practice-based course, preparing apprentices to fully care for women through pregnancy, labour and the postnatal period, conducting at least 40 supervised deliveries by the time they graduate as a professional midwife.
Theory and practice are woven together so apprentices apply the knowledge they learn in the classroom to the clinical skills they are developing.
Apprentices are supported to prepare for professional practice through roleplay, simulation and scenario-based learning as well as lectures, seminars and groupwork while also undertaking allocated clinical shifts, with the support of a qualified midwife.
Successful completion of the course leads to registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
For details on the Midwife Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
The intakes are currently available in September for all midwifery courses.
Midwives provide care and support to women, birthing people and their families throughout pregnancy, labour, and during the postnatal period.
Often the role is thought to be one of assisting women as they give birth, and whilst this is a vital part of the role, the scope of the role of the midwife is much broader than this.
Midwives are responsible for providing care and support to women, birthing people and their families, to enable them to make informed choices about their care.
The midwife’s role is so varied, it can include; public health, clinical examinations and care, health education, parenting support, safeguarding, research and specialist education and support for women, birthing people and their families to ensure individual and whole families’ needs are met.
They work in partnership with a wide variety of health and social care professionals, but usually remain the lead health professional for the woman, birthing person and their family, providing evidence-based information and supporting informed decision making about the options and services available throughout their pregnancy.
Midwives can work in community settings such as family homes, GP surgeries, outpatient clinics, midwife-led units and birth centres or in hospital maternity units.
This means that they usually work shifts including evenings, weekends and nights and may be on-call to provide 24-hour care.
Midwifery apprentices are provided with a high-quality learning environment in practice settings where they learn, with and through peers, lecturers, women, birthing people and their families, and practitioners within a multi-cultural and multi-professional learning community.
At the University of Bedfordshire we are able to offer two different midwifery apprenticeship routes.
Midwifery apprentices will gain knowledge and skills to allow them to become competent within the six domains of the NMC Standards of proficiency for midwives (2019).
On successful completion, the apprentice will be eligible to register with the NMC as a Registered Midwife.
All successful graduates are awarded:
Level 6
Level 7
Upon successful completion of levels 6 or 7, the apprentice will be eligible to register with the NMC as a Registered Midwife.
Plus one of the following:
*The NMC requires those enrolled on pre-registration midwifery programmes are appropriately compliant with Article 40(2) of Directive 2005/36/EC regarding general education length and/or nursing qualification.
This requires that an applicant to this course must be in possession of evidence of formal qualifications from completion of at least 12 years of general school education or possession of a certificate attesting success in an examination, of an equivalent level (NMC 2019 Part 3: Standards for pre- registration midwifery programmes – page 14).
Fees: Levy-paying organisations will pay £26,000 from apprenticeship levy.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/paramedic:
Eligibility to apply for this course is only available to employees of NHS Ambulance Trusts that have a contract with the University of Bedfordshire.
This apprenticeship and other similar pre-hospital courses provided by the University of Bedfordshire are open to all ages and all individuals who meet the entry requirements.
All applicants must satisfy the Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Standards and receive Occupational Health clearance.
The Paramedic Apprenticeship provides a dynamic and immersive route into the fast-paced world of emergency medical services.
This program blends hands-on experience with classroom instruction, equipping individuals with critical skills in patient assessment, life-saving interventions, and crisis management.
Career opportunities for qualified paramedics are vast, including roles in ambulance services, air medical teams, event medical support, and emergency departments.
This apprenticeship is an excellent choice for those who thrive under pressure and are dedicated to saving lives and serving their communities.
Across the three years of this course, academic teaching will usually take place on one day a week.
This learning may be supplemented with additional activities to broaden apprentice experience and support their overall development.
Indicative calendars where both lectures and work-based learning will be detailed are available on request.
This is a level 6 apprenticeship.
For details on the Paramedic Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
This course is a 3-year program, however, depending on candidate’s existing qualifications, portfolio of practice, or recognition of prior studies or experience, an accelerated 2-year course may be available.
Each application is reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
There are 2 intakes a year:
This degree apprenticeship will enable individuals to be eligible to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and become a Registered Paramedic.
The training will also equip learners with the knowledge and skills to become an autonomous paramedic practitioner.
Apprentices will develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours to undertake appropriate assessments, provide evidence-based treatments, and implement appropriate referral, management and discharge plans for your patients.
A partnership approach will be facilitated to ensure patient-centred care is adopted, ensuring assessment and management skills are developed to meet patient specific needs - utilising an inclusive and empowering NHS mandate for individualised care.
This approach to care delivery will require the apprentice to use a range of care pathways including conveyance to a local or specialist hospital, or a referral to other community-based health or social care services.
On completion of the apprenticeship, individuals are eligible to apply to the Health Care Professions Council (HCPC) to register as a paramedic.
Once accepted onto the Register, only then are they permitted to be referred to as a Registered Paramedic.
Fees: Levy-paying organisations will pay £27,000 from the apprenticeship levy.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/advanced-clinical-practitioner:
The degree is designed for experienced practitioners who are preparing to develop their careers as Advanced Clinical Practitioners.
It is aimed at experienced registered nurses, midwives and Allied Health Professionals who are supported by their employer to develop into advanced clinical practice roles.
The apprentices come from a variety of clinical, health and social care backgrounds.
The Non-medical prescribing element of the programme is regulated and approved by both the NMC and the HCPC.
Applicants need to check with their regulatory body to ensure they are eligible to study the prescribing module before applying.
Those applicants that are already non-medical prescribers make a recognised prior learning (RPL) claim as part of the application and do not repeat this qualification.
ACPs apprentices are expected to be self-motivated learners.
The content of the course is designed to be relevant, practice and positively challenging for apprentices.
Apprentices are supported by experienced, professional, qualified tutors.
Teaching and learning is at master’s level and empowers apprentices to take their clinical practice to a higher, advanced level.
This enables apprentices to:
This course enables apprentices to develop their critical thinking skills.
It facilitates apprentices to initiate developments at both national and local level within a wide range of healthcare settings.
This is a level 7 apprenticeship.
The teaching and learning throughout the programme is based around the four pillars of ACP and covers units such as:
The units are delivered using a building block approach, where apprentices will remain focused on their practice area, and will draw on what they have learnt to influence their future learning and future clinical practice.
As part of an apprentice’s study schedule, the Education and Skills Funding Agency requires that at least 6 hours of each apprentice’s working week is dedicated to off-the-job learning.
Apprentices are required to keep an accurate record of their off the job learning time.
For those apprentices who are not already prescribers, they will require the support of a designated prescribing practitioner, to support them through the non-medical prescribing unit.
On the job learning requires support from experienced, motivated and appropriately qualified colleagues.
This support facilitates ACP apprentices to apply and evidence their advancing academic knowledge to their clinical practice.
The end-point assessment (EPA) is an integrated assessment and forms the final 20 credits of the Advanced Clinical Practitioner Degree Apprenticeship.
It is a nationally agreed assessment that comprise of an open book exam and a professional presentation of practice.
Together these demonstrate the apprentice’s achievement of the knowledge, skills and behaviours of the Advanced Clinical Practitioner standard.
For details on the Advanced Clinical Practitioner Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
It is expected that most apprentices will complete the qualification within 3 years.
The programme of study needs to be completed within a maximum of 5 years.
There are currently 2 intakes a year for this apprenticeship, available in January and September.
Applications close 8 weeks before the start date.
Advanced Clinical Practice is delivered by experienced, registered healthcare practitioners and is characterised by a high degree of autonomy and complex decision making.
On completion, apprentices will have a Masters level award and be able to demonstrate Advanced Clinical Practice skills alongside area specific competencies.
Throughout the Advanced Clinical Practitioner Degree Apprenticeship (ACPDA), apprentices will develop the skills, knowledge and behaviours essential for advanced practitioners critical who are required to act with a high level of autonomy by learning.
Learning and the development of advanced behaviours is focused around the four pillars that underpin ACP - advanced clinical practice, leadership and management, research, and education.
This degree apprenticeship includes a non-medical prescribing module as a mandatory aspect of the programme.
Once this has been successfully completed, apprentices gain a recordable prescribing qualification, within their scope of practice, with their regulatory body.
It is anticipated that potential students will:
Fees: Health and care organisations with a wage bill less than £3m will just pay £600 over two or three years (or £300 or £200 per annum), this is because the government funds 95% of the full fee.
If you are a levy-payer, then this apprenticeship will be £12,000 from your levy.
As a business of any size, you can also use Manage apprenticeship service to apply for funding from large businesses that want to fund 100% of your apprenticeship training and assessment costs.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/operating-department-practitioner:
This degree is designed for healthcare workers with an interest in becoming registered operating department practitioners, able to offer compassionate, safe and effective care through the peri-operative period, a time when people can be at their most vulnerable.
Across three years of the course, academic teaching will take place in a block pattern, supplemented with long periods in clinical placement.
Applications must be submitted at least 2 months before the start date of the programme.
For details on the Operating Department Practitioner Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
It is expected that most apprentices will complete this qualification within 3 years.
The intakes are currently available in September at our Luton campus.
On this course, apprentices will develop the skills they need to become a qualified operating department practitioner (ODP), able to offer coordinated, patient-centred perioperative care alongside surgeons, anaesthetists and theatre nurses.
With an emphasis on reflective, practice-based development, apprentice's studies and training take place both at the university and in clinical practice, where they work alongside a qualified mentor in a range of perioperative care settings: anaesthetics, operating theatres, emergency departments, intensive care and recovery.
On successful completion of the course, graduates will achieve a BSc (Hons) in Operating Department Practice and a Level 6 Apprenticeship.
Subsequently, they will be eligible to apply to register with the Health and Care Professions Council as an Operating Department Practitioner.
In addition, the graduates will be able to seek employment in a role of an Operating Department Practitioner within the NHS Trusts, as well as the private, voluntary and independent sector.
The range of perioperative care settings can include anaesthetics, operating theatres, emergency departments, intensive care and recovery.
For Access Course Apprentices:
Contact us for additional guidance on whether the qualifications the candidate currently holds or are taking would be suitable for entry.
Fees: Companies with a wage bill less than £3m will just pay £1,300 over three years, this is because the government funds 95% of the full fee.
If you are a levy-payer then this apprenticeship will be £26,000 from your levy.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/social-worker:
Topics will include:
For details on the Social Worker Apprenticeship Standard, including the knowledge, skills and behaviours you will learn on the course, visit the Institute for Apprenticeships & Technical Education
The intakes are currently available in September in our Luton campus.
Across the 3-year course, academic teaching will usually take place on one day a week, supplemented by short block periods and additional study days.
Indicative calendars are available on request.
Our social work integrated degree apprenticeship aims to develop the knowledge and skills necessary for effective social work practice with adults, children, carers and families in a range of different settings.
Successful apprentices will be equipped to promote positive change in people’s lives, improving their wellbeing and independence.
Apprentices extend their classroom-based learning through workplace practice.
With support from the employment-based Mentor and the Apprenticeship Co-ordinator, each apprentice will have opportunities to place their academic study in the context of the Behaviours, Knowledge and Skills described in the Social Worker (degree) Apprenticeship Standard.
The programme includes BSc (Hons) Social Work.
The BSc (Hons) Social Worker (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) does not require Apprentices to meet standard degree requirements in terms of academic qualifications, stipulated UCAS points, nor English and Maths qualifications at the point of admission.
However, Apprentices are required to have achieved the minimum of a Level 2 qualification in English and Maths prior to Gateway at the end of your course.
The university provides support for obtaining L2 Functional Skills Maths and English with City & Guilds.
The British Sign Language qualification is recognised as an alternative to English qualifications for apprentices for whom this is their primary language.
Apprentices will be required, through the selection process, to draw on experiences that enable them to demonstrate the aptitude and potential to work with people in need, i.e.
the appropriate personal qualities, values and skills to be a social worker, in line with the Professional Capabilities Framework (British Association of Social Workers, 2018) at entry level.
All applicants will be required to declare any previous offences (including cautions and formal warnings unless filtered) and, if selected, successful applicants will be required to undergo a Disclosure and Barring Scheme check to ensure their suitability for working with vulnerable groups.
In addition, applicants will need to complete health check questionnaire and give permission for contact with their GP, where necessary, to confirm their suitability for social work training.
Selection for the BSc (Hons) Social Worker (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship) involves two key stages to assess candidates’ potential and aptitude for the course.
The relevant sponsoring local authority, private, independent or voluntary organisation will short-list and interview appropriate candidates.
Successful candidates will then undertake selection at the University of Bedfordshire, which entails completion of a written test and an individual interview with an academic member of staff, a practice educator and/or a service user/carer representative to assess their academic potential and suitability for social work education and social work.
Candidates must successfully complete both assessment elements to be offered a place on the BSc (Hons) Social Worker (Integrated Degree Apprenticeship).
Fee: Organisations with a wage bill less than £3m will just pay £1200 over three years, this is because the government funds 95% of the full fee.
If you are a levy-payer then this apprenticeship will be £24,000 from your levy.As a business of any size, you can also use Manage apprenticeship service to apply for funding from large businesses that want to fund 100% of your apprenticeship training and assessment costs.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/news/2023/march/university-celebrates-glowing-ofsted-apprenticeship-inspection:
University staff teaching on the apprenticeship programme were highlighted in the Ofsted report for their expertise.
The report noted: “Apprentices benefit from staff who are subject experts with significant sector experience.
Leaders ensure that staff receive a range of meaningful professional development to stay up to date in their specialist fields.
Staff use this knowledge highly effectively in curriculum and assessment design, and to exemplify their teaching.”
Running since 2017, Bedfordshire’s apprenticeship programmes are tailored for organisations who would like to offer their employees additional training and personal development.
Apprenticeships available Professional Social Worker ; Registered Nurse; Nursing Associate; Midwife; Digital and Technology Professional; and Senior Leader Project Management.
Professor Andrew Church, Pro Vice Chancellor at the University, commented: “I am delighted with the outcome of this inspection.
We have been offering apprenticeship programmes for many years and are proud of our track record in helping employees develop new skills for the workplace.
“Apprenticeships have many benefits to both the individual and the organisation, ultimately helping local businesses, communities and the economy to thrive.
“I hope that more organisations will consider apprenticeship programmes as a way to develop their existing employees in the higher level skills they need.”
Kayleigh Bell – Future Skills Programme Manager at national energy supplier, SSE plc which works with the University – commented: “Project Management is a fast growing and ever changing landscape for SSE, and we aim to ensure that our staff are fully equipped with the skills, knowledge and behaviours that demonstrate the ability to be successful in the role.
“The University of Bedfordshire’s Project Management apprenticeship plays a pivotal role in creating a skilful future workforce and produces a solid development path for our staff to reach their full potential.”
Sharon Price, a third year Professional Social Worker apprentice with the University’s School of Applied Social Sciences , commented: “I didn’t go to university when I was younger so this is my first experience of higher education which I’m really enjoying.
I think being with other students and supporting each other through the apprenticeship programme has been really helpful – it’s really nice to come together.”
Alongside existing programmes, a number of new apprenticeship degrees are due to launch in September 2023.
These will include Occupational Therapist, Physiotherapist, Business Analyst, Ambulance Support Worker, Improvement Specialisms, Marketing Executive and Digital Marketer.
Employers who would like further information about current and future Higher and Degree Apprenticeships should visit: www.beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/benefits-for-employers:
Apprenticeships offer numerous benefits to employers across various industries, providing a strategic advantage in talent development.
From cost-effective skill enhancement to fostering workforce diversity and innovation, hiring apprentices can position organisations for long-term success in today's competitive business landscape.
Understanding these advantages enables informed decisions about integrating apprenticeships into your talent development strategy.
Below are some key benefits of hiring apprentices:
Apprenticeships offer a cost-effective way to develop a skilled workforce tailored to your organisation’s specific needs.
Unlike traditional recruitment methods, apprenticeships allow employers to train individuals according to their business requirements, reducing recruitment and training costs in the long run.
Apprenticeship programmes demonstrate your organisation’s commitment to investing in the professional development of its workforce.
By providing apprentices with valuable training, mentorship, and career advancement opportunities, employers can enhance employee satisfaction and loyalty, leading to higher retention rates.
In today’s rapidly changing economy, businesses need to adapt quickly to technological advancements and market shifts.
Apprenticeships enable employers to future-proof their workforce by equipping apprentices with the skills and knowledge needed to thrive in evolving industries and job roles.
By offering apprenticeship opportunities, employers play a vital role in addressing societal challenges such as youth unemployment and skills gaps.
Apprenticeships provide individuals with pathways to meaningful employment and economic independence, contributing to social mobility and community development.
Apprenticeships provide opportunities for individuals from diverse backgrounds to enter the workforce and contribute their unique perspectives and experiences to your organisation.
By embracing diversity through apprenticeships, employers can foster innovation and creativity within their teams.
Apprenticeships bring new talent into your organisation, bringing fresh perspectives, ideas, and skills that can drive innovation and growth.
By fostering a culture of learning and collaboration, employers can leverage the creativity and enthusiasm of apprentices to tackle business challenges and explore new opportunities.
Apprenticeship programmes allow employers to build a pipeline of skilled talent for current and future job openings within their organisation.
By nurturing talent from within, employers can reduce reliance on external recruitment and ensure a steady supply of qualified candidates to meet their business needs.
Apprenticeships provide employers with the opportunity to design training programs that precisely align with their industry and organisational requirements.
This ensures that the skills and knowledge gained by apprentices are directly applicable to your unique environment, enhancing efficiency and productivity.
The University of Bedfordshire provides a comprehensive range of services to help organisations fully capitalise on the benefits of apprenticeships.
With expert guidance and tailored training programmes, Beds ensures that apprenticeships align with your strategic goals, enhancing both the skills of the apprentices and the overall performance of your organisation.
By offering cutting-edge facilities, updated curricula, and continuous support, the university enables businesses to create effective and exemplary apprenticeship schemes that foster growth and success.
We provide tailored guidance to help you make the most of your apprenticeship levy funds, ensuring optimal investment in talent development.
Our expert team can assist in the recruitment process, identifying and securing top-tier apprentices who align with your organisation's needs and culture.
From initial consultation to implementation and beyond, we offer a comprehensive start-to-finish service, collaborating closely with you to design and deliver tailored training programmes through flexible delivery options.
For organisations not subject to the levy, we offer assistance in accessing available government support schemes, enabling you to benefit from apprenticeship programmes cost-effectively.
We specialise in developing your existing workforce, equipping them with the higher-level skills necessary for your organisation's growth and success.
Throughout the apprenticeship journey, both you and your apprentices receive dedicated support from experienced coordinators.
Regular progress reviews ensure continuous improvement and alignment with your organisational objectives.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/apprenticeships/benefits-for-apprentices:
At the University of Bedfordshire we're dedicated to providing apprentices with invaluable opportunities for growth, learning, and career advancement.
Our apprenticeship programme offers a unique blend of practical experience, academic learning, and comprehensive support, empowering apprentices to thrive in their chosen fields.
Explore the benefits below to discover how our apprenticeship programme can help you kickstart your career and achieve your professional goals.
Apprenticeships offer the unique advantage of earning a wage from day one, providing financial stability while acquiring valuable skills.
This accessibility provides an alternative pathway to education, especially for those unable to afford traditional university fees.
With full employment status, apprentices have tuition fees covered by their employer and the Government, eliminating the need for additional loans.
Apprenticeships provide hands-on training in real-world work environments, blending study with employer-based learning.
This allows apprentices to apply theoretical knowledge directly to practical situations in their workplace, not only enhancing their understanding of the industry but also equipping them with valuable skills directly applicable to their future careers.
Apprenticeships often lead to nationally recognised qualifications or certifications, highly valued by employers.
These qualifications serve as tangible evidence of an apprentice's skills and competency, enhancing their credibility and employability within the industry.
By gaining valuable skills, experience, and qualifications through their apprenticeship, apprentices are better positioned to command higher salaries and secure lucrative job opportunities within their chosen field.
Apprenticeships provide ample opportunities for networking with industry professionals.
Interactions with colleagues, mentors, and other industry stakeholders allow apprentices to expand their professional network, gain insights into different career paths, and secure job opportunities or collaborations in the future.
Degree apprenticeship courses can include a combination of online and University-based learning, with access to study materials via the online Virtual Learning Environment from anywhere with an internet connection.
Apprenticeships provide comprehensive mentorship and support systems, offering guidance from experienced professionals within the organisation.
Academic support from university tutors and coordinators ensures apprentices maximise their learning experience.
Regular meetings with mentors and tutors offer personalised assistance, with access to additional university services as needed.
Completing an apprenticeship and acquiring in-demand skills and qualifications increase job security and marketability in the workforce.
Employers value apprenticeship-trained employees for their practical experience and industry-specific knowledge, making them less susceptible to job market fluctuations and more likely to retain employment in the long term.
Completing an apprenticeship can open doors to further career advancement within the industry.
As apprentices gain experience and demonstrate their capabilities, they may have opportunities to take on more senior roles or pursue additional training and qualifications to further enhance their career prospects.
Apprenticeships are often tailored to meet the specific needs of the employer and industry, providing training directly relevant to the skills and knowledge required in the chosen field, ensuring apprentices are well-equipped for the job market.
Beyond acquiring technical skills, apprenticeships offer opportunities for personal growth and development.
Through their apprenticeship experience, individuals develop soft skills such as communication, teamwork, problem-solving, and time management, invaluable in any career path.
As members of the University of Bedfordshire learner community, apprentices enjoy benefits similar to full-time students, including access to learning resources, sports and recreation facilities, Student Union facilities, and discounts with an NUS card.
If you're currently not working for a company that can fund or support your higher or degree apprenticeship, you can search for opportunities local to you on 'Find an apprenticeship' on GOV.UK.
Otherwise, please get in touch with our team by filling in a short enquiry form

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/ris/working-with-us:
Working With Us
The University of Bedfordshire understands that organisations require different kinds of support.
Whether you need strategic input into your business, or support with developing products, processes and services, the University’s Business Support team can help.
Whatever stage your business is at, from start-up to an established SME, whether privately owned, public or not-for profit, the university’s experienced advisors will facilitate academic resources and expertise to help you thrive.
They offer a range of support that includes professional consultancy, research, work placements and bespoke workshops.
The University has recently achieved a ‘Good’ Ofsted rating for its apprenticeship provision in 2023 and has the largest offer of apprenticeships in the SEMLEP area.
They also offer a variety of Continuing Professional Development (CPD) courses to help add value to your organisation.
Who can benefit?
UK based businesses from South East Midlands area and beyond.
How can I Benefit?
Whether your goals involve venturing into new markets, embarking on new product development, cost reduction, skilled employee recruitment, or gaining insights into the impact of environmental issues, the fully funded UKSPF programme can help businesses in these Local Authority areas to innovate and grow.
Alternatively, please select one of the challenges from the list below to see available support options, or get in touch for more information
Luton AI business transformation support
Support for creative and cultural sectors
Want to Start a Business?
How Can We Help You?
Previous examples of support:
West Northamptonshire business growth & innovation support
Pathways4Recovery
Productivity Escalator
SEMSUP
Innovation Bridge
B-Innovative
2025-2026 Central Bedfordshire business growth & innovation support
Bedford Borough business growth & innovation support
Want to Grow your Business?
Central Bedfordshire business growth & innovation support
Luton sustainability business support
Growth Curve
Innovation Bridges
ALPHAS
Luton Productivity Programme
Central Bedfordshire Productivity Programme
Time2Grow
ICTE
2025 -2026 Central Bedfordshire business growth & innovation support
IMAGE
Drax Technology Knowledge Transfer Partnerships project
2025 - 2026 Central Bedfordshire business growth & innovation support
Progress into Employment and Training
Higher Level Skills
We work in partnerships with a number of regional agencies, including the Local Authorities, Bedfordshire Chamber of Commerce, and many more.
Each partner within our network can offer specialist skills, strengths, and expertise to the businesses in the area, to help them innovate and grow.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/rgs/about-the-rgs:
The Research Graduate School (RGS) works closely with our institutes to ensure all students have appropriate support and access to skill-building training.
It also monitors student progress and experience, and processes the administrative side of a research degree, including student applications.
The RGS works closely with research institutes to ensure that all students have appropriate support throughout their studies and access to training and development programmes that will complement their research and provide a foundation for their future careers.
There are currently around 250 research students in the University.
These are distributed between ten research institutes
The RGS plays an important role in ensuring that the administration, the procedures for ensuring academic progression and the provisions for student support and experience are in line with the expectations of the QAA quality code Chapter B11 Research Degrees (June 2012).
The University has scored consistently high ratings in teaching assessments carried out since 1995 by the Quality Assurance Agency.
The majority of our research has been rated ‘world leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ (the highest ratings possible) by the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF, 2021).
Specialist research areas which enjoy an international and national reputation include:

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/rgs/apply:
Thinking of doing a PhD or Masters by Research?
Beds students who have completed an undergraduate or postgraduate degree at Beds get a 20% discount on first year PhD and Masters by Research fees.
You can study for a research degree in any field of study for which the University is able to provide appropriate academic supervision.
Through our 10 research institutes , we are able to provide a wide range of specialist topic areas , across different postgraduate awards.
Before you make your application, pin down your choices and carry out some checks.
Master's by Research programmes provide an opportunity for independent study within a structured academic environment.
The research programme which is agreed with the supervisor will be designed to provide an effective training in research methods within the discipline area selected.
MA/MSc by Research students enrol for one year full-time or two years part-time.
The assessment is by submission of a thesis followed by a presentation and oral examination.
Following registration, a research student with the support and direction of the supervisory team will establish the detailed programme of study.
Students will register onto the MPhil course, with the possibility of transfer to PhD.
Students undertake two Progression Point assessments during their study.
These are aimed to help students to complete their research degrees successfully and on time and are designed to align with the need to compile a thesis for final examination and to simulate the final examination processes.
The assessments rest on the submission of substantial written documents and a short Viva Voce examination.
The documents contain material that will be needed for the final thesis.
Upon successful completion of the second Progression Point, the student will transfer to the PhD.
This process of formal scrutiny provides both quality assurance of the postgraduate research degree progression and effective formal academic feedback for the research student at critical stages in the course of their study.
Timings for the academic progression of part-time students will be longer and will vary depending upon the nature of the agreed commitment.
Professional Doctorates are practice-based research degrees.
The University currently offers the following Professional Doctorates:
Find your area of interest within Research topics – while you’re there, explore the institute you will be joining.
Find out more about our fees including any additional costs beyond the degree fee itself.
Find out more about postgraduate funding options , including our 20% tuition-fee discount for University of Bedfordshire alumni (including those who attended the University of Luton and DMU).
For MSc/MA by Research, a good Honours degree (2:2 or above) is required in the appropriate subject.
Applicants for other research-degree awards should have a good Honours degree (2:1 or above), or a Master's degree or equivalent in the relevant subject area.
Part-time study is available on most of our research degrees if you are a UK (home) applicant.
Find out if your degree is offered part time by consulting the relevant course page (see below).
Due to UKVI regulations, we are unable to accept students who require a Tier 4 student visa onto our part-time programmes.
If you are a staff member, please read the Staff PGR policy [PDF] before you apply.
Application deadlines for October 2025 intake:
Application deadlines for March 2026 intake:
Please note that if you submit your application after the deadlines stated above, your application will be processed for the following available intake.
Please note we may reject your application if all of the mandatory documents listed below are not submitted.
To apply for a programme, click the button below for your chosen award and research institute.
This will take you to the course page of the programme, where you can select your preferred options such as starting month, full-time or part-time (where available) and click the Apply now button to submit your application.
Please ensure you read about all of our Institutes and the research topic areas they can support .
Please submit your proposal to only ONE institute after you have decided which institute your topic area sits within.
Please DO NOT submit the same proposal to several institutes as we will only process it for one institute.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/rgs/staff:
Before contacting us please first check your query is not answered on our How to apply or Frequently asked questions pages.
Admissions enquiries E: research@beds.ac.uk
Registered student enquiries E: rgsoffice@beds.ac.uk
Exam stage student enquiries E: researchexaminations@beds.ac.uk
Mrs Kim Burrows Research Degrees Officer T: +44 (0)1582 743757 E: rgsoffice@beds.ac.uk
Mrs Amina Uddin Research Degrees Officer (Admissions) T: +44 (0)1582 743727 E: research@beds.ac.uk
Mrs Melanie Coulson Research Degrees Administrator (IASR, RIMAP Institutes) T: +44 (0)1582 743736 E: rgsoffice@beds.ac.uk
Mrs Cara Senouni Research Degrees Administrator (MEU, CRELLA, IRED, ISPAR Institutes) T: + 44 (0)1582 743708 E: rgsoffice@beds.ac.uk
Ms Susan Turner Research Degrees Administrator (Maternity Cover) (BMRI, IHR, IRAC, IRESE, iBEST Institutes) T: +44 (0)1582 743746 E: rgsoffice@beds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/rgs/international-students:
Please refer for further information before applying at International - Applying for a Visa
For general requirements, please check the entry requirements section on the How to apply page.
All international/overseas research degree applicants for whom English is not their first language* are required to have a UKVI recognised English language qualification (ELQ).
Please see example of acceptable ELQs and the level required:
IELTS
For a full list of acceptable English language qualifications please see GOV.UK Student Visa
Please note that the test must have been taken no more than two years prior to application.
Applicants who have successfully completed a degree from a UKVI-recognised English-speaking institute may use this as proof of English proficiency.
* Please note the UKVI has permitted exemptions from the requirements for sponsors to confirm English language competence for those who are nationals from a majority English-speaking country.
Further information can be found at GOV.UK Student Visa - Knowledge of English
The Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) was introduced by the UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) in November 2007.
It is a Government verification scheme for international students.
Having an ATAS clearance certificate is mandatory for some postgraduate applicants who need Entry Clearance to study in the UK.
If you are studying a course which requires ATAS clearance, this will be stated on your formal offer letter.
Under this scheme an ATAS clearance certificate will be mandatory for all international students seeking leave to enter or remain under the Immigration Act in order to study in the UK and who are intending to undertake PhD level research (including a few postgraduate Master's students) in specific, limited/programmes of study.
An ATAS clearance certificate will be needed before a student applies for entry clearance.
It will also apply to those students seeking an extension of stay if already in the UK (e.g when moving from undergraduate studies to a Master's or PhD, or from a Master's to PhD, that is covered by the provisions of ATAS).
The possession of an ATAS certificate for visas does not guarantee you a visa or extension of stay.
However, applications will automatically be refused if you need an ATAS certificate and can not provide one.
Applicants who have an existing visa and whose subject area falls within the specific fields identified by FCO will also be required to obtain ATAS clearance prior to engaging in their studies.
For more information and to apply, please visit GOV.UK - Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS)

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/money/fees:
Fees Tuition fees help cover the costs of university, such as salaries of teaching staff and also the cost of the equipment and facilities that you will use during your studies.
To work out the approximate cost of your studies, you should multiply the tuition fee amount by the number of years that you will be studying.
Tuition fees help cover the costs of university, such as salaries of teaching staff and also the cost of the equipment and facilities that you will use during your studies.
Course fees for 2025/26 entry can be found on our undergraduate course pages
The fee for a Foundation year is £9,535* for home students.
When you progress to the undergraduate degree programme, you will continue to be charged the standard undergraduate course fee rate as referenced on the course pages.
*The University of Bedfordshire sets its Home tuition fees in accordance with the maximum amount permitted by the UK government.
For the 2025/26 academic year, this maximum is anticipated to be £9,535.
Course fees for 2025/26 entry can be found on our postgraduate course pages
The University also offers practical support to students who get into financial difficulties.
Please contact sab@beds.ac.uk for information on what help is available.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/money/budgeting:
The Student Money Advice team at the University of Bedfordshire offers confidential financial advice, information and support.
If you have any money worries our advisors are able to give you general advice on a range of issues and will point you towards alternative sources of funding that may be available.
Student Money Advice offers a drop-in service at our Luton and Bedford campus.
Please log a Student Money Advice enquiry via https://www.beds.ac.uk/sid/contactus with any queries.
Student Money Advice offers Budgeting Workshops at our Luton and Bedford campus.
Contact our advisors via logging an enquiry via https://www.beds.ac.uk/sid/contactus

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/money/extra-costs:
Each degree may have different additional costs, which can be found on the programme pages.
You may be required to pay these costs in order to fully participate in and complete your degree.
Search for your course using our course finder
Typically, tuition fees do not cover the costs of purchasing books or stationery, printing, thesis binding or photocopying costs.
Most students also benefit from having their own laptop or tablet - the cost of which will vary according to your personal preference.
You may also be expected to pay parking costs when travelling to a campus.
Before applying for a course with a placement, take time to consider the costs involved.
You will typically be responsible for your own travel, accommodation and living costs unless otherwise stated.
It is free to use the library with your student ID card.
However, fines are in place to ensure books and materials remain accessible to all students.
Check your email for reminders to help you avoid fines and remember you are responsible for all items on your account.
See the Library Code of Conduct
To use the University printers, copiers and scanners, there is a small fee so you are required to buy print credits.
See print costs for further details.
You are invited to attend a ceremony to celebrate your graduation.
In order to attend, all guests are required to hold a ticket.
Payment of the graduation fee entitles you to bring up to two guests to the ceremony.
Extra tickets are also available on a first-come, first-served basis.
An academic gown must be hired if you want to attend your graduation ceremony.
See graduation for more details.
If you lose your student ID a replacement costs £10.00 and £11.00 with lanyard.
On many courses, you will be required to have your dissertation printed and bound.
The University's Print Shop offer a binding service.
See the Print Shop pages for a current price list.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/powered/cost-of-living-support:
Welcome to our cost of living hub, bringing together all the latest information, support and guidance for students affected by the rising cost of living.
If you are a current student, you'll find many initiatives in place to support you.
For those of you thinking of studying at Beds, rest assured that - when you arrive on campus - we'll be there to support you, too.
Keep in mind, though, that the University already offers great value for money, close to London.
Our student accommodation has been voted most cost effective in South East England three years in a row (Student Crowd, 2024).
You should also check out our generous scholarships and bursaries
Treehouse in Luton and Bedford are welcoming students as a warm place to relax with friends or enjoy some quiet time.
They also offer:
Luton campus:
Bedford campus:
Follow Treehouse on Facebook or Instagram to find out more and to see photos.
Where to find Treehouse in Luton: Ground Floor, J Block, Business School, Vicarage Street, Luton LU1 3JU
Where to find Treehouse in Bedford: S0.02 (follow the signs in P Building), Pollhill Avenue, Bedford, MK41 9EA
Cost of living is affecting most people in the UK right now, including our student community.
Your Exec Team want to ensure that, as your SU, we play our part in offering short-term support to students experiencing extenuating circumstances and unforeseen hardship.
So we're trialling 'Community Pantry' in Luton - somewhere students can pick up a range of donated supplies.
During the trial, we will monitor usage and consider opportunities to roll the initiative out on other campuses.
The Pantry relies on charity donations for supplies and your Beds SU officers are working hard to secure more items.
Students who wish to access the Community Pantry should contact our Advice team by emailing help@bedssu.co.uk .
A member of the Advice team will be able to book students an appointment to visit the Pantry and collect supplies.
More details on the Students' Union website
Our main campus restaurants at Luton and Bedford offer discounted deals for all students.
Make sure you have your student ID with you to receive this offer!
Our Get Active fitness programme is FREE - and includes membership of our on-campus gyms at Luton and Bedford.
However, you still need to register via the online booking system to obtain and get booking access to all the classes and gym sessions.
Please click and complete 'Register' on the link below:
Claim your FREE MEMBERSHIP
Shortly after you have been added to our system, you will receive two emails from EZ Facility.
If you do not receive your email within two hours, please contact getactive@beds.ac.uk and we will try and resolve this issue for you.
Once you have created your online account, you need to go the 'buy' area of the booking system via the browser and add into your basket the 'Get Active Free Membership'.
You should then check out to ensure the package has been added to your account correctly.
Once you have done this, you will be able to book classes online.
Once you have your Get Active membership and have created an online account, you will be able to log in to our booking system or book via the downloadable app .
We recommend that you bookmark the page so it is easier to find for future reference.
You will be able to see sessions that are available to book.
If a class is fully booked, there is an option to join a waiting list.
Please be aware that you will not be able to book on or cancel a session within 30 minutes of the session start time.
You can find our current timetable here but the most up-to-date version will be on the booking system
If you have any money worries, our advisors are able to give you general advice on a range of issues and will point you towards alternative sources of funding that may be available.
The Student Money Advice Team hold drop-in sessions at Luton and Bedford campuses.
Luton: Monday, Tuesday and Thursday from 10am till 12 noon.
Please report to the SiD desk on Level 2 Campus Centre, Luton.
Bedford: Wednesday and Thursday from 10am till 12 noon.
Please report to the Student Support Office in P Block.
You can contact our advisors at studentmoney@beds.ac.uk
To help support you in your studies during this cost of living crisis, the University is offering a free laptop loan scheme for students who otherwise wouldn't be able to study off campus.
The scheme is in addition to the high numbers of PCs and computers we have available on campus, including in our libraries and social study areas.
Should you need a laptop to help you with you studies, please read the terms and conditions and complete the application form .
Please also note there are a limited number available.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/money/policy:
The University's Tuition Fees Policy contains the terms and conditions and arrangements for paying fees, refunds and administrative charges.
All students should read and understand this policy before accepting a place at the University.
The University reserves the right to increase tuition fees by no more than inflation.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-campus-tours:
Join us for our dedicated Clearing campus tours, running daily from Sunday 17 August to Friday 22 August.
These tours are designed to help you explore our campus during the important Clearing period.
You’ll get a chance to see our facilities, chat with current students, and get a real feel for university life, all before making your final decision.
Tours run every hour from 10am to 3pm , with the final tour departing at 2pm .
Just head to reception when you arrive and our friendly student ambassadors will be ready to welcome you and show you around.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/open-days/campus-tours:
Discover the heart of our university by joining our campus tours every Wednesday!
Whether you're a prospective student or just curious about campus life, these guided tours offer a unique opportunity to explore our state-of-the-art facilities, vibrant student spaces, and beautiful grounds.
Meet current students, get a feel for our community, and see firsthand why our campus is the perfect place to learn, grow, and thrive.
Our tours run every Wednesday between 2 and 4 pm .
Simply visit reception, and one of our student ambassadors will be happy to show you around!

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/campuses/bedford-campus:
The Bedford campus has lots of green open spaces while being very close to Bedford town centre and local amenities.
It boasts our Gateway building, a three-storey building that offers high-quality teaching spaces, informal learning spaces, lecture theatres and a new student services centre.
In the Campus Centre you can find both of the campus Theatres as well as the main campus Café while in the surrounding buildings you can find our Physical Education and Sport Science Centre which was used to train athletes in the 2012 Olympics, Teacher Education Centre, four dance studios, campus gym, our four-storey campus library and a newly refurbished Students' Union social space that holds a variety of student events such as pub quizzes, live music and various themed club nights.
Our teacher education centre provides a great opportunity for students to learn and train in realistic mock classroom blocks.
We have a long-established history in teacher training and education with over 500 partnerships with schools, colleges and other organisations.
We offer a wide range of opportunities and routes into teaching.
The Forest School at the Bedford campus provides a valuable resource for the University’s trainee teachers as well as opportunities to the local community for teachers to be trained in outdoor learning and for their classes to experience the educational benefits of outdoor play.
The sports hall is an integral space in the School of Sport Science and Physical Activity, complementing the discipline leading Sport and Exercise Science and muscle cell and molecular biology laboratories, all co-located on the Bedford campus.
It is a major teaching facility for the University's Sport and Physical Education degree courses which have trained physical educators in the UK for over a century.
Our clinical training ambulance provides invaluable learning opportunities for our paramedic science students to observe, develop and test how healthcare professionals work together and interact with their environment and equipment.
Gateway Building The Gateway Building located at the entrance of the Bedford campus holds a wide range of facilities including the main reception, student information desk, a café on the ground floor, large lecture theatres as well as a range of study rooms & breakout spaces on all floors.
Part of the University's 'greening of the campus' initiative, the £25m investment in the Gateway includes a number of sustainable and low carbon technologies such as rainwater harvesting.
The project team are aiming towards a BREEAM sustainability rating of 'excellent'.
The Gateway Building located at the entrance of the Bedford campus holds a wide range of facilities including the main reception, student information desk, a café on the ground floor, large lecture theatres as well as a range of study rooms & breakout spaces on all floors.
Campus Centre The Bedford Campus Centre holds the large 280 seat professional theatre on the ground floor and the 80 seat studio theatre on the first floor as well as a box office just inside the entrance where students, staff and the wider community can get tickets for the variety of student performances that are held by our School of Arts & Creative Industries Also on the ground floor is the main campus café which offers a wide variety of tasty food & drink and is a great social space for meeting friends and group working.
The Bedford Campus Centre holds the large 280 seat professional theatre on the ground floor and the 80 seat studio theatre on the first floor as well as a box office just inside the entrance where students, staff and the wider community can get tickets for the variety of student performances that are held by our School of Arts & Creative Industries
Also on the ground floor is the main campus café which offers a wide variety of tasty food & drink and is a great social space for meeting friends and group working.
Sports Science Labs Our specialist labs give students a fantastic environment to develop their research skills and expertise, where a student can explore the biology of an elite athlete who could be performing simultaneously within the sports hall.
Our specialist labs give students a fantastic environment to develop their research skills and expertise, where a student can explore the biology of an elite athlete who could be performing simultaneously within the sports hall.
Teacher Education Centre The teacher education centre is set out over a number of blocks on campus containing realistic mock classrooms for students to learn and train within.
As part of this our Forest School also provides the opportunity for teachers to be trained in outdoor learning and the educational benefits of outdoor play.
The teacher education centre is set out over a number of blocks on campus containing realistic mock classrooms for students to learn and train within.
Sports Hall & Fields The sports hall is an integral space in the School of Sport Science and Physical Activity, complementing the discipline leading Sport and Exercise Science and muscle cell and molecular biology laboratories, all co-located on the Bedford campus.
Alongside the large sports hall the campus is surrounded by sports fields and a multi-use games area for the University's Sport and Physical Education degree students.
Campus Library The Bedford Campus Library set over four storeys offers students access to our extensive range of physical and digital resources with 300,000+ books & 80,000+ ebooks.
Bedford is a riverside town with a mixture of lively traditional pubs and restaurants, shops and first-class sports facilities.
The Corn Exchange in the town centre shows regular music and comedy gigs, plus there are museums, landscaped parks, and a cinema.
Bedford is well-placed with its main train station linking London and Brighton to the south and Leicester, Nottingham and Sheffield to the north.
The surrounding area has a wealth of parks and open spaces including Bedford Park near the Bedford campus which is ideal for walks, cricket, tennis and basketball.
Slightly further afield are 206 acres of open country for lake and river walks, angling, wildlife and conservation areas.
Also close by is Woburn Abbey and Safari Park, and the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) nature reserve at Sandy.
University of Bedfordshire Bedford Campus Polhill Ave Bedford, MK41 9EA United Kingdom
Bedford campus is next to the A428 on the eastern side of Bedford (Polhill Avenue).
There are frequent trains operated by Thameslink from London St Pancras International station - journey time about 50 minutes.
East Midlands Railway (EMR) trains also run from London St Pancras International station - journey time about 40 minutes.
There are direct trains on this route to/from Leicester, Derby, Nottingham and Sheffield.
There is also a London Northwestern Railway branch line between Bedford town centre and Milton Keynes/Bletchley, opening up services to/from the West Midlands, Liverpool and Birmingham.
Our Bedford Campus is very close to the centre of town, being only 15 minutes by bicycle from the train station using the A4280.
On campus, there is parking for bicycles outside the Campus Centre.
See sustrans.org.uk for more details on cycle routes and maps.
Total Parking Solutions (TPS) is authorised by University of Bedfordshire to operate parking enforcement across our car parks.
TPS is a member of the British Parking Association Approved Operator Scheme and follows the BPA agreed code of practice.
TPS install signage setting out the terms and conditions of parking, issue parking charges for a breach of those terms and conditions and recover parking charges.
All students and visitors will need to pay to park at the Bedford Campus: You can apply for a monthly permit or pay the advertised tariff charges.
To sign up for the monthly parking scheme please email carparking@beds.ac.uk where you will be sent a link to register for parking.
Q: How do I pay for parking?
A: If you are signing up for the monthly permit scheme you will need to enter payment details once your application has been approved.
Please note just adding billing information will not authorise total parking to take payments for the permit you have applied for.
Click the “my permits and applications” section of the site and click on the £ symbol to pay now.
Please make sure you application is marked as active before you park onsite.
If you are not signing up for the permit scheme you will need to pay the daily tariff charges, please scan the QR code on the tariff boards with your smart phone and select the length of parking you need and pay the charges shown.
Students permits will last a set amount of time and once these have expired, a new permit will need to be purchased.
Payments can be made by visiting totalparking.co.uk enter the location code 1300.
You can then pay for the length of time you need and adjust the start time to reflect when you arrived.
If you have issues with monthly permits, please contact carparking@beds.ac.uk .
For all issues with paying the daily tariff charges please contact Total Parking Solutions on 01536 680107 info@totalparking.co.uk
Parking charges are applicable 24 hours a day 7 days a week.
You can cancel your monthly permits at any point.
Refunds for part months cannot be given.
To cancel your permit sign into your account at totalpark.cloud
Permits can be put on hold however they will remain active for the remainder of the billing cycle.
Please remember to reinstate your permit and authorise payments before parking on our site.
To place your permit on hold or reinstate a permit please email carparking@beds.ac.uk
Download full policy [DOCX]
The Bedford campus is easily accessible from Bedford town centre, with several Stagecoach services running along the A4280 (Goldington Road) to Polhill Avenue - a journey of around 15 minutes.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/campuses/luton-campus:
Our Luton campus is located right in the heart of the town centre and includes our new STEM Building, seven-storey library and Postgraduate & CPD Centre as well as fantastic modern facilities supporting our full range of courses.
Our £5.5m Media Arts Centre has state-of-the-art facilities for students on our journalism, media and writing degrees.
Facilities include broadcast television and digital radio studios, digital video editing suites, electronic newsrooms, white space studio, multimedia suites, and additional studios for online and design work.
Set out over four-storeys the 6000m2 of teaching space features cutting edge facilities including four computer laboratories and workshops for subjects such as automotive engineering, cyber-security and robotics, along with three large teaching labs, and four specialist containment labs.
The Metro Bar & Kitchen is home to BedsSU which by day proudly serves Starbucks Coffee along with a range of other beverages, sandwiches and snacks.
It’s a great space for socialising with friends, catching up on some coursework or taking a well-deserved lunch break.
By night the venue becomes the place to be, with a variety of student events such as pub quizzes, live music and various themed club nights.
Evening food includes delicious freshly made pizzas and pasta dishes.
The Luton gym facilitates state of the art cardiovascular equipment with smartphone compatibility as well as an extensive range of fixed resistance machines and a small free weights area.
The main studio space spans across three floors and is shared by all years with each course having their own designated areas including the expansive fashion studio and the photography studio.
This type of learning environment is reflective of studios found across the art and design industry, maintaining a strong studio culture and helping to develop your communication skills and work collaboratively.
The Luton Campus Library set over seven storeys offers students access to our extensive range of physical and digital resources with 300,000+ books & 80,000+ ebooks.
PCs are provided on each level for students to use offering access to a wide range of applications as well as access to silent-study rooms, group-work areas, presentation-practice rooms and a café.
Our Business Pods are specially created teaching spaces designed like modern offices rather than traditional classrooms.
With brainstorming and boardroom areas and an IT suite, they simulate a professional working environment allowing students to work in small groups on real business problems and take a hands-on role in becoming a junior executive.
Our clinical skills and simulation suites allow for simulated scenarios having been designed to provide invaluable learning opportunities to observe, develop and test how healthcare professionals work together and interact with their environment and equipment.
The suite includes a ward area that can be used as an intensive care unit, A&E or Maternity Unit; an anaesthetic prep room and an operating theatre with scrub room.
Set out like a real-life law court, our Moot Court gives aspiring Lawyers a taste of their future career – with a podium, lectern and seating for opposing counsel and up to three judges.
Moots can be recorded with the ability for students to select one of five views of the court and with microphones for judges and counsel.
You can play the recordings back through the projection system.
Students can practise sports massage skills and clinical practices on real participants in our laboratories.
Equipped with facilities for physiology, biomechanics and sports therapy, students will gain a taste of industry life to prepare them for employment.
Campus Centre The Luton Campus Centre holds a wide range of facilities including the main reception, careers centre, the campus gallery space & Café Neo on the ground floor.
It's also the place to build your social life with our modern Students’ Union in the Metro Bar & Kitchen; home to tasty food & drink and hosting regular live music, DJ nights and student events.
The Luton Campus Centre holds a wide range of facilities including the main reception, careers centre, the campus gallery space & Café Neo on the ground floor.
STEM Building Opened in Autumn 2019 by Lord Robert Winston our new £40m STEM building is home to hundreds of students studying Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics courses.
Its cutting edge facilities provides four computer laboratories; workshops for subjects such as automotive engineering, cyber-security and robotics, along with three large teaching labs, and four specialist containment labs.
Opened in Autumn 2019 by Lord Robert Winston our new £40m STEM building is home to hundreds of students studying Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics courses.
School of Art and Design The University has invested nearly £3m into a new building for Art and Design students.
As well as state-of-the-art fashion equipment, the building boasts a digital studio with laser cutters and 3D printers, a photographic studio and darkroom facilities, numerous workshop areas, dedicated studio spaces and open plan studios.
The University has invested nearly £3m into a new building for Art and Design students.
Campus Library The modern Luton library at the Luton campus has everything you would expect from a world-class university – and more.
Opened in summer 2016 its seven storeys is a landmark building for the Luton campus, offering students silent-study rooms, group-work areas, presentation-practice rooms and a café.
The modern Luton library at the Luton campus has everything you would expect from a world-class university – and more.
Postgraduate & CPD Centre The Postgraduate & CPD Centre is home to our University's postgraduate courses and continuing professional development (CPD) students from industry.
The new building has an exciting and modern atmosphere with a range of lecture theatres (including two Harvard-style lecture theatres), informal learning spaces, quiet study areas as well as a café and large event venue area on the ground floor.
The Postgraduate & CPD Centre is home to our University's postgraduate courses and continuing professional development (CPD) students from industry.
Luton town is packed full of cultural diversity.
It has plenty of bars and restaurants, an 11-screen cinema, bowling lanes, a shopping mall and indoor market, football stadium and other sports facilities, and a vibrant arts and cultural scene based around the Cultural Quarter.
There are excellent transport links to the rest of the UK and Europe.
Luton lies just 50km north of London - the capital is only a 30 minute train journey away.
In addition, London Luton Airport is only 2.5km from the main Luton campus.
Luton’s surrounding area boasts a wealth of parks and open spaces including ZSL Whipsnade Zoo, Dunstable Downs, Wardown Park and Luton Hoo stately home.
University of Bedfordshire Luton Campus University Square Luton, LU1 3JU United Kingdom
Thameslink and Great Northern services connect Luton with Bedford (25 min), London (34 min to St Pancras International; Farringdon; City Thameslink; Blackfriars; and 50 min to London Bridge), East Croydon (64 min), Gatwick Airport (80 min) and Brighton (2 h).
Thameslink serves Luton's three railway stations - Luton Airport Parkway (for London Luton Airport), Luton (this is the closest to the main, University Square campus) and Leagrave.
Luton is also served by East Midlands Trains which offers trains from the north and to London St Pancras.
Luton has some traffic-free routes for cyclists.
The town is on Route 6 of the National Cycle Network.
A recent addition is the route which runs parallel with the Luton to Dunstable busway.
On campus there is parking for bicycles outside the Park Street entrance, the Campus Centre and the Postgraduate and CPD Centre.
See www.sustrans.org.uk for more details on cycle routes and maps.
If you are travelling to an Open Day by car, please be aware that the University does not have on-campus parking.
Being in a town centre location, there are plenty of public car parks, all within a short walking distance of the Luton campus, which operate by pay and display.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/campuses/aylesbury-campus:
Our Aylesbury campus opened in February 2020 in partnership with Buckinghamshire Healthcare NHS Trust (BHT) at Stoke Mandeville Hospital in Aylesbury, home to the world-renowned National Spinal Injuries Centre.
Healthcare students are now able to undertake the classroom element of their course at Stoke Mandeville while, at the same time, getting experience of life in an integrated Trust that provides a range of specialist, acute and community services.
The new three-storey building located on the hospital site provides a specialist skills lab, set out as a hospital ward with state-of-the-art audio visual technology.
There is also a suite of six classrooms, a library, social learning spaces and computer study facilities.
The campus is just a short walk away from the student accommodation which you can find more information about here
Adult Nursing (Aylesbury) BSc (Hons)
Mental Health Nursing (Aylesbury) BSc (Hons)
Step up to Social Work
Our specialist skills lab is set out as a hospital ward allowing students to practise in simulated scenarios and providing invaluable opportunities to observe, develop and test how healthcare professionals work together and interact with their environment and equipment.
The suite has medical-grade simulation mannequins, anatomical models, audio visual technology and a range of other equipment to support and enhance all aspects of clinical care and educational delivery.
Situated on the ground floor, the campus library hosts a range of academic and healthcare-specific resources for students.
PCs are provided for students to use, opening up access to a wide range of applications and to over 80,000 ebooks, available in addition to the physical resources.
Aylesbury town is bursting with culture, international cuisine and clubs.
It boasts a cinema, two theatres, indoor karting facilities, galleries and regular music concerts.
Aylesbury has excellent transport links, making it easily accessible.
The A41 runs to the heart of the region and provides a direct link to the M40 in the west and the M25 in the east.
Aylesbury is situated only 40 miles from London and is conveniently within an hour's drive of London Heathrow Airport and London Luton Airport.
The University of Bedfordshire, Aylesbury campus is located at Stoke Mandeville Hospital.
Your postcode Aylesbury campus
The University building is between the staff multistorey car park and the Renal Unit.
Stoke Mandeville Hospital is served by the following buses:
Chiltern Railways connects Aylesbury with London Marylebone Station.
Journey time is around 80 minutes.
On campus, there is parking for bicycles within the hospital car parks .
Car parks are available in the hospital.
In keeping with University Policy on travel, we would recommend that you car share where possible or make use of public transport.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/advice-for-teachers-and-advisors/access-and-mature-learners:
We offer support to a range of learners in further education to help them succeed and progress on to pathways into employment and further study as best suit their individual needs.
We offer bespoke support through visits, workshops and mentoring in order to engage, motivate and support these individuals in their studies, helping your students to make informed choices, be they further study or entering the workplace prior to considering entry into higher education or the world of work.
Much of what is on offer to Level 3 learners is already laid out in the previous section focusing on sixth form activities.
We are aware that in some cases, vocationally oriented students may have subtly different needs and activities can be modified accordingly.
A number of activities are on offer to adults returning to education to support them with key decisions about what and where to study, and assist in making a successful transition to undergraduate level studies.
We host an Access Day every year, typically in October, where you can find out more about Access to Higher Education courses.
For many Access students, one of the barriers to realising university can be an achievable goal is not knowing what to expect.
Our student shadowing opportunity allows them to spend the day with a current undergraduate student to gain a taste of university life.
This opportunity is available by request and spaces in some subjects may be limited so early applications are encouraged.
A programme of activities has been designed to support both foundation degree and HND level learners to succeed within their respective study disciplines and to prepare them for the transition into university should they wish to attend a top-up year on to a Honours degree.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/advice-for-teachers-and-advisors/key-stage-3-actitivies:
We offer a range of workshops, events, summer schools and presentations that are useful for sixth form students who are considering progressing on to higher education, particularly those students who are undecided about whether university is for them.
Here are just a few of the most popular sessions we run.
We are also happy to design something tailored to your students’ specific needs, simply contact us via: scl@beds.ac.uk
Who: Year 12 (or equivalent age group) When: Spring term Where: Your school This is a good first activity to encourage Year 12 students to think seriously about HE.
The talk offers a general overview of HE and the benefits of continuing in education.
We also talk about the next steps for students and start them thinking about how they are going to achieve their goals.
We can offer a prospectus workshop to accompany the talk.
Who: Year 12 or 13 (or equivalent age group) When: During preparation for AS or A2 examinations Where: Your school This talk offers guidance and information about the learning process, including effective revision strategies and developing study skills for further education and beyond.
Who: Year 12 (or equivalent age group) When: Autumn or spring term Where: Your school A more detailed (and light-hearted) look at what life is like for students in HE, covering the academic, social and welfare aspects of university.
Activities include students working out their own shopping list.
Who: Year 12 (or equivalent age group) When: Spring term Where: Your school This session concentrates on what a HE convention is and why it is important for students to attend.
We cover what research students should undertake prior to attending, key questions that they should ask delegates and common ‘traps’ to avoid.
Who: Year 12 or 13 (or equivalent age group) When: Spring and summer terms Where: Your school or University of Bedfordshire This presentation will cover the benefits of studying at a local university including financial advantages, familiar surroundings, family connections and support, retaining a current part-time job (if you have one), whilst still providing the social benefits of the Students’ Union, clubs, societies, voluntary opportunities, placements and independence.
Who: Year 12 (or equivalent age group) When: Spring and summer terms Where: Your school A guide to what students can expect from university Open Days, and the importance of attending these events.
We cover the key things to look for, the crucial questions to ask, and the best people to speak to about different aspects of the institution.
Who: Year 12 or 13 (or equivalent age group) When: Summer term for Year 12, autumn term for Year 13 Where: Your school A comprehensive guide to making UCAS applications.
The second half of the presentation focuses specifically on the personal statement, with advice on what information students should include and what admissions tutors will be looking for.
There is also an interactive activity where students take on the role of an admissions tutor and assess example statements.
Who: Year 12 or 13 (or equivalent age group) When: Spring term or late autumn term Where: Your school This presentation covers the important information for students once they have completed their applications.
This includes an overview of the UCAS process, explaining Extra and Clearing, as well as information about interviews, Open Days, and applying for accommodation and financial support.
Who: Year 13 (or equivalent age group) When: Autumn term Where: Your school We are happy to come into schools to assist and advise students already writing their UCAS personal statements.
These sessions can take place during students’ lunch breaks if necessary.
Who: Year 13 (we can also deliver this session specifically for mature/access students) When: Spring term Where: Your school or University of Bedfordshire
A straightforward, student-friendly guide to HE finance explaining student loans, tuition fees, grants, bursaries and scholarships.
Additional sources of income and successful budgeting strategies are also discussed.
The session can include a practical budgeting exercise.
Who: Year 12 or 13 (or equivalent age group) When: Spring term or late autumn Where: Your school
Advice and tips for all students preparing for interviews.
The presentation includes advice on body language and an activity looking at questions students may be asked.
We do focus on HE interviews but a lot of the advice will be suitable for employment interviews as well.
Who: Year 12 or 13 (or equivalent age group) When: Negotiable throughout the year - please contact us to discuss your requirements Where: Your school or University of Bedfordshire A general overview of the University, covering both academic and social aspects.
The session includes information about our history, campuses, accommodation, student support and the different courses on offer.
Who: Year 12 parents (or equivalent age group) When: Spring or summer term Where: Your school This is an ideal presentation for an open evening or careers event.
The talk prepares parents for what their children will go through during the UCAS application process and gives a general overview of HE and student life.
We can also cover student finance advice.
Who: Year 12 or 13 (or equivalent age group) When: Every Wednesday at 2pm Where: University of Bedfordshire Campus tours are led by our Student Ambassadors who will walk you through all of the facilities and tell you what life is like studying at the University of Bedfordshire.
The tours last 30-45 minutes and will also include a visit to our student accommodation.
Who: Year 12 or 13 (or equivalent age group) When: These visits can generally be arranged to suit your diary Where: University of Bedfordshire
A campus visit allows students to see a HE institution for themselves and to get a real flavour of what life at university will be like.
The day includes general sessions on HE, campus and accommodation tours, and a chance to talk to current students.
Who: Year 12 and parents (or equivalent age group) When: Negotiable throughout the year - please contact us to discuss your requirements Where: Your school We are happy to offer presentations at these events, as well as to set-up a stand and chat to parents and students about HE and the University of Bedfordshire.
Please note we also host various events throughout the year including subject specific applicant taster days and on-campus outreach events.
We will also endeavour to adapt our sessions to meet any specific needs your students may have if required.
If you would like more information about any of the sessions we run please contact scl@beds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/advice-for-teachers-and-advisors/open-days-and-ucas-fairs:
Visiting our campus is the best way to get a taste for University life, meet staff and current students, and see our fantastic facilities for yourself.
We host Open Days throughout the year.
Visit our website to take a look at our upcoming events.
Meet our student advisors face-to-face at UCAS higher education fairs, hosted between March and July every year.
These are ideal for discussing any questions or concerns you might have about going to university, and provides you with an opportunity to find out more about our campuses.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/advice-for-teachers-and-advisors/beds-talk:
Beds Talks are free events designed to bring together the public with researchers and practitioners on topics of mutual interest.
Previous topics have included:
Hosted by Terry Lee, the coordinator of the University’s community radio station Radio LaB, speakers included the Chair of the Student Radio Association Naomi Oiku, Senior Lecturer in Radio at Bedfordshire Dr Lawrie Hallett, and Luke Moore from podcast The Football Ramble.
The event was chaired by Professor Alexis Weedon, Director of RIMAP (Research of Institute of Media Art and Performance), who was joined by academics including Dr Jane Carr and Dr Violet Cuffy plus guest speakers, Chief Executive at Global Carnivalz Ltd, Pax Nidi and Dr Nazia Khanum OBE DL, Chair United Nations Association-Luton.
The team from the University’s Institute for Sport & Physical Activity Research took guests through the range of ‘pathways’, such as high-intensity interval training or low intensity walking, explaining how these activities could enhance our health and wellbeing.
Led by academics from the University’s world-leading research centre into child sexual exploitation (CSE), the Beds Talk aimed to provide a platform for discussions around the topic of CSE.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/parents-hub/why-go-to-university:
"Josie will be the first in the family to go to university so we've all been on a bit of a learning curve.
But what we've learnt has convinced us a degree will be a real asset in the career she's set her heart on." Josie's father, Rob
But what we've learnt has convinced us a degree will be a real asset in the career she's set her heart on."
Josie's father, Rob
Whether you're familiar with higher education or it's a completely new experience for the family, you're probably wondering whether university will really benefit your child.
Will what they learn be useful in life?
Will it really launch them into a better career?
The answer is yes: there are many reasons why higher-level study reaps long-lasting rewards.
Here, we show how a degree can make a huge difference to your child's opportunities, experience and earning power.
It might be that, as your child has gone through school and college, there's one subject which fascinates and inspires them.
Or maybe they just excel at it and know they want to take their studies further.
Whatever their starting point, higher education allows them to become specialists in 'their' area.
Many young adults also find they have a vocation, knowing they want to forge a career in a particular area such as nursing, teaching, law or science, to name a few.
A profession-specific degree is their first step towards realising their dream.
As a parent or carer, you would probably be anxious if your 18-year-old moved out to set up independently: are they ready for that kind of life challenge?
Would they cope?
Going away to university is a half-way house where your child can learn to live independently – juggle a budget, cook for themselves, get up on time in the morning – in a supported environment.
It helps young people think for themselves, build their independent decision-making skills and makes them more self-reliant – and, as a result, they become more confident in life.
University isn't just about study – it allows students to meet people from many different countries and backgrounds.
At Bedfordshire, we have a vibrant, cosmopolitan student population with more than 20,000 students from around 115 countries.
So university is a melting pot of cultures, points of view and ideas, all of which broaden your child's mind and understanding.
Because everyone is finding their feet together, it's also the place many students make life-long friends who offer support for your child in the future, in both their personal and professional life.
The 'uni network' really isn't just a movie cliché!
We are proud to be an internationally recognised and award-winning university with a heritage of quality education going back more than 100 years.
We offer: a wide range of courses with a focus on employability, with many offering a year in industry or work placements academic teams who are experts in their fields and active in socially significant, real-world research at our research institutes outstanding research credentials, with 60% of our research judged world leading or internationally excellent (REF, 2021) continuing investment in superb modern facilities including a seven-storey library and a high-tech STEM building a supportive, caring environment in which your child can thrive: 95% of our students say the University equipped them with the skills and confidence to be successful in their studies modern, on-campus accommodation, ranking in the top 20 for cost effectiveness across UK city universities
We offer:
93% of our full-time UK graduates are in work or further study within 15 months of graduation (HESA Graduate Outcomes, 2024) We are a top 20 UK institution for learning opportunities (NSS, 2024) Commended by the QAA for the high quality and standards of our higher education provision One of the top 300 universities worldwide under 50 years old in The Times Higher Education World University rankings In the top 20 for affordability, out of 133 UK universities (Solar Tuition, 2025) Most cost effective student accommodation in South East England, three years in a row (Student Crowd, 2024) Holder of the Small Business Charter award for start-up and business growth advice 1st in the UK for successful graduate social-enterprise start-ups (still trading after three years); 2nd in the UK for all graduate start-ups (HESA, 2024) Ofsted-awarded 'Good Provider' of apprenticeships 1st in the country in the University Green League (People and Planet, 2024/25) Holder of Eco Campus Platinum certification

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/parents-hub/finding-the-right-course:
Some students know exactly what course they want to study or have a specific career in mind.
For others, it can be more challenging, especially with more than 50,000 courses available at 395 UK higher-education providers.
We help you through the maze.
It helps to think of the university selection process in two stages:
'Find Five' Initially, the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) allows your child to apply for up to five course choices; they don't have to be at five different universities.
Ideally, you should start helping your child find their top five in Year 12.
You can submit your child’s application to UCAS in September, just as they go into Year 13.
The universities will look at your child's application, including their projected grades and personal statement, perhaps ask for an interview, then decide whether to offer them a place.
'Take Two' Once all your child’s chosen universities have responded, you now have to narrow the field down to two: a 'firm' choice (your child’s preferred choice) and an 'insurance' choice (their back-up choice, in case they don’t meet the requirements for their firm choice).
Here, we're focusing on ' Find Five' .
If your child has already applied for their five courses, go to Take Two
Your child may already have a clear idea about this so you’re off to an easy start.
If they are waiting to be inspired, there’s plenty you can do to narrow it down.
Traditional Bachelor degrees (BA, BSc, BEng)
Foundation degrees
HNC, HND or HTQ
Higher/Degree Apprenticeships
Studied at universities and university colleges
Studied at universities, university colleges and FE colleges
Studied at FE colleges, university colleges and some universities
Part-time study at university or college combined with work with a chosen employer
3 years
2 years
HNC: 1 year full time
HND: 2 years full time
HTQ: 1-2 years full time
2 - 6 years
Huge variety to choose from; your course could offer study abroad, work experience and internships
Usually a mix of academic and workplace-based learning
Vocational focus; hands-on learning, preparing your child for a specific career
HTQs are equivalent to an HNC or Higher Apprenticeship
Equal standard to more traditional degrees; in paid work throughout
Once you have a good idea about the course, there are plenty of resources around to help you find the ideal university for your child.
UCAS processes undergraduate applications for universities across the UK.
Once your child has decided on their course, you can use the UCAS site to find universities that offer it.
UCAS also runs exhibitions at venues across the UK between March and June.
Many schools and colleges organise trips and most universities will have representatives there.
The UCAS exhibition covering Beds, Herts and Bucks is usually in June, and often takes place at the University of Bedfordshire's Bedford campus.
Important but don't get bogged down - there are thousands of statistics used in the university sector to benchmark and measure the performance of each institution.
Leagues give rankings but each one is based on different criteria.
To know if a uni is right for your child, it's essential to get a personal feel for the course and the place.
You'll find all the courses offered by a university on their website along with information about the university itself.
You can also download a prospectus.
When looking at course descriptions, check:
Start with your child's subject teachers and careers advisers at college.
What about family and friends who have been to university or work in a profession your child is interested in?
What do they think is a good path for your child?
Location can be important enough to be repeated three times so it should have a bearing on your decisions.
Does your child want:
Yes, your child is there to study but uni life should offer so much more.
…and find out what the universities are really like!
We hope your child has now got their five university choices settled.
The next step is to apply
Join the University's mailing list for updates, events and all Beds news.
Sign up via study@beds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/parents-hub/applying-to-university:
Once your child has found their five favourite courses, it’s time to get their interest down in writing by making an application.
For undergraduate courses, your child’s application will generally go through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
This is a Good Thing because you only have to complete the form and write the personal statement once, not five times.
"Filling in the form wasn't that complicated especially since Andre got his personal statement completed early on.
Waiting for the universities to respond seemed to take forever but that was just because we were biting our nails over it!" Andre's mother, Danika
Your child is most likely to apply online via UCAS ; if your child is applying through their school or college, they will need the college 'buzzword'.
Application submission opens in mid-September and the deadline for submissions is mid/late January.
For 2025 entry, the fee is £28.50 for up to five choices; the fee may be waived if your child has been in receipt of free school meals at some point during their secondary education.
The application form has the following key sections:
A reference will usually be supplied by the school; however, if your child has left school, they will need to find an independent referee such as an employer or former college tutor.
There is more information on how the reference should be written on the UCAS site
It's a good idea to scan the form quickly first, noting down the additional information your child is going to need, gathering the information then settling down to complete the form fully.
Your child’s personal statement should be already written so it can be copied and pasted into the form.
This is your child's opportunity to sell themselves, to explain in their own words why they are applying to university and for this course.
If a course is popular, and has lots of applications from students with similar grades, then your child's personal statement may be the deciding factor in whether they are offered a place or not.
When pulling the personal statement together, our child needs to be clear and concise .
UCAS stipulates it must be no shorter than 1,000 characters and no longer than 4,000 characters (including spaces) or 47 lines.
If you use Microsoft Word to write the statement, you can check the character count using the 'Word Count' function under 'Review'.
Our Top Ten tips for writing a personal statement
Your child will receive a welcome email from UCAS and be able to follow the progress of their application via their UCAS Hub
The universities they have applied to will consider their application and get back to them with 'offers'
A university may also ask your child to attend an interview before an offer is made.
Encourage your child to read our tips for preparing for and giving a good interview
If your child is lucky enough to receive offers from more than two of their five courses, they now need to decide which two courses will be their firm (first) choice university and their insurance (back-up) choice.
If their firm choice has given them an unconditional offer, they don't need to give an insurance choice - their place is guaranteed.
Make sure your child responds to their offers via UCAS within the deadline set.
They should also decline any offers they received but are not going to take up.
Before your child makes their final two choices, you might all want to refresh your memory about the two universities.
Please attend any applicant and offer-holder events the university holds; you can also go to Open Days and campus tours , even if you've already been on them.
You will notice more second time around, propelled by the thought that this could be the one.
If your child has got the grades they need , UCAS will inform their firm choice university and the university will confirm their place.
You can follow this process online via your child's UCAS Hub
If your child hasn't got the grades they need for their firm choice , UCAS will approach their insurance choice.
If your child hasn't got the required grades for either of their choices , your child can use Clearing to apply for other courses.
If your child hasn't got the grades they needed, reassure them it doesn't mean they cannot go to university.
Clearing is an excellent system for fitting courses to students and the majority of students who attend university via Clearing say they were happy at, and satisfied with, their final placing.
It really isn't the end of the world!

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/parents-hub/clearing-explained:
A lot of students feel they've 'failed' in some way if their results don't meet entry requirements and they find their course through Clearing.
Not so: it's just time to press reset and look for a new perfect match.
When results' day rolls around, hopefully your child will have the grades they need for their chosen university - if this is the case, you don't need to read this!
If not, don't worry - we know things don't always go to plan.
It just means your son or daughter now enters the Clearing process to find a new course from over 30,000 vacancies across all the higher-education providers in the UCAS system.
Thousands of students go through Clearing every year and end up loving their course and university experience, going on to fulfilling, successful careers in their chosen area.
Clearing is when universities make their remaining course vacancies available to students already in the UCAS system.
The main reasons for entering Clearing are:
Clearing usually runs from July to mid-October in the year of university entry.
If your child only decides they would like to go to university after the June deadline, they will have to register quickly with UCAS.
There are thousands of course places available through Clearing so there certainly is choice.
But it can depend on the subject your child wants to study, particularly if it is a popular choice, and if there are other restrictions on them accepting a course – for instance, location.
Clearing may mean considering a wider or different subject choice.
Make sure you discuss being more flexible with your son or daughter before you start looking on Clearing so they go into the process with an open mind.
If your child has already applied through UCAS, it will happen automatically when they don't meet their entry requirements: their status in their UCAS Hub will change to Clearing mode.
If your child has met entry requirements but changed their mind about their firm choice, they'll need to manually change their status on their Hub by declining the offer.
If your child would now like to go to uni but hasn't applied before, they still can: just register with UCAS and make an application.
This can happen on results' day following better-than-expected exam results, perhaps.
If your child goes on their UCAS Hub and finds their status hasn't changed to 'Clearing', they should call their offer universities.
It may be the unis are still considering offering your child a place despite results not meeting entry requirements.
Your child searches through the courses on the UCAS system to find those that match their spec – they don't have to keep to the same subject they had originally.
If they can't find a course immediately, they should keep checking in as universities are constantly posting new vacancies.
Make a note of the Clearing phone numbers for each university your child is interested in.
You can contact the University of Bedfordshire on +44 (0)300 3300 073.
Your child calls the universities' Clearing lines to find out if they can offer a place.
It has to be your child – you can't call for them!
They will need their UCAS Clearing number (look on their UCAS Hub welcome page), exam grades, tariff points and personal ID.
Any informal offers given over the phone will be followed by a confirming email from the university.
Take time to do a bit of research about the university, especially if this uni is completely new to you all.
Use their website to check out their fees, scholarships and bursaries, accommodation and facilities.
Look out for an Open Day or campus tour (in person if possible, online if not) – most universities run tours regularly in the weeks following results' day.
At Beds, we usually run daily campus tours in August.
Once the decision is made about accepting a course, get permission from the university admissions team to add the course as your child's Clearing choice on UCAS Hub .
The uni will give your child a deadline for doing this.
Add their Clearing choice: note that, in doing this, your child is accepting the university's offer.
The university will then confirm their place.
If it doesn't, your child can add a new choice in its place.
You should let Student Finance know of the change as soon as possible.
Log into your Student Finance account and go to Your Account > Change Your Application >University/College Course.
If your child has signed a contract for accommodation at their original offer university, you should contact them to make them aware that your child isn't taking up a place and cancel the booking.
Then get moving on booking accommodation at your child's new university!
Ask the admissions team how to book or look on the university website.
Universities usually hold on to accommodation places for Clearing.
At Beds, we offer all our first-year students a place in our on-campus accommodation You will also swiftly start to receive emails from your child's new university and faculty on how to register for the course and other useful information, ready for their start in September.
University websites will usually also have starter information – check out Beds' Welcome
"I came to the University of Bedfordshire through Clearing and I didn't have any problems.
The people I spoke to were all kind and reassuring.
Then, when I visited to see the Uni itself, I realised it was perfect for me." Naya, BA (Hons) Acting If your child is entering Clearing and wants to be considered for a course at the University of Bedfordshire, call our Clearing hotline now .
Then, when I visited to see the Uni itself, I realised it was perfect for me." Naya, BA (Hons) Acting
If your child is entering Clearing and wants to be considered for a course at the University of Bedfordshire, call our Clearing hotline now .

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/parents-hub/sorting-out-somewhere-to-live:
It’s so important for your son or daughter to have a place they can call home which doesn’t burn a hole in their bank balance.
Here we give you the lowdown on what is usually available along with tips on what to look out for.
What student accommodation choices are there?
The most common options are:
Halls are usually furnished bedrooms with shared common areas, bathroom and kitchen facilities, in small hubs for 5-8 students.
Increasingly, rooms are now being offered with en-suite bathrooms.
Some rooms come with more space or additional facilities but they will, of course, cost more.
Halls are usually managed by the university or in partnership with a private company.
The rent may cover such extras as bills, Wi-Fi and insurance.
Because halls may house a lot of students, it makes them very sociable and a good way into uni life.
At the University of Bedfordshire, we recommend our halls of residence for all first-year students as they offer a secure environment where young adults, who may not have lived independently before, can settle into campus life, get involved in activities easily and make friends immediately.
Accommodation rented from a private landlord is sometimes an option for students once they have completed their first year of study.
It’s important to be aware that, although private accommodation may initially seem cheaper than halls, the rent is unlikely to cover any extras, such as Wi-Fi and bills, and probably won’t offer the same level of security.
If you are looking for private accommodation, ask your university for a list of recommended landlords.
Beds helps students find their private rental through an agency called Student Pad.
Increasingly students are choosing to live with their parents in order to save money on rent and other bills.
However, it is worth bearing in mind that, if your child lives at home, they may be missing out on some elements of the traditional student experience, such as moving away from home, living with their peers and gaining independent life skills.
It’s also important that the university is within reasonable commuting distance from home as the cost of public transport may wipe out any savings you make.
Your child can apply once they have received a place and course offer from their first-choice university.
They will usually be asked to sign a contract.
If your child ends up not attending the university, you will need to cancel the contract and may be asked to provide evidence you’ve not been given a course place there.
In these times, it’s also a good idea to check what happens if you are told to study at home for a period of time.
Your university will send you information on your child’s accommodation choices, along with booking details, or you will find the information on its website.
Accommodation for students with disabilities or medical conditions will always be provided but it’s a good idea to contact the university or provider directly to talk through your child’s needs, in the first instance.
Then include relevant information on your application form as well.
Accommodation is usually allocated on a first come, first served basis so the later your child leaves it, the more likely it is they won’t get the accommodation they’d most like.
Don’t panic, though, if your child is applying for accommodation during Clearing: most universities hold back places for Clearing applicants.
If your child is starting uni with friends and they would like to be allocated a flat together, they all need to apply early and make it clear on all their applications that they wish to share together.
At Beds, we’re proud of our bright, modern accommodation situated very close to our campuses.
Our Luton accommodation, for instance, is right opposite the university buildings, in the town centre, a 10-minute walk from the train and bus stations, and just 30 minutes from London.
It also offers good value for money: it’s ranked in the top 20 for cost effectiveness in a recent league focusing on UK city universities.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/parents-hub/money-matters:
Going to university is a big investment and we understand you may be concerned about the cost.
As parents or carers, you might also be worried about how your daughter or son will manage their money.
But the financial side needn’t be a cause of stress.
What they pay for Tuition fees help pay for the university’s costs such as salaries, the cost of equipment and the running of the facilities your child will use during their studies.
What they cover The fee should cover your child’s tuition, use of equipment and facilities, libraries and ICT rooms, compulsory field trips, union membership, and student support services like careers and finance.
What they don’t cover You may need to budget for additional course costs such as textbooks, study resources, course materials or clothing, printing and photocopying, and general living costs.
To find out more about individual course costs, please see the course information online.
How much will the fees be Currently the maximum a university in England, Scotland and N.
Ireland can charge is £9,535 a year.
However, fees for individual courses vary – but won’t go over the maximum allowed – so check the fees when you read each course description.
If your child will be a UK undergraduate, they can apply for student loans to help pay their university fees and support them as they study.
Your child won’t have to pay back these loans until they have left university and are earning over a certain amount, currently £25,000 per annum.
The loans are accessed via Student Finance England, Wales or Northern Ireland , and the Student Awards Agency in Scotland.
Tuition fee loan payments go straight to the university.
Maintenance loan covers a UK student’s living expenses – like rent and grocery shopping – and the amount your child receives depends on various factors including where they live and study, and your household income.
So you will need to supply your National Insurance number, which Student Finance will use to establish your household income directly from HMRC.
There’s a sliding scale to how much your child will be awarded based on household income and where you will live.
For 2025/2026 academic year, if your child lives away from home, outside London, the maintenance loan is up to £10,544 per academic year but there’s no guarantee your child will be awarded the full amount.
It may be that you are asked to top up their income.
When to apply You should certainly apply as early as possible as it can take six weeks or more to process.
We recommend starting your child’s application just after shortlisting their firm and insurance choices – they don’t have to have accepted a place before they apply for their loans.
When will the money reach the bank Once your child’s loans have been approved, they will be sent a student finance entitlement letter with a declaration they need to sign and return.
They should then take a copy of this letter with them when they go to register at university.
After registration, Student Finance will make a first maintenance payment into your child’s account.
After that, your child should receive an instalment at the start of each term.
Your child will have to reapply for student finance each year of their course.
Claiming extra help Your child may be entitled to additional allowances and funding: for example, if you are a low-income family, your child is disabled or a care leaver.
Find out more at GOV.UK - Student finance
Universities often offer scholarships and bursaries to help students pay for the cost of a degree, one of the aspects of study that is well worth investigating before your child decides on their place.
At Bedfordshire, we offer a generous range of scholarships and bursaries to help students access higher education.
For example, for 2025 year of entry, our Excellence Scholarships are worth £2,500 per year of study (£7,500 across three years) if your child scores a defined number of UCAS tariff points from specified qualifications.
If they don’t qualify for an Excellence Scholarship but have 120 UCAS tariff points, they may be eligible for our High Achievement Scholarship, offering £500 per year of study.
Find out, too, what funding a university offers if your child gets into financial difficulties.
At Bedfordshire, we don't want money worries to get in the way of degree success so help is available through our financial hardship funding .
We also provide a range of initiatives to support students with the cost of living such as subsidised meals on campus, laptop loans and free Get Active membership including the gym.
Your child may also be entitled to bursaries or funding related to their course.
For instance, if your child is studying a health, medical or social work degree.
Your child will need their own bank account so payments for the maintenance loan can be easily banked along with other top-up income.
It will also give them their own debit card, a necessity in our increasingly cash-less society.
Students entering higher education are lucky to have banks vying for their custom so your child can benefit from a bundle of extra goodies.
However, some accounts offer a lot of glitter but very little gold and – with your more experienced eye - you can help your child find the best deals.
For example, a guaranteed overdraft spanning the length of your child’s course is very useful.
A set of exclusive earbuds?
Great to have but not as useful if you’re waiting for your student loan to come through.
It’s easy to compare student bank accounts online through comparison sites.
To get you started, try:
What your child needs to open a bank account:
Once your child has an account, make sure they let Student Finance know the account details.
Many students choose to work part-time while they’re studying; as well as providing some extra money, it also allows them to develop their transferable skills and enhance their CV.
They should check with their university, though, before accepting a job: some universities actively discourage students from taking on a job alongside their studies; others will put recommended limits on the number of hours.
At Beds, we understand students may need to top up their money but wouldn’t recommend your child take on anything more than 20 hours a week.
Our Careers and Employability Service helps students link up with local employers to find part-time work.
There’s also a range of workshops available including CV writing and interview skills.
Many universities offer in-house part-time work opportunities.
For example, at Beds, we employ Student Ambassadors to assist at open events, deliver campus tours and give talks to new students.
Taking on the role develops skills such as time management, customer service and team work.
Many ambassadors go on to use this work as a reference for their first job out of university.
You should prepare your daughter or son for managing money well in advance of their loan reaching the bank.
It’s very important they understand their loan income is termly so it has to last around three months per instalment.
…and budgeting is no exception: there are calculator apps for planning ahead and trackers to make sure they’re not overspending.
They could also open an app-based bank account purely for their spending money: leave funds for all essential outgoings in the main current account then transfer what’s left to the digital/mobile bank.
Save the Student features reviews of online and app-based budget calculators, trackers and banking along with other useful information.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/parents-hub/your-child-s-wellbeing:
Every university wants to make sure their students are well cared for physically and emotionally while they are studying.
Here, we outline the most commonly offered support services at UK universities and give you an idea of what to expect, through looking at the University of Bedfordshire’s support network.
If your child has particular needs, please check your chosen universities can meet those needs before applying.
One in four people experience some sort of mental health difficulty in their life, particularly during stressful times such as starting university or moving away from home.
So universities have been leading the way in making sure young adults have the support they need.
At Bedfordshire, if your child experiences mental health problems or has a formal diagnosis, then our Mental Health Service can help them.
The team offers:
Disability support services usually provide help with such aspects as disability allowances, study-needs assessments, accessibility and learning support as well as emotional support.
Bedfordshire’s Disability Support Service works with students who have a range of disabilities including sensory and physical impairments, specific learning difficulties such as dyslexia, and medical conditions such as epilepsy, diabetes, sickle cell anaemia and arthritis.
The team can help with any issues students have and provide targeted support such as sign-language interpreters, note-takers, specialist study skills and mobility on campus.
For more information, read our leaflet, Disability Support [PDF]
It might be that your child needs help with their studies – for example, having problems meeting deadlines.
In these instances, study support teams, personal tutors or ‘buddies’ can help them get back on course.
At Beds, we have our SEAM team, which stands for Student Engagement and Mitigation .
They provide advice and support to students on a wide range of issues that might be affecting your child’s attendance, ability to submit work to deadline and course progress.
We also have PAL leaders – second- and final-year students who support first years with Peer Assisted Learning.
This is a team from different faiths who provide on-campus centres for a range of spiritual and social activities.
They welcome people of all faiths and beliefs.
The University of Bedfordshire’s Community and Faith Chaplaincy offers personal and spiritual support to students from around 70 countries.
The team has strong links with local faith community groups and can advise on finding specific-faith places of worship near to the campuses.
Universities will always have support in place to make sure their students can achieve their career goals.
At Bedfordshire, our Careers & Employability Service has strong links with local employers and also offers targeted advice; promotes employment events; posts job opportunities; and helps with CV preparation and applications.
The team continues to support students after graduation, when your child can access its services as one of our alumni.
When your child enrols at university, they will also become a member of the National Union of Students – at Bedfordshire, it’s called Beds SU .
The union is there to help every student get the most out of their university experience.
The union advises on accommodation, finance, wellbeing, safety and academic disputes.
It’s also the hub for clubs, societies, sports teams, social events and activities as well as running the Freshers’ Fair.
It provides lots of opportunities for your child to meet new people, develop their skills, campaign for change and try something new.
For more on finance support, go to Money Matters

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/parents-hub/first-days:
So your child has made their decisions, got their university place and is looking forward to the start of their new life.
It’s time to prepare for Independence Day!
As parents, you have a vital role in making sure their first days go smoothly and your daughter or son feels confident being away from you and home.
It helps if you start this process early.
This boils down to three main areas:
You’ve finally arrived at your child’s new home but you can’t have a cuppa because there’s no kettle!
Get organised with a ‘moving in’ pack of bare necessities for your child to take with them.
You’ve probably already had this talk but it bears having another discussion now that they’re moving away from home.
Firstly, though, reassure them that the university campus is usually a very safe place.
At Beds, university accommodation benefits from trained security staff on site 24/7, CCTV and electronic fob entry systems.
Some safety precautions you could include in ‘the talk’:
Another discussion point is about keeping in touch with home.
Some students will phone regularly for a chat; others prefer to cultivate an air of mystery and only call when there’s a crisis.
Not great for your stress levels!
To avoid having to chase for a phone call, set up a family chat group on WhatsApp, Facebook or other messaging channel.
It’s an easy way to keep communication lines open and reassure you that they’re OK and enjoying life.
When a student goes to university, it is often their first prolonged time away from home or sharing space with non-family members.
Some students settle quickly but this isn’t always the case.
Some students will feel homesick, miss friends, family and familiar comforts.
This feeling usually fades as they get used to their new environment and start to make new friends.
So don’t be over-concerned but be prepared for a few fraught phone calls.
Your support and reassurance at this point is vital.
Universities know those first few weeks can be hard.
At the University of Bedfordshire, we do everything possible to support our students until they settle.
For some students, the transition proves more challenging but there is always support available.
At Beds, Student Support run settling-in workshops in the halls of residences for the first couple of weeks and we encourage all students to attend if they are struggling to settle.
They can also contact Student Support or the Student Information Desk (SID) at any time for immediate support and advice.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/live-chat:
Here are several helpful contacts that will be able to assist you with an array of enquiries.
Unfortunately, our Live chat operators will not be able to help with enquiries that fall under these areas.
careers@beds.ac.uk - Support with employment, careers & placements
disability@beds.ac.uk - Support with study needs
student.engagement@beds.ac.uk - Complex support needs and Coronavirus enquiries
mitigation@beds.ac.uk - Extensions to work deadlines
studentmoney@beds.ac.uk - Financial difficulties and budgeting advice
mentalhealth@beds.ac.uk - Mental health support
counselling@beds.ac.uk - Access to counselling support
chaplaincy@beds.ac.uk - Pastoral and emotional support

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/news/latest-news:
Balancing work, home life and a return to education isn’t easy – but a mature student from the University of Bedfordshire has made it happen by using Clearing to find his dream course.
A student from the University of Bedfordshire has spoken about how a decision to return to education through Clearing has paid off.
As thousands of students across the country receive their A-Level, T-Level, and BTEC results today (14 August), the University of Bedfordshire is ready to support students who are still considering their options for higher education.
Whether plans have changed or results weren’t quite as expected – Clearing is a great way of securing a university place.
A mature student and dedicated mum has spoken about how visiting the University of Bedfordshire for an Open Day led to her applying through Clearing and discovering her true calling.
With A Level Results Day fast approaching (14 August), the University of Bedfordshire is here to support students exploring their options through Clearing – whether they’re rethinking their plans or applying to university for the first time.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/podcast:
Listen to our podcast, ' Bits of Beds' – a pocket-sized student guide to life at the University of Bedfordshire!
With special themed episodes and handy 'mini episodes' (minisodes!), our student podcast hosts will be getting you up to speed with everything about Bedfordshire's on-campus support services and the overall university experience.
Topics covered include mental health , employability , international study, diversity, and the world-leading research conducted right here on campus.
Danny Fullbrook is one of the University's alumni who landed a job at local station BBC Three Counties after studying radio.
In our Bits of Beds: 'Employability' Grad Chat minisode, Danny discusses how working as a Student Station Manager at Radio LaB really helped with his career development during his studies.
Second year student Maria and her tutor Valerie chat to our hosts in the Bits of Beds: 'Mental Health' Fly Spy minisode about studying Mental Health Nursing at the University of Bedfordshire.
Alumnus Chris Long joined us to discuss the research he conducted as part of his PhD with the Institute for Sport & Physical Activity Research (ISPAR), and his role working for the UK arm of the NFL (National Football League).
Listen to his interview in Bits of Beds: 'Research' Grad Chat.
Final year student Fithawi joined us for our Bits of Beds: 'Independence & Support' Beds Life minisode.
As a refugee who moved to the UK as a 14 year old, he talks about the support he received from the University throughout his studies which enabled him to flourish.
During our Bits of Beds: 'Employability' Beds Life minisode, our hosts spoke to Alan who secured valuable work experience throughout his studies by securing job and volunteering roles with the University's Careers & Employability service.
Graduate Aleeha, current student Nicola and student support counsellor Jill Gale discussed the benefits and their experiences of the mental health services provided by the University.
Listen to their interviews in minisodes Bits of Beds: 'Mental Health' Beds Life and Bits of Beds: 'Mental Health' Grad Chat .
Professor Gurch Randhawa and PhD student Fani Liapi discussed the research that they are conducting at the University’s Institute for Health Research (IHR).
Listen to their interview in our Bits of Beds: 'Research' Fly Spy minisode.
Final year student, George Barnard, spoke to our hosts during our Bits of Beds: 'Independence & Support' Fly Spy minisode about the variety of support he has received throughout his studies as a disabled student.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/experts:
Find out about Postgraduate study, including courses, fees and open events.
Explore our Aylesbury, Bedford, Luton and Milton Keynes campuses.
We want to guide and support you through your process.
Whether you are thinking of studying at Bedfordshire, a parent or teacher who wants more information, or a current student, here is support through a range of topics.
Take a look at how our we can enhance your business through innovation and enterprise.
To help employers invest in their teams, we have a suite of professional short courses and Continuing Professional Development (CPD) to help add value to your business.
For conferences, exhibitions, business meetings, training and cultural events.
The Bid Support Unit provides support to our researchers throughout all stages of the research life cycle.
University of Bedfordshire experts The University of Bedfordshire proudly boasts a wide range of academic expertise and our specialists are readily available for media comments and interviews.
If you already know the name of the academic you wish to speak to, you can look them up in our ‘Experts Directory’.
Alternatively, you can search for a particular area of expertise (e.g.
organ donation, youth justice, obesity and social care) and relevant experts will appear in the results.
To get in touch with any of our experts please contact the University’s Press Office: press.office@beds.ac.uk
The University of Bedfordshire proudly boasts a wide range of academic expertise and our specialists are readily available for media comments and interviews.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/news/2025/august/university-of-bedfordshire-awarded-university-mental-health-charter-award:
This recognition is a testament to the University’s sustained commitment to student mental health and wellbeing, and is part of a national accreditation scheme developed by Student Minds in partnership with leading higher education bodies and thousands of staff and students, designed to recognise good practice and drive ongoing improvement across the sector.
Following an assessment and review of the University’s submission, the independent Award Panel unanimously agreed to upgrade the University’s status to full Award holder, after previously being part of the University Mental Health Charter Programme since 2021.
Key highlights from the Award Panel’s findings include:
Professor Rebecca Bunting , Vice Chancellor, said: “ We are proud to have achieved the University Mental Health Charter Award, which recognises the meaningful progress we’ve made in embedding a university-wide approach to the positive mental health and wellbeing of all our students and staff.
This award reflects the commitment of our entire community to creating a supportive, inclusive environment for all, and we remain dedicated to building on this strong foundation.”
Find out more about the work that the University have been doing to achieve this award by clicking here .
For more information about the University Mental Health Charter and the work of Student Minds, visit: https://hub.studentminds.org.uk/university-mental-health-charter/

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/news/2025/august/clearing-2025-i-balanced-work-family-and-study-and-found-my-future-through-clearing:
Clearing at the University of Bedfordshire is a great opportunity to find a course that fits your goals and lifestyle – and applications are open until early October.
Whether you’re juggling work, family, or just making a late decision, the admissions team is ready to help.
Call on 0300 3300 073 or go online at www.beds.ac.uk/clearing .
James Eggleton used Clearing to apply for a Computer Games Development degree and has since built new skills and confidence, all while managing the demands of everyday life.
I am studying Computer Games Development .
I chose this course as I have always had a passion for gaming and games.
I had some truly amazing experiences with the format that have helped me through difficult times and situations, and I wanted to be able to bring that to someone.
I enrolled via Clearing and started on a Foundation Year, and have now just finished my second year of study.
There are a lot of things I love about being a student at the University of Bedfordshire, but my favourite thing would have to be the lecturers.
They are some of the most inspiring and supportive people you could hope to meet.
They go out of their way to help you achieve and grow.
I have had some confidence issues in the past and a lack of belief in myself and my abilities, but my time at the University of Bedfordshire has shown me how capable I am as well as showing me how much I have to learn in order to keep on growing.
I want to become a gameplay programmer and eventually transition into becoming a technical artist as I have an aptitude for programming and for 3D modelling.
My experience at the University of Bedfordshire has been very good.
I believe it will give me a strong chance at gaining access to a job in the industry.
Find your passion, it isn’t about the pay.
It is about finding something that makes you excited to get up.
Every job will have its bad days but having a job you love means those days are nowhere near as hard to deal with.
Go for it, live your dreams.
For more information about applying to the University of Bedfordshire via Clearing visit www.beds.ac.uk/clearing or call the admissions team on 0300 3300 073 .

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/news/2025/august/clearing-2025-closing-my-business-opened-the-door-to-a-new-passion:
With Clearing open until early October, there’s still time to apply to the University of Bedfordshire.
Whether you’re starting fresh or looking for a new direction, the friendly team can help you take the next step.
Call 0300 3300 073 or go to www.beds.ac.uk/clearing to find out more.
Now studying Sport & Exercise Science at Bedfordshire, Faye Jordan is a shining example of how mature students can make a fresh start and pursue a new passion, no matter their background or journey.
I’m studying Sport and Exercise Science and have just competed my second year.
I chose this course because I have worked in the health and fitness industry for over 20 years and wanted to further my knowledge and future options for work.
It was a bit on a whim after a conversation with a friend, I was at a bit of a crossroads in my life having just closed my gym business that I’d been running for the previous 11 years.
I was working in an office job which was fine, but I wasn’t passionate about it.
A friend said about Clearing in a random conversation, I had never heard of it before and didn't know if university was an option for me.
So, I did some maths on finances and looked at student loans to see if it would be feasible for me and my family and I thought why not apply, what's the worst that can happen?
I did it all online and then I was called by the Clearing Admissions team, it was within a week my place was offered.
I was shocked and excited.
It was a big change, going back to education 20 years after leaving school, and was tough to start with.
Everyone at the University has been so supportive, and now I know it was the best decision I could have made, it was a big change, but definitely for the better.
I love the learning and how varied my course is, also the additional opportunities that I have been involved with such as Masters and PhD studies.
I feel that it has given me a new lease of life for learning, I didn’t know if I would be any good at it, as I dropped out of school when I was 17.
I’m glad that it has been a positive experience for me and I’m enjoying the challenges that being a mature student brings.
I have recently joined the Student Ambassador team, which is really varied and gives a good opportunity for work and representing the University.
I am also a research assistant on a PhD study, and I am also assisting a Masters project.
I am looking to continue my studies to a postgraduate degree.
I enjoy the physiology, nutrition and health aspects of sport and exercise science, so I would be looking for a career in these areas.
The variety of the course which gives an insight into many aspects of sport and exercise science has enabled me to know the areas that most interest me, and those that don’t as much.
Think about what type of experience you want from university, here at the University of Bedfordshire it is relatively small and so we get a different experience to somewhere that is larger; our lectures know us by name, and it is a lot more personalised.
This works well for me as I welcome feedback and being interactive.
Don’t panic if you are not happy with your course selection once you get started, there may be other opportunities around the university – just communicate with your lecturers, they are all very helpful.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/news/2025/august/start-your-journey-with-bedfordshire-apply-through-clearing-today:
Clearing offers an opportunity for students to find the right course for them, and each year thousands use it to successfully begin their university journey.
The University of Bedfordshire’s friendly and experienced Clearing team will be available via phone and online chat to guide applicants through every step of the process.
Whatever your results, there's no need to panic – just give the team a call on 0300 3300 073 or visit www.beds.ac.uk/clearing to explore your options.
A wide range of courses across the University’s campuses are still open for applications – including popular subjects such as Nursing , Media , Sport , and Business .
The Clearing team can help match prospective students with courses that align with their interests and career ambitions, making the transition to university as smooth as possible.
On Friday 15 and Saturday 16 August 2025, the Clearing Open Campus sessions will allow prospective students to come along and get a taste of life on campus.
From Sunday 17 August to Friday 22 August, the University will also be hosting daily Campus Tours , giving prospective students the chance to tour campuses, view facilities, and meet lecturers from their chosen subject areas.
To hear more about the Clearing process from staff and students themselves, click here to listen to the special Clearing-themed episode of the University’s podcast, Bits of Beds .
Whether you're applying for the first time or reconsidering your options, Clearing is your chance to make a fresh start – and Bedfordshire is ready to help you make it happen.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/welcome/all-academic-schedules:
During your first week at university, you will have a course induction led by your course coordinator and course team.
Course inductions are compulsory and are a vital part of getting ready for your academic studies at the University.
They will usually be on campus and a day in length.
Inductions take place during welcome week unless otherwise specified.
Find your course induction information below.
We are preparing the course induction schedules and upload them when they are ready.
If you cannot see your schedule in the list yet, please check this page again later.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/welcome/quiet-welcome-week:
The University of Bedfordshire is proud of its inclusive educational practices and transformative support we offer to our neurodiverse students.
Our Welcome Week, the start of your academic journey with us, is no different!
As well as an opportunity to meet with Health and Wellbeing Advisors and other support at the University before term starts, you will also have an opportunity to explore the campus and your university surroundings and meet people from your academic faculty.
We will contact you with more details shortly.
During Welcome Week, starting on the 15th September, we will have a quiet, sensory room available between 9-10am every day as a place where you can relax, and engage with the lights, fidget toys, jigsaws and other items in the space.
We will also have therapy dogs on campus in Luton and Bedford, as well as an opportunity to undertake a quiet, guided tour of our library.
You will also have the chance to meet with other students and to find out more about the support available and events and activities we offer to our students.
We look forward to welcoming you to the University.
If you have any questions in the meantime, please contact us at either disability@beds.ac.uk or admissions@beds.ac.uk as we’re here to help.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/welcome/registration:
You will receive several emails from us in the run-up to arriving on campus.
Please read them!
The Admissions team will send information about signing up to your course and your fees.
We'd like to welcome all our new new students joining us and help you get prepared for starting this new chapter with us.
We've put together all the information you need to know before you arrive.
After you've accepted the offer, you'll receive an email from noreply@beds.ac.uk with a link to access online registration.
You can do this from home, from a smartphone.
You will receive emails from noreply@beds.ac.uk which will advise you on how you can complete your registration online.
If you have any questions, please email sid@beds.ac.uk
If you think you haven't received an email from us please check SPAM and JUNK folders first before contacting the teams.
The email is only sent after you have accepted your place with us.
If you are an International students, you will need to come on campus and complete your document checks with the International admissions team.
Once your document checks have been completed an invite will be sent the following day.
Please make sure you read our full terms and conditions that you will need to sign up to in order to complete your registration.
Please be aware that it may take up to 48 hours for your access to BREO and your personal timetable to become active after completing your registration.
In the meantime, you can monitor your registration status through eVision and review the units in which you are enrolled.
Please explore a range of other resources available to you to support you during your first few weeks with us at the University of Bedfordshire.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/morethanadegree/get-involved/become-a-course-rep:
Want to be a voice for your fellow students?
As a course representative you'll be responsible for taking your peers' ideas, thoughts and feedback to course and faculty meetings, ensuring that the student voice is being heard and represented.
By acting as a course representative you'll have the opportunity to develop various transferable skills, enhancing your CV and differentiating yourself from other graduates.
It can also provide you with a greater understanding of the University and build upon your professionalism, as you attend and present your ideas to various faculty and staff members.
As a course representative, you'll receive training and support throughout the year from Beds SU, as they work with you to develop valuable skills that will increase your chances of employment including communication, timekeeping, handling negative feedback, negotiation, problem-solving reflection, networking, assertiveness, public speaking and many more.
Hear from some of our course reps:

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/student-support/supportandreport/trusted-contact:
As part of the University’s approach to supporting the safety and wellbeing of our students, we ask all students to provide details of at least one trusted contact at the start of each academic year as part of the registration process.
It is important that the details of the trusted contact(s) are kept up to date, and they can be amended or changed at any time on E-vision.
This information is required in the unlikely event that a situation arises where it is considered a students’ health, wellbeing or welfare is at risk.
A trusted contact is someone who a student chooses to nominate, who can be contacted by the university if there are serious concerns about their health or wellbeing.
This could be a parent or guardian, but it can also be another trusted person who is over the age of 18, such as a family member or responsible friend.
When choosing a trusted contact, we ask students to think carefully about who to nominate and discuss this role with them before sharing their contact details with the university.
The trusted contact must be willing and readily able to act on the students’ behalf in the event of an emergency or serious incident where it is considered that their health or wellbeing may be at risk.
A mobile phone number should be provided so the trusted contact can be reached quickly in an emergency, and they should be able to speak English or have access to an interpreter.
We recognise that all our students are independent individuals and any information about them is held securely and not inappropriately shared.
The university will only use information about a trusted contact in rare and serious situations when there is significant reason to believe there may be a risk to a students’ wellbeing.
This may include (but is not limited to) if a student:
It may also be necessary for the university to pass trusted contact details to the emergency services.
Any decision to use a trusted contact will be made by experienced staff in Student Support, taking into consideration the presenting information and the nature and seriousness of the concern.
It is only in rare and infrequent situations that the university will use a trusted contact and, where it is possible, we will always try to involve the student in the decision about their wellbeing.
Our aim is ensure any action taken is in the best interests of the student, to prevent them coming to harm, and to reduce the risk of this happening.
If you have serious concern about a student’s wellbeing, please contact the University’s security team on 0800 389 8455.
If it is not urgent you can report a concern to Support and Report, using our online form or email supportandreport@beds.ac.uk .
In an emergency, always call 999.
Please find further information about support available to you on the Student Support home page

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/student-support/supportandreport/micro-learning-courses:
All new students will automatically be enrolled in a micro-learning course on Breo in October as part of their welcome induction to the university.
The course is mandatory and students will be sent reminders about completing the training via email and text message.
The course lasts around 10 minutes and will cover harassment & sexual misconduct.
The course will provide students with easy-to-remember advice about these topics and the relevant reporting processes at the University of Bedfordshire.
New students will be able to access the course on BREO and complete it on either your PC, laptop or mobile phone.
There will be a mixture of information, videos and quizzes designed to be easy to navigate and help students to understand our expectations of behaviour and respect and be valued members of our diverse and friendly community.
It is expected that all students will complete this mandatory training within the first 6 weeks of their studies.
Once completed, you will not be sent any further reminders.
Students who need to opt out for personal reasons may do so by clicking "opt out" on the first card of the course.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/student-experience/personal-academic-tutoring:
Personal academic and pastoral support is central to providing students with a transformational learning experience.
It provides support to our students to begin, thrive and succeed: it is an important part of our Student Success Framework.
This policy provides overview guidance for academic staff who undertake the Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) role and for Faculties and Professional Service teams who support students and staff with Personal Academic Tutoring.
Read the Personal Academic Tutoring (PAT) policy [PDF]
A key principle of the University of Bedfordshire PAT policy is that all students are respected, listened to, responded to, and given clear guidance and support.
Through the Personal Academic Tutoring process your allocated tutor will support you with your studies.
Having an allocated Personal Academic Tutor (PAT) is in addition to your work with tutors at unit and course level.
Conversations and meetings may cover different things, depending on your needs at that time.
Wherever possible, PAT meetings are student-led, based on your needs.
Read the PAT Student Handbook [PDF]

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/sportbeds/recreation-sport:
The University of Bedfordshire is excited to offer Get Active - FREE to all students and staff as part of its commitment to its community’s physical and mental wellbeing.
Activities take place at both Bedford and Luton, with some available online so they are easy to access, wherever you’re based.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/news/student-blog/explore-bedfordshire:
If you’re tired of popular sites that are packed full of tourists, now could be the perfect time to visit some of Bedfordshire’s undiscovered destinations.
UK Christmas markets are a huge part of the holiday season.
These festive markets offer a magical escape into the heart of British holiday tradition.
While Bedfordshire offers its share of attractions, it's also an excellent starting point for exploring many of the incredible cities in the UK.
While studying, it’s important to take some time out to unwind, explore new things and discover interesting places on the doorstep of where your campus is.
No matter the season, Bedfordshire has some amazing places to visit with friends and family, no matter the occasion!
Our towns in Bedfordshire are rich in history, culture and diversity, with heritage buildings, gardens, museums, theatres and arts initiatives.
In Bedford and MK, catch big-name concerts at Bedford Park and Stadium MK
Your student journey isn't just about an education, it's about getting to experience all that Bedfordshire (and beyond) has to offer too.
Get enriched in the culture our campus towns have to offer and explore a range of sports and leisure activities.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/student-experience/academic-information/attendance-monitoring:
At the University of Bedfordshire, we expect all students to attend all scheduled classes and events, as our teaching teams invest significant effort into creating engaging lessons and assignments to support your academic development.
For international students, regular attendance is not only crucial for academic success but also a requirement under UKVI regulations, as failure to maintain consistent attendance, which is monitored and reported as part of your visa conditions, could impact your visa status.
We ask all students to engage honestly with the attendance monitoring systems.
Any action taken to evade these systems or provide false information about attendance or engagement whether related to your own participation or someone else’s will be taken seriously and may result in disciplinary action - please see the student conduct policy
Get answers to some frequently asked questions.
You must attend all your classes, i.e.
lectures, tutorials, seminars, workshops and practical sessions and register your attendance by swiping your student ID card.
Attendance of both face to face and online activities is monitored; for face to face classes, you must ensure you swipe in person and with your own ID card.
If you do not attend, this will be noted as unauthorised absence.
Please familiarise yourself with the Success through Engagement policy (UK students) [PDF] or the University of Bedfordshire's Attendance Policy (International students) [PDF]
The team is responsible for ensuring the effective implementation of student attendance monitoring processes, including the accurate collection and analysis of attendance data.
They support departmental staff in gathering attendance information, identify non-compliance, and assist in interventions, including communication with students and relevant departments.
The team ensures that absence monitoring aligns with policy, provides reports to key stakeholders, and liaises with the International Office on student-specific cases.
They also contribute to the continuous improvement of tracking systems and processes, ensuring the integrity and accuracy of attendance data.
You can contact the team at Tracking@beds.ac.uk
The policy is designed to monitor and support student attendance and engagement to help students succeed academically and personally.
It ensures early identification of students at risk and enables timely support.
The policy applies to all undergraduate and taught postgraduate students at the University’s main campuses: Bedford, Luton, Aylesbury, and Milton Keynes, including distance learners.
It does not apply to MPhil/PhD or Professional Doctorate students, or those studying at Study Centres .
There is a proven link between regular attendance and academic success.
Monitoring allows the University to support students at risk of failure or withdrawal and meet external obligations to bodies like the SLC and UKVI.
We use a learning analytics platform that gathers data such as:
If you show low, very low, or no engagement over a 3-week period, you’ll be contacted by academic staff to arrange a 1:1 meeting.
In line with the Student Success through Engagement Policy, the attendance team will contact referred students on 3 separate occasions and 10 days apart to notify them that their registration with the university is at risk.
Letters will be issued to students via SITs so that a record of communications are stored on the student's record.
The attendance team will review each student’s record, in line with processes outlined above, and where appropriate, issue the first letter to students as follows:
Students have the opportunity to respond to these letters and may contact the Attendance team, Personal Academic Tutor, Student Success Coach or SEAM as appropriate.
In such circumstances where it is deemed appropriate for the student to be removed from the faculty risk register, the attendance team will be advised that no further action is required.
This will be noted on the risk register.
After 10 working days from the date of the issue of letter 1, the attendance team will do the following:
Like letter 1, students have the opportunity to respond to letter 2 and may contact the Attendance team, Personal Academic Tutor, Student Success Coach or SEAM as appropriate.
In such circumstances where it is deemed appropriate for the student to be removed from the faculty risk register, the attendance team should be advised that no further action is required.
After 10 working days from the date of the issue of letter 2, the attendance team will do the following:
Students who re-engage at this stage are advised to submit an appeal or complaint, depending on their circumstances.
At the time of the issue of letter 3, the attendance team will:
Faculty colleagues with access to the SharePoint site can review and track the status of students reported as at risk.
In order to facilitate this process and ensure the timely exit of students at exam boards and the following timeline is adhered to:
Week
Action
Week 5 of Semester
Referral of at-risk students by Faculties
Letter 1 Issued
Week 7 of Semester
Letter 2 Issued
Week 9 of Semester
Letter 3 Issued
Records ‘Reduced’ to be exited at the next Exam Board
Deliberately trying to bypass attendance monitoring (e.g.
by asking someone else to register for you) may result in disciplinary action under the student conduct policy
Starting from September 2025 , the university will launch a QR code-based attendance system.
At the start of each class, simply scan the QR code with your phone and your attendance is recorded instantly and securely.
Important:
📅 Get ready now – September 2025 is around the corner!

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/student-experience/student-voice:
The University and Beds SU are committed to hearing your Student Voice
Throughout your student journey we will ask you to reflect and give us your feedback in many different ways.
Help us to enhance your student experience by using your student voice to celebrate the positives, make suggestions for change and let us know when and where we can do things better.
Download our Student Voice Principles and Framework-Quick Guide [PDF] or the full Student Voice Principles and Framework [PDF] find out more.
The Student Experience Project Team and Beds SU have worked to streamline the student voice process into three distinct areas for students:
Beds SU Reps will collect your feedback to create positive change.
Connect directly with your student representative to share your thoughts and ideas.
They are here to listen and advocate on your behalf, ensuring your voice is heard and valued.
For information, please visit Beds SU - Talk to your rep
Use your Student Voice have your say in a meeting or class.
Participate in meetings or classes to provide real-time feedback and engage in discussions.
Your input during these sessions helps shape our community and improve the student experience.
For more information please visit Beds SU - Attend a meeting
Share your feedback conveniently through our Online Form.
The process for using your Student Voice to give us feedback is really straightforward.
Use this simple online form to submit your feedback .
You can use it as many times as you need to, can access it anytime from anywhere and feel confident that your feedback will be responded to and valued by the University and Beds SU.
Once you’ve submitted your feedback, it will be read and processed by the Student Experience Team and Beds SU, who will share it with the department concerned.
You can expect a response to your feedback within three working days.
In addition to a personal response, we regularly collate feedback reports to determine trends in feedback and where wider action can be taken to enhance the student experience.
You can also read about how we've listened and responded to feedback

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/student-support/supportplus/student-parents-and-pregnancy/young-children-on-university-premises:
'Young children' refers to any child under the age of 16
The University accepts that occasionally parents, guardians and carers who are employees or registered students of the University have to visit the University premises to deliver or collect materials connected to their work.
Children accompanying employees and students for such brief visits must be 'signed in' at the reception area.
The name of the 'responsible adult' must also be recorded.
Once they have been signed in, children may accompany their parent, guardian or carer to office areas, refectories and toilets.
Responsible adults must accompany children at all times and they must not be allowed to run along the corridors or wander unaccompanied.
Young children must not be left unattended at any time.
For reasons of health, safety and welfare, young children are not permitted in workshops, laboratories or studios except when special arrangements have been made during open days, school visits and for activity participation.
Corporate managers must ensure that risk assessments are carried out and special arrangements are instigated for these special events.
Children are excluded at all times from kitchen areas and any areas where maintenance and construction works are in progress.
To minimise distraction in a learning environment, children will not be permitted to accompany adults in resource centres and classrooms where lectures and other academic activities are taking place.
Stewards and security staff are obliged to enforce this under the University’s Health & Safety policy.
Luton campus & other campuses Level 2, Campus Centre Luton campus LU1 3JU
24/7 SiD Online (student login)
Student Information Desk (SiD)
0300 300 0042
Our phone lines are open:

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/student-experience/student-experience-projects-team/national-student-survey:
The National Student Survey (NSS) offers final year undergraduates in the UK the chance to give feedback on their time at the University of Bedfordshire.
The survey is conducted by Ipsos, an independent research agency.
It is commissioned by the Office for Students (OfS) on behalf of the UK funding and regulatory bodies in England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Scotland.
The National Student Survey (NSS) is available for final year undergraduate students to complete between 8th January and 30th April each year.
No one knows the University better than you.
By completing the survey, students can make it clear what is - and isn't - working for them.
At Bedfordshire, we rely on your feedback to identify what needs improving within the student experience.
As a result of previous feedback from the NSS we have implemented changes both at University and course level.
For more information please visit the Student Voice page to see how we are responding to your feedback.
The published NSS results also help prospective students make informed decisions of where and what to study.
The data is published on the OfS and Discover Uni websites.
You will be asked to respond to questions relating to various aspects of your course.
You will also be given the opportunity to provide comments on your overall student experience at Bedfordshire or your associated college.
The survey can be completed online from 8th January to 30th April 2025.
You will be asked to complete it in sessions run by your academic teams during this time.
If you can’t complete in these sessions, you’ll be asked to complete by email and text message from the University and Ipsos.
Ipsos will also contact students who have not filled in the survey to ask them to do it on the phone.
This is because, for the results to be released, each course needs to have at least 50% (with a minimum of 10) students complete it.
Once you do complete it, you won’t be contacted by Ipsos again.
At the University, we never know who has completed it, so if your cohort has not reached 50% completion rate, we will re contact you via email and text to try and get your course to publication levels.
Taking part in the NSS is entirely voluntary, if you would prefer not to complete it, please enter your details and select to 'opt-out' via the NSS website.
Your feedback matters and we hope you will take part in the NSS this year.
This is a unique opportunity to give your views on your course and your time at Bedfordshire.
As a thank you for your time, you can enter a prize draw to win one of 5 graduate packages.
You can access the survey and further information at TheStudentSurvey.com
The National Student Survey (NSS) opens on 8th January.
Here are 10 reasons why we'd love for you to complete it this year.
The NSS is your opportunity to have your voice heard.
It’s important for you, for future students, for universities, and for the broader higher education landscape of the UK.
Give your views, and make a difference.
The NSS survey give us the opportunity to listen and respond, and make sure that we do things better.
The NSS is run by Ipsos on behalf of the Office for Students.
It’s anonymous, and all UK universities are asked to encourage their final year undergraduate students to complete it.
As a final year undergraduate student, this is your unique chance to reflect over the past few years and give your views on what was good, and what could be improved.
Each faculty and school uses your feedback and ideas to consider course offerings, and to put any necessary shorter or longer-term action plans in place.
We also analyse results at the wider university level to see where other issues come to light, such as issues with our libraries, support services or ICT services.
The results from the NSS become publicly available to help new students choose where to study.
Survey questions provide us with a good picture of your studies, plus your wider living and learning experience.
They give us valuable insight into what’s working well in all aspects of University life.
The survey results help us to understand how we’re supporting students, what is going well and where improvements can be made to enhance the overall experience for current and future students.
We welcome the chance to compare our students’ responses with those at other universities - giving us a better sense of what we are doing well and where we could improve.
Because it’s so widely used, the NSS is the only survey that does this effectively.
You can complete the survey at thestudentsurvey.com
Your feedback really matters.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/student-support/supportandreport:
You can tell us what happened using the 'Report a concern' button below.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/contactus/wifi:
Staff and students at Luton, Putteridge Bury, Bedford, Alexon House, Milton Keynes and Aylesbury campuses should select the WPA2 encrypted eduroam Wi-Fi service.
Please read the provided instructions first if you haven't connected to 'eduroam' before, as your login username is different.
University guests at Luton, Putteridge Bury, Bedford, Alexon House, Milton Keynes and Aylesbury campuses should firstly read the Guest-UoB guidance before attempting to connect to the 'Guest-UoB' Wi-Fi service.
Staff and students at LSC Birmingham should select the respective password protected Wi-Fi SSID.
The password can be obtained by contacting the Reception and Registry Desk on the 17 th Floor.
UoB Staff
Student UoB
Staff and students at LSC London Bridge should select the following password protected Wi-Fi SSID.
The password can be obtained by contacting the Student Information Desk located in Room 22.
If you have problems connecting to the University Wi-Fi services, please firstly check the guidance for using eduroam or Guest-UoB on your device.
If you are still experiencing problems, please have details of your device ready and:

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/accommodation/luton-student-village:
Fitzroy Court is the University of Bedfordshire’s only official student accommodation in Luton.
It has everything you need to enjoy a convenient student living experience such as all bills included, staff available 24/7, a free on-site gym and free events.
£1 deposit required to secure the room.
Monthly rent instalment payments are available instalments - making it easier than ever to manage your budget throughout the year.
Terms and Conditions.
For those looking to spend evenings or weekends in the capital, there are regular trains from Luton Railway Station which is just a 10-minute walk from the student village.
You can be in central London in as little as 30 minutes.
We also offer flexible start dates throughout the year.
Located in the centre of Luton, Fitzroy Court is a popular choice for international students due to its fantastic transport links.
There is a range of modern, fully furnished, modern studios and en-suites.
With comfortable beds, plenty of storage space and useful desk areas, you’ll find everything you need to begin your university journey in a Standard, Deluxe, Deluxe Plus or Studio Room.
The Village has everything you need to enjoy a convenient student living experience, including a free on-site gym and lots of communal spaces for socialising and making friends.
You’ll also have access to great facilities with a free programme of events and activities taking place throughout the academic year so you’re sure to make friends for life, as well as fantastic on-site facilities including a free gym, large social spaces and cinema room.
Looking for short-term summer accommodation?
We can help you with shorter stays, whatever the duration.
Prices start from just £33.50 per night.
Book here or email contact@campuslivingvillages.co.uk
Book with confidence
New international students who require a visa to study in the UK can cancel without penalty if the visa is refused, or they are unable to apply for a visa due to not having a CAS.
Applicable to students whose booking start date is in September 2025 only.
Terms and conditions apply
Prices start from just £29 per night.
Twin Bunk Explore your room and book
Explore your room and book
Standard En-suite Explore your room and book
Deluxe En-suite Explore your room and book
Deluxe Plus Explore your room and book
Studio Explore your room and book
◇ Free on-site gym ◇ Contents insurance included ◇ Online portal to log maintenance issues ◇ Staff available 24/7 ◇ On-site laundry room ◇ Large social spaces including a cinema room ◇ Paid car parking nearby
We want to make sure that residents get the most out of staying in our villages, so we’ve put together a Village Life events programme that encourages residents to socialise and meet their lifelong friends.
As part of Village Life, we also organise advisory sessions on things like financial worries and helping residents if they’re feeling homesick.
Moving to another country can be a daunting process.
We're here to help make the transition into your new accommodation as smooth and as comfortable as possible.
No visa, no pay
For more information on how we support international students and answers to FAQs, visit here.
Terms and conditions
Campus Living Villages is accredited and operates in accordance with standards set up by ANUK (The Accreditation Network UK) for student accommodation.
We’ve joined the Code of Standards to ensure our guests feel confident that they’re staying in a safe and well-managed accommodation.
Becoming an assured accommodation means that our standards voluntarily comply with the National Code, providing that peace of mind to all students residing with Campus Living Villages.
All our University accommodation partners are proud to be members of ANUK Student.
Please click below to find out more about the codes requirements of our partners and courses of action for students, if our partners do not adhere to these standards.
Accommodation Codes of Practice
Fitzroy Court (Campus Living Villages) Vicarage Street Luton Bedfordshire LU1 3FA
T: +44 1582 405000 E: bedfordshire@clvuk.com W: campuslivingvillages.com/united-kingdom/luton
There is a Pay and Display car park available behind the Fitzroy Court Building – Vicarage Street, LU1 3HZ.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/accommodation/bedford-polhill-park:
Located on the only University of Bedfordshire endorsed residences, Polhill Park houses 517 students and puts you at the centre of everything.
Secure, modern and all-inclusive student accommodation, which is just moments away from lectures, while the town centre is a 20-minute walk away...
Homes For Students at Polhill Park is our modern student accommodation complex with a wide range of rooms to choose from, all with their own bathroom.
If you like the thought of sharing the kitchen and living area with flatmates, go for an en-suite room.
If not, choose one of the self-contained studios for privacy and independence.
Away from your flat, you’ll find a large, comfortable common room with a pool table and ping pong.
An outdoor courtyard gives you space to relax when the sun’s out, while an on-site gym is free to use whenever you like.
When you want to leave the campus bubble, head down the road to Bedford Park for peaceful walks, tennis or relaxing in the summer sun.
Feeling a bit more lively?
The town centre and riverside areas have a mix of traditional pubs, restaurants and bars to keep you busy.
Classic en-suite room 25/26 - 42 weeks - Cost per week - £125.00 25/26 - 51 weeks - Cost per week - £110.00
25/26 - 42 weeks - Cost per week - £125.00
25/26 - 51 weeks - Cost per week - £110.00
Feel at home in your en-suite room, which has a private shower room with sink and toilet, a comfortable bed and a Wi-Fi connected study area.
As well as a wardrobe, you'll find storage space under your bed and shelves and drawers to store your belongings.
Your shared fitted kitchen and living area is an ideal space to relax with your flatmates.
Key features
Bedroom features
Kitchen features
Bathroom features
Premium ensuite 25/26 - 42 weeks - Cost per week - £138.00 25/26 - 51 weeks - Cost per week - £119.00
25/26 - 42 weeks - Cost per week - £138.00
25/26 - 51 weeks - Cost per week - £119.00
Premium plus ensuite 25/26 - 42 weeks - Cost per week - £139.00 25/26 - 51 weeks - Cost per week - £129.00
25/26 - 42 weeks - Cost per week - £139.00
25/26 - 51 weeks - Cost per week - £129.00
The best choice for international students
Coming to the UK to study from abroad?
Welcome!
We love catering to students from all over the world and learning a thing or two about their culture.
Luckily, we’ve already got plenty of experience with this as we currently have around 4,500 international students staying with us, so you’re certainly not alone.
When you stay at Polhill Park your safety is the most important thing to us.
We understand that you’re a long way from home and you want to feel comfortable and secure at all times.
We have amazing staff on hand 24 hours a day, from the Residence Team, right through to Security who’ll keep an eye out for you overnight as well as CCTV.
Contents insurance covering your possessions is included as standard in your rent, so your stuff is protected, and any parcels you have delivered will be well looked after until you can come to collect them.
Of course, we want you to have fun and make the most of your time here, too.
You can always come to us with any problems, or even just for a chat.
A new country can be confusing, so we’ve got loads of tips for things to do, too – just ask!
Many of our staff members are multilingual, so don’t be shy if English isn’t your first language; if we can’t immediately offer support in your native tongue, we’ll point you in the direction of someone who can.
We’ll do our best to help you settle in and make friends, and we can point you in the right direction for any visa, welfare or University advice you may need.
Book here through Homes For Students.
Our dedicated Student Experience programme has been created to ensure that every single one of you has the best stay possible when you live with us.
Whether it is coming along to our social events and activities to meet new people, getting involved in fundraising and volunteering for some amazing charities, or popping along to drop in sessions to seek advice on finances, wellbeing and careers, we have something for you.
We understand that University can sometimes be an overwhelming experience, but don’t worry our team are great at giving advice on and mediating in all kinds of welfare issues that you may experience, such as homesickness, difficulty in getting on with flatmates, noise complaints, relationship problems, partying too hard and having trouble with studies.
Also, if you need more guidance, we have great relationships with our University partners and their support departments to help and guide you.
Homes For Students operates in accordance with the National Code of Standards for student National Code of standards for students accommodation.
The Code of Standards is run by ANUK (The Accreditation Network UK), the NUS, and Unipol Student Homes, and is supported by universities acro ss the UK.
Homes for Students joined the Code of Standards to give our students peace of mind.
You can be assured that you will enjoy a high standard of living in accordance with the Code of Standards, and a prompt resolution to problems should they ever occur when you stay at any of Unite Students residences.
All of Homes For Students residences have been accredited by ANUK and run in accordance with the National Code of Standards
Homes for Students follow a distinct set of standards for our student accommodation, called the ANUK/Unipol National Codes.
The purpose of these Codes, (membership of which is voluntary), is to provide students with professional housing services.
The standards chosen for the Codes reflect a balance of common sense obligations and responsibilities between landlords and tenants.
They also reflect established best practice in the sector and are based on what an average student and their parents would expect of a good quality housing supplier.
The standards are supported by the voice of students themselves through the National Union of Students.
What does being a member of the codes mean?
Looking for somewhere to stay over the summer months?
Stay with us this summer at one of our properties in 27 cities in the UK.
We offer both short-term and long-term stays.
Whether you’re planning to work, study, shop, attend a conference or explore further afield, we’re the perfect base for an affordable city centre break and offer a wide range of room options.
Did you know, you don't have to be a student to stay with us over the summer?
All bills and internet access are included, and you’ll feel safe round-the-clock with our 24-hour security and on-site maintenance teams.
Polhill Park (Homes for Students) University of Bedfordshire Bedford campus Polhill Avenue Bedford MK41 9EA
T: +44 (0)1234 481373 E: polhillpark@wearehomesforstudents.com W: wearehomesforstudents.com/student-accommodation/bedford
Go to Bedford campus parking for information about parking cars and bicycles.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/accommodation/aylesbury:
Accommodation for first year NHS (nursing, midwifery and paramedic students) studying at our Aylesbury campus is provided by the local NHS Trust.
This is located at either High Wycombe, Aylesbury or Wexham Park.
Prices are current as of February 2024, but could be subject to change.
Once your place on the course is confirmed we will contact you regarding accommodation.
The accommodation provider will then send you a full accommodation pack which will include your contract.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/accommodation/faqs:
You must first apply for a course.
Once you have received an offer (conditional or unconditional), you can then apply for University of Bedfordshire endorsed accommodation at the Student Village or Bedford Polhill Park.
Check out your options on our accommodation webpages and click the book now buttons to apply for your favourite!
All fees and monthly payments include all utility bills, free internet access and contents insurance.
Yes.
Our accommodation partners, through Endsleigh Insurance , provides basic contents insurance which includes cover for your laptops and mobile devices up to £4,000.
This cover is included in your weekly rent at Polhill Park and Luton Student Villages.
Make sure you inform our accommodation partners as soon as possible if you have changed your mind.
You will have a cooling off period (this will be defined in your contract) in which you can cancel your contract without penalty.
If you want to cancel your contract after this time, you may be required to provide evidence such as; proof that you have not been accepted by the University due to exam results or you have been accepted at a different university.
All contract cancellation requests will be dealt with on a case by case basis at the discretion of our accommodation partners.
All accommodation applications are dealt with on a first come first serve basis based on building and room availability.
At Luton Student Villages you will be able to choose your own room as part of the booking process.
At Bedford Polhill Park you will be asked to complete some profile questions and their special algorithm will help match you with similar flatmates.
If you have any specific requests then please let our accommodation partners know and they will do their best to accommodate these requests.
Make sure you let our accommodation partners know who you would like to share with and they will endeavour to accommodate these requests.
This is on a first come, first served basis so please complete your application as soon as possible.
Please note that everyone must agree to share together.
In Luton our studio rooms are available for dual occupancy.
In Bedford all rooms are designed for single occupancy and we are unable to provide accommodation for couples or families.
If you need help finding different types of accommodation please visit StudentPad who will be able to help with alternatives and advice for renting in the private sector.
Both our accommodation partners provide rooms for students with disabilites.
Please contact them directly to discuss your individual requirements and they will assist wherever possible.
If you need special consideration because of a medical condition they may ask you to provide a supporting letter from your doctor.
Please include any information you can on your application.
You need to bring the essentials like bedding, cooking, eating and cleaning utensils.
The Student Village has its own Village Shop where you can buy all your essentials online during your application and they will be ready for when you arrive.
Watch this video for tips on what you need when moving in
It may be wise to connect with your flatmates before you arrive, if possible, or when you arrive as otherwise you may end up with 5 kettles and toasters in your kitchens!
Our accommodation partners do have lists of equipment which are not permitted in our halls such as in-room fridges.
For Luton Student Villages please check your Village Rules or for Bedford Polhill Park your Guide to living with us.
Yes, but all electrical appliances must have an up to date 'PAT' (Portable Appliances Test) certificate / labelling (less than 12 months old).
A qualified electrician or domestic appliance engineer can carry out the test and issue a safety certificate.
Pets are not allowed in the Student Village or Bedford Polhill Park.
On Campus parking is available at the Bedford campus.
Parking is pay and display or students can purchase a parking permit for either a month, term or for the full academic year.
View details of the Student parking scheme at Bedford campus
The Luton campus is handily located in the town centre, as such we are not able to offer parking schemes for students.
View more information on parking available in the town centre here
No, but you can bring your own TV, although we cannot guarantee good reception.
You will also need to have a TV licence
It's best to move in over the 'key weekend' which is usually in September.
Staff will be there to welcome you and help you settle in to your accommodation.
We will send you more information closer to the time.
Initial payments are made online at the time of your booking and then online through our accommodation partners' payment portals.
At Bedford Polhill Park rent is paid in four installments.
You pay the deposit to secure your accommodation and then the initial rent installment (5% of total room price) must be paid at the beginning of September.
The three other installments are generally scheduled to coincide with your student loan payments in October, January and April.
At Luton Student Villages you pay the deposit and the first 2 weeks rent as the initial installment to secure your booking.
Your specific installment dates will be detailed in your contract.
No, students living in Halls are exempt from paying council tax.
Our accommodation partners will ask you to complete a council tax exemption form when you move in which they will send to the local council on your behalf.
Yes, during your application you will be asked to sign a contact for a minimum of 42 weeks.
This is a legally-binding document and you will be held to this unless a student who is not already in student accommodation can be found to take over your room for the remaining period.
Please make sure that you read the contract online before you accept the offer.
If you are not happy with your room you will be given the opportunity to change rooms (subject to availability) once the initial settling-in period is over, at the end of October.
A cleaning contractor cleans the communal areas and the grounds of the accommodation.
Students are responsible for their rooms, kitchens, bathrooms and all communal areas within their flats.
Fitzroy Court in Luton offers accommodation for a range of different academic start dates throughout the year, including November, January and September.
It also offers short stays, whatever the duration or required date .
These answers relate to Bedford and Luton on-campus accommodation.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-university:
The University of Bedfordshire is proud to be an internationally recognised and award-winning institution with a heritage of quality education going back more than 100 years.
We believe in nurturing our students to become educated, employable and entrepreneurial global citizens.
Our vibrant and cosmopolitan student population is made up of around 20,000 students from around 115 countries.
The University appears in the Times Higher Education World Young University rankings as one of the top 300 universities in the world under 50 years old.
In our most recent QAA review, we were commended for the high quality and standards of our higher education provision (QAA, 2015).
We have two main campuses in Luton and Bedford, with a large health-teaching provision in Aylesbury at the world-renowned Stoke Mandeville Hospital.
We are also active globally, with a growing portfolio of international partnerships as far afield as Hong Kong, Trinidad, Vietnam, Oman, Sri Lanka and Guyana.
We lead the way in expanding educational opportunity.
( The Times Good University Guide, 2025)
Through financial support, we encourage those leaving care or living independently from family to consider higher education and we are one of only a few UK universities to be awarded the National Network for the Education of Care Leavers (NNECL) quality mark.
In 2020, we launched our Target Zero campaign with the aim of becoming carbon neutral by 2050.
Since then, our commitment to sustainability has earned us the Eco Campus Platinum award, which we have held for four years in a row.
The University also holds a first-class award in the People and Planet University Green League, ranking 1st in the UK, and a five-star rating for environmental sustainability in The Times Higher UK University Rankings 2024.
At the University of Bedfordshire, we are committed to our students’ success and are passionate about equipping them with the skills they need to prepare for the workplace and a degree that acts as a springboard to the career they have set their sights on.
We support our students in all aspects of their life and build their confidence through the excellent support and student experience services we provide:
Bedfordshire offers great value for money, close to London.
We also support our students to succeed through a range of generous scholarships and bursaries
In a recent survey of our students’ perceptions of ‘belonging’ at Beds:
( Student perceptions of ‘belonging’ to their academic community , University of Bedfordshire Education Research Award Report, 2023).
Our students graduate as confident, innovative entrepreneurs.
The University of Bedfordshire is one of the top universities in the UK for fostering graduate start-ups.
We are first in the UK for graduate social enterprise start-ups (still trading after three years) and second for all graduate start-ups.
We are also in the top three UK universities for our CPD courses.
(HESA, 2024)
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021), 60% of the University's research was judged world leading or internationally excellent.
Our Research Institutes work to tackle real-world problems and challenges.
Our research informs our teaching and learning, creating innovation and impact within our communities as well as nationally.
In recent years, we have worked with over 1,500 organisations - including other universities, charities, government organisations and local businesses - in areas of research and knowledge exchange, generating a 49% increase in research and knowledge exchange income since 2013.
At the University of Bedfordshire we recognise our potential to make a real impact within our communities and wider region.
We contribute significantly to the financial and social regional economic growth: our last impact assessment (2020) estimated that we contributed around £370m gross value added from our core economic footprint.
In addition to our role as a large employer and educator, we are committed to working in partnership with our local area, boosting skills and productivity through knowledge exchange; skills provision; expertise in research and consultancy; and by associating ourselves with many community organisations, projects and initiatives.
Among many others, we have partnerships with three Chambers of Commerce - Bedfordshire, Milton Keynes and Northamptonshire - representing thousands of local businesses.
These partnerships drive economic growth; foster meaningful industry collaboration; and support our students and graduates with opportunities to put their knowledge and skills into practice via live projects, academic-led consultancy, field trips, work experience and degrees that include a placement year.
In partnership with Luton Borough Council, we have a shared ambition for Luton set out in our Civic Agreement .
Both our institutions are integrally linked to the area of Luton, and the people who live and work there.
Our colleagues, students and residents are part of its vibrant community and support our vision that Luton will be a healthy, fair and sustainable town, where everyone can thrive and no-one lives in poverty.
Further details of our social and economic contribution to the region can be found in the Social and Economic Impact Report 2020 [PDF]

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/procurement:
The team provide professional/ strategic lead on procurement, coordinate corporate contracts and purchasing arrangements and maintain effective policy.
Tenders are issued through the University’s In-tend system in accordance with the University’s Financial Regulations and the Public Procurement Regulations:
www.in-tendhost.co.uk/universityofbedfordshire
The University of Bedfordshire Procurement Policy [PDF]

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-people:
Staff are the heart of the University of Bedfordshire and the transformative opportunities the University is able to provide for students is only possible because of the commitment, ideas and professionalism of its staff team.
'Our people' are made up of our academics, professional support staff and operational services colleagues who work in partnership with our students, our alumni, the local community, professional organisations and businesses.
A priority for the University is and continues to be, building and developing a culture based on listening, collaborating, and the sharing of good ideas, supported by the appropriate professional and personal development opportunities.
It also recognises the link between staff health and in return the health of the University.
That is why it is working to ensure that staff are provided with an environment and opportunities that encourages and enables them to lead healthy lives and make choices that support their wellbeing.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-heritage:
The University of Bedfordshire was established in August 2006 by order of the Privy Council, following the merger between the University of Luton and De Montfort University's Bedford campus.
In 1908, the Luton Modern School was established.
Luton Technical Institute was founded in 1937 and, after various changes of name, became Luton College of Technology in 1958.
In 1976, the college merged with Putteridge Bury College of Education to become Luton College of Higher Education.
In 1993, the college became the University of Luton after receiving university designation.
The Luton campus is located in the town centre and is home to a magnificent Postgraduate and CPD Centre, a modern student campus centre and other excellent facilities such as the Media Arts Centre, STEM Laboratories and Workshops, a Moot Court, Healthcare Simulation Suites, a state of the art 7 storey Library and our Campus Gym.
The Bedford campus has academic roots that go back to the founding of Bedford Training College for Teachers in 1882 and Bedford Physical Training College in 1903.
The campus is now home to around 2,900 students and has excellent facilities, a friendly atmosphere and a proven track record of exceptional teaching and graduate employment.
The campus is located 20 minutes on foot from the town centre in a self-contained leafy setting and has undergone a major redevelopment programme which includes two brand new, fully-equipped gymnasiums and state-of-the-art sports science labs.
There is a modern campus centre with 280 seat theatre, catering facilities and social spaces for students.
Comfortable and extensive student accommodation is conveniently located on campus .
Putteridge Bury is a magnificent neo-Elizabethan country mansion set in thirty acres of landscaped gardens.
The history of Putteridge Bury can be traced back to Edward the Confessor's time and has links to the Domesday Book.
The mansion at Putteridge Bury was built in the style of Chequers by architects Sir Ernest George and Alfred Yeats and completed in 1911.
The grounds were redesigned by Edwin L Lutyens, soon to be recognised as the foremost architect of the era, and planted by Gertrude Jekyll, one of the first lady Victorian gardeners.
Find out more at the Jekyll Estate
Particular features of the Putteridge Bury grounds are the reflective pool and massive yew hedges.
Queen Mary and King George V often visited Putteridge Bury with the Prince of Wales and on 1 December 1926 the King planted an oak tree in the lawn to the south of the house.
In 1965 it was acquired by Luton Borough Council and opened as Putteridge Bury College of Education in 1966.
Following Government cutbacks during the 1970s Putteridge Bury ended its brief life as a teacher training centre and was merged with Luton Technical College to become the Luton College of Higher Education, in September 1978.
From 1985 the function rooms were gradually renovated to their original splendour and to conference centre standards.
The unused gymnasium was converted to a learning resources centre.
Although teaching still takes place here, it is now home to our University Graduation Ceremonies, academic research symposia and University seminars.
The Putteridge Bury Mansion also enjoys a vast number of delegates visiting the Conference Centre for sales and training conferences and meetings.
The house is now licenced to perform civil marriage ceremonies and therefore is popular in the community as a wedding venue and other social events.
More details about corporate functions and social events services and booking information are available at Putteridge Bury Conference Centre
Launched officially in March 2013, Milton Keynes campus is located in the centre of Milton Keynes close to shops, businesses and local amenities, and has excellent transport links.
The campus is well equipped with the latest facilities such as high specification teaching rooms, special purpose electronics and telecommunications laboratories, a large general purpose computer lab, an extensive Learning Resources Centre plus extensive learning and social spaces.
The majority of teaching and research takes place in Luton and Bedford, however many of our health courses are delivered in Aylesbury.
The Aylesbury campus was originally based within Aylesbury College between from 2009.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-faculties-and-partners:
The University of Bedfordshire works with a range of academic and community partners – find out about the Centre for Academic Partnerships and our partnerships and community activities.
We are also proud to announce our involvement with the Oxford to Cambridge ARC.
Read more about our partnership here.
The University of Bedfordshire has four faculties – find out more about the courses they run and their academic teams:

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-facilities:
Click through the galleries below to see the state-of-the-art facilities at each of our campuses:
Our Luton Campus is home to our state-of-the-art STEM building and Media Arts Centre alongside our Art & Design studios, Business & Law facilities and our Healthcare Simulation Suites.
At the centre of campus you can find BedsSU's Metro Bar & Kitchen and Aspire Gym as well as our seven storey campus library packed with resources and great study spaces.
Find out more about our Luton Campus here.
At our Bedford Campus you can find our specialist Sports Science labs and sports venues alongside our Performing Arts facilities which include two theatres and four fully sprung dance studios .
It's also the home of our School of Teacher Education & the Clinical Training Ambulance for our Paramedic Science course.
At the centre of campus you can find BedsSU's The Hub and the Aspire Gym as well as the campus library.
Find out more about our Bedford Campus here.
Our Aylesbury Campus which is home to some of our Healthcare Courses contains a Specialist Skills Room, set out as a hospital ward with state-of-the-art audio visual technology.
Alongside this were is also a suite of classrooms alongside the campus library, social learning spaces and computer study facilities.
Find out more about our Aylesbury Campus here.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-university/strategy:
Our strategy for 2021-2026 represents our shared ambition for the University over the next five years and sets out our vision to be a vibrant and ambitious academic community, celebrating diversity and the transformative power of education.
Featuring nine ambitious goals to ‘Transform Bedfordshire’, our strategy will build on our strengths, address our developing areas and open up new opportunities for our staff and students.
We are excited to share our plans with you and please click below to read our Transforming Bedfordshire Strategy.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-university/research-and-innovation-strategy:
Our Research & Innovation Strategy for 2022-2026 outlines our aspirations to cultivate an interdisciplinary research culture and partnership environment that generates new knowledge, creates insights and resources that have a positive impact on society, inspires our students to push the boundaries of what’s possible and transforms lives.
The strategy highlights our existing research excellence across three existing and internationally recognised areas and we aim to leverage these strengths to benefit our students and communities, while addressing regional and national priorities in line with our five ambitious goals.
We are thrilled to present our Research & Innovation Strategy and invite you to read it below.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-university/tl:
Your learning matters to us at the University of Bedfordshire.
Our courses are designed to integrate the latest theoretical developments in your chosen subject area with current professional, industry or commercial practices to ensure that you have the knowledge and skills sought by employers or for further study.
We continuously review and revise our courses to ensure that they maintain their currency and relevance.
You will be taught in a modern learning environment by qualified staff whose expertise is a blend of research, scholarship and professional practice at the forefront of their subject.
Many of our staff are recognised by the national Higher Education Academy, for the quality and effectiveness of their teaching.
Your learning will be supported by online materials and activities through BREO (Bedfordshire Resources for Education Online).
BREO includes a number of tools available to staff and students for sharing, creating and developing learning including a virtual learning environment (Blackboard) and an e-Portfolio system (Pebble+).
Your learning is the key to your success and at the heart of all that we do.
To help your learning skills you will be supported by your academic course team and by Personal Academic Tutors with additional help provided by professional support staff such as the Professional Academic Development (PAD) team, Academic Liaison Librarians and Careers Advisers.
In most undergraduate areas we also have Peer Assisted Learning processes in place to enable you to learn from students in the years ahead of you - a process many first year students find enormously helpful.
The University of Bedfordshire's Academy for Learning and Teaching Excellence was established in 2022.
The Academy has a central role in delivering the University's Education and Student Experience Strategy 2022-2026 and Access and Participation Plan
Our Academy leads the development and enhancement of our academic community to champion best practice, provide support, training and development as well as recognition for learning, teaching and educational research practice.
This includes:
The Academy comprises of core staff to lead this work who work in partnership with colleagues from across the University.
We are also committed to creating opportunities for members of the university teaching and learning community to lead, contribute to and share teaching and learning excellence initiatives related to their areas of expertise.
Further details can be found at the Academy for Learning and Teaching Excellence site.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-university/civic-agreement:
Together with Luton Borough Council we are delighted to present our Civic Agreement for Luton.
The Agreement sets out our shared ambition for Luton and our commitment to delivering Luton 2040: A Place to Thrive .
Both our institutions are integrally linked to the area of Luton and the people who live and work here.
Our colleagues, students and residents are part of its vibrant community and support our vision that Luton will be a healthy, fair and sustainable town, where everyone can thrive and no one lives in poverty.
Our Civic Agreement demonstrates the formal commitment of both the University and Council to the Luton 2040 Vision and sets out how we will work together to support the future of our town and deliver our shared ambition.
Over the next five years, we will work collaboratively with our residents and organisations across the private, public, voluntary and community sectors to deliver opportunity and prosperity, support social mobility and sustainability, and drive innovation and economic growth.
We will do this while nurturing our cultural strength, ensuring that everyone has a meaningful voice to shape the future of our town.
As signatories to our Agreement, we will bring strategic alignment to our priorities and strategies, and will focus on special projects to enhance place, public life and partnerships.
Central to our agreement is a shared celebration of cultural diversity and of the power of research, education and enterprise to shift long-standing societal problems.
We are united in our commitment to drive positive and meaningful change and are proud to share with you our Civic Agreement for Luton.
Our partnership work with Luton Borough Council will be driven by five priorities:
Our Civic Agreement will also aim to deliver on the following key opportunities that build on Council and University shared analysis, expertise and strengths:
Download a copy of our Civic Agreement:
A Civic Agreement for Luton - full version [PDF]
A Civic Agreement for Luton - short version [PDF]

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/our-university/socio-economic-impact:
Higher Education contributes significantly to the UK economy, generating around £27 billion in national exports.
However, its true value extends far beyond economic metrics.
Through Knowledge Exchange—the collaborative process connecting cutting-edge research with real-world challenges—universities not only prepare graduates for the workforce but also drive innovation, inform policy, and improve lives.
This process spans partnerships with businesses, public services, and community groups, creating broad societal and economic benefits.
Due to its diverse nature, a robust evaluation of Knowledge Exchange must be independently conducted and anchored to specific time periods to ensure accurate benchmarking.
To better understand our own impact, the University of Bedfordshire commissioned Cambridge Policy Consultants to carry out a local study, complementing a national Knowledge Exchange review by London Economics.
This report evidences the tangible outcomes of our collaborative work, aligning with the priorities outlined in the UK’s Invest 2035: Modern Industrial Strategy .
Through initiatives like Transforming Bedfordshire , and in line with our Research and Innovation Strategy , we’ve built strong partnerships with local authorities, businesses, and civic bodies.
We are thrilled to present the University's Socio-Economic Review, published in 2025, and invite you to read it below.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/diversity-and-inclusion/equality-policies:
The University has a range of Equality and Diversity plus related policies and procedures affecting its staff, students and stakeholders and some of the key ones are  available below.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/diversity-and-inclusion/pay-gap-reports:
At the University of Bedfordshire, equality, diversity and inclusion is a key institutional value that we are committed to.
We recognise that embracing and promoting inclusion is critical to the success of the University and we can only achieve our vision of being an ambitious and forward-looking university by recruiting, supporting, and developing the talent of students and staff from a wide and diverse range of backgrounds.
We are required by law to publish a gender pay gap report by 30th March each year, based on data taken on the snap shot date of 31st March the previous year.
The metrics include:
The employees included in the pay gap report match those stipulated on the gov.uk website.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/diversity-and-inclusion/race-equality-network:
The aims of the Network are to provide a confidential, safe and supportive environment for members to share their views, experiences and concerns in the workplace, to promote the surfacing and validation of staff voices to change institutional cultures, to develop leadership in contributing to a culture of respect and understanding across race, and ethnic and religious identity, to provide networking and developmental opportunities for members through sharing information on University and national policy and developments and best practices - for full details please view our Terms of Reference - Race Equality Network (REN) [PDF]
The Network meets regularly, providing an opportunity for all members to talk informally about the issues they encounter, and have elected Network Officers to drive forward the needs and agreed actions of the Network.
Membership - Join the Race Equality Network (REN) (staff login needed)
The REN Staff Network emerges from the demands of staff to advance anti-discriminatory practices and racial and ethnic equality, diversity and inclusivity in our working and learning environments at the University.
It is a voluntary group, including members from academic departments and professional services and so represents a cross-University collaboration that will harness valuable insights deriving from our collective commitment, expertise and experience.
It recognises that there are multiple sites for and approaches to changing institutional practices and cultures and that our autonomous staff group can contribute as much by making recommendations as by being a critical friend, challenging and disrupting bias.
Its purpose it to advance social and racial justice and is underpinned by the recognition that those who have lived experiences of discrimination and racism are best positioned to suggest ways to address and overcome inequality, prejudice and exclusion.
Any University colleague can join the network, whether you identify within a minoritised ethnic community or you're an ally.
The main aims of the network are to:
Reading list:
Browse the Black History month reading list to access a selection of Books by Black Authors & Allies.
For more information on events, email: REN@beds.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/diversity-and-inclusion/race-equality-charter:
If you are a student or a member of staff from a Black, Asian or minority ethnic background please take part in a focus group discussion and give us your views and experiences.
This is a confidential and safe space for you to discuss measures we need to take to improve the experiences of our Black, Asian and minority ethnic University students and staff.
The focus groups will take place 4 – 15 March 2024.
Participants will receive a £20 voucher to use at the UoB restaurant and café.
For more information and registering your interest to take part, please contact: nishani.jeyapalan@beds.ac.uk
The University of Bedfordshire signed up to the Race Equality Charter (REC) in March 2022 to improve the representation, progression and success of minority ethnic staff and students at the University.
Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter provides a framework through which institutions work to identify and self-reflect on institutional and cultural barriers standing in the way of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic staff and students.
Member institutions develop initiatives and solutions for action, and can apply for a Bronze or Silver Race Equality Charter award, depending on their level of progress.
Our aim is to submit materials for the Charter by the end of 2024.
We have set up a REC Self-Assessment Team (RECSAT) comprising of representatives of students, and professional services and academic staff.
The RECSAT will lead a full evaluation of race equality across the University through focus groups and a survey of staff and students.
The analysis of the data it gathers will be used to develop an institutional action plan and drive long term strategic change.
As part of the evaluation process to assess what racial inequalities and barriers exist currently for our minority ethnic staff and students, the University will be conducting a survey to benchmark and ascertain the current situation.
Data from the survey, as well as focus groups will be used to develop an institutional wide action plan.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/diversity-and-inclusion/disability-network:
The Staff Disability Network is a voluntary group that aims to be an inclusive network open to all staff members, not only those with a disability, but also those with caring responsibilities, staff with restrictive and/or long-term health conditions, and/or those with an interest in disability issues (professional or otherwise).
The Network aims to provide such staff with a safe and confidential space to share experiences, opinions, information and support related to disability, and to support research and academic related practice.
We also aim to be the key point of contact for the University to consult with on policies and projects, and to ensure that our voice and representation positively influences the development and implementation of current and new University policies.
This will include providing representation and input during the University's Equality, Diversity and Inclusion committee meetings.
We also wish to raise the profile of disabled staff and disability within the University and beyond.
The overall mission of the Staff Disability Network is to provide a network of mutual support and a collective voice for staff with disabilities, restrictive health conditions and caring responsibilities, so to support the development of a positive culture for such staff at the University of Bedfordshire.
It's specific objectives are as follows:
This is open to all staff members, not only those with a disability, but also those with caring responsibilities, staff with restrictive and/or long-term health conditions, and/or those with an interest in disability issues.
No need to book, you can just turn up!
We look forward to see you :)
Our Coffee Catch-Up Schedule is:
The link is available on our intranet.
A staff account is required.
Join our monthly catch-up for all things disability related.
Whether it is to lend a sympathetic ear, ask a question or just sound off about something.
All will be welcome to join us - even if it is just for a few minutes.
University staff can access full information and dates of upcoming events on the internal Staff Disability Network site (staff login needed).
Location: UoB, Postgraduate Centre, Park Square, Luton.
Date: Wednesday April 30th 2025 Time: 09:00 - 14:30 (Lunch provided)
Join us for a day filled with discussions, workshops, and activities focused on making our town more disability-friendly.
Learn about the importance of accessibility and inclusivity in our community.
Connect with like-minded individuals and organizations who are passionate about creating a more fair and equitable environment for all.
Whether you are a person with a disability, a caregiver, an advocate, or simply interested in shaping the future, this event is for you!
Together, we can work towards building a town that is welcoming and supportive for everyone.
Don't miss out on this opportunity to be a part of positive change.
We expect this event to be over-subscribed, as such please limit attendance to two from your organisation.
Thank you everyone!
Best wishes, Laurie Kirby (She/Her) Fairness Taskforce Project Coordinator Luton Council
An event to celebrate Neurodiversity week 17-23 March 2025
Neurodiversity Celebration Week is a worldwide initiative that challenges stereotypes and misconceptions about neurological differences.
It aims to transform how neurodivergent individuals are perceived and supported by organisations around the world with the opportunity to recognise the many skills and talents of neurodivergent individuals, while creating more inclusive and equitable cultures that celebrate differences empower every individual.
The university will be celebrating neurodiversity week by hosting an event titled: Embracing Neurodiversity - A Conversation with Our Neurodivergent Colleagues.
The one hour session will give an overview of neurodiversity as a concept, and explore the experiences of neurodivergent colleagues, which can inform discussions around how to ensure we support all colleagues and students.
This event will take place on Wednesday 19 March 2025 from 14:00 -15:00.
The location is: Room L107 (In person) and Microsoft Teams (Online)
Everyone is welcome to attend and be part of this important conversation
From 14th November to 20th December 2024
Disability History month is focusing on ' Disability Livelihood and Employment'.
'Disability has been seen for many years as synonymous with non-employment or unemployment.
This of course is not true.
Disabled people have always sought a means of surviving whether in begging, employment or on welfare or charity.
Recently the number of disabled people in the UK workforce has increased'.
Read more about UK Disability History Month
On Tuesday 11th and Wednesday12 th July 2023, joint sessions were held between the Staff Disability Network and the Staff LGBTQ Alliance.
The session was hosted by Alex and Cathal.
The session focused specifically on intersectionalities between Gender and Disability.
A major focus of the session was exploring the underdiagnosis of autism in females, and the possible reasons for this.
There was a specific focus on research around Masking/Social Camouflaging, which is one of the reasons cited in research for late diagnosis.
This provided for some interesting discussion about the need to conform, and the potential impact this can have on the person.
There was also exploration of the term neurodiversity, and research highlighting the greater fluidity in gender identity of neurodiverse individuals.
The participants questions and experiences provided for an enriching and positive experience, and greater understanding.
The staff disability network contributed to the 2023 UoB Health and Wellbeing Week.
We had members of our network and committee members making several presentations at this event.
Our first speaker was Emma on Tuesday 24th February from 2.00pm - 3.00pm.
Emma's talk was on:
Neurodiversity in the Workplace, Lived Experience: Emma talks about her lived experience and challenge living a neuro diverse condition and celebrates her unique learning differences, talents and strengths.
Staff are invited to hear and learn so as to create a more inclusive, supportive and understanding environment for all.
Our second speaker was Paul on Thursday 26th January 2.00pm - 3.00pm.
Pauil's talk was on:
Visual Impairment at Work : living with multiple eye conditions and gradual sight loss and the challenges visually-impaired staff have in the workplace.
Our third and fourth speakers are Kathryn and Gayle on Thursday 26th January from 3:00pm - 4pm.
Kathryn's talk was on:
Learning from lived Experiences: Life with disability, Kathryn's experiences and the challenges with coping with an autistic son alongside working.
Gayle's talk was on:
Learning from lived Experiences: Life with disability, Gayle's experience of working with a physical disability.
We are organising a series of disability awareness and knowledge-building event for staff starting in September 2021 when staff have returned to campus.
These events involve an internal member of this Network or invited external person talking about their disability-related experiences for 20 minutes, followed by a 20-minute live Q&A session.
The aim is for university staff to hear about these experiences, be posed some reflective questions, and ultimately to become more aware, knowledgeable and sensitive to such issues.
We would welcome expressions of interest from any staff to present in future events.
If you are interested in joining us please email: sdncommittee@beds.ac.uk
This was the first in a series of staff disability awareness and knowledge events.
Gayle delivered her presentation on 22nd September 2021.
She presented for approx.
20 minutes and welcomed audience questions.
Gayle's talk is available via our staff intranet.
A staff login required.
Our speaker for our second in the series of Staff Awareness and Knowledge Building was Charmaine .
Charmaine’s talk titled ‘Hidden disabilities’, was our network's first blended event.
Charmaine presented for approx.
20 minutes and welcomed many audience questions.
Our speaker for our third in the series of Staff Awareness and Knowledge Building was by Dr Gareth Farmer.
Gareth's talk titled 'Neurodivergence' - What is it and why should universities care?
An Autistic Academic's Perspective’, was a virtual event.
Dr Gareth Farmer presented for approx.
20 minutes and welcomed questions from the audience.
Our speaker for our fourth in the series of Staff Awareness and Knowledge Building was Emma .
Emma's talk was on Wednesday 4th May 2022, and titled ‘The intersections of different disabilities: opening up about my experiences as a working professional with chronic physical illnesses'.
Emma presented for approx.
20 minutes and welcomed many questions from the audience of nearly 30.
The Staff Disability Network has obtained a supply of sunflower lanyards for staff with a disability.
This may be particularly useful if you have a disability (especially a hidden disability) and/or if you cannot cope with the University's current one-way system, perhaps because of mobility issues or raised levels of anxiety.
If you wish to register for a lanyard, please contact Cathal Butler (using your University of Bedfordshire staff email) at cathal.butler@beds.ac.uk and she can arrange for you to obtain one.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/diversity-and-inclusion/antisemitism:
In 2019, the University of Bedfordshire agreed to adopt the International Holocaust Remembrance Association’s working definition of Antisemitism.
This decision to embrace the IHRA statement is part of our continual drive to promote race equality and end discrimination.
In adopting the IHRA statement we signal our commitment to tackling antisemitism.
You can read the statement here.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/diversity-and-inclusion/lgbtq-history-month:
LGBTQ+ History Month is an annual month-long observance of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender history, and the history of the gay rights.
It's about reflection of the past, a look to the future and a celebration of pride.
In the UK History Month is celebrated in February each year, to coincide with the 2003 abolition of Section 28.
Here at the University of Bedfordshire we have created this website to help grow knowledge, share experiences and deliver events on LGBTQ History Month.
Pivotal moments in UK LGBTQ History Select the buttons below to learn more.
This is a report of the Departmental Committee on Homosexual Offences and Prostitution, (the Wolfenden Report) Published in 1957 it was commissioned in response to evidence that homosexuality could no longer be regarded as a disease, as previously categorised and aimed to bring change in the law by making recommendations to the Government including
The Report of the Departmental Committee on Homosexual Offences and Prostitution, better known as the Wolfenden Report, was published in 1957, three years after the committee first met in September 1954.
It was commissioned in response to evidence that homosexuality could not legitimately be regarded as a disease and aimed to bring about change in the current law by making recommendations to the Government.
Ten years after the publication of the Wolfenden Report, the Government took recommendations and introduced the Sexual Offences Act 1967.
The act had the backing of the Church of England and the House of Lords.
The Sexual Offences Act partially legalised same-sex acts in the UK between men over the age of 21 conducted in private.
Scotland and Northern Ireland followed suit over a decade later, in 1980 and 1981 respectively.
The Sexual Offences Act represented a stepping stone towards equality.
In 1969 the solicitation of homosexual relations in public remained an illegal act in many parts of the world including the UK and New York City in the USA.
Gay bars were places of refuge where gay men and lesbians and other individuals who were considered sexually suspect could socialize in relative safety from public harassment, although were continually raided by Police.
Stonewall riots, also called Stonewall uprising, series of violent confrontations that began in the early hours of June 28, 1969, between police and gay rights activists outside the Stonewall Inn, a gay bar in the Greenwich Village section of New York City.
As the riots progressed, an international gay rights movement was born.
Although this particular event took place in New York, the event sparked the formation of scores of gay rights organizations, including the Human Rights Campaign, OutRage!
(U.K.-based), GLAAD (formerly Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation).
The London Gay Liberation Front organised the first UK Gay Pride march in London.
The march ran from Trafalgar Square to Hyde Park with around 1,000 people marching through the capital.
1 July 1972  was chosen as the nearest Saturday to the anniversary of the Stonewall riots of 1969 with approximately 2,000 participants.
The first UK case of AIDS was recorded when a 49-year-old man was admitted to Brompton Hospital, London suffering from Pneumocystis Carinii Pneumonia.
He died 10 days later.
Throughout the decade panic grew around AIDS, gay people were pushed further into the shadows by a homophobic press campaign endorsed by the Prime Minister at the time Margaret Thatcher.
Terms like the "gay plague" were widely used, and people believed HIV could be transmitted by any kind of proximity to those with the virus.
Sadly the stigma of AIDS and HIV live on.
Even into the 1990's and early 2000's gay men applying for a mortgage would still be refused if the lender knew of their sexuality, linking it to AIDS and therefore high risk to loan money to.
Section 28 of the Local Government Act was enacted in May 1988.
It was brought in to "prohibit the promotion of homosexuality by local authorities".
This meant homosexuality could not be talked about in places such as Schools and social care settings.
The law was partly inspired by a 1983 story book called Jenny Lives with Eric and Martin, which aimed to give children information about different types of family relationships Tory Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said at the time: "Children who need to be taught to respect traditional moral values are being taught that they have an inalienable right to be gay.
All of those children are being cheated of a sound start in life".
This caused a long lasting affect on a generation of young people who had no support from local councils or schools around their sexuality, with children bullied at school for identifying as LGBT not being able to talk to access the support they needed as teachers feared they would be breaking the law.
Before this time, anyone identifying as gay and lesbian could not serve in the Armed Forces.
Serving members would have to keep their sexual orientation secret, or they could be fired.
The ban was not lifted on those identifying as trans, this would not happen until over a decade later in 2014.
After three defeats in the House of Lords, the Labour Government forced through legislation lowering the age of consent for gay men to 16.
The Scottish parliament also voted to adopt this legislation.
The Adoption and Children Act 2002 allowed gay and lesbian single people, as well as same-sex couples, to adopt a child in the UK.
Before this, neither same-sex couples nor unmarried heterosexual couples could adopt or foster children.
Section 28 led to so many insecurities around how people looked, how they behaved, how they developed.
Although Section 28 was repealed in Scotland in 2000, it wasn't until 2003 that England, Wales and Northern Ireland, lifted the ban on local authorities from the teaching in any maintained school of the acceptability of homosexuality.
This Act came into effect on 4 April 2005, giving trans people full legal recognition in their appropriate gender.
It allowed trans people to acquire a new birth certificate, although gender options were still limited to male or female.
Although since 2004 same-sex couples could enter into Civil Partnerships, you were not permitted to marry.
This Act gave same-sex couples the opportunity to get married just like any other couple.
Same-sex couples already in a Civil Partnership could also now convert this to a marriage.
The change came into effect in 2014 in Scotland, England and Wales.
The first same-sex marriages took place in England and Wales on 29 March 2014.
It wasn't until 2020 that same-sex marriage was to be recognised in Northern Ireland.

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/diversity-and-inclusion/lgbt-network:
Bedfordshire recognises the importance of networks in creating a positive, safe and open working environment for staff and have made a commitment to setting up an LGBTQ Staff network open to any staff member, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity.
Our initial aim is to fully support LGBTQ staff to help the diverse University that we are to grow into an even better organisation that all staff are truly proud to work for and students truly proud to study at.
A place where everyone feels free to express themselves and can achieve their full potential.
🌈Each month we are live on Radio Lab with our LGBTQ+ radio hour.
Listen Wednesdays at 12pm on 97.1FM.
Playing music from LGBTQ artists and icons and discussing the latest LGBTQ news events from around Bedfordshire and the world.
🌈
Listen to our previous episodes on Mix Cloud.
On December 1st we shall be at the Bedford and Luton campuses with red ribbons.
The red ribbon is a sign of support to those who have and are living with HIV and AIDS.
As a staff network we made a contribution to the National AIDS Trust and in return they ask for us to share their ribbons and show viability and solidarity.
What is Worlds AIDS Day?
is an international day dedicated to raising awareness of the AIDS pandemic caused by the spread of HIV infection and mourning those who have died of the disease.
The acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a life-threatening condition caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
The HIV virus attacks the immune system of the patient and reduces its resistance to other 'diseases'.[2] Government and health officials, non-governmental organizations, and individuals around the world observe the day, often with education on AIDS prevention and control.
World AIDS Day is one of the eleven official global public health campaigns marked by the World Health Organization (WHO), along with World Health Day, World Blood Donor Day, World Immunization Week, World Tuberculosis Day, World No Tobacco Day, World Malaria Day, World Hepatitis Day, World Antimicrobial Awareness Week, World Patient Safety Day and World Chagas Disease Day.[3] As of 2020, AIDS has killed 36.3 million people worldwide, and an estimated 37.7 million people are living with HIV making it one of the most important global public health issues in recorded history.
Thanks to recent improved access to antiretroviral treatment in many regions of the world, the death rate from AIDS epidemic has decreased by 64% since its peak in 2004 (1.9 million in 2004, compared to 680 000 in 2020).
In February 2021 we had the pleasure of Lieutenant Caroline Paige attending a coffee morning.
She spoke to staff and students on the challenges of being trans in the British forces and how she helped to shape policy and influence change.
We invited staff to join us for a watch party, where we could come together and have a good chat while watching "The Boys In the Band".
Staff, along with their friends and family, were invited to form an online team and put their LGBTQ knowledge to the test.
December 1 is World AIDS day and we wewre handing out ribbons in Park Square Costa Luton and Gateway Bedford on Wednesday 1 December 2021.
This World AIDS Day, we remember those we’ve lost, join in solidarity with people living with HIV today, and transform the future for everyone by ending HIV transmissions.
This year, we're highlighting the importance of HIV testing.
Testing is key to ending HIV transmissions.
The sooner people know their status, the quicker they can get on to treatment.
Effective treatment helps people to live long, healthy lives with HIV and means they can't pass the virus on.
Find our more at THT.org.uk

New sentences found on https://beds.ac.uk/about-us/diversity-and-inclusion/womens-network:
Our network is a welcoming and supportive community that is open to all women staff and students at our University.
We focus on three main categories which are:
We hold events and activities throughout the year designed to support and inform our members on issues and concerns they may have, and campaign on their behalf.
We are looking to build a strong and supportive community of women and provide a confidential space where we all feel safe and supported to share issues and concerns.
We also work collaboratively with other networks across the University towards common goals and to address common challenges.
To view our agreed terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, download the document Women's Network terms of reference [PDF]
We have an internal team (on MS Teams) where members can share information, ask questions etc., and it is also one of the places where we publish information about forthcoming events.
To become a member and be added to the team, please email us at WomensNetwork@beds.ac.uk
We also have a calendar of events, which include events organised by us, as well as other internal and external events which may be of interest.
Everyone is welcome to join our events and activities as we wish to be as inclusive as possible.
We acknowledge that other colleagues want to offer us support and learn more about women's issues.
All we ask is that you respect and support the safe and welcoming environment we offer for all women.
We are led by our steering group.
The details of the officers are:
Jo Coward - Academic Registrar
Dr Nicola Darwo od - Senior Lecturer in English Literature
Lorraine David - Visiting Lecturer
(Photo pending)
Pamela Du-Bisette - Health & Safety Advisor
Sadie Hunt - Senior Lecturer in Dance
Dr Ourania Dimitraki - Senior Lecturer in Accounting & Finance
Dr Nuzhat Jafari - Lecturer in English Language Learning and Research
Dr Joanne Hill - Senior Lecturer in Physical Education and Sport Sociology
Charalampia Boula - Research Project Officer
Farida Khanum - Applications Support Manager
For any suggestions and queries, please contact us by email at WomensNetwork@beds.ac.uk